-- U.S. 10-Year Yields Fall to 2-Week Low on Post-Hurricane Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-10-31T21:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/treasuries-pare-losses-to-trade-little-changed-in-new-york.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
note yields to a two-week low, on month-end demand for  U.S. debt 
following yesterday’s closing for  Hurricane Sandy  and
speculation the massive storm will trim economic growth.  Ten-year notes  erased losses  earlier today on buying to
match adjustments in indexes used as performance benchmarks. The
 Federal Reserve  bought $4.98 billion of Treasuries as part of
its plan to bolster economic growth. The U.S. unemployment rate
may have increased to 7.9 percent this month, the U.S. Labor
Department is forecast to report Nov. 2, in its final jobs
report before the Nov. 6 presidential election.  “The demand for quality is out there,” said Justin Hoogendoorn, a fixed-income strategist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  unit
BMO Capital Markets in Chicago. “A number of indicators around
the world are giving people reason to purchase Treasuries, from
stocks being down to what’s going on in  Europe , and you always
get some buying around month-end.”  U.S. 10-year yields dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.69 percent as of 5:02 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It touched the lowest
level since Oct. 16. The price of the 1.625 percent note due in
August 2022 gained 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 99
13/32.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 0.4 percent
before closing little changed.  Debt Returns  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.3 percent loss this
month as of Oct. 29, and the three-month decline is 0.8 percent,
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. Government debt was
set to deliver a third month of losses, the longest streak since
the last quarter of 2010.  The Barclays U.S. Treasury index is projected to extend by
0.02 years for October, equaling last month’s move, according to
the firm.  “There’s some pent up month-end buying,” said  Jim Vogel ,
head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee .  Treasury trading volume increased from Oct. 29 levels. ICAP
Plc, the largest inter- dealer broker of  U.S. government debt ,
said trading totaled $187 billion as of 3 p.m., the lowest at
this time during the past 10 full trading sessions after falling
to a 10-month low of $82 billion on Monday.  The yearly average
is $242.5 billion a day in 2012.  Fed Operation  The Fed bought Treasuries maturing from November 2018 to
August 2020 today as part of its program to replace $267 billion
of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries
in an effort to reduce borrowing costs further and counter
rising risks of a recession.  The Treasury announced plans to sell $72 billion of notes
and bonds next week, including $32 billion in three-year notes
on Nov. 6; $24 billion in 10-year notes on Nov. 7; and $16
billion in 30-year bonds on Nov. 8.  Treasury  reiterated today it expects to reach the $16.4
trillion federal debt limit “near the end of 2012,” as it
announced plans for next week’s so-called refunding auctions.  The  debt  sales come as Congress contends with a so-called
fiscal cliff, the more than $600 billion of federal spending
cuts and tax increases that will automatically take effect at
the start of next year unless Congress acts.  Sandy may cut U.S. economic growth as it keeps millions of
employees away from work and shuts businesses from restaurants
to refineries in one of the nation’s most populated and
productive regions.  Hurricane Waves  Reduced output in the world’s largest economy from storm
damage may total $25 billion in the fourth quarter, according to
Gregory Daco, a U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight. He said
that could trim the fourth quarter pace of growth to between 1
percent and 1.5 percent, from the firm’s earlier estimate of 1.6
percent.  With the presidential race six days away, President  Barack
Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  are tied among
likely voters in an Oct. 24-28 national poll by the Pew Research
Center.  “Once the markets settle, all eyes will shift back to the
elections,”  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government bond
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed wrote in a note to clients. “Daily momentum
studies are favorable for lower yields, near term.”  The jobless rate climbed from a three-year low of 7.8
percent in September, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the Nov. 2 report. Employers hired 125,000
workers, following an increase of 114,000 in September,
according to another Bloomberg survey.  Business Gauge  Business activity in the U.S. unexpectedly contracted in
October for a second month, adding to signs manufacturing has
retreated from its central role in the economic recovery.  A gauge from the Institute for Supply Management- Chicago 
Inc. rose to 49.9 from 49.7 in September, the group said today.
A reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. The median estimate of 54 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 51.  “The economic data was a little weaker this morning and we
are getting month-end index buying,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in New York of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “There is still a lot of uncertainty
ahead with assessing the damage from the hurricane, the jobs
number on Friday and the election next week, to underscore a
bid.”  For all of 2012, Treasuries returned 1.9 percent as of Oct.
29, while bonds in an index of U.S. investment-grade and high-
yield company debt gained 10.8 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill indexes. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of
shares gained 13 percent this year, including reinvested
dividends and a loss of .38 percent in October.  Ten-year rates will climb to 2.04 percent by June 30 and to
2.33 percent by the end of 2013, based on a Bloomberg survey of
economists, with the most recent projections given the heaviest
weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  