-- Treasury Sees Debt Limit End 2012, Plans $72 Billion Sale
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-10-31T15:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/treasury-sees-debt-limit-end-2012-plans-72-billion-sale.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department
reiterated today it expects to reach the federal debt limit
“near the end of 2012,” and said that it plans to sell $72
billion in notes and bonds in next week’s refunding.  The Treasury said in a statement today that it can use
“extraordinary measures” that would “provide sufficient
‘headroom’ under the debt limit to allow the government to
continue to meet its obligations until early in 2013.” The
Treasury also said an auction under its planned floating-rate
note program is “estimated to be at least one year away.”  “Extraordinary measures are temporary in nature and not a
solution,” Thomas Simons, a government debt economist at
Jefferies Group Inc. in  New York  said. “Considering the debt
ceiling is going to be tied into the fiscal cliff discussions,
there is a risk that we end up with another debt ceiling
scenario like last year.”  The so-called fiscal cliff refers to the more than $600
billion of federal spending cuts and tax increases that will
automatically take effect at the start of next year unless
Congress acts. In August 2011, as part of an agreement to
increase the debt limit, Congress came up with the automatic
spending cuts, known as sequestration, as the backstop to a
deficit-reduction supercommittee.  Election Year  Election-year politics and the divide between the parties
have prevented an agreement so far, leading Treasury to caution
on Aug. 1 that it expects to reach its debt limit of $16.4
trillion near the end of this year. The Treasury at that time
also raised the prospect of using “extraordinary measures.”  The Treasury intends to auction $32 billion in 3-year notes
on Nov. 6; $24 billion in 10-year notes on Nov. 7; and $16
billion in 30-year bonds on Nov. 8. The Treasury has kept its
quarterly refunding at $72 billion since Nov. 2010.  “Going forward, Treasury will continue to provide guidance
to market participants regarding any changes in the fiscal
outlook that might affect the government’s financing needs,”
Treasury said in a statement.  Treasuries pared losses as investors purchased  U.S.
government debt  at month-end to match adjustments in indexes
used as performance benchmarks, following yesterday’s closure
for Hurricane Sandy. U.S. 10-year rates rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.73 percent as of 9:17 a.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  Dodd-Frank Act  Capital and liquidity requirements from the 2010 overhaul
of financial regulation in the Dodd-Frank Act, and from the
Basel III global rules, have increased demand for short-term,
high-quality debt at a time when supply has diminished.  The Treasury said it hasn’t yet made a decision on whether
to allow negative-rate bidding in auctions of Treasury bills.  The Treasury told members of the Treasury Borrowing
Advisory Committee to study “operational issues” connected
with possible negative-rate bidding, according to minutes of a
conference call with members of the committee.  The Treasury said it was on schedule for its first auction
of floating-rate notes late next year. The conference call was
held instead of the usual dealer meeting because of  Hurricane
Sandy . The committee of bond dealers meets quarterly with the
Treasury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  