-- RIM Begins BlackBerry 10 Lab Tests With Over 50 Carriers
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-31T20:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/rim-has-begun-bb10-lab-testing-with-over-50-carriers-ceo-says.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  climbed the
most in almost a month after saying that wireless carriers had
begun lab-testing BlackBerry 10 phones worldwide, a sign the
devices are on track for delivery early next year.  “In the last week, BlackBerry 10 achieved lab entry with
more than 50 carriers -- a key step in our preparedness for the
launch of BlackBerry 10 in the first quarter of 2013,” Chief
Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said in an e-mailed statement.  RIM shares climbed 4.7 percent to $7.93 at the close in  New
York , the biggest jump since Oct. 2. The stock has lost 61
percent of its value over the past 12 months.  Carrier testing typically takes 60 to 90 days, which means
that RIM “should have no trouble making its first-quarter
deadline,” said Chris Umiastowski, an independent technology
consultant who tracks the company. Ninety days from today would
put the release in the late-January time frame.  Delivering the BlackBerry 10 on time is central to RIM’s
plan to win back market share from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  Peter Misek , an
analyst at Jefferies & Co., said earlier this month that the new
phones may not come out until March -- a prediction that sent
RIM shares tumbling more than 5 percent.  The exact timing of BB10 phones going on sale will be up to
carriers in the Americas, Europe,  Australia , Asia and  Africa ,
Chief Marketing Officer Frank Boulben said in September. It will
hinge on how long they take to test the handsets.  Varied Times  “Lab entry at some carriers can take as little as six to
nine weeks, and for some carriers, 16 to 20 weeks,” he said at
the time. “That explains with a carrier whether it will be
January or February.”  The BlackBerry 10 was delayed at least a year before the
first-quarter release date was announced. Today’s statement is a
good signal that there won’t be any more setbacks before the
first BB10 devices are introduced, said Kevin Stadtler,
president of  Fort Worth , Texas-based Stadtler Capital
Management, which owns about 40,000 RIM shares.  “The lab tests are incrementally positive and gets RIM
closer to production units,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  