-- Riverbed Plunges After Deal to Buy Opnet for Network Gear
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-31T20:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/riverbed-plunges-after-deal-to-buy-opnet-for-network-gear.html
Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD)  fell the
most in six months after the company agreed to buy  Opnet
Technologies Inc. (OPNT)  to expand its offerings to help businesses
manage computer networks.  Shares of Riverbed retreated 18 percent to $18.47 at the
close in New York, while Opnet advanced 31 percent to $42.05.
Opnet investors will get about $43 a share, made up of $36.55 in
cash and 0.2774 Riverbed shares, in a transaction with an equity
value of $1 billion, the companies said in a statement on Oct.
29. That’s about a 34 percent premium to Opnet’s closing price
on Oct. 26. Trading was shut down for two days this week because
of  Hurricane Sandy .  Riverbed, which creates technology to help customers run
their software in far-flung data centers more efficiently, has
benefited from the growth of cloud computing. The premium paid
for Opnet suggests that Riverbed anticipates slowing growth for
its traditional business, said George Notter, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co.  “The deal seems rich,” Notter wrote in a research report
today. He downgraded Riverbed’s shares to underperform from hold
and cut his price estimate to $16.25 from $20. “The deal
reinforces our concerns that the wide area network optimization
market is maturing.”  The deal terms, with “a high mixture of cash,” suggest
that Riverbed pursued Opnet aggressively, Notter said.  Riverbed, based in San Francisco, said it expects to close
the deal by the end of 2012. After today’s drop, Riverbed has a
market value of $2.84 billion, and the company had cash and
short-term investments of $533.1 million as of Sept. 30.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  advised Riverbed and will provide
financing for the transaction, along with  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Opnet,
based in Bethesda, Maryland, received financial advice from
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  