-- Romney Seen Scuttling EPA Proposals, Letting Rules Stand
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-10-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/romney-seen-scuttling-epa-proposals-letting-rules-stand.html
On the campaign trail, Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has pledged to halt
environmental regulations such as auto-mileage standards,
mercury pollution limits for  power plants  and mandated cuts in
greenhouse-gas emissions.  But the reality is that repealing a rule already in place
would require help from lawmakers or the courts, or years of
bureaucratic effort, former officials and lawyers say.  That means President  Barack Obama ’s auto and mercury
regulations aren’t likely to face a direct repeal, they say.
Romney’s Environmental Protection Agency would probably focus on
stopping pending proposals, especially the greenhouse-gas
standards, and easing off on new rules.  “It would be easier for Romney to change what is coming,
than to go back and undo what has already been done,” Dina Kruger, the founder of Kruger Environmental Strategies in
 Washington  and a former EPA official under  Bill Clinton , George W. Bush and Obama, said in an interview. “You aren’t going to
see as many regulations or as stringent regulations as you would
under Obama, but they’re going to have to do something.”  A victory by the Republican could damp the effect of
pollution limits on U.S. companies, especially coal-reliant
utilities and struggling coal producers. Environmentalists and
the Obama administration say rolling back or delaying pending
standards would sacrifice health benefits from cleaner air and
water.  ‘Important Safeguards’  “There are a large number of incredibly important
safeguards that the EPA is in the process of implementing,”
John Coequyt, the Sierra Club’s climate-policy director, said in
an interview. Romney “can substantially weaken public health
protections in a four-year period.”  The  Sierra Club  endorsed Obama’s re-election.  Romney as a candidate has  targeted  major EPA regulations,
including standards negotiated with automakers to increase
vehicle-fuel efficiency, requirements for coal-fired power
plants to cut mercury and air toxic pollution and limits for
greenhouse-gas emissions, which are blamed for causing global
warming.  “As president, Mitt Romney will eliminate the regulations
promulgated in pursuit of the Obama administration’s costly and
ineffective anti-carbon agenda,” the campaign said in an Aug.
23  white paper . Andrea Saul, a campaign spokeswoman, referred
questions about Romney’s plans for the EPA to that document.  ‘Regulatory Tsunami’  Romney would still have opportunities to ease off on what
Republicans call a “regulatory tsunami” under Obama, as rules
can still be modified even after they are finalized, or
deadlines extended. Others are being challenged in court, or
could be overturned by Congress, which would be more likely if
Republicans sweep control of both the House and Senate.  “I suspect a number of final regulations would be revised
to make them more reasonable,” Jeff Holmstead, a partner at
Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in Washington, said in an interview.
Holmstead was a top EPA official under President  George W. Bush 
and supports Romney. “Some pending regulations would almost
certainly be withdrawn.”  Among Romney’s first targets might be an EPA proposal that
would restrict new coal-fired plants unless they had technology
to limit  carbon emissions . Industry officials say the technology
to do this isn’t available at commercial scale. Romney said he
opposes the EPA issuing rules for  greenhouse gases , and backs
legislation to curb that authority.  Defer Rules  The EPA also must decide which deferred rules to issue in
the next two years. Obama punted on new nationwide standards for
smog pollution until 2014, and his EPA is still considering
rules for disposal of coal ash from power plants and for
industrial boilers.  “The biggest difference we would see is on the rules,
going forward,” Jonathan Adler, a professor of law at  Case
Western Reserve University  and contributing editor to the
conservative National Review magazine, said in an interview.  For rules in force, such as the limits on mercury emitted
from power plants that may cost companies $9.6 billion, Romney
could accept an industry petition to reconsider them, provide a
weak defense for them in court or grant presidential waivers to
give plants more time to comply. Obama  pledged waivers  that
would give utilities an additional year to meet the standards,
“should unusual circumstances arise that warrant such
flexibility.”  Fuel Efficiency  The fuel-efficiency rules also have been derided by the
Romney campaign, with Saul saying in an e-mail that they will
cost new-car buyers thousands of dollars “upfront for unproven
technology.” Since those rules are final, a wholesale rejection
or rewrite is unlikely.  “The president is a powerful person,” Daniel Becker,
director of the Safe Climate Campaign, said in an interview.
“Romney couldn’t, in practical terms, revoke the rule, but
there is lots of implementation that has to go on.”  Becker joined the talks with automakers and the
administration that led to the rules.  While attacking environmental rules in the abstract has
been a potent charge during the campaign this year, withdrawing
specific protections is more dicey, Kruger said. When George W.
Bush took office in 2001, his administration  suspended  a
standard issued by Clinton’s administration lowering the
allowable level of arsenic in drinking water. After a public
outcry, Bush’s EPA ended up  accepting  the basic Clinton plan.  “It would take a tremendous effort to change the
trajectory of the EPA,” said Donald Elliott, a  partner  at
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP in Washington and former chief
counsel of the EPA under  George H.W. Bush . “To roll things back
would take a major commitment by the administration, and I don’t
see a major commitment to expand, or a major commitment to cut
back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  