-- Rosetta Stone Agrees to Drop Google Trademark Suit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-10-31T17:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/rosetta-stone-agrees-to-drop-google-trademark-suit.html
Rosetta Stone Inc. (RST) , a maker of
language-learning software, agreed to drop a lawsuit it brought
against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for selling its trademarks to other
companies for search-engine advertising.  The companies agreed that all claims in the infringement
case will be dismissed, according to a filing today in federal
court in Alexandria, Virginia. No terms were given with the
stipulation of voluntary dismissal. Rosetta Stone had claimed
the keywords were being sold to competitors and counterfeiters.  U.S. District Judge Gerald Bruce Lee ruled in 2010 that the
sale of Rosetta’s trademarked phrases as keywords wouldn’t
confuse consumers. The  U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit  in April overturned part of that ruling and sent the
case back to the lower court.  “Google and Rosetta Stone have agreed to dismiss the
three-year-old trademark infringement lawsuit between them and
to meaningfully collaborate to combat online ads for counterfeit
goods and prevent the misuse and abuse of trademarks on the
Internet,” the companies said in a joint e-mailed statement.  Google, which runs the world’s largest search engine, sells
advertisers the rights to use certain words or phrases as
keywords for paid ads on  its site.  The so-called sponsored links
direct users to the advertisers’ websites.  Keyword Bids  Advertisers bid what they’ll pay Google for each click on
an ad triggered by the keyword. The highest bid and other
factors determine whether the keywords can be used. Mountain
View, California-based Google derives most of its revenue from
ad sales.  Rosetta, based in Arlington, Virginia, had said in its
appellate brief that it was “entitled to its day in court
before a properly instructed jury.”  Google said in its brief that “each time Rosetta Stone
informed Google that a particular advertiser was selling
counterfeit Rosetta Stone products, Google promptly took action
including removing the advertisement.”  Google rose $3.24 to $678.39 at 1:04 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Rosetta Stone  declined  3 cents to
$11.42 on the New York Stock Exchange.  The case is Rosetta Stone v. Google, 09-00736, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria). The
appeal is Rosetta Stone v. Google, 10-2007, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond, Virginia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha   mhytha@bloomberg.net  