-- Russian Billionaires Said to Discuss Norilsk Chairman Job
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-10-31T14:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/russian-billionaires-said-to-discuss-norilsk-chairman-job.html
Vladimir Potanin , a billionaire
investor in OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , has been proposed to become
chairman of the world’s biggest producer of the metal as a step
toward resolving a four-year shareholder conflict, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  Potanin’s potential return to the board may put some
accountability for management on the businessman, and was
proposed as an alternative to dismissing his ally Vladimir Strzhalkovsky from the post of Norilsk chief executive officer,
the people said, asking not to be identified as the talks are
private. Rusal’s billionaire chief Oleg Deripaska has been
demanding the CEO’s ouster, they said.  The possible move is one step in negotiations about
management and strategy that also cover an increase in dividend
payments from Norilsk, which would help Rusal manage its own
debt burden, the people said.  Deripaska, whose Rusal holds 25 percent of Norilsk, has
criticized Strzhalkovsky’s team and opposed the executive’s
appointment in 2008. A London court is set to hear a claim in
December from Rusal against Potanin about an alleged breach of
their 2008 shareholder agreement on board representation at
Norilsk.  The businessman’s Interros Holding and Rusal resumed talks
after holding separate meetings with Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  this month, the people said. Potanin’s potential role
as chairman was first raised several months ago before talks
broke down in the summer, they said.  No Sales  Potanin and Deripaska have been battling at Norilsk since
Rusal bought its stake from  Mikhail Prokhorov , a former partner
in Interros. Since October 2010, Rusal has rejected three offers
to sell out of Norilsk, rebuffing an approach of $8.75 billion
for a 15 percent stake in September 2011.  There are no talks on selling shares in Norilsk, the people
said.  Interros is preparing to ask the Federal Anti-Monopoly
Service for permission to boost its stake in Norilsk Nickel to
as much as 75 percent plus one share from 28 percent, Larisa Zelkova, an Interros director on Norilsk’s board, said by phone
today. Interros wants clearance in case an opportunity arises to
buy stock, she said.  Vera Kurochkina, Rusal’s spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the talks, as did Interros’s press service. Kommersant
reported earlier today that Rusal and Interros had resumed
talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  