-- Russian Central Bank to Discuss Longer-Term Loans, Shvetsov Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A r t y o m   D a n i e l y a n
-- 2012-10-31T14:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/russian-central-bank-to-discuss-longer-term-loans-shvetsov-says.html
Russia ’s central bank will discuss
offering funds to lenders for longer than one year, a step
policy makers have resisted even as banks complained about a
shortage of long-term liquidity.  “A discussion is planned, but it hasn’t started yet,”
Bank Rossii Deputy Chairman Sergey Shvetsov told reporters in
Moscow today. The central bank isn’t seeing a liquidity deficit
in the financial industry, according to Shvetsov.  Bank Rossii, which resumed lending for as long as a year in
April, is changing its approach to setting rates on longer-term
facilities. The regulator will start offering cash for more than
one month at variable  interest rates  next year and will probably
use its so-called Ruonia rate for the longer-term repurchase
loans, currency swaps and loans secured with non-market assets
as collateral, Shvetsov said Oct. 18.  German Gref , head of Russia’s biggest lender, OAO Sberbank,
has urged the central bank to expand the range of its operations
and called on policy makers to offer funds denominated in
foreign currency to alleviate a liquidity deficit. VTB Group
Chief Executive Officer Andrey Kostin has said Russia should
follow the  European Central Bank ’s example and provide loans for
as long as three years.  The ECB flooded markets with more than 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) of cheap three-year loans in December and
February, sending bond yields down as banks in Spain and Italy
used the funds to purchase the debt of their governments.  Russia’s central bank doesn’t need to extend three-year
loans to the country’s lenders because the economy is stronger
than in  Europe  and it’s also barred by law from offering
refinancing for more than one year, Chairman  Sergei Ignatiev 
said April 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  