-- Russia Stocks Snap 6-Day Losing Streak as Oil Rallies
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-10-31T15:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/russia-stocks-snap-6-day-losing-streak-as-oil-rallies.html
Russian stocks  snapped their worst
losing streak since May as oil climbed after U.S. refineries
resumed operations in the wake of  Hurricane Sandy .  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  advanced 0.2 percent to 1,425.7 by the
close in Moscow, paring an earlier gain of as much as 1 percent.
OAO Novatek, Russia’s second-biggest gas producer, gained 2.7
percent. OAO Aeroflot, the nation’s largest airliner, added 2.9
percent, while potash producer OAO Uralkali increased 1.5
percent.  Oil, the country’s main revenue earner, rose as much as 60
cents to $86.28 a barrel in New York as Philadelphia Energy
Solutions’ Pennsylvania refinery and NuStar Energy LP’s
Paulsboro,  New Jersey , plant revived production. The New York
Stock Exchange plans to re-open after being shut for two days as
the 900-mile wide storm caused flooding and blackouts.  “Markets are in a slightly positive mood as Hurricane
Sandy finally eases up and U.S. exchanges open after a two-day
break,” UralSib Financial Corp. analysts Slava Smolyaninov and
Natalia Berezina wrote in an e-mailed report today.  OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , the world’s biggest miner of the
metal, jumped 1.1 percent to 4,828 rubles after billionaire
 Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros said it’s preparing to file a
request with Russia’s Anti-Monopoly Service to boost its stake
from 28 percent to 75 percent plus one share.  Interros wants permission in case an “opportunity” arises
to increase its holding, Larisa Zelkova, who represents Interros
on Norilsk’s board, said by phone.  The Micex trades at 5.4 times  estimated earnings  after
gaining 1.7 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10.2 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added
8.6 percent. Russian equities have the lowest valuations based
on estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  