-- Sandy to Boost Construction Jobs as Rebuilding Spurred
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-10-31T20:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/sandy-to-boost-construction-jobs-as-rebuilding-spurred.html
Demand for construction workers and
materials is likely to receive a boost as homeowners in coastal
areas of New York and  New Jersey  rebuild after their properties
were devastated by flooding and heavy winds.  “It’s the most adverse way you ever want to see positive
growth,” Tom Jeffery, chief hazard scientist for  CoreLogic
Inc. (CLGX) , said in a telephone interview. “But a high percent of
damaged properties are going to be repaired.”  CoreLogic, a real estate information service based in
Irvine, California, estimated that 95,000 homes with a value of
$40 billion are located in the coastal areas hit hardest by
Sandy, which made landfall on the Jersey Shore the evening of
Oct. 29, pushing a 13-foot (4-meter) surge of wind-driven water
over levees, under foundations and into basements.  Insured losses from Sandy to onshore properties, including
all types of commercial and residential real estate and items
such as automobiles, will range from $7 billion to $15 billion,
according to AIR Worldwide, a catastrophe-modeling firm based in
Boston.  Reis Inc. (REIS) , a New York-based research firm, gave a
preliminary estimate of total property damage from the storm of
$30 billion to $40 billion, countered by reconstruction efforts
valued at $25 billion to $30 billion.  “This nets out to around a $10 to $15 billion loss for the
economy as a whole,” Victor Calanog, head of research and
economics at Reis, said in an e-mail.  Flood Insurance  Most homes in low-lying coastal areas are required to have
flood insurance, which should cover much of the repair costs,
Jeffery said. Federal and local governments have offered
financial assistance to help uninsured property owners rebuild
after other disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and
last year’s Hurricane Irene, he said.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , which control more than half of
all U.S. mortgages, announced yesterday they were offering as
much as one year of payment forbearance for owners of properties
harmed by Sandy in communities designated national disaster
areas.  Almost 739,000 properties in Sandy’s path have negative
equity of at least 25 percent, potentially giving owners of
those homes a reason to stop paying the mortgage and be
foreclosed upon, according to RealtyTrac Inc.  U.S. construction employment is still recovering from the
last recession, with about 2.2 million fewer jobs today than the
2007 peak of 7.7 million workers, according to the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  ‘Localized Spikes’  “We are likely to see localized spikes in construction
employment throughout November and the winter as crews are
mobilized to rebuild communities damaged by  Hurricane Sandy ,”
Ken Simonson, chief economist for the Associated General
Contractors of America, an industry trade group based in
Washington, said in a statement yesterday.  The total impact on employment from reconstruction work,
however, “is likely to be minimal, as planned projects in
hurricane-damaged communities are put on hold while people
rebuild,” Simonson said.  Housing and homebuilding, which led the U.S. into the
recession, have contributed to gross domestic product growth
this year. Real residential fixed investment increased 14.4
percent in the third quarter, after an 8.5 percent gain in the
previous three months, the U.S. Bureau of Economic Affairs
 reported  Oct. 26.  Home starts jumped to an annual pace of 872,000 in
September, a four-year high, Commerce Department figures showed
on Oct. 17.  Prices Climb  Prices for existing homes climbed in August by the most in
two years as low  interest rates , a diminishing supply of
discounted foreclosed properties and a growing U.S. economy
spurred demand. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in
20 cities rose 2 percent in August from a year earlier, the
biggest annual gain since July 2010, the group said yesterday.
The median forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected a 1.9 percent gain.  In the New York metropolitan area, prices fell 2.3 percent
in the 12 months through August. Only Atlanta had a bigger drop
among the 20 cities in the index.  The storm is more likely to raise labor costs than prices
for materials, said  Martin Connor , chief financial officer at
Horsham, Pennsylvania-based  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder.  “It’s too early to tell,” Connor said in a telephone
interview from his home in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. “The
advantage we have is offering a steady stream of work versus
some of our competition.”  Washington, Boston  About half of Toll’s business is between the Washington and
Boston areas, where Sandy did the most damage. The only
confirmed damage to company properties was water intrusion at a
high-rise under construction in Hoboken, New Jersey, Connor
said.  Sandy and its aftermath are hurting Toll’s ability to
complete home sales as the company’s fiscal year comes to an end
today, Connor said. Insurers are reluctant to approve policies
required for borrowers until they reinspect properties, a
process that probably will take a back seat to claims filed by
storm-affected homeowners, he said.  For  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the storm may delay sale
completions in New Jersey, where it’s the largest homebuilder,
as well as Delaware, Virginia and other areas, forcing the Red
Bank, New Jersey-based company to “pedal faster to catch up,”
Chief Financial Officer  Larry Sorsby  said.  ‘Speed Bump’  “It’s just going to be a speed bump along the road to
recovery,” Sorsby said by telephone from his home in Colts
Neck, New Jersey. “It’s a setback in areas impacted by this
once-in-lifetime storm.”  Hovnanian rose 0.7 percent to $4.30 at the close of trading
in New York. Today was the first day of U.S. trading since Sandy
made landfall. Toll dropped 2.4 percent to $33.01.  Sandy is likely to delay decisions to buy new homes in the
mid-Atlantic area until the Thanksgiving holiday and beyond,
said Stephen East, an analyst at International Strategy &
Investment Group in Saint Charles, Missouri.  “For us, the biggest concern from the storm is the
indeterminate amount of time it takes the consumer to get
grounded and return to the housing market,” he said in an e-
mail. “It is our best guess it will take prospects in the
region a couple weeks for home purchases to return to the
forefront of buyers’ minds.”  The storm is likely to provide a benefit to such companies
as  Owens Corning  Inc., which manufactures roofing supplies, and
Beacon Roofing Supply Inc., which distributes them, said Jim Barrett, an analyst at CL King & Associates in New York.  Lumber Suppliers  “It would potentially help both of these companies if, in
fact, you started hearing about significant roof damage as
opposed to people just being flooded out,” said Barrett who has
a buy rating on the shares of both Owens Corning and Beacon.  Other companies that may get a boost in business from Sandy
include  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY)  and  Louisiana-Pacific Corp. (LPX) , which
produce lumber, and drywall companies such as  USG Corp. (USG)  and
 Eagle Materials Inc. (EXP) , East said.  The hurricane also may drive sales for companies such as
 Generac Holdings Inc. (GNRC) , a manufacturer of power generators, said
Stanley Elliott, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Richmond, Virginia, who has a hold rating on the company’s
shares.  Portable Generators  Many homeowners rushed out to buy portable generators
before Sandy. Now, after three storms, including the derecho --
a widespread storm of wind and thunder -- in July and 2011’s
Hurricane Irene, customers might consider a permanently
installed backup unit, which can cost about $2,000 plus
installation, he said.  “You’ve had three big events within a short period of time
and people might get to a tipping point and this may push some
people over the edge,” Elliott said.  Generac, based in Waukesha, Wisconsin, rose 20 percent to
$34 today after reporting a 26 percent increase in third-quarter
sales and increasing its forecast for 2012 earnings.  Demand for self-storage companies such as  Extra Space
Storage Inc. (EXR) ,  Sovran Self Storage Inc. (SSS)  and  CubeSmart (CUBE)  also tends
to rise in the wake of storms like Sandy as homeowners,
contractors and suppliers rent space as they prepare for
reconstruction, according to David Toti, an analyst at Cantor
Fitzgerald in New York.  Most Storage  Extra Space Storage, based in Salt Lake City, has the most
real estate in areas hit by the storm -- about 33 percent of its
property portfolio, compared with 24 percent for Williamsville,
New York-based Sovran, Toti wrote.  “Depending on the extent of the damage, the surge in
demand can have a short-term impact that leaves a demand void in
its wake,” he said in the note. “The storage needs generated
by hurricane clean-up can last from 6 to 18 months (a typical
residential-construction duration), then recede -- which can set
the stage for declining occupancies and more competitive
pricing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  