-- Sandy’s ‘Heartbeat has Stopped,’ Storm Breaks Up
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-10-31T19:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/sandy-s-heartbeat-has-stopped-storm-breaks-up.html
Storm and flood alerts lingered
across parts of the Northeast and mid-Atlantic as remnants of
Sandy fell apart into a collection of “clouds and showers.”  Forecasters can’t detect a center of the superstorm that
lashed the East Coast, pushed a record high wall of water into
New York and New Jersey and killed at least 124 people in the
Caribbean and the U.S. In order to sustain itself, a system must
have circulation, said Chris Vaccaro, spokesman for the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  “Essentially, Sandy is now just a cluster of clouds and
showers,” Vaccaro said. “Its heartbeat has stopped.”  Sandy started life as tropical depression south of Jamaica
on Oct. 22 and then roared across the Caribbean, gathering
strength until it landed in New Jersey with hurricane-like power
two days ago. The storm killed at least 69 people across the
Caribbean and 55 in the U.S., the Associated Press said.  “A lot of bad things had to happen all at the same time
and they did,” said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist at Hometown
Forecast Services Inc. in Nashua, New Hampshire. “I don’t
foresee another one like this in my lifetime.”  Drifting Off  The winds and storms that have been circulating around
Sandy’s center will stop and the foul weather will drift off to
the northeast, Carolan said.  “It is more or less what they would say is officially
dead,” Carolan said by telephone. “It is no longer a storm
system.”  Winter storm warnings are in effect along the spine of the
Appalachians from Pennsylvania through West Virginia, according
to the National Weather Service. Flood warnings have been posted
across northern New England.  Pockets of heavy rain will occur throughout the day from
Michigan to New England, said Rick Knabb, director of the U.S.
National Hurricane Center in Miami. Snow may linger in the
Appalachians as well.  “All of that will be tapering off by tomorrow,” Knabb
said.  As the rain diminishes, rivers from Ohio to Maryland that
have swelled their banks will begin to recede, Knabb said during
a conference call with reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  