-- Sanofi Worm Pill Kills Resistant Head Lice as a Lotion
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-10-31T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/sanofi-worm-pill-kills-resistant-head-lice-as-a-lotion.html
Sanofi (SAN) ’s lotion  Sklice , which as a
tablet treated worms, wiped out head lice in a single
application in a study that suggests the drug may offer a better
approach than existing medications, researchers said.  A day after treatment, 95 percent of those in the Sklice
group were lice free compared with 31 percent given a placebo,
according to company funded-studies that helped gain the drug’s
U.S. approval earlier this year. After two weeks, 74 percent of
people given Sklice were lice-free, according to the research
published today in the  New England Journal of Medicine   Head lice each year infest 6 million to 12 million 3- to
11-year-old children in the U.S., Paris-based Sanofi said in a
statement in February when Sklice received Food and Drug
Administration approval. The parasites have become resistant to
first-line treatments such as permethrin and pyrethrins, the
authors wrote. Other therapies like lindane and malathion have
safety concerns, as well as unpleasant odors.  “It’s a new treatment for head lice, better efficacy than
anything that’s out there, one simple treatment and no
documented resistance,” said  David Pariser , the lead study
author and a professor of dermatology at Eastern  Virginia 
Medical School in Norfolk, Virginia, in an Oct. 29 telephone
interview. “The first-line treatments that are out there now,
these have high degrees of resistance and 50 percent efficacy.
This product has a high efficacy rate and no resistance.”  Sanofi conducted two studies testing Sklice against a
placebo. Combined, 141 patients received Sklice and 148 were
given the placebo cream.  One Dose  On the day after receiving the treatment, 95 percent of
those in the  Sklice  group were lice free compared to 31 percent
in the placebo group. After two weeks, 74 percent of people in
the Sklice group were lice free versus 18 percent in the placebo
group.  Pariser said people may have become re-infested by the end
of the trial or eggs that didn’t die off with initial treatment
may have hatched. He said a second treatment may be necessary,
but his study didn’t look at more than one dose.  Head lice  are a blood-sucking parasite that feed three to
six times each day, according to an accompanying editorial in
the journal. A female head louse lives for one month and lays as
many as 300 eggs. The nymphs that are hatched from the eggs
become adults in a week to 10 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  