-- SAS Pilots Say Wideroe Bid Needs Norway Backer to Take 66% Stake
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-10-31T15:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/sas-pilots-say-wideroe-bid-needs-norway-backer-to-take-66-stake.html
SAS Group (SAS)  employees seeking to
purchase the Stockholm-based company’s Norwegian regional arm
Wideroe, for which they work, said the proposal requires local
backers willing to take a two-thirds stake in the enterprise.  “A lot of people have contacted us and we’re in touch with
the big financial houses in  Norway ,” Ola Giaever, the pilot who
is leading the buyout bid, said in a phone interview. “Many
investors say ‘yes’ to being part of a company like Wideroe when
the employees join in. Those are the signals we’re getting.”  SAS said yesterday it’s completing plans to sell 3 billion
kronor ($450 million) in assets, without specifying what might
be auctioned off. Wideroe more than doubled pretax profit to 430
million kronor last year, excluding one-time items, just as the
main Scandinavian Airlines unit suffered a 33 percent slump to
543 million kronor even on sales that were 10 times greater.  “We need professional owners,” said Giaever, who yesterday
wrote to SAS Chairman Fritz Schur and Chief Executive Officer
Rickard Gustafson proposing that Wideroe continue to work with
the larger carrier following any takeover. “Employees should
have ownership but not the majority.”  Bodoe-based Wideroe is the biggest regional airline in
Scandinavia, employing 1,400 people and carrying 2 million
passengers a year to 40-plus Norwegian and six international
destinations, according to its website. Owned by SAS since 2002,
the carrier operates 39  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  Dash 8 turboprops.  SAS hasn’t indicated whether it would sell Wideroe, Giaever
said, adding that the potential price tag is uncertain and would
depend on the terms of any deal to continue with feeder flights.  The biggest Nordic carrier is deepening cost cuts and
exploring disposals as it seeks the first annual  profit  on a net
basis since 2007. “We never comment on ownership issues,” SAS
spokeswoman Malin Selander said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  