-- MSCI to Acquire IPD for $125 Million to Gain Real Estate Gauges
-- B y   J e f f r e y   S t . O n g e
-- 2012-10-31T12:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/msci-to-acquire-ipd-for-125-million-to-gain-real-estate-gauges.html
MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , which says its gauges are
tracked by investors managing about $7 trillion, agreed to
purchase IPD Group Ltd. for $125 million in cash to expand its
presence in the real estate industry.  The acquisition isn’t expected to materially affect MSCI’s
2012 results, the New York-based company said in a statement
today. The deal, expected to close in the fourth quarter, is
subject to “customary closing conditions,” MSCI said in the
statement.  “IPD’s real estate industry knowledge and strong
capabilities complement MSCI’s expertise in providing investment
tools for the equities, fixed income, hedge fund, energy and
commodities markets,” MSCI Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Henry Fernandez said in the statement. “The real estate
investment market presents considerable opportunities for
growth, and we look forward to helping to accelerate the
institutionalization and globalization of real estate as an
asset class.”  MSCI’s purchase of London-based IPD gives the company a
brand that investors use to track real estate performance
indexes and property transactions. IPD had $47.7 million of
revenue in 2011, according to the statement. The acquisition is
MSCI’s largest since it bought Riskmetrics Group Inc. in a deal
announced in March 2010 that was valued at about $1.58 billion.  MSCI, once part of Morgan Stanley, developed gauges such as
the MSCI World Index of developed-market stocks. Its second-
quarter operating revenue was $239 million, an increase of 5.3
percent from a year earlier, according to an Aug. 2 company
statement.  Lazard & Co. was lead adviser to IPD Group, supported by
Tom Van Oss and Portico Capital. Linklaters LLP were legal
advisers to IPD, supported by Addis Law, according to the
statement. Law firms Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and Allen & Overy
LLP advised MSCI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge in London at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  