-- Scotiabank Names Int’l Group Head Brian Porter President
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-10-31T20:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/scotiabank-names-int-l-group-head-brian-porter-president.html
Bank of Nova Scotia  named Brian Porter president, potentially paving the way for him to replace
Richard Waugh as chief executive officer of Canada’s third-
largest bank.  Waugh, 64, will relinquish the role of president tomorrow
and remain CEO, the Toronto-based lender said today in a
statement.  “This definitely puts Brian in line to succeed Rick when
he decides to step down,” John Aiken, an analyst at Barclays
Capital in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “Brian has
proven himself to be an excellent leader, and has a broad
perspective of Scotia after heading up several of their
significant lines of business.”  Waugh said in a television interview last month that his
retirement isn’t “imminent.” Scotiabank’s board would make
succession decisions when the time comes, the bank said.  Porter, 54, has been with Scotiabank since 1981. Before
being appointed to lead the international banking business in
2010, he was chief risk officer. Last year, the international
banking operations reported profit of C$1.49 billion ($1.49
billion), representing more than a quarter of net income.  “He’s led the international division, which has had strong
success for Scotia,” said Jeffrey Bradacs, a portfolio manager
with Manulife Asset Management Ltd. in Toronto, who manages
about C$1.5 billion in assets. “Overall the market views it as
positive and a step for the next transition to CEO.”  Past Patterns  The bank’s four main business lines -- Canadian banking,
international banking, wealth management and global banking and
markets -- will report directly to Porter.  “Using past succession patterns at Scotia as a guide, Mr.
Porter also appears set to become CEO when Mr. Waugh steps
down,” Desjardins analyst Michael Goldberg said today in note
to clients. Waugh become president of Scotiabank in January 2003
and succeeded Peter Godsoe as CEO in December that year.  Dieter Jentsch, executive vice president for Latin America,
will succeed Porter in the international role, the bank said.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  rose 0.2 percent to C$54.25 in 4 p.m.
trading in Toronto, and has risen 6.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  