-- Senegal Sells Power Surplus to Neighbors as Output Rises
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-10-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/senegal-sells-power-surplus-to-neighbors-as-output-rises.html
Senegal ’s power utility has started
selling its surplus to neighboring countries after years of
energy shortages damped economic growth and caused violent
protests last year.  “Once Senegal’s electricity needs are met, what’s left is
available to sell to Mali and  Mauritania ,” Mamadou Diallo,
director of communications at state-owned Societe National
d’Electricite de Senegal, known as Senelec, said by phone on
Oct. 29 from the capital, Dakar.  Senelec rehabilitated its machinery and generators under a
plan started by the administration of President  Abdoulaye Wade ,
boosting output by 70 megawatts, Diallo said. Macky Sall, who
defeated Wade in a March election, said in July the government
would spend 120 billion  CFA francs  ($236 million) on subsidies
to keep the price of power from Senelec down.  In June 2011, power cuts, some of which lasted as long as
20 hours, sparked violent riots in Dakar and other towns as
protesters burned Senelec offices and vehicles. Growth is
expected to reach 4.3 percent in 2013 from 3.7 percent this year
because of the development of projects in electricity, roads and
mining, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a statement on
its website dated Sept. 20.  Energy in Senegal is produced largely by burning imported
diesel. Of the 516 megawatts of electricity available on Oct.
29, there was a surplus of 138 megawatts in the morning and 126
megawatts in the evening, Diallo said.  A 31 billion-franc electricity grid for Dakar and its
suburbs is being constructed by China Machinery Engineering
Corp., according to a document e-mailed by the company on Oct.
29.  The grid includes a 22-kilometer (14-mile) subterranean
cable and a 31-kilometer fiber-optic line, which will be able to
carry 100 megawatts, according to China Machinery Engineering.
Four  power plants  in Dakar and Kaolack in the south, producing
17 megawatts each, will start by the end of the year, Diallo
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar via Accra at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  