-- Serbia to Sell $2 Billion Eurobond to Fund Debt, Dinkic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-10-31T15:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/serbia-to-sell-2-billion-eurobond-to-fund-debt-dinkic-says-1-.html
Serbia  will sell $2 billion in
Eurobonds next year to finance its debt and wants to open its
banking market to new investors from Russia and the Middle East
to pull it out of a recession, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic
said.  “We will start a road show next week in the United States
and  London ,” home to a majority of the investors who snapped up
Serbia’s September Eurobond issue, Dinkic said in an interview
in Belgrade today, adding that some demand “this time may also
come from Asian markets.”  The transaction is planned for next spring, after Serbia
concludes a new loan deal with the International Monetary Fund.
Advisers include Deutsche Bank AG,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and for the
first time Russia’s  VTB Bank OJSC (VTBR) , and “they will be also
looking into possible issues of a Samurai or Russian ruble
debt,” Dinkic said.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, which took
office on July 27, has taken measures to avoid bankruptcy after
the fiscal gap reached 7.1 percent of gross domestic product and
public debt reached almost 55 percent of GDP in June with the
economy mired in its second recession in three years.  The new Eurobond will come after the government tests the
market with a $500 million issue of 5-year debt in November,
when it hopes to further lower the cost of borrowing “and set a
new benchmark,” Dinkic said. Serbia raised $1 billion in
September with yields at 6.625 percent and Dinkic expects yields
to be “way below 6 percent” next month.  Russia, IMF  The government is still counting on a $1 billion loan from
 Russia  to help support its budget next year as the funds are
cheaper than what Serbia pays for its Eurobonds.  “The aim of the government is to keep on reducing the cost
of borrowing alongside fiscal consolidation and structural
reforms,” he said. The reforms will be discussed with the IMF
in November and the size of a new loan in January or February.
“We would like a program best suited for a medium-term”
because reforms are much easier with the IMF, he said.  Serbia will try to divest its stake in local banks and keep
on talking with “carmakers from Germany” as well as China and
 India  for investments, Dinkic said. The government will also try
to sell Telekom Srbija AD again next year if it gets a right
price “of around 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion) for the 100
percent stake,” he said. Revenues will help lower the public
debt, he said.  Cars, Bank Sales  Investments are crucial to generate growth of at least 2
percent next year, with Serbia still keen to expand the car
industry “despite the difficult situation in the global car
market.” The central bank is more optimistic forecasting an
export and investment-led expansion of 3 percent in 2013.  Asset sales will start in November this year, with the
government calling a tender for the sale of its 65 percent stake
in  Privredna Banka Beograd AD (PRBN) , one of several troubled banks
that the state will no longer support, he said. Another bank for
sale is  Srpska Banka AD (SRBN)  and “talks are under way with
 Gazprombank OJSC (GZPR*) , VTB Bank and a bank from Abu Dhabi.”  Abu Dhabi investors are looking into Serbia’s agriculture,
property, weapons industry and banking market and may even get a
“greenfield banking license,” he said, adding that the
implementation of some transactions may begin as early as the
second quarter of 2013.  Serbia’s biggest bank,  Komercijalna Banka AD (KMBN) , where the
government added 100 million euros this week to keep its stake
in the bank, will not be for sale “because of unfavorable
market conditions,” Dinkic said.  Instead, the bank co-owned by the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, the IFC Capitalization (Equity)
Fund,  Sweden ’s Swedfund International AB and  Germany ’s Deutsche
Investitions- und Entwicklunggesellschaft mbH, known as DEG, may
be listed “in a foreign stock exchange in the medium term with
a free-float of 20 percent, with 10 percent each coming from the
stake held by the government and the EBRD and IFC, so that the
ownership balance remains unchanged,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  