-- Sherritt Falls After Earnings Miss Estimates: Toronto Mover
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-10-31T16:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/sherritt-falls-after-earnings-miss-estimates-toronto-mover.html
Sherritt International Corp. (S) , a
Toronto-based miner with operations in Cuba, fell the most in
more than three months after the company lowered 2012 output
forecasts and reported earnings that trailed analysts’
estimates.  Sherritt  declined  4.5 percent to C$4.28 at 10:54 a.m. in
Toronto. The shares earlier dropped as much as 5.6 percent, the
most intraday since July 23.  Sherritt reported a third-quarter loss of C$22.6 million
($22.61 million), or 8 cents a share, compared with net income
of C$45.5 million, or 16 cents, a year earlier, the company said
today in a statement. Profit excluding charges related to the
redemption of bonds and other one-time items was 3 cents a
share. That was 6 cents less than the average of seven estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue fell 9.5 percent, to C$422.2
million.  The results reflect decreased nickel prices and production
and lower export thermal coal volumes compared with a year ago,
partly offset by higher fertilizer revenue and the impact of a
weaker Canadian dollar relative to the  U.S. dollar , Sherritt
said. Nickel production was affected by planned maintenance work
during the quarter, the company said.  Sherritt has operations in  Canada , Cuba,  Pakistan  and  Spain 
and started metal production at a new nickel and cobalt mine in
 Madagascar , Ambatovy, during the third quarter. While the
company left its forecasts for nickel production this year from
its joint venture with the Cuban government unchanged, “they
did notch down guidance” on Ambatovy,’’  John Hughes , an analyst
at Desjardins Securities Inc. in Toronto, said by phone.  “I think the market might have a little concern that the
startup at that big operation, their flagship mine, maybe is
going to be longer term versus shorter term,” he said.  Sherritt lowered its 2012 consolidated production forecast
for finished nickel production at Ambatovy to 6,400 tons, from a
July 25 forecast of 8,000 tons. The company said it expects to
reach commercial production at the operation by early 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  