-- Ships at Eight-Year Low Seen Falling in Hyundai Price War
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-11-06T01:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/ships-at-10-year-low-seen-falling-in-hyundai-price-war.html
(Corrects measure of cost in 20th paragraph of story
published on Nov. 1)  Prices for new ships have fallen to
an eight-year low as shipyards sacrifice margins to win orders.
 Hyundai Heavy (009540)  Industries Co., the world’s largest shipbuilder,
may be about to make the price war worse.  The company could push prices down as much as 15 percent
industrywide as it tries to replenish an order backlog that is
near a five-year-low, according to E*Trade Securities Co.
analyst Park Moo Hyun. The Ulsan, South Korea-based shipbuilder,
which has as much capacity as the next two biggest yards
combined, has so far largely resisted price cuts even as global
orders drop to the slowest since 1999.  “Hyundai Heavy will have to aggressively go out there and
win orders to fill up its docks,” said Seoul-based Park. “That
means it has to cut prices.”  The company only has about 18 months of work in hand for
its shipyards because of the order slowdown and Chinese
competition, and it has started its first early-retirement
program. The shipbuilder has also had less success than  Daewoo
Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. (042660)  and Samsung Heavy
Industries Co. in offsetting the slump with contracts to build
offshore-energy equipment because of its larger facilities and
later push into the sector.  “Hyundai Heavy is now paying for focusing on ships and not
building up its skills in the offshore business,” said Um Kyung A, a Shinyoung Securities Co. analyst in Seoul, who cut the
stock to hold on Oct. 26. “They’ve been late to realize that
they had to change tactics.”  The shipbuilder declined to comment on prices and its
retirement program in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News
questions. The company, including unit Hyundai Samho, employs
about 28,500 people, mainly in Ulsan.  Fewer Docks  Its  shares  fell 4.2 percent, the biggest decline since July
18, to close at 219,500 won. The stock has dropped 15 percent
this year, compared with a 17 percent gain for  Samsung Heavy (010140)  and
a 3.7 percent decline for Daewoo.  Daewoo and Samsung Heavy, ranked second and third among
shipbuilders globally, have enough vessel orders to keep their
yards busy for more than two years, according to Um. The
companies, both based in Seoul, have fewer docks for building
ships than Hyundai Heavy as they have less land and used more of
their resources building facilities for making offshore units.  Shipbuilding Capacity  Hyundai Heavy, including Hyundai Samho, has the capacity to
build 20.6 million deadweight tons of ships a year, across 13
dry docks. The last of these opened in 2008, when the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. caused a slump in world trade
and ship purchases. The group, which also has a dock for
offshore units, had $26.3 billion of ship orders in hand at the
end of September.  “The drop in the order book is worrisome,” said Lee Jae Won, an analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in  Seoul . The
company in July replaced the head of its offshore business by
promoting Kim Oi Hyun to president and co-chief executive
officer, overseeing both shipbuilding and offshore.  Hyundai Heavy only achieved 55 percent of its 2012 vessel-
order target by the end of September, booking $5.02 billion of
contracts. The tally included a $1.2 billion deal for 10
container vessels from Enesel SA, the largest cargo-box ship
contract worldwide this year.  The shipbuilder charged about $120 million each for the
13,800-box capacity ships, $10 million less than it got in a
similar order from  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL)  in 2011. A decline
in steel-plate costs, the biggest expense for shipbuilders,
doesn’t fully explain the lower price, Um said.  “Hyundai Heavy has come to realize that they no longer
have the upper hand,” she said. “They’re getting a reality
check, a very big one.”  Offshore Deals  The company also only achieved 31 percent of its annual
target for offshore deals by the end of September, racking up
$1.61 billion of contracts. It lost out to Samsung Heavy and
Daewoo in competitions to build gas processing and floating oil
production facilities. The shipbuilder in 2006 won what was then
the single biggest order to build an offshore oil production
facility.  Samsung Heavy has this year won at least $7.65 billion of
offshore contracts, accounting for more than 90 percent of its
total orders. Daewoo has won $7.9 billion of offshore deals,
helped by contracts from Inpex Corp. and Petroliam Nasional Bhd.
Offshore products generally offer higher margins than ships as
their greater complexity reduces competition.  New Markets  Hyundai Heavy, which also builds power plants and makes
construction equipment, is expanding further to pare its
reliance on vessels. Last year, it pooled its alternative-energy
business into a separate division and it’s competing against
Korean Air Lines Co. to buy a $1 billion controlling stake in
jet-plane maker Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd.  The company may see an orders pick-up next year as an
economic revival spurs demand for offshore units and vessels,
Tong Yang’s Lee said. New rules designed to cut ship emissions
30 percent by 2030 could also help as the company has an edge in
design and technology over Chinese yards, E*Trade’s Park said.  Chinese yards have surpassed Korean shipbuilders as the
biggest builders of commodity ships because of state support and
lower wages. They are now targeting other sectors because of a
collapse in demand for dry-bulk vessels caused by overcapacity.  Global ship orders dropped 53 percent in the first nine
months of the year to 31.1 million deadweight tons, according to
Clarkson Plc. The shipbroker’s ship price index, which tracks
the value of all vessel types, has dropped 7.9 percent this year
to 128 in September. That’s the lowest since February 2004.  The average price for container ships has dropped 39
percent this year to $11,682.45 per 20-foot-box space in October,
according to Clarkson. For bulk ships, prices are down 7.6
percent to $462.87 a ton.  “Shipowners know shipyards are having difficult times and
that if they wait long enough that can place orders at really
good prices,” Um said. “It’s going to get even tougher next
year for Hyundai Heavy and others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  