-- Social Life Comes to Halt as Library, WNYC Cancel Galas
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-10-31T19:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/social-life-grinds-to-halt-as-whitney-museum-wnyc-cancel-galas.html
Daniel Loeb of Third Point LLC
didn’t do a yoga pose in a photo booth last night at the Bent on
Learning benefit.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Raymond McGuire and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s Valentino D. Carlotti left their tuxedos in their closets
Monday instead of wearing them to the Studio Museum in Harlem
gala at Cipriani Wall Street.  And Lulu Wang, founder and chief executive of Tupelo
Capital Management LLC, was in blue jeans at home, listening to
Brian Lehrer on  WNYC  instead of being honored at New York Public
Radio’s gala at 583 Park.  Arriving in one of the busiest weeks of New York’s social
season, Hurricane Sandy forced dozens of nonprofits to cancel
their fundraisers. Vendors and nonprofits will have to work out
the financials of the situation and determine their next steps.  Thurgood Marshall College Fund brought in 500 of its
scholarship recipients to attend a workforce development
conference over the weekend, which was to culminate in a 25th
anniversary gala Monday night.  Now 415 students are stranded in New York and the
organization’s president, Johnny C. Taylor, is trying to raise
more than $250,000 to pay for the additional costs of putting
them up, feeding them and getting them back to school. More than
300 of the students will not be able to get a flight until
Friday or Saturday.  Food Costs  New York Public Radio will pay the food costs for 470
people, the number who had been slated to attend the group’s
gala on Monday, Margaret Hunt, vice president of development,
said in a telephone interview. The organization won’t have to
pay for staff because enough notice was given, Hunt added.  Another bright note: “So far nobody is wanting their money
back,” Hunt said. That will mean the stations, without even
holding the event, will bring in $1.45 million, $200,000 above
the fundraising target.  It’s still bittersweet for Hunt, though. “We’ve been
working on this for a year,” she said. “It’s really hard to
exactly get all the elements back together.”  That statement certainly applies to the  Breast Cancer
Research Foundation . For its annual symposium, it expected to
present $40 million in grants to 197 researchers from around the
world during a Tuesday luncheon at the Waldorf-Astoria. The
actress Kate Hudson was to have presented an award.  Minimal Loss  Hudson didn’t make it to New York, nor did most of the
scholars. As for financial loss: “I’m not saying we’re not
going to lose anything, but after 20 years of doing this and the
relationships we’ve built, every effort will be made to help us
have minimal loss,” Anna DeLuca, director of public relations
at the foundation, said.  David Adler, founder and chief executive officer of
BizBash, a trade publication for the event industry, said
companies and nonprofits with events postponed due to  Hurricane
Sandy  are not likely to recover the money they’ve put out to
venues and caterers.  “Venue contracts have force majeure clauses, which means
you’re not covered by acts of God, they’re not going to give you
your money back,” Adler said.  Whitney Museum  Elsewhere, the Whitney Museum of American Art canceled its
Tuesday night gala, set to take place at a pier on the Hudson
River, the Fortune Society canceled a Monday night gala at
Tribeca Rooftop, and the East Harlem School canceled a gala last
night at 583 Park. “Zone One” author  Colson Whitehead  was to
have been honored at a Brooklyn Public Library gala that wasn’t
held last night.  These and other canceled events may be rescheduled.  Lincoln
Center for the Performing Arts  postponed a gala scheduled for
tonight until November 7.  Sandy could wreak long-term havoc on events if venues are
unable to reschedule them. Catalog for Giving has its Urban
Heroes Awards scheduled for Nov. 5. It is now looking for an
alternate to its original venue, Pier 60 at Chelsea Piers, which
will be closed.  The sports and event complex on the Hudson River is without
power and assessing damage, according to a recorded message that
noted individual businesses would reopen “as soon as power is
restored and all necessary repairs have been completed.”  Public Library  The main branch of the New York Public Library at Fifth
Avenue and 42nd Street, a popular venue for galas, is currently
without power but did not sustain damage, spokeswoman Angela
Montefinise wrote in an email today. All rental events there
this week have been canceled, she said.  At least one fundraiser will go on as planned for Halloween
tonight: Hulaween, organized by the New York Restoration
Project, will take place at the Waldorf-Astoria.  “The divine Miss M is undeterred,” said New York
Restoration Project publicist Roberta Greene of the
organization’s founder, Bette Midler.  Its cause, planting trees and maintaining green spaces in
the city, is timely in the wake of Sandy, which took out so many
trees on the East Coast.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 