-- South Africa Posts Biggest Trade Gap in More Than 3 Years
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-10-31T13:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/south-africa-posts-biggest-trade-gap-in-more-than-three-years.html
South Africa  posted its biggest
trade deficit in more than three years in September after
wildcat strikes shut mines owned by  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , cutting production.  The  shortfall  widened to 13.8 billion rand ($1.6 billion)
from 12.2 billion rand in August, the Pretoria-based South
African Revenue Service said today in an e-mailed statement. The
 median estimate  of five economists in a Bloomberg survey was a
deficit of 8.2 billion rand. The gap is the biggest since
January 2009.  Labor unrest has cut mining output by 10.1 billion rand
this year, curbing exports just as  Europe ’s debt crisis lowers
demand for South Africa’s manufactured goods. The  trade gap 
reached a record 32.7 billion rand in the third quarter, adding
to pressure on the current account deficit and threatening to
undermine the rand.  “The impact of the mining strikes will be felt in the
fourth quarter so the October number could also be weak,” Henk Viljoen, head of fixed-income investing at Stanlib Asset
Management in Johannesburg, which oversees about $45 billion,
said in a phone interview.  The rand extended its decline, falling to 8.6779 at 2:50
p.m. in Johannesburg, from 8.6743 before the release of the
trade data.  Exports Drop  Exports fell 7.7 percent to 56.7 billion rand in September
from the previous month, as base metal shipments slumped 9
percent, and exports of machinery and electrical appliances
dropped 15 percent, the revenue service said. Exports of
precious and semi-precious stones and metals dipped 4 percent,
while mineral product shipments fell by the same margin, it
said.  Imports declined 4.2 percent to 70.5 billion rand due to a
13 percent slump in chemical imports and a 19 percent reduction
in equipment component purchases.  South Africa posted a  current-account deficit  of 6.4
percent of gross domestic product in the second quarter, the
most in almost four years.  Africa’s biggest economy relies on foreign investment in
stocks and bonds to finance the shortfall, inflows that have
fluctuated this year as slower economic growth led some
investors to sell riskier, emerging-market assets.  Trade Deterioration  “The year-to-date deficit in South Africa this year is
more than seven times the deficit seen over the same period last
year,”  Razia Khan , the London-based head of Africa economic
research at  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , said in e-mailed comments.
“Making matters worse, the broad trade deterioration in South
Africa comes amidst weak growth in the country. It is difficult
to see where the upside lies.”  The National Treasury expects South Africa’s economic
growth to ease to 2.5 percent this year, from 3.1 percent last
year, partly because of the mining strikes.  The monthly trade figures are often volatile, reflecting
the timing of shipments of commodities such as  oil  and diamonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  