-- South Sudan Rebel Group Threatens to Reignite Ethnic War
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-10-31T10:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/south-sudan-rebel-group-threatens-to-reignite-ethnic-war.html
A new South Sudanese rebel group is
threatening to reignite violence in Jonglei state where at least
1,600 people died in ethnic clashes last year, according to the
 United Nations  and Archbishop Daniel Deng.  A 3,000-member militia led by David Yau Yau, a former
theology student and candidate for governor, has killed at least
100 government troops since August, the Geneva-based Small Arms
Survey, a research group, said in a  report  today. South Sudan’s
army said 24 of its soldiers died in an Aug. 23 ambush.  “If the David Yau Yau group splits out and begins to
attack other communities, then that is very dangerous,” Deng,
who leads a government-appointed committee to negotiate peace
among rival ethnic groups, said in an Oct. 26 interview.  The violence in Jonglei, an eastern state bordering
 Ethiopia  where  Total SA (FP)  has a stake in an oil exploration
concession, has marred  South Sudan ’s year-old independence from
the north. The authorities in Juba, the capital, accused Sudan
of airdropping weapons to the militia within sight of a UN
peacekeeping mission post in Pibor County on Sept. 22.  UN mission spokesman Kouider Zerrouk said that while
peacekeepers saw a “white, fixed-wing aircraft” drop as many
as eight packages, the UN couldn’t identify the contents or who
dropped them. Sudan’s army has denied supporting Yau Yau or any
rebel group in South Sudan.  UN Concern  The  UN Mission in South Sudan , which has about 130
peacekeepers in Pibor County, is “increasingly concerned” that
violent incidents believed to be carried out by Yau Yau’s
militia and aligned armed youth who have avoided disarmament
“constitute a threat to the  peace process ,” Zerrouk said in an
e-mailed response to questions on Oct. 29.  Army spokesman Colonel Kella Dual Kueth said Yau Yau’s
militia attacked two towns in Pibor County on Oct. 29, killing a
woman and a child. “It was random shelling,” he said.  Kueth dismissed the threat from Yau Yau, saying that “he
has just a small group, and we will find him and deal with
him.”  The militia attacked a home in Akobo County on Oct. 25,
wounding four people, Simon Duoth, commissioner of neighboring
Uror County, said the following day in an interview in Yuai, the
county capital.  Abuses committed by the government’s Sudan People’s
Liberation Army, or SPLA, in a campaign to disarm the warring
Murle and Lou Nuer ethnic groups helped Yau Yau, a Murle, to
recruit fighters, according to Jonah Leff, author of the Small
Arms Survey report. New York-based  Human Rights Watch  and
 Amnesty International  have said they documented widespread
abuses including rape, beatings and torture in Pibor County.  ‘Curb Violations’  “For many Murle, the principal enemy is no longer the Lou
Nuer but the SPLA,” according to the Small Arms Survey report.  Human Rights Watch , in an Aug. 23 statement, said the
“authorities have not taken sufficient steps to curb the
violations or hold abusive soldiers accountable.”  Zerrouk said the government has taken some action to
address the allegations, including making arrests in rape cases
and recalling units involved in the abuses.  Small Arms Survey  said the UN mission has “failed to carry
out its mandate to protect civilians in the face of widespread
SPLA abuses” and hasn’t sufficiently lobbied the government to
change the army’s behavior.  Zerrouk rejected the allegation, saying the mission raised
its concerns with the army and that failure to bring
perpetrators of abuses to justice risks undermining efforts to
disarm communities in Jonglei and make peace between them.  Army spokesman Kueth denied the allegations of abuse,
saying they are “not true.”  Restore Peace  Because the disarmament campaign, known was Operation
Restore Peace, was largely successful in taking weapons away
from the Lou Nuer tribe and most of the Murle, local officials
fear Yau Yau’s militia could run rampant.  “I’m worried because I know that the whole population has
been disarmed,” said Duoth, the Uror County commissioner.  Leff, in an Oct. 28 e-mailed response to questions, said
such attacks could spark a tribal arms race.  “Since Yau Yau has brought a new influx of weapons into
Murleland, Lou Nuer youth have started rearming in preparation
for a newly armed Murle attack,” he said in an Oct. 28 e-mailed
response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South  Sudan , at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  