-- Statoil Says Tax Change May Force Business, Jobs Out of Norway
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-10-31T15:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/statoil-says-tax-change-may-force-business-jobs-out-of-norway.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest oil
producer, said it may be forced to relocate operations and jobs
abroad if it’s no longer allowed to deduct the cost of overseas
exploration and development from taxable income at home.  Norway’s government, in its  budget proposal  for 2013, said
it would eliminate the right to deduct such costs as it seeks to
bring in about 500 million kroner ($88 million) in additional
tax revenue in 2013.  “The consequence of that is that jobs and business are
likely to be moved out of Norway,” Statoil Chief Financial
Officer Torgrim Reitan said today in a presentation in Oslo.
“It gives a clear incentive to change the legal structure of
the company.”  Statoil has seen overseas costs rise as it expands in
countries such as the U.S.,  Angola  and  Brazil  to counter falling
production from aging fields off Norway. The Stavanger-based
company plans to increase production to 2.5 million barrels of
oil equivalent a day in 2020 from about 2 million now as it
increases investment in international production.  Exploration expenses at Statoil’s international units
jumped 90 percent to 11.1 billion kroner in the first nine
months of 2012 from a year earlier, according to the company’s
third-quarter report. Exploration costs fell 28 percent to 2.3
billion kroner in Norway.  Scrap Deductions  The Scandinavian country’s tax system “subsidizes” oil
recovery abroad by allowing Norwegian companies to deduct
exploration and development costs from income related to onshore
operations in Norway, the government said in its budget plan.
The nation, which receives only “modest” taxes from the
companies’ overseas production, has proposed to end cost
deductions as well as the levies themselves.  Reitan said the changes, which have been presented to
Parliament and “will probably be voted into law,” would reduce
the profitability of Statoil’s international exploration and
make the company less competitive when bidding for licenses
abroad.  “We are still puzzled that the Ministry of Finance seems
not to have the competitiveness of the Norwegian tax system
higher on its agenda,” he said. “We are also surprised by the
way the ministry states that there is not any need to put in
place any measures to keep employees in  Norway .”  Reitan declined to elaborate on the cost impact of the
changes, or on which operations and jobs may be relocated.  “We are in a phase where we are assessing what this means, 
and what adjustments we will have to make,” he said in an 
interview following his presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo on  at
 jbergman@bloomberg.ne  