-- Stein Says Euro Zone Banks Cut Loans More in U.S. Than in Europe
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-10-31T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/stein-says-euro-zone-banks-cut-loans-more-in-u-s-than-in-europe.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  said that  Europe ’s debt crisis may be reducing lending by
that continent’s banks in the U.S. more than in Europe.  “Euro zone banks shifted the composition of their dollar
and euro lending, cutting their dollar lending by more, despite
the fact that European economies were more threatened by the
debt crisis,” Stein and coauthors Victoria Ivashina and David
Scharfstein, both Harvard University professors, said in a
research paper released today by the central bank in  Washington .  The paper investigates how curtailed financing resulting
from Europe’s debt crisis -- which has pushed at least five euro
nations into recessions and eroded investor and business
confidence -- has impaired the U.S. economy through the banking
system. Stein, a former Harvard University professor, has
published academic research on monetary policy and financial
markets throughout his career. He joined the Fed in May.  Stein and his coauthors show that European banks are
cutting dollar loans more than euro loans because they obtain
dollars in the “less stable” wholesale funding market while
their euro loans are funded by deposits. While five Euro nations
are in recession, the  U.S. economy  grew 2 percent in the third
quarter of 2012, according to a Commerce Department report last
week.  Lending Falls  The paper does not attempt to measure the extent to which
the reduction in U.S. loans from European banks has harmed the
U.S., the authors write. “To some extent other banks -- either
U.S. or non-European banks -- may have stepped in to fill the
hole left by the retrenchment of the euro zone banks,” the
economists said.  “Although dollar lending by foreign banks increases the
supply of credit to U.S. firms during normal times, it may also
prove to be a more fragile source of funding that transmits
overseas shocks to the U.S. economy,” they said.  Stein, 52, is the newest member of the Fed’s board of
governors. He was nominated by President  Barack Obama  in
December to a term at the Fed lasting through January of 2018.
Stein and Jerome Powell, an attorney and private equity
investor, were confirmed by the  U.S. Senate  on May 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  