-- Subbarao Says RBI, India Government Share Growth, Prices Goals
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-10-31T12:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/subbarao-says-rbi-india-government-share-growth-prices-goals.html
Reserve Bank  of  India  Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao commented on inflation, monetary policy and the
rupee in an interview with Bloomberg TV India today. He kept the
benchmark  repurchase rate  at 8 percent yesterday to damp price
increases, while reducing the  cash reserve ratio  to 4.25 percent
from 4.5 percent to support lending.  On shared goals:  “Both the government and the RBI have shared goals, which
is that we want to see growth improving, we want to see
inflation coming down and remaining at low levels, and the
collective endeavor as well as our individual efforts are
focused on achieving those objectives.  “The government has moved very firmly, very decisively,
particularly over the last months to ease the supply concerns in
the economy and inspire confidence of investors, so that growth
improves and inflation comes down, and that has been the effort
of the RBI as well. Although, we thought more about inflation,
we have also spoken about our concern about growth and
yesterday’s action was, I believe, aimed at restraining
inflation even as we encourage drivers of growth.  On the rate decision:  “We maintained our policy rate at 8 percent to signal our
anti-inflationary stance, we reduced the CRR to ensure that
there is comfortable liquidity to ensure that there is flow of
credit to the productive sectors of the economy. My expectation
is that the CRR cut yesterday will enable the excess capacity in
the economy to be utilized fully and then the investments take
place.”  On the fiscal deficit:  “Not just the  Reserve Bank of India , for all the
stakeholders in the economy, the quantum of fiscal adjustment is
important but the quality of fiscal adjustment is also important.  “The only variable available for cutting expenditure is
subsidies. Leakages need to be minimized. I would say that the
goal of minimizing subsidies to 2 percent of GDP, that is what
we should be working towards.”  On the rupee:  “The RBI manages volatility in the exchange rate and
doesn’t target the exchange rate. The extreme volatility that we
saw in the first half of this year has subsided somewhat but I
also want to caution that we cannot take this for granted
because it’s a situation beyond our control.  “The  exchange-rate  volatility is the reflection of global
uncertainty and there has been some calm in the recent months in
the global situation. But again there are several trouble spots,
where there could be some problems. So, we’ve got to be vigilant
about that.”  On Inflation:  “We have not changed our comfort level of inflation. It’s
still 5 percent. We believe we need to bring inflation down to 5
percent so that our economy is competitive, so that investors
and consumers can make informed decisions.  “As supply concerns ease, as the global situation improves,
as the monetary policy works through the system, I believe that
we can bring inflation down to 5 percent. It may take a little
longer than what we had thought.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  