-- Superstorm Aid to States Muddles Anti-Government Message
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-10-31T19:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/superstorm-aid-to-states-muddles-anti-government-message.html
Superstorm Sandy left Republican
leaders, who typically call for a reduced federal government,
welcoming its intervention.  The deadly storm that caused destruction across the
northeastern U.S. also muddled the free-market narratives
embraced by presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  and Republican
governors of several states, including New Jersey’s Chris Christie, who praised President  Barack Obama  for his help.  The governors have sparred with Obama over expanded health-
care coverage, taxes and federal debt, while Republican leaders
in Congress have sought to offset or limit disaster-aid costs.  Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell, who called Obama’s
policies “horrific” on Oct. 1, praised the speed at which the
state was granted federal help.  “To get a disaster declaration in literally a matter of
hours is almost unprecedented,” McDonnell, a frequent speaker
on behalf of Romney, said at a storm briefing yesterday,
according to the Richmond Times-Dispatch newspaper.  “Their prayer is, ‘Lord make me a fiscal conservative, but
not quite yet,’” said John Pitney, a professor of politics at
Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,  California , referring to
the Republican response to the storm a week before the Nov. 6
election.  The destruction has underlined the central divide in a
contest that has turned on the role of the federal government.
Romney has been lambasting “trickle-down government” and Obama
defending the federal safety net.  Obama Risk  The storm also carried risks for Obama, because a botched
aid effort would revive memories of President George W. Bush’s
failed response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005.  Obama yesterday led a conference call from the White House
situation room with 13 state governors, seven mayors and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator. He joined
Christie today in New Jersey to view storm damage and speak with
aid workers and people affected.  The storm has left a trail of flooding and death, causing
billions of dollars in damage.  Republican leaders who say the government should reduce
spending to rein in federal deficits have included disaster aid
in their calculus. Republican-leaning research groups such as
the Heritage Foundation have produced studies showing what they
say is out-of-control spending on routine disasters, meant to
reward leaders in favored states. A Heritage report in January
called it “presidential abuse of FEMA.”  Record Disasters  Obama last year signed a record 242 disaster declarations,
according to the agency. The nonpartisan Government
Accountability Office said in a September  report  that FEMA could
do more to reduce administrative costs.  The fiscal year 2013  budget  proposed by Romney’s running
mate, Wisconsin Representative Paul Ryan, and passed by the U.S.
House in March, suggested using “major disaster metrics” to
reduce federal expenditures. The budget would “use existing
resources to help communities recover from disasters
expeditiously and cost-effectively.”  Romney said in a June 2011 Republican presidential debate
that he might shift FEMA’s duties to the states or the private
sector. With regard to disaster relief, he said, “We cannot
afford to do those things without jeopardizing the future for
our kids.”  ‘Efficient’ Response  For the second day, the Romney campaign tried to dispel the
notion that the candidate would abolish FEMA if elected.  “Governor Romney believes in a very efficient and
effective disaster-relief response, and he believes one of the
ways to do that is put a premium on states and their efforts to
respond to these disasters,” spokesman Kevin Madden told
reporters today on the campaign plane. “But he does believe
FEMA has a really important role there and that being a partner
for these states is the best approach.”  Yesterday, Romney repeatedly declined to answer questions
about his earlier statements.  Currently, FEMA is  authorized  to assist state and local
governments following disasters. “FEMA is not the team, but
part of a team,” the agency says on its website.  Republican congressional leaders wanted budget cuts last
year to offset the $1 billion the Obama administration sought
for disaster relief.  Limited Funds  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said after a May 22, 2011, tornado killed at least 161 people in
Joplin,  Missouri , that disaster aid should be balanced by other
reductions in federal spending. He said in an Aug. 29 Fox News
interview that disaster funds “are not unlimited.”  New Jersey’s Christie said his state, suffering from the
effects of Hurricane Irene, couldn’t wait for Congress to fight
over budget cuts. Virginia’s McDonnell also broke with Cantor,
saying on his monthly radio show, “I don’t think it’s the time
to get into that debate.”  Matt Mayer, the Heritage visiting fellow who wrote its
January report on disasters and was a Department of Homeland
Security official under Bush, said his point was that the
government “should get out of the business of routine disasters
that are not of such severity and magnitude.”  Superstorm Sandy, he said, “is a great example of when
FEMA and the federal government are needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  