-- Swiss Stocks Drop, Trimming Monthly Gain; Clariant Slides
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-10-31T16:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-in-aftermath-of-hurricane.html
Stocks in Switzerland  fell, trimming
the Swiss Market Index’s second straight monthly gain, as a
worse-than-expected report on U.S. business activity
overshadowed a rally in insurers.  Clariant AG (CLN)  tumbled 8 percent, the most in 13 months, after
lowering its full-year sales forecast.  Nestle SA (NESN) , which accounts
for 24 percent of the SMI by weight, retreated 0.9 percent.
Swiss Re Ltd. and Zurich Insurance Group AG advanced in the
aftermath of Hurricane Sandy.  The benchmark SMI fell 0.6 percent to 6,595.13 at the close
of trading in Zurich, reducing the October advance to 1.5
percent. The gauge has  rallied 15 percent  from this year’s low
on June 4 as European Central Bank policy makers agreed on an
unlimited bond-buying plan and the  Federal Reserve  announced a
third round of quantitative easing. The Swiss Performance Index
also declined 0.6 percent today.  “As the  New York  storm passes, liquidity returns to give a
clearer picture of the market, but poor sentiment to earnings
and manufacturing data continue,” said Daniel Weston, chief
investment officer at Aimed Capital Management LLC in Munich.
“Euro insurers are rallying because their exposure to East
Coast damage isn’t as big as was thought.”  The New York Stock Exchange opened today for the first time
this week after  Hurricane Sandy  caused U.S. markets to close for
two straight days.  Economic Data  U.S.  business activity  unexpectedly contracted in October
for a second month, adding to signs manufacturing has retreated
from its central role in the economic recovery. A gauge from the
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. rose to 49.9 from
49.7 in September. A reading of 50 is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  The euro-area jobless rate climbed to a record in September
as the fiscal crisis and tougher austerity measures threatened
to deepen the economy’s slump. Unemployment rose to 11.6 percent
from 11.5 percent in August, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said.  Euro-area governments urged  Greece  to make deeper spending
cuts to receive further aid, after the region’s finance
ministers held a conference call today.  “We called on the Greek authorities to solve remaining
issues so as to swiftly finalize the negotiations,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said in an e-mailed
statement. The aim is to “conclude on the program” at a
scheduled Nov. 12 meeting of the ministers in Brussels, he said.  Volume Rises  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 32 percent higher than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Clariant plunged 8 percent to 9.97 Swiss francs after
saying it sees unchanged sales in local currencies this year,
compared with a July 25 forecast for sales growth and sustained
profitability.  Nestle slid 0.9 percent to 59.10 francs, the lowest level
in six weeks.  Transocean Ltd., the world’s biggest offshore driller, slid
2.5 percent to 42.39 francs for the biggest decline in the  SMI. (SMI) 
The shares dropped as much as 2.7 percent in New York trading as
markets reopened after Hurricane Sandy.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, added 0.6
percent to 64.35 francs and Zurich Insurance climbed 0.3 percent
to 229.50 francs. A gauge of insurers was the  best performing
group  in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA (NWRN)  jumped 13 percent to 8.44 francs
after the company resubmitted an offer to buy NeuroNova AB for
15.5 million euros ($20.2 million). Newron’s shareholders
rejected plans to acquire the Swedish company on Sept. 19, with
66.32 percent voting in favor of the deal compared with the
66.67 percent majority needed for approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  