-- U.K. Probes Wind Farms as Minister Says ‘Enough’
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-31T14:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/u-k-probes-wind-farms-as-minister-says-enough-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
the U.K. must rethink  energy policy  once targets for renewable
power are met, a sign Conservatives in the coalition government
are reluctant to deepen the nation’s green-growth ambitions.  “We’ve got a big pipeline of offshore and onshore wind
products coming through,” Cameron said in response to a
question in Parliament in  London . “All parties are going to
have to have a debate on what happens once those commitments are
met.”  The comments underscored divisions between Conservative and
the Liberal Democrat parties in the administration, which are at
odds over how the pace of expansion for land-based  wind
turbines . Britain has tripled the portion of energy coming from
renewables since 2009 and may surpass 15 percent supply before
2020 when the government has committed to that level.  Cameron was replying to calls from  David Miliband , leader
of the opposition  Labour Party , to clarify the government’s view
on renewables after a rift between two ministers about wind.
Those comments unsettled industry and environmental groups,
which said the dispute puts at risk investment needed to upgrade
Britain’s aging power plants.  “Ministers’ public disagreements on renewable energy
policy are damaging to investor confidence,” said Gaynor
Hartnell, chief executive officer of the Renewable Energy
Association. “The coalition needs to put the national interest
ahead of party-politics given the gravity of our energy
challenge.”  Government Rift  The dispute burst into the open earlier today when John Hayes, a junior energy minister, said he ordered an analysis of
onshore wind and that he wouldn’t support new turbines. The
Conservative lawmaker told the  Daily Mail  that the machines had
been “peppered” across the countryside and that “enough is
enough.”  Ed Davey , the Liberal Democrat Cabinet minister in charge
of the department, said the technology is “one of the cheapest
renewables” and has “an important role to play.”  Hayes was appointed in September and has said he wants to
give greater weight to the views of local communities on where
wind farms are sited. Almost a third of Conservative members of
Parliament wrote to the prime minister in January saying
turbines are “inefficient and intermittent.”  Cameron said there has been no change in the government’s
support for renewables, though his remarks signal that
Conservatives may seek to rein in support for the industry once
the current targets are met.  Energy Targets  Britain is aiming for 15 percent of its energy to come from
clean sources such as solar and wind by 2020. The country in
2009 got about 3 percent of its energy from renewables, and this
already has risen to as much as 9.4 percent.  Scotland  yesterday
said it’s aiming for half its electricity to come from clean
power after reaching 35 percent last year, beating its 31
percent interim goal.  “It is under this government that we’ve seen more invest
in green energy in three years than under the previous
government,” Cameron said. “This is indeed a very green
government, and it’s sticking to its promises.”  The prime minister didn’t discuss Hayes’ remark. The
comments come at a sensitive time for the industry, which is
awaiting legislation from government on how to reshape the
industry and encourage power plant construction. The regulator
Ofgem estimates the U.K. needs to attract 110 billion pounds
($177 billion) of investment to replace aging power plants and
upgrade electric grids in the next two decades.  Industry Concern  RenewableUK, an industry group, said it was shocked by
Hayes’ remarks in the newspaper, which didn’t chime with
comments he made in a speech yesterday in Glasgow to 400
delegates at a wave, wind and tidal conference. There, he
repeated the government line that it’s supporting renewables.  “We are on the eve of the publication of the Energy Bill,
a crucial time for energy policy, with huge investment decisions
to be made that will lead to tens of thousands of jobs over the
next decade,” Deputy Chief Executive Maf Smith said in a
statement.  Environmental groups expressed anger and suggested Cameron
is walking away from the commitment he made upon taking office
to lead the “greenest ever” government.  “ John Hayes ’ petulant outburst adds to the coalition’s
growing energy shambles and to a deepening divide within
government between those who care about green growth and those
who just want more oil and gas,” said Leila Deen, an energy
campaigner for Greenpeace. “Here is a new minister veering off
brief and publicly contradicting his bosses.”  Wind Probe  About two weeks after Hayes was appointed to the Department
of Energy and  Climate Change , the department started a
 consultation  designed to ensure communities could derive
benefits from wind farms built nearby, including through grants
to build playgrounds.  “We can no longer have wind turbines imposed on
communities,” Hayes said, according to the Daily Mail, which
said only a minority of turbines in the planning process would
get through. He has commissioned research to assess the impact
of turbines on the landscape.  Ministers from the energy department met this morning and
discussed Hayes’ remarks. Davey is in charge of energy strategy
and renewables, while Hayes looks over deployment of
technologies and  Greg Barker , another junior minister in the
department, is in charge of planning issues.  Aesthetic Considerations  Hayes said Oct. 17 that the British government should give
more weight to aesthetics in the approval process. Britain is
seeking to more than double its onshore wind capacity by 2020.  Davey fought to maintain cuts to onshore wind subsidies at
the planned 10 percent level in July after pressure from the
Treasury headed by Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne to
reduce them more. Osborne, a Conservative, has called for
government to move more slowly on low-carbon initiatives, saying
they’re hurting industry.  “With the Energy Bill just weeks away, David Cameron needs
to get a grip on his government,” said Nick Molho, head of
energy policy at the pressure group WWF in the U.K. “The prime
minister appears to be asleep at the wheel on energy policy,
with  George Osborne  a back seat driver colour-blind to green
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  