-- U.K. Treasury Adds Kingman to Panel Considering King Successors
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-31T13:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/u-k-treasury-adds-kingman-to-panel-considering-king-successors.html
U.K. Treasury Second Permanent
Secretary John Kingman was added to the panel considering
candidates to replace Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  as it
begins interviews, an official at the Treasury said.  Kingman joins the original group that was nominated before
he returned to the Treasury this month from NM Rothschild & Sons
Ltd., where he worked since 2010, said the official, who
declined to be named to comply with civil service convention.  The recruitment process is under way, with interviews with
shortlisted candidates taking place, two people familiar with
the matter said. Unsuccessful candidates have also been
notified, one of the people said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who plans to
announce a new governor by the end of the year, said this month
that many “high-quality” candidates applied. Speculation is
centering on Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  and
Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner . The deadline
for applications closed early on Oct. 8.  Kingman, 43, was the first chief executive officer of U.K.
Financial Investments, the body charged with overseeing the
government’s stakes in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
Lloyds Banking Group Plc, and was involved in the bailout of
Northern Rock Plc when he was previously Second Permanent
Secretary at the Treasury.  The panel considering candidates for the Bank of England
post comprises Treasury Permanent Secretary Nicholas Macpherson,
Second Permanent Secretary Tom Scholar and David Lees, chairman
of the central bank’s court. Treasury Committee lawmakers from
the House of Commons will also question the governor before the
job commences.  BOE Shortlist  The shortlist of candidates will be presented to Osborne,
who will recommend his choice to Prime Minister  David Cameron .
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  from the junior coalition
Liberal Democrat Party will also have a say in the matter. Queen
Elizabeth II then gives formal approval on the final choice.  Whoever is appointed will take over a beefed-up institution
with new powers over financial regulation to add to its role
setting monetary policy. Other potential candidates include
Independent Commission on Banking Chairman  John Vickers  and
former Treasury Permanent Secretary Terence Burns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  