-- U.K. Lawmakers Clash With Watchdog Over Company Tax Deals
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-31T17:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/u-k-lawmakers-clash-with-watchdog-over-company-tax-deals.html
British lawmakers clashed with the
government’s spending watchdog after they were refused details
of agreements between five large companies and the tax
authorities.  Members of Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee were
rebuffed today when they asked Amyas Morse, head of the National
Audit Office, to agree to hand over details of the settlements.
Morse said in June he backed the findings of Andrew Park, a 
former High Court judge, that the agreements had been 
“reasonable.”  “It’s very difficult for us to accept your judgment,”
said Margaret Hodge, the opposition Labour Party lawmaker who
chairs the committee. Austin Mitchell, another Labour
legislator, said Morse’s refusal showed he doesn’t “trust the
committee.”  The committee in London called Morse to testify in public
after failing to persuade him to disclose the companies’ tax
affairs during a series of closed-door meetings. Morse said he
is not “willing to commit a criminal offense” by agreeing to
its demands and would face a “shower of writs” if he did. The
companies have not been named.  The British government has pledged to crack down on what it
sees as abusive tax-avoidance schemes, including a  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
plan that denied the Treasury more than 500 million pounds ($800
million).  In a separate parliamentary hearing today, U.K. tax
officials defended their strategy for ensuring large businesses
pay the tax they owe, saying it had generated an extra 29
billion pounds in revenue since 2006.  “It’s entirely right we expect multinationals to pay tax
in the jurisdiction where they are generating their profits,”
Jim Harra, director general of business tax at Her Majesty’s
Revenue & Customs, told lawmakers. “The rules are designed to
ensure the proportion of profits that are relevant to the U.K.
gets taxed in the U.K.”  Officials refused to comment directly on the case of
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , which has paid no corporation tax in the U.K.
over the past three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  