-- U.K. October Consumer Sentiment Falls to Six-Month Low, GfK Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/u-k-october-consumer-sentiment-falls-to-six-month-low-gfk-says.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  fell to a
six-month low in October as Britons become more pessimistic
about their finances and spending, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  An index of sentiment declined to minus 30 from minus 28 in
September, the London-based research group said in an e-mailed
report today. A gauge of how consumers see their personal
financial situation over the next year dropped 5 points to minus
13, also the lowest in six months.  Britain exited a recession in the third quarter as  gross
domestic product  surged the most in five years. Still, the
 Confederation of British Industry  said yesterday that while its
retail sales index rose to a four-month high in October,
“uncertainty over the global economic outlook could dent
consumer confidence, hitting prospects for the retail sector.”  “While the Olympics are thought to have boosted GDP in the
last quarter, the late summer boost in consumer sentiment has
now faded,” said Nick Moon, managing director of social
research at GfK. “The fragility of the recovery is underlined
by the fact that people are more worried about their own
financial situation over the next 12 months. This certainly
doesn’t suggest there will be a spending boom on the back of the
official emergence from recession.”  A measure of Britons’ outlook for the economy over the next
12 months fell 2 points to minus 29 in October, GfK said. A
gauge of the climate for making major purchases decreased 2
points to minus 33. GfK interviewed 2,004 people between Oct. 5
and Oct. 14.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said earlier this
month that cooling inflation over the past year has “somewhat”
eased the squeeze on consumers. Still, policy makers have said
the inflation outlook remains uncertain as energy costs
increase. Officials will decide on Nov. 8 whether to extend so-
called quantitative easing after they complete their latest
round of bond purchases next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  