-- U.S. to Issue Jobs Report on Nov. 2, Spokesman Says
-- B y   C h r i s   W e l l i s z   a n d   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2012-10-31T14:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/u-s-labor-dept-to-issue-jobs-report-nov-2-spokesman-says.html
The U.S. Department of Labor will
issue its monthly employment report for October, the last to be
published before the presidential election, as scheduled on Nov.
2, a spokesman said today.  The report “will be released as scheduled on Friday,” the
spokesman, Gary Steinberg, said from Washington.  The statement clears up uncertainty surrounding the
publication of the report after  Hurricane Sandy  closed
government offices for two days this week. Yesterday, another
spokesman, Carl Fillichio, said the employees at the Bureau of
Labor Statistics are “working hard to ensure the timely release
of employment data.”  The jobs report may help sway voters trying to decide
between giving President  Barack Obama  another four years in
office or to change course with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . The Obama administration has pointed to 24 straight
months of job growth as evidence the economy is improving, while
the Romney campaign has said progress is too slow.  Payrolls probably rose by 125,000 workers in October, and
the jobless rate increased to 7.9 percent from a three-year low
of 7.8 percent reached in September, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Jack Welch , the former chief executive officer of General
Electric Co., suggested the Obama administration had manipulated
the jobs data for political advantage after the September
unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped to the lowest level since
the president took office in January 2009. Alan Krueger,
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, called
Welch’s comments “irresponsible.”  Prior to September,  joblessness  had exceeded 8 percent for
43 straight months, the longest such stretch since at least
1948.  Ronald Reagan  is the only president to have been re-elected
since World War II with unemployment above 6 percent. On
Election Day 1984, the rate was at 7.2 percent, having dropped
almost three percentage points in the previous 18 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Coy in  New York  at   pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  