-- U.S. Urges Sudan Rebels to Stop Recruiting Children
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-10-31T12:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/u-s-urges-sudan-rebels-to-stop-recruiting-children.html
Sudanese rebels must stop recruiting
children and keep their fighters out of a refugee camp in  South
Sudan , U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Population,
Refugees, and Migration Anne Richard said.  U.S. officials in  Washington  met with leaders of the rebel
Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North after receiving reports
in September that the group was recruiting in refugee camps
inside South Sudan where the  United Nations  says more than
175,000 people have fled violence in Sudan.  “Our message to them was really about the civilian nature
of the camp and have asked them to please not use a camp which
is supposed to be civilian as a center for R and R or for
recruitment of soldiers,” Richard told reporters today in Juba,
South Sudan’s capital. “Especially we’ve asked that they not
take children to serve as soldiers.”  The refugees are fleeing fighting that began more than a
year ago between President Umar al-Bashir’s government and
rebels who fought during a two-decade civil alongside the forces
of South Sudan, which gained independence in July last year.  The fighting is concentrated in oil-rich Southern Kordofan
and Blue Nile states, where New York-based  Human Rights Watch 
said in April that civilians are bearing the brunt of
indiscriminate bombing by government aircraft.  Arnu Lodi, a spokesman for the rebels, denied the
insurgents recruited children and others in the refugee camps.  “The SPLM-N are not taking any children,” he said by
phone from Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. “They are not
recruiting in the camp.”  Uniformed Soldiers  While Richard said she saw uniformed soldiers when she
visited Yida camp in South Sudan’s Unity state, it wasn’t clear
if they were rebels or members of South Sudan’s army. Yida
houses 63,468 refugees from Southern Kordofan, according to the
UN.  While the rebels sometimes visit their families in the
camps, Lodi said, they don’t carry weapons.  There are reports of “tens of thousands” waiting to cross
the border once the rainy season ends, Richard said. She held
meetings with South Sudanese government and UN refugee agency
officials about finding alternative locations to house new
refugees, as well as relocate those already in Yida, which is
too close to the border.  The U.S. government increased its budget this year for
refugees in South  Sudan  to $53 million from $29 million, Richard
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan, at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  