-- U.S. to Force Wall Street to Disclose Muni-Bond Campaign Giving
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-10-31T15:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/u-s-to-force-wall-street-to-disclose-muni-bond-campaign-giving.html
U.S. state- and local-government
bond underwriters may have to disclose more about donations to
election campaigns backing new debt sales, a step to reveal
whether securities deals are being steered to contributors.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which writes
regulations for the $3.7 trillion market, will ask the
Securities and Exchange Commission to approve its plan to force
banks and securities firms to provide more details about giving
to campaigns that persuade voters to authorize new bond deals.  The new regulations are aimed at concerns that state and
local government officials are awarding underwriting businesses
in return for contributions to ballot campaigns, the board said
today. That could cost taxpayers if banks recoup the donations
through higher fees.  “The award of municipal securities underwriting business
tied to dealer contributions to campaigns that secure voter
approval for taxpayer-funded public projects can give rise to
real or perceived conflicts or related concerns that can
adversely affect the integrity of the municipal market,” the
board said in a statement today.  While underwriters are barred from giving to local
government officials who award them work, there is no such ban
on donating to campaigns supporting new bond issues, such as
those proposed by local school boards.  Banks are required to report contributions to campaigns.
However, the board has said the information isn’t detailed
enough to draw conclusions about how large a role they play in
determining which underwriter is later hired.  Disclosures Proposed  The Alexandria, Virginia-based regulator is proposing that
underwriters also disclose the date of the contributions, which
bonds it underwrote following such donations, and the name of
the state or local government associated with bond campaigns.  The new disclosure will help gauge how prevalent the
practice is and whether regulators should ban such donations
outright.  “The decision to require disclosure of additional
information is an important step in determining whether such a
ban is merited,” the board said. The disclosures would “build
the record needed to show whether or not there is a direct
connection between dealer contributions and the award of
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  