-- U.S. Winter-Wheat Condition Worst in 27 Years as Drought Lingers
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-10-31T21:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/u-s-winter-wheat-condition-worst-in-27-years-as-drought-lingers.html
The condition of winter-wheat crops
in the U.S. are the worst for this time of year since the
government began monitoring in 1985, as drought damage spread
from Midwest corn and soybean fields to the Great Plains.  An estimated 40 percent of winter wheat, the most-common
domestic variety, was  rated  good or excellent as of Oct. 28,
with 15 percent poor or very poor, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said today in its  first  assessment of the season. A
year earlier, 46 percent got the top ratings.  The worst U.S. drought since 1956 already has cut output of
the nation’s two biggest crops, corn and soybeans, and sent
prices to record highs. Wheat futures are up 32 percent this
year. About 79 percent of  Kansas , the biggest grower of winter
grain, was in extreme or exceptional drought as of Oct. 23.
Warm, dry weather the next two weeks will delay plant emergence
and root growth before crops begin to go dormant for the winter.
The U.S. is the world’s largest exporter of wheat.  “The low crop ratings will increase concern about the
yield potential of this year’s crop,”  Shawn McCambridge , the
senior grain analyst for Jefferies Bache LLC in  Chicago , said in
a telephone interview. “The weather doesn’t look promising for
much improvement and may increase overseas demand for supplies
left from last year’s U.S. harvest.”  Wheat planting was 88 percent complete in the top 18
producing states, compared with 81 percent a week earlier and 86
percent a year earlier, the USDA said today in a weekly report
that was delayed two days because of  Hurricane Sandy . About 63
percent of the plants had emerged from the ground, down from the
previous five-year average of 67 percent because of dry soil.  Need Rain  “The crop needs some rain for improved development before
going dormant later this year,” Brian Grete, the senior market
analyst for Professional Farmers of America in  Cedar Falls ,
 Iowa , said in a telephone interview before the report. “While
it’s hard to kill wheat at planting, this year’s crop will need
more rain when it emerges from dormancy to reach its full yield
potential.”  The  corn  harvest was 91 percent complete as of Oct. 28,
compared with 87 percent a week earlier and the previous five-
year average of 60 percent, the USDA said. An estimated 87
percent of the  soybean  crop was harvested, the report showed,
compared with 80 percent a week earlier and the five-year
average of 78 percent. The U.S. was the world’s biggest grower
and exporter last year.  The government said this month that corn production will
plunge 13 percent this year because of the drought. In June, the
USDA predicted a record harvest. Soybean production is expected
to plummet 7.5 percent, the third straight annual decline,
according to the agency.  “Heavy rain, snow and high winds may have damaged some
remaining crops along the path of Hurricane Sandy,” Grete said.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is the fourth-largest at $14.4 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  