-- U.S. Favors Shift to Broaden Syrian Opposition Leadership
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-10-31T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/u-s-favors-shift-to-broaden-syrian-opposition-leadership.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the U.S. is backing a search for new Syrian opposition
leaders in an effort to draw wider support and better represent
those sacrificing their lives to remove President Bashar al- Assad from power.  Clinton said yesterday that the Syrian National Council,
the largely expatriate Syrian opposition umbrella group,
shouldn’t continue to be seen as heading the movement.  “This cannot be an opposition represented by those who
have many good attributes but have, in many instances, not been
inside Syria for 20, 30 or 40 years,” Clinton said at a press
conference in Zagreb,  Croatia . “There has to be representation
of those on the front lines fighting and dying today to attain
their freedom.”  Clinton’s remarks reflect U.S. frustration with the SNC,
which has been consumed by infighting and, in the view of U.S.
officials, has failed to convey to different Syrian minority
groups, particularly Christians and the Alawites of Assad’s
clan, that they would be protected in a post-Assad future.  “We’ve made it clear the SNC can no longer be viewed as
the visible leader of the opposition,” Clinton said. “They can
be part of a larger opposition, but that opposition must include
people from inside  Syria  and others who have a legitimate voice
that needs to be heard.”  The opposition also will have to “be on record strongly
resisting the efforts by extremists to hijack the Syrian
revolution,” Clinton said, in an apparent reference to Islamic
radicals who’ve joined the fight against Assad from  Iraq  and
elsewhere.  ‘Disturbing Reports’  The top U.S. diplomat made her comments as a variety of
Syrian opposition groups prepare to meet next week in the
Persian Gulf state of Qatar. Clinton said the U.S. had
recommended to the Qatari hosts people and groups that should
attend, including opposition figures from within Syria.  Clinton warned about “disturbing reports of extremists
going into Syria and attempting to take over what has been a
legitimate revolution against an oppressive regime for their own
purposes.”  The U.S. and other countries involved in supporting Syrian
opposition efforts have cited the need to reach out to Syria’s
minority groups in order to peel away Assad’s support.  “It’s not a secret that many inside Syria worry about
what’s next,” Clinton said. “They have no love lost about the
Assad regime, but they worry, rightly so, about the future. So
there needs to be an opposition that speaks to every segment and
geographic part of Syria.”  Not Surprised  Clinton said she “unfortunately” was not surprised that a
cease-fire proposed by UN Special EnvoyLakhdar Brahimi failed.  “The Assad regime did not suspend its use of advanced
weaponry against the Syrian people for even one day,” Clinton
said. “So while we urge Special Envoy Brahimi to do whatever he
can in Moscow and Beijing to convince them to change course and
support stronger UN action, we cannot and will not wait for
that.”  During an Oct. 29 visit to Moscow, Brahimi said the UN is
making contingency plans to send peacekeepers to Syria after
more than 400 people were killed during the promised cease-fire.
Speaking in Moscow after talks with Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov , Brahimi said the failure of the UN-brokered truce
that was meant to start Oct. 26 “will not discourage us” even
as the Syrian conflict evolves into a civil war.  Contingency planning is needed because a new peacekeeping
force “may indeed become a possibility in the future,” Brahimi
said. Lavrov said Russia would back an effort to send
peacekeepers to Syria if a cease-fire takes hold in the country.  More than 35,000 people have been killed since the conflict
began, according to the opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights , while more than 388,000 Syrians have fled their
homeland, the UN says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  