-- UBS Said to Cut 30 Japan Fixed-Income Jobs on Global Revamp
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 2012-10-31T08:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/ubs-said-to-cut-30-japan-fixed-income-jobs-on-global-revamp-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  is eliminating about 30
fixed-income jobs in  Japan , two people with knowledge of the
matter said, as  Switzerland ’s biggest lender implements plans to
shrink investment banking operations worldwide.  The UBS  employees  in  Tokyo , including fixed-income traders
and sales staff, were told to leave yesterday, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the details are private.
The Zurich-based bank may trim more positions in Japan, the
people said.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  said yesterday that
the company plans to cut 10,000 jobs to scale back its
investment bank and focus on  wealth management . The lender is
also putting about 100 traders at the fixed-income unit in
 London  on leave, a person briefed on the plan said yesterday.  “We are reshaping our investment bank for the needs and
realities of today’s market,” said Jason Kendy, a spokesman for
UBS in Tokyo, declining to comment on specific actions in Japan.
“Today marks the start of a stronger, more focused business
able to build on its relationships with wealthy individual,
corporate, sovereign, and institutional clients.”  UBS had 768 employees in Japan as of March 31, down from
868 a year earlier, according to a filing to the Financial
Services Agency. The brokerage posted net income of 2.8 billion
yen ($35 million) for the year ended March 31, compared with a
loss of 2.1 billion yen a year earlier. Profit from bond trading
fell 19 percent to 8.5 billion yen.  Unexpected Loss  Ermotti is overhauling the bank as Swiss capital rules,
among the strictest in the world, make it difficult for UBS to
compete in activities such as fixed-income trading. The bank
announced an unexpected pretax loss of 2.87 billion Swiss francs
($3.1 billion) at its investment banking arm yesterday.  The 10 biggest investment banks shared $22 billion of fixed
income, currency and commodities sales and trading revenue in
the second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  ranked first, while UBS came in
second to last, the data show.  UBS will keep its advisory business, as well as equities,
foreign exchange and precious metals, and will maintain
facilitation capabilities in rates and credit, it said
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  