-- UMC Net Income Misses Estimates, Forecasts Sales to Fall
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2012-10-31T09:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/umc-net-income-misses-estimates-forecasts-sales-to-fall.html
United Microelectronics Corp. (2303) , the
world’s second-largest contract maker of chips, posted profit
which missed analyst estimates and forecast shipments, sales and
margins will fall this quarter as customers clear inventory.  Third-quarter  net income  climbed 24 percent to NT$2.42
billion ($83 million), from NT$1.95 billion a year earlier, the
Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company said in a statement today. The
average of 15  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was for
profit of NT$3.62 billion.  UMC faces lower revenue as  clients  such as  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  seek to cut stockpiles amid continued economic
weakness. The global economic slowdown and the introduction of
new devices from Apple Inc. and computers based on Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows 8 platform are creating uncertainty over the
strength of demand.  “We are in an inventory correction now for two quarters,”
Chief Executive Officer Sun Shih-wei said at an investors’
conference today. “Also, there’s so many products being
introduced now” in the fourth quarter, which makes it difficult
to predict final orders.  Unconsolidated sales climbed 13 percent from a year earlier
to NT$28.5 billion.  Revenue will decline 6 percent to 8 percent from the prior
period, leading to a drop in the gross margin, Chief Financial
Officer Liu Chitung told investors. Taiwan’s appreciating
currency will cut revenue by about one percent, Liu said.  In Line  That implies revenue of NT$26.2 billion to NT$26.8 billion,
according to  Bloomberg News  calculations, in line with the
NT$26.5 billion average of 17 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  UMC fell 1.4 percent to NT$10.85 at the close of trading in
Taipei, before the announcement. The benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index
declined 0.2 percent.  Texas Instruments, a designer of chips used in home
appliances and consumer electronics, on Oct. 22 forecast fourth-
quarter profit that fell short of most analysts’ estimates, as
chip resellers cut inventory on concern that economic growth
will remain weak. Customers are “uncertain as to their end
demand,” Texas Instruments’ Chief Financial Officer Kevin March
told Bloomberg News.  Shipments to Decline  UMC’s shipments in the fourth quarter will drop 7 percent
to 9 percent from the prior three-month period, while average
price per wafer will rise about 2 percent, UMC said in a
 statement  today. Factory usage will drop to a mid-to-high 70
percentage range, compared with 84 percent in the third-quarter,
it said.  Gross margin  will be a high-teen percentage figure,
compared with 24 percent in the prior period and missing the 21
percent average of 13 analysts’ estimates for the fourth
quarter.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest
custom chip maker, on Oct. 25 forecast sales and profit margins
this quarter that exceeded analysts’ estimates as a downturn in
demand may be milder than previously expected.  UMC maintained its 2012 capital expenditure plan of $2
billion, less than a quarter of the $8.3 billion TSMC said it
will spend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 