-- UN Emission Credits Have Biggest Drop as Volume Surges to Record
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-31T17:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/un-emission-credits-have-biggest-drop-as-volume-surges-to-record.html
United Nations Certified Emission
Reduction credits for December had their biggest monthly drop,
prompting record volumes on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in
London.  CERs for December settlement dropped 46 percent this month
to 1.17 euros ($1.52) a metric ton on ICE. Today’s 14 percent
jump was the biggest this year. Volumes across all offset
futures rose to more than 200 million tons in October, a record
according to ICE data. The previous high was 164 million tons in
August last year.  CER prices fell to an all-time low of 71 euro cents a ton
on Oct. 25, as projects in developing nations requested near-
record levels of new offsets and demand in Europe remained muted
by low levels of economic production. Supplies of Emission
Reduction Units from nations including Russia and Ukraine have
also advanced.  The Clean Development Mechanism that creates CERs may still
help meet demand from new carbon markets after the expiry this
year of Kyoto Protocol emission-reduction targets, said Albrecht von Ruffer, managing director of Hamburg-based N.serve
Environmental Services GmbH, which manages emissions-cutting
projects under the CDM.  “There are possibilities for upside,” von Ruffer said
today by phone. “We still see that the CDM can be the link
between carbon markets around the world. We’re very far from
it.”  Von Ruffer said he owns CERs and European Union carbon
permits and expects them to rise in value.  “We haven’t given up hope entirely,” he said.  EU permits for December advanced 1.1 percent today to close
at 8.24 euros a ton, the highest since Oct. 17. That increase
took their monthly gain to 3.5 percent.  Emission Reduction Units for the same month rose 17 percent
today to 90 euro cents a ton, limiting their monthly plunge to
55 percent. That’s still their worst ever performance in a
single month. ERU volumes across all futures on ICE jumped to a
record of at least 76 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  