-- UN May Supply Record Number of Carbon Offsets in November
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-10-31T16:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/un-may-supply-record-number-of-carbon-offsets-in-november-1-.html
Supply of United Nations carbon
offsets, known as Certified Emission Reductions or CERs, may
jump 95 percent in November to the highest total since the
mechanism began, according to  UN data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The executive board of the UN’s Clean Development
Mechanism, the body responsible for regulating CERs, is
scheduled to deliver more than 52 million metric tons of credits
from Nov. 1 through Nov. 29, the UN data show. The schedule for
the month isn’t yet complete.  CERs are generated by clean-technology projects in
 developing countries  that reduce pollution compared with a
business-as-usual scenario. Factories and power stations
participating in carbon markets in the European Union,  Australia 
and  New Zealand  may use CERs to meet part of their cap on
greenhouse-gas emissions.  October deliveries were almost 27 million tons, a jump of
85 percent from September, the UN data show.  Next month’s supply may include 23 million CERs from
projects that cut discharges of hydrofluorocarbon-23 and nitrous
oxide. These credits will become ineligible in the European
market from April. A further 6.2 million credits from such
projects are being  reviewed  by the CDM executive board, and
these could be approved for issuance at any time.  Prices for UN credits for December fell to a record 71 euro
cents ($0.92) a ton on Oct. 25 on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange after the CDM executive board said in a letter dated
Oct. 22 that it hired additional external experts to handle
“historical high” levels of requests for registration of
emission-reduction projects and credit requests. The benchmark
contract stood at 1.11 euros as of 4:05 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  