-- Mutual Funds Squeezed as Exchange Shutdowns Cut Window
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-10-31T15:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/mutual-funds-squeezed-as-exchange-shutdowns-reduce-trade-window.html
The longest weather-related U.S.
trading suspension in 124 years has left money managers with one
day instead of three to adjust their holdings before the fiscal
year ends for more than 20 percent of them.  The closure of American  exchanges  during  Hurricane Sandy 
occurred during the last week of the fiscal year for 1,521 U.S.
mutual funds, according to data compiled by Morningstar Inc.
With two days lost, demand from managers who want to buy and
sell shares for tax and performance reasons may surge today,
said Donald Selkin of New York-based National Securities Corp.  While NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  says the market will be prepared should trading be
lighter as customers stay home, Selkin, a 36-year veteran of
 Wall Street , said concentrated buying and selling by funds may
have the opposite effect. Money managers have more impetus to
appeal to clients after more than $440 billion was pulled from
mutual funds since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg and the
Investment Company Institute show.  “You don’t know how much they’ve done already,” Selkin,
the chief market strategist at National Securities, which
manages about $3 billion, said in a phone interview from his
home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. “That could be the
wild card -- how much they have to cram in tomorrow.”  Market Opens  The  New York  Stock Exchange opened its market on time today
by running on backup power from generators following the
shutdown. Brokers on the NYSE floor experienced limited Internet
and mobile-phone connections while still being able to trade
from the exchange. Trading volume for Standard & Poor’s 500
Index stocks was about 2 percent below the 30-day average at
this time of day and the benchmark gauge was little changed near
1,412 as of 10:55 a.m. in New York. The index rose as much as
0.5 percent earlier.  Trading went “very smoothly, everything opened fairly
quickly,” Niederauer said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Matt Miller .  “Participation has been a lot more
active than we thought,” he said. “For some it was business as
usual, for some they were using their backup sites.”  Year End  Managers use the last week of the fiscal year to lock in
gains and sell falling stocks before reporting results to
investors and tax authorities,  Peter Sorrentino , a Cincinnati-
based  money manager  who helps oversee $14.7 billion at
Huntington Asset Advisors Inc., said in a telephone interview.
The fiscal year ends today for about 21 percent of U.S. open-end
mutual funds, the second-most after December when 1,567 funds
report, according to Chicago-based Morningstar.  American equity markets were closed yesterday and today,
the first consecutive shutdowns because of weather in more than
a century. The last comparable closure of the NYSE was on March
12 and 13, 1888, when a blizzard dumped 21 inches of snow on New
York, according to the company’s website.  The decision to restart stocks was announced yesterday in
statements by NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and Bats
Global Markets Inc. Fixed-income trading, halted at noon on Oct.
29, will also reopen, under a recommendation by the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association.  Fewer shares may change hands today because brokers won’t
be able to get to the office, said Sean Gambino, who trades
consumer stocks for Schottenfeld Group LLC. New York’s subways
may take weeks to be restored, Metropolitan Transit Authority
Chairman Joe Lhota said at a news conference yesterday.  The average daily  volume  on U.S. exchanges through Oct. 26
was 6.5 billion shares, the lowest since at least 2009,
Bloomberg data show.  “People’s homes are ruined, getting into work is not going
to be on their priority list,” Gambino said in an interview
from New York. “There will be big volatility tomorrow.”  Below Average  U.S. equity trading in the past has been below average
after storms hit  New York City . Volume following  Hurricane Irene 
on Aug. 28, 2011, was 13 percent below the one-year average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. After a snowstorm hit
the U.S. East Coast, the number of shares changing hands from
Dec. 28-31, 2010, was 19 percent less than the average from the
same time during 2008 and 2009.  “If the market is a little thinner tomorrow, it’ll be good
that we have market makers around to maintain a stable market,”
Niederauer said yesterday. He spoke in an interview on Bloomberg
Television with Matt Miller.  NYSE plans to operate the floor with at least 100 people
including designated market makers and other personnel tomorrow,
 Larry Leibowitz , the chief operating officer, said in a phone
interview. All NYSE-listed companies will be represented by
their market makers, though the firms may not be “fully
staffed,” he said.  Market Access  Brokers and trading firms may experience “spotty
connectivity problems” when they access markets tomorrow,
Leibowitz said. He predicted some firms may have trouble finding
fuel if they are running from backup systems or using
generators.  The company’s main data center for its U.S. markets in
Mahwah,  New Jersey , “cut over to backup power as a precaution
yesterday” and may be back on full power later today, Leibowitz
said. He expects all NYSE Euronext exchanges run out of the
Mahwah facility to operate normally tomorrow.  Steven Starker, co-founder of BTIG LLC, the New York-based
broker dealer that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has a minority stake
in, said that his firm will be open for trading today. Stock
volume will be “very active” after four days without an open
U.S. equity market, he said.  Many fund managers need to adjust their holdings at the end
of the month, he said. “You’re going to get people that
certainly are anxious to move around parts of their
portfolios.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  