-- Venezuela to Pay for Sidetur Nationalization
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-10-31T18:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/venezuela-to-pay-for-sidetur-nationalization-1-.html
Venezuela  will determine a “fair”
price and pay for the 2010 nationalization of Venezuelan
steelmaker Siderurgica del Turbio SA, said industry minister
Ricardo Menendez.  The Venezuelan government hasn’t dismissed workers from the
company known as Sidetur after it took control of its
facilities, Menendez said today on state television. Sidetur was
a unit of Caracas-based Siderurgica Venezolana Sivensa.  “We’ll fight anyone who tries to sabotage the
nationalization process in court,” he said. “We’re going to
determine a fair price and pay it.”  Venezuela’s government took control of the company’s
operations and bank accounts this month, Sidetur’s board said
yesterday in a statement published in El Nacional newspaper.
The takeover is illegal because the government hasn’t yet paid
for the asset seizure, according to the statement yesterday. The
company has $76.25 million of outstanding bonds due in 2016 that
pay a coupon of 10 percent.  Sidetur’s assets have a book value of 1.2 billion bolivars
($288 million), and the company will buy back its debt once it
settles with the government, Oswaldo Sahmkow, a finance official
at Sidetur’s parent company Sivensa, said last year.  Bonds Rise  The price on the bonds rose 5.85 percent to 86 cents on the
dollar today at 1 p.m. in Caracas, the highest price since April
3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It would be viewed badly by the market if the government
doesn’t pay the debt,” Francisco Ghersi, co-managing director
of Caracas-based Knossos Asset Management who owns some of the
bonds, said today in an e-mail. “It’s a small amount compared
to Venezuela’s total external debt.”  The government has to buy back the bonds and pay 101 cents
on the dollar in the case of nationalization, according to the
bond prospectus, said Ghersi. The company paid the latest coupon
due on the bond on Oct. 20, he said.  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , who nationalized heavy
crude-oil ventures with Exxon Mobil Corp. and ConocoPhillips in
2007, has continued to take over companies in the food, cement
and telecommunications industries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  