-- Visa Profit Climbs 89% on Reversal of Tax Reserves
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-31T20:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/visa-profit-climbs-89-on-reversal-of-tax-reserves.html
Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest
payments network, posted a fiscal fourth-quarter profit that
beat analysts’  estimates  as the company reversed $627 million in
previously recorded tax reserves.  Net income for the three months ended Sept. 30 climbed 89
percent to $1.66 billion, or $2.47 a share, from $880 million,
or $1.27, a year earlier, the Foster City, California-based
company said today in a statement. Adjusted profit per share,
which excludes one-time items, was $1.54, beating the $1.50
average estimate of 34 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Adjusted
net income for the full year was $4.2 billion.  Consumer spending in the U.S., where Visa gets more than
half its revenue, rose more than forecast last month, a sign
that the biggest part of the economy was strengthening as the
quarter ended. It was Visa’s last full period under the
stewardship of Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders, 66,
who steps down after today and hands control to Charles Scharf,
the former head of retail banking at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “Visa has a strong foundation for continued long-term
growth as technology-enabled change continues to shape our
global market,” Saunders said in the statement. “We see
extraordinary opportunity for growth.”  Visa’s Outlook  Visa said annual earnings-per-share growth would be in the
“high teens” in 2013, down from a 2012 forecast of “low
twenties” provided in July, according to the statement. The
company said client incentives could climb to 18.5 percent of
gross revenues in 2013, compared with an earlier top range of 18
percent. Capital expenditures may climb to $475 million, up from
an estimate of $400 million, Visa said.  Visa rose 1.2 percent to $140.51 at 4:38 p.m. in New York
after the announcement. It has climbed 37 percent this year, the
sixth-best  performance  in the 70-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Information Technology Index.  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  rose 1.8 percent
to $460.93.  The company is working to derive more than half of its
revenue from outside the U.S. by 2015, Saunders has said.
Scharf, 47, may attain that goal with the help of a long-term
global consumer shift to electronic payments from cash and
checks, particularly in emerging economies.  Saunders, who led Visa since its 2008 initial public
offering, will remain as executive chairman through March. He
navigated challenges to the firm’s business model, including new
U.S. rules on debit-card fees that eroded the company’s
dominance of that business as it lost market share to MasterCard
and other competitors.  MasterCard Results  MasterCard’s third-quarter profit climbed 7.7 percent to
$772 million, the Purchase, New York-based company said today in
a statement.  Visa’s operating revenue rose 15 percent to $2.73 billion
from a year earlier, beating the $2.67 billion estimate of 31
analysts.  Visa has repurchased stock and increased the dividend as
the company moves closer to resolving a seven-year legal battle
with merchants over credit-card “swipe” fees.  The settlement of the proposed class-action lawsuit against
banks, MasterCard and Visa probably is worthy of preliminary
approval, U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in  Brooklyn , New
York, said last week. Visa has said its share of the settlement
would be about $4.4 billion. MasterCard has said the accord
could cost the company $790 million.  Processed Transactions  MasterCard, ranked No. 2 globally by processed
transactions, risks losing its standing as the second-biggest
payments network in terms of total spending to Shanghai-based
 China  UnionPay Data Co.  UnionPay’s share of combined credit- and debit-card
purchase volume for the first half of 2012 rose to 25 percent
from 21 percent a year earlier, while MasterCard’s climbed to 22
percent from 21 percent, according to the Nilson Report, a
payments-industry newsletter. Visa’s share declined to 46
percent from 49 percent, while fourth-ranked  American Express
Co. (AXP) ’s fell to 7.2 percent from 7.5 percent.  Visa, MasterCard and New York-based AmEx were among
companies to win partial support this year from World Trade
Organization judges in a U.S. claim that China unfairly
discriminates against foreign suppliers of electronic-payment
services by imposing requirements on them that aren’t applied to
domestic firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 