-- Wage Costs Rise More Slowly as U.S. Employers Hold Line
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-10-31T21:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/wage-costs-rise-more-slowly-as-u-s-employers-hold-line.html
Employment costs rose at a slower
pace in the third quarter compared with the prior three months,
indicating workers have limited scope to bargain for higher
wages as the U.S. economy struggles to pick up.  The employment cost index increased 0.4 percent following a
0.5 percent gain in the prior quarter, the Labor Department said
today. Business activity unexpectedly contracted for a second
month in October, another report showed.  A global economic slowdown and the prospect of more than
$600 billion in automatic tax increases and government spending
cuts -- the so-called fiscal cliff -- is encouraging some
employers to hold the line on worker pay and other costs,
according to economist Ryan Sweet. Limited wage growth makes it
harder for households to step up purchases, which account for
about 70 percent of the economy.  “There’s a lot of concerns for businesses,” said Sweet,
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania , who correctly forecast October employment costs.
“Not until we get beyond the fiscal cliff will we start to see
manufacturing find its rhythm again.”  Most stocks rose as the market resumed trading for the
first time this week after  Hurricane Sandy . The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,412.16 at the
close in New York.  In a sign of more weakness in the global economy, a report
from the European Union’s statistics office showed joblessness
in the euro area climbed to a record in September. Unemployment
in the 17-nation region rose to 11.6 percent from 11.5 percent
in August.  Chicago Purchasers  A slowing in  Europe  may be taking a toll on American
manufacturers. A gauge from the MNI Chicago Report rose to 49.9
from 49.7 in September. A reading of 50 is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction. The median estimate of 54
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 51.  The group’s gauge of new orders rose to 50.6 from 47.4. A
measure of employment declined to 50.3, the weakest since
December 2009, from 52. The production index fell to 51.8 from
55.4 in September, today’s report showed.  “There’s just a great deal of uncertainty and there’s not
a lot of demand,” Stephen Roell, president and chief executive
officer of  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , an automotive and building
supplier in  Milwaukee ,  Wisconsin , said on an Oct. 30 earnings
call. “I mean, there’s not a lot of growth in the underlying
economy.”  Businesses remain concerned about the package of tax
increases and government spending cuts that will begin to take
effect in January unless Congress acts.  Presidential Election  The economy and  labor  market are the central issues in the
presidential campaign, with less than a week before Americans
head to the polls. The outcome of the Nov. 6 election is too
close to call, with President  Barack Obama  and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  in a tight race in a handful of swing
states.  The Labor Department’s report showed wages for all
employees climbed 0.3 percent, while benefit costs advanced 0.8
percent.  The gain in wages and salaries, which account for about 70
percent of total employment costs, was the smallest this year.
Private wages climbed 0.4 percent, the same as the second
quarter. Pay for state and local government workers advanced 0.2
percent, the least in a year.  Survey Results  The median forecast in the Bloomberg survey for overall
employment costs called for a 0.5 percent rise in the third
quarter. Projections from 46 economists ranged from increases of
0.3 percent to 0.6 percent. The employment cost index measures
companies’ costs of wages, benefits and employer-paid taxes such
as Social Security and Medicare.  Wages of all employees increased 1.7 percent from the same
quarter last year.  Benefit costs for all workers, which include some bonuses,
severance pay, health insurance and paid vacations, rose 0.8
percent, the biggest gain since the second quarter of 2011.
Compared with the same three months in 2011, benefit expenses
were up 2.6 percent.  Company costs for health benefits increased 3 percent in
the third quarter from the same period last year.  Further gains in income may be needed to sustain recent
gains in household purchases. Consumer spending climbed in
September at a faster pace than the worker pay.  The 0.8 percent gain in September spending was the most
since February, Commerce Department data showed earlier this
week. With incomes rising 0.4 percent, the saving rate dropped
to 3.3 percent, the lowest since November.  October Employment  An economy growing at a 2 percent pace may not be strong
enough to encourage companies to hire. The Labor Department on
Nov. 2 is forecast to report a 125,000 increase in October
payrolls after 114,000 a month earlier, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate probably
climbed to 7.9 percent from a three-year low of 7.8 percent.  Federal Reserve policy makers last week pledged to continue
to buy assets and pump money into the economy until the  jobless
rate  falls.  “Growth in employment has been slow, and the unemployment
rate remains elevated,” Fed policy makers said in an Oct. 24
statement. “Inflation recently picked up somewhat, reflecting
higher energy prices. Longer-term inflation expectations have
remained stable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  