-- Wal-Mart to Sell Boxee TVs Challenging Apple and Roku
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/wal-mart-to-sell-boxee-tvs-challenging-apple-and-roku.html
In a coup for New York-based startup
 Boxee Inc. ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  will sell and promote its new
Web-connected device that brings live television and online
video together, the companies said.  Starting tomorrow, the world’s biggest retailer will
exclusively sell the new $98 product, called  Boxee TV , in more
than 3,000 U.S. locations during the holiday season. Wal-Mart
will set up displays and send out marketing materials for the
device, a small black box with a remote control that can access
free TV broadcast channels as well as Internet content.  Boxee and other set-top device makers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and Roku Inc. are competing for consumers of Web-based
entertainment, such as YouTube videos,  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s movies and
 Pandora Media Inc. (P) ’s online radio service. They are also trying
to lure users seeking an alternative to cable and satellite TV
services.  “It’s going to be a big launch for us,” Avner Ronen,
Boxee’s chief executive officer, said in an interview. “There’s
a big difference between having your product being carried by
retailers, where it sits on the shelf, and getting real
marketing behind it.”  Holiday shoppers are being presented with an array of new
electronics products, from computers, tablets and phones to
software and services from Apple, Microsoft Corp. and Google
Inc. Boxee, a 5-year-old venture-backed company, has struggled
to compete with Apple and closely held Roku.  Channel Surfing  Last year, Boxee sold 120,000 of its devices, which are
manufactured by  D-Link Corp. (2332) , while Roku sold 1.4 million,
according to Jordan Selburn, an analyst for research firm IHS
ISuppli. Apple said last week that the company sold 5.3 million
Apple TV devices in the past 12 months. Roku’s devices range in
price from $50 to $100, while Apple TV sells for $99.  Consumers haven’t flocked to these devices because they
don’t have many of the shows offered on cable networks, Selburn
said. That’s not expected to change any time soon as
broadcasters and pay-TV operators look to protect their
lucrative businesses, he said.  “The content owners are just far too reluctant to support
streaming or downloaded access to their content,” Selburn said.  Boxee TV is a compelling option because it pulls in
broadcast channels and Internet video into a single system,
Ronen said. The device, which has a built-in antenna for
accessing over-the-air TV signals, shows TV channels when it
boots up, unlike services that typically ask users to navigate
menus at the outset to decide what to watch.  “You turn on the TV, and it’s a familiar ground,” Ronen
said. “We don’t believe the future of the TV is going to be a
future filled with apps. When you turn on the TV, you don’t want
60 icons. You just want to watch something.”  Included in Boxee TV is a service called No Limits DVR,
which lets customers record unlimited broadcast TV shows to the
cloud and access them from the set-top box or from a computer,
smartphone or tablet. It will be available in about eight of the
largest U.S. cities to start, Ronen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  