-- What Women Really Want (and How We Can Get It)
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-10-31T22:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/what-women-really-want-and-how-we-can-get-it-.html
This election is making me feel oh so
special. One party is gallantly protecting me from the other
party’s “war on women.” The president wants my vote so badly
that he’s trying to scare me with his opponent’s plan to return
to “the  social policy of the 1950s ,” which I assume means
back-alley abortions. Both parties are aggressively courting me
in their quest for the women’s vote.  “Women’s issues.” “Women’s reproductive rights.” How
will I ever readjust to being a mere segment of the human race
when I have been singled out for so much special treatment?  Easy. I find the Democrats’ one-track appeal to women
demeaning. What women want isn’t that different from what men
want: a job that pays well and offers opportunities for
advancement; a good education for our children; access to health
care; a government that protects our inalienable rights and
keeps us safe.  Focusing on our bodies instead of ourselves actually sets
the women’s movement back to, well, the 1950s, when men went to
work and their wives stayed home to cook and clean and raise the
kids. In appealing to women on a single issue, albeit an
important one, Democrats, in their own way, are doing exactly
what they accuse Republicans of doing: waging a war on women --
on our brains, not our bodies. They are treating us as if we’re
too narrow-minded to see beyond abortion. The economy? Leave
that to the men. You women focus on the home. It’s insulting, if
you ask me.  Female Follies  Why all the focus on women? There are more of us. Of the
likely voters in the 2012 presidential election, the demographic
breakdown is expected to be 52 percent women, 48 percent men,
according to a  Gallup analysis . In 2008, those shares were 53
percent and 47 percent, respectively.  While both parties are vying for the women’s vote in this
closely contested election, by far the greater  swing in gender
preference  in the last four years has been among men. Republican
candidate Mitt Romney currently leads President  Barack Obama  by
14 points among males,  according to Gallup , compared with a
virtual tie between Obama and  John McCain  in 2008. Among women,
Obama led McCain by 14 points and now has an eight-point
advantage over Romney. Just maybe the  one-trick-pony tack  isn’t
working.  On the campaign trail, Romney doesn’t initiate discussions
on social issues; he waits to be asked. I suspect that’s because
he doesn’t share his party’s  opposition to abortion  even in
cases of rape.  But that isn’t the only reason. In 2004, Republicans
thought  social issues , especially a ban on gay marriage, would
help them garner votes, says David Boaz, executive vice
president of the  Cato Institute , a libertarian think tank in
 Washington .  No longer. Recent  polls  suggest the public’s attitudes have
changed. “That sound you don’t hear,” Boaz says, “is the sound
of social change.”  The 2012  Republican Party platform  calls for constitutional
amendments banning same-sex marriage and abortion in all cases.
That is a big turn-off to some women, including me. It isn’t
enough of a reason to vote for Obama.  Besides, the U.S. isn’t going back to the social policies
of the 1950s under any circumstances, Obama’s claims to the
contrary notwithstanding. As Boaz notes, the public’s views are
changing, and social conservatives will have to change if they
want to keep their congressional seats.  Good Looker  What about the influence of the  Tea Party , you ask?
Remember, the  Tea Party movement  started with a February 2009
 rant  by CNBC’s Rick Santelli on the floor of the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange against Obama’s bailout policies. It had
nothing to do with social issues. Its ideology was based on an
aversion to big government, favoritism for big business, debt
and taxes. Prominent social conservatives, such as Sarah Palin
and  Michele Bachmann , superimposed their views on the grassroots
movement, not the other way around. Some socially conservative
Tea Party candidates, such as  Delaware ’s Christine O’Donnell,
were defeated in the 2010 election.  But back to women. If the Democrats really want to demean
the fairer sex, at least they could do it with some flair. Let
me show them how it’s done.  What do women want? Women want to turn on the TV for the
president’s  State of the Union  address to find a drop-dead
handsome guy who looks as if he just stepped out of the shower
(and unfortunately took time to get dressed first).  We want someone who is good with a spatula, who looks like
a million bucks in his chef’s apron as he flips a stack of jacks
and serves breakfast to 124 members of his immediate family.  We want a rich and generous guy, someone who is always
first to pick up the tab.  We want a family man, a guy with a lot of expensive homes,
and yes, even ones with car elevators.  The only problem for the Democrats is that what women want
seems to line up with Republican  Mitt Romney .  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  power grid in a perilous 
world ;  Susan Antilla  on the  hustler who bilked investors  in a 
Broadway show;  Michael Kinsley  on why  Stuart Taylor is wrong 
about affirmative action ;  Virginia Postrel  on how new findings
will  revolutionize cancer drugs ; part four of A. Gary Shilling’s
series on how  low interest rates are creating a buildup of risk
and leverage ;  Alex Marshall  on the  future of publishing .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  