-- Wheat Gains as Australian Weather Adds to Global Supply Concern
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-10-31T11:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/wheat-gains-as-australian-weather-adds-to-global-supply-concern.html
Wheat advanced for the first time in
five days on concern that global supplies will tighten as dry
weather reduces crops from  Australia  to eastern Europe while
demand increases in north Africa.  Australia may ship 17 million metric tons of wheat this
season, 31 percent less than in the previous marketing year when
the country was the world’s second-largest exporter, according
to a Bloomberg survey. Ukraine’s government said the country
shipped 4 million tons of wheat since the season began July 1.
 Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat importer, is seeking at least
60,000 tons in a tender today.  “Declining estimates of the Australian crop, and hence
exports, have provided support to prices over the past couple of
months,”  Michael Creed , an agribusiness economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd., said in an e-mail.  Wheat for December delivery rose 1.1 percent to $8.6575 a
bushel at 6:43 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade, paring a
monthly decline to 4.1 percent. In Paris, January-delivery
milling wheat gained 0.8 percent to 265.50 euros ($345.44) a ton
on NYSE Liffe, little changed this month.  Ukraine’s wheat crop may total 15.5 million tons, 30
percent less than last year, because of dry weather, according
to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Demand has accelerated as
supplies also tightened in Russia, while speculation increased
that Ukraine will restrict exports next month. Australia may
produce 21.2 million tons in the 2012-13 season, down from a
record 29.5 million last year, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Corn for delivery in December added 0.6 percent to $7.46 a
bushel in  Chicago , poised for a 1.4 percent drop in October, the
third monthly decline for a most-active contract. January-
delivery soybeans rose 0.6 percent to $15.4575 a bushel, paring
a second monthly loss to 3.5 percent.  Argentina’s Corn  Rain has delayed planting in  Argentina , last year’s  largest 
corn shipper after the U.S., with 40 percent of the crop sown so
far, compared with 60 percent in prior years, the Rosario
Cereals Exchange said yesterday. South American soybean
prospects have worsened because of overly dry conditions in the
Brazilian states of Mato Grosso and Goias, Hamburg-based
researcher Oil World said yesterday. The USDA expects Brazil to
harvest a record 81 million tons of soybeans.  “The prospect of high South American production in the
current season following last year’s meager harvest as a result
of drought has ensured that the soybean price has remained
stubbornly below the $16 per bushel mark in recent weeks,” said
 Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“This could change, however, if market players were to
increasingly share the opinion of analyst firm Oil World.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  