-- Will Penguin-Random Raise the Price of My Book?
-- B y   A l e x   M a r s h a l l
-- 2012-10-31T22:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/will-penguin-random-raise-the-price-of-my-book-.html
I have a new book out, and it’s been
for sale at various prices. Try $9.99, $13.75, $16.17, $18.25,
$21.66 and, with tax, $27.18.  Welcome to the tumultuous world of book selling and book
pricing, particularly online, where “bots” scurry around virtual
bookshelves, checking competitors’ prices. Lawsuits, buyouts and
 mergers  also flourish as publishers and online retailers vie for
control.  With the  proposed merger  between Penguin and Random House,
through their corporate overlords -- U.K.-based  Pearson Plc (PSON)  and
 Germany ’s Bertelsmann SE -- it seems as if the traditional book
world is joining forces to stem the tide. Instead, the new
behemoth will be carried on the wave with everyone else, as
companies large and small adapt to the rise of the e-book and
the low and unpredictable prices charged by the dominant e-book
and conventional book seller:  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   When my hardback book became available for “pre-ordering”
in May, the Seattle-based retailer sold it for a bit more than
$22, a few dollars less than the $25 list price. In July,
though,  Amazon (AMZN)  had lowered the price to $13 and change. A few
weeks later, it was more than $18. Then it became $16.50. For
any of these, I would have to pay $3.99 shipping unless I had an
Amazon prime membership at an annual cost of $79. Still, most of
these total prices were substantially below list.  There is no shipping charge on an e-book. And on Sept. 1,
my book’s official publication date, Amazon began  selling  the
electronic edition in its proprietary Kindle format for $9.99.  Amazon’s Strategy  I happen to know that my  publisher , the University of Texas
Press, sells the book, whether paper or digital license, to
Amazon and all other direct retailers for $13.50. So that means
Amazon was losing $3.51, a 26 percent loss, on every Kindle
edition. That’s a hefty negative margin.  Why was Amazon  doing this ? It wasn’t making it up on
volume. Amazon had no comment. The usual interpretation is that
the online publisher is using low prices, not only on e-books
but also for its e-reader, the Kindle, which it also sells at or
below cost to expand the markets for e-reading. Once readers are
hooked, then the company is expected to raise prices.  Other retailers understandably don’t like competing with
someone who sells below cost. But in the short term, it was fine
by me. The lower the price, the more people buy and read my
book. And my royalties are based on the book’s listed retail
price, not its selling price.  Some other retailers seemed to follow Amazon in their
pricing, while others went their own way. Google Play is selling
its digital edition of my book for $14.75 without noticeable
fluctuations. In contrast, the prices for the hardback edition
at  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , Amazon’s biggest competitor, have
followed those on Amazon, going up and down a few days afterward
and often ending up a few cents cheaper. Industry watchers told
me this was probably due to “bots” from Barnes & Noble checking
Amazon’s prices and matching them at a set interval.  This sort of automatic price setting can produce peculiar
results. Last year, Amazon was  briefly listing  a used copy of
Peter Lawrence’s “The Making of a Fly” for more than $23
million. This reportedly occurred because two of Amazon’s
affiliate sellers had proprietary algorithms automatically
setting their prices against the other, causing the prices to
escalate without limit, until a human intervened.  In late September, Amazon raised the Kindle price of my
book to $13.75, or 25 cents more than its wholesale cost. It has
since held steady there. My publisher tells me Amazon does this
frequently -- why, is anyone’s guess. The hardcover price has
continued to fluctuate, often daily. At this moment, it is
$16.17. Once, I noticed the price was different on my mobile
phone than on my desktop computer.  Apple’s Lawsuit  The pricing decisions of Amazon and other retailers lead
into a centuries-old battle among publishers, sellers and
printers over who should set a book’s price.  A few years ago, five commercial publishers made a  deal 
with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to sell their books through Apple’s iBooks. The
agreement allowed publishers to set prices because Apple used
“agency pricing,” where it simply got a 30 percent cut of the
selling price, instead of a wholesale-retail model. Aspects of
this deal loosened Amazon’s chokehold on the e-book market.
Instead of applauding this, the U.S.  Justice Department ’s
antitrust division sued Apple and the publishers for price
fixing and raising costs to consumers.  In September, Judge Denise Cote of the U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York , approved the settlement between
the  Justice Department  and three of the five publishers. Apple
and two of the publishers, Penguin and Macmillan, are going to
court. Cote put aside concerns that Amazon was selling below
cost to unfairly drive out competitors. “Even if Amazon was
engaged in predatory pricing, this is no excuse for unlawful
price fixing,”  Cote  said, and that was that.  When the Apple case goes to trial, with the new Penguin-
 Random House  company possibly as one of the parties, the courts
will decide which is the greater priority: lowering prices or
preventing monopolies. They could look to the experience of
Germany, which has long had laws forbidding retailers from
selling books below list price.  Random House , which was praised
for sitting out the price deal with Apple and thus avoiding
being sued by the Justice Department, will now be tied at least
partly to the fate of Penguin in the court case.  As the courts and legislatures mull these questions, the
old-fashioned bookstore persists. On Prince Street in SoHo in
 Manhattan ,  McNally Jackson  has well-spaced shelves on polished
wood floors under twinkling spotlights.  The store had my book in stock, which was pleasing. It
gives a 20 percent discount on best-sellers and “staff picks.”
My book didn’t make either of those lists, so the price at
checkout would be what was inside the front cover, plus the 8.75
percent sales tax charged in New York. That would come to
$27.18.  ( Alex Marshall , a senior fellow at the  Regional Plan
Association , is the  author  of “The Surprising Design of Market
Economies.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  power grid in a perilous 
world ;  Susan Antilla  on the  hustler who bilked investors  in a Broadway
show;  Caroline Baum  on  what women really want from a president ; 
 Michael Kinsley  on why  Stuart Taylor is wrong about affirmative 
action ;  Virginia Postrel  on how new findings will  revolutionize
cancer drugs ; part four of A. Gary Shilling’s series on how  low 
interest rates are creating a buildup of risk and leverage .  To contact the writer of this article:
Alex Marshall at  alex@rpa.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  