-- Williams Partners Buys Chemical Assets After Tax Ruling
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-31T22:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/williams-partners-buys-chemical-assets-after-tax-ruling.html
Williams Partners LP (WPZ)  agreed to
acquire chemical and pipeline assets from  Williams Cos. (WMB)  for
$2.36 billion to take advantage of a recent ruling that cuts
taxes on ethylene produced from natural gas-based raw materials.  Williams Partners will pay $2.26 billion for plants in
Geismar, Louisiana, that make ethylene and propylene, chemicals
used to make plastics, and $100 million for Gulf Coast
pipelines, the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based companies said today in a
statement.  Williams Partners is integrating ethane, a gas component,
with ethylene production to reduce earnings fluctuations. The
 Internal Revenue Service  recently ruled that processing natural
gas liquids such as ethane into olefins such as ethylene qualify
as income for Williams Partners, which is structured as a
master-limited partnership.  “The addition of the Geismar facility to Williams
Partners’ portfolio immediately reduces the partnership’s
exposure to the over-supplied ethane markets,” Williams
Partners Chief Executive Officer Alan Armstrong said in the
statement. “Bringing this natural hedge to Williams Partners
makes it unique among similarly situated MLPs.”  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  and Westlake
Chemical Co. said this month they are studying whether to
structure U.S. ethylene assets as MLPs, which pay no corporate
tax.  Plant Expansion  Williams Partners will be responsible for completing the
expansion of the Geismar plant, located south of Baton Rouge, to
1.95 billion pounds of ethylene a year from 1.35 billion pounds,
according to the statement.  The partnership also gains a 212-mile (341-kilometer)
ethane pipeline between  Lake Charles  and Geismar, a 3-mile
propane pipeline, a 50-mile pipeline between Port Arthur and
Lake Charles, and 60 miles of pipelines near the Houston Ship
Channel.  Williams Partners said it plans to pay for the assets with
42.8 million limited-partner units, $25 million in cash and an
increase to the general partner’s capital account. The deal
boosts Williams ownership of the partnership to 70 percent from
66 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  