-- Yankees to Donate $500,000 to Red Cross for Hurricane Relief
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-31T19:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/yankees-to-donate-500-000-to-red-cross-for-storm-relief-effort.html
The  New York  Yankees will donate
$500,000 to the  American Red Cross  to support local relief in
the aftermath of the biggest tropical storm in Atlantic Ocean
history.  Yankees co-owner  Hal Steinbrenner  said today in a statement
that the destruction left by  Hurricane Sandy , which caused
flooding and blackouts in the metropolitan area, was daunting.  “But we have seen the great resiliency of this region
before,” Steinbrenner said. “As a neighbor and community
member, the Yankees embrace our role of stepping forward and
assisting the American  Red Cross , which comes to the aid of so
many people through their tireless efforts.”  One of the Red Cross’s  missions  is to make sure “all
people affected by disaster across the country and around the
world receive care, shelter and hope,” according to its
website. Nearly 11,000 people in the U.S. spent the night of
Oct. 29 in 258 Red Cross shelters in 16 states following the
storm, the organization said.  “On behalf of the people who will be helped because of
this donation, we thank the  New York Yankees ,” Josh Lockwood,
chief executive of the American Red Cross Greater New York Region, said today in an e-mailed statement. “We truly
appreciate the generosity they have shown, not only for the
crisis caused by Hurricane Sandy, but for disasters that take
place on a daily basis in New York City.”  Hurricane Sandy, at 900 miles (1,448 kilometers) wide the
biggest tropical storm in Atlantic Ocean history, produced life-
threatening surges in a region with 60 million residents and
caused what may add up to billions of dollars of damage. At
least 59 people have died in the U.S. as a result of the storm
after at least 69 perished in the Caribbean, according to the
 Associated Press .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  