-- Hyatt Earnings Increase as U.S. Hotelier’s Margins Widen
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-10-31T12:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/hyatt-earnings-increase-as-u-s-hotelier-s-margins-widen.html
Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , the chain
controlled by the Pritzker family, said third-quarter earnings
increased as business travel rose and the company added
properties in the U.S. and  Mexico .  Net income climbed to $23 million, or 14 cents a share,
from $14 million, or 8 cents, a year earlier, the Chicago-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts expected earnings of
18 cents a share, the average of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  Hyatt, which gets about 70 percent of its earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization from the U.S.,
was helped by having hotels in cities with stable demand,
according to Nikhil Bhalla, an analyst at  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  in
Arlington, Virginia. Demand has been strong in California,
Hawaii, Florida and Boston said Patrick Scholes, an analyst at
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc.  “In the past couple of quarters, Hyatt has generally
outperformed both Marriott and Starwood, given its large U.S.
exposure but its limited presence in the underperforming markets
of New York and D.C.,” Bhalla said before the results were
released. He has an outperform rating on the company, the
equivalent of a buy.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , which has about
60 percent of its rooms outside of the U.S., fell to a three-
month low last week after reporting slowing demand Europe and
 China  and cutting a fourth-quarter forecast.  Marriott
International Inc. (MAR) , the largest publicly traded U.S. hotel
chain, on Oct. 3 reported earnings that beat estimates, partly
because year-earlier costs from the spinoff of its timeshare
business weren’t unrepeated.  Wider Margins  Operating margins for owned and leased hotels widened by 20
basis points in the third quarter from a year earlier on a
comparable basis, Hyatt said.  Revenue rose 8.9 percent to $977 million in the quarter
from $897 million a year earlier. Revenue per available room, an
industry measure of occupancy and rates, increased 4.2 percent
for full-service hotels in North America. Overseas, revpar
climbed 0.8 percent.  The company’s European business is focused on cities such
as London, Zurich and Berlin “that showed at least moderate
growth in the third quarter,” Bhalla said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  