-- Hyatt Falls After Earnings Miss Estimates Chicago Mover
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-10-31T20:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/hyatt-falls-most-in-six-months-after-missing-estimates.html
Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  fell the most in
more than three months in New York trading after the chain
controlled by the Pritzker family reported quarterly results
that missed estimates, hampered by a sluggish Washington market
and slower growth in international markets.  Hyatt, based in Chicago, fell 4.1 percent $36.50 at the
close in New York, the biggest decline since July 12.  Third-quarter net income was $23 million, or 14 cents a
share, the company said today in a statement. That missed the
18-cent average estimate of 15 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Profit was up from $14 million, or 8 cents, a year earlier.  “The shift in the Jewish holidays in September and a
weaker D.C. market impacted North American results, while slower
growth in international markets, coupled with a stronger  U.S.
dollar  impacted international results,” Nikhil Bhalla, an
analyst at  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  in Arlington, Virginia, said in a note
after the earnings release.  Revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancy and rates, increased 4.2 percent for full-service
hotels in  North America  during the quarter. Bhalla had expected
5 percent revpar growth. Overseas, revpar climbed 0.8 percent.  “In the short term, the company is seeing some headwinds,
including slower growth of near-term group booking activity in
North America and lower revenue growth in a number of
international markets due to individual market dynamics,” Hyatt
said in the statement. The hotelier gets about 70 percent of its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
from the U.S.  Revenue rose 8.9 percent to $977 million in the quarter
from $897 million a year earlier.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , the owner of the
W and St. Regis brands, fell to a three-month low last week
after reporting slowing demand Europe and China and cutting a
fourth-quarter forecast.  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, on Oct. 3 reported
earnings that beat estimates, partly because year-earlier costs
from the spinoff of its timeshare business weren’t unrepeated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  