-- Yen Weakens on BOJ Easing Bets, Panasonic Loss Forecast
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-11-01T07:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-31/yen-remains-weaker-versus-peers-before-china-pmi-data.html
The yen weakened against all of its
16 major counterparts before the  Bank of Japan (8301)  releases minutes
tomorrow of its Oct. 4-5 meeting amid speculation the central
bank will ease monetary policy further.  The Japanese currency fell for a third day versus the euro
after  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  forecast the second-biggest loss in
company history, fanning speculation the nation’s trade deficit
will worsen.  Australia ’s dollar was near a two-week high after
Chinese data showed manufacturing improved in the world’s
second-largest economy. Implied volatility among Group-of-Seven
currencies held near a five-year low.  “Expectations of additional monetary easing by the BOJ
still remain in the markets,” said Shinji Kunibe, chief
portfolio manager for fixed-income investment in Tokyo at Nissay
Asset Management Corp., which oversees the equivalent of $65
billion. “Considering the terrible earnings in the electronics
sector and the prospect of a widening trade deficit, I can’t
help thinking the era of yen weakness will come sooner than we
thought.”  The yen dropped 0.2 percent to 103.53 per euro as of 7:23
a.m. in  London  after losing 0.4 percent in the past two days.
The Japanese currency slid 0.3 percent to 80.01 per dollar. The
17-nation euro slid 0.2 percent to $1.2932.  BOJ Outlook  The BOJ increased its asset-purchase program on Oct. 30 by
11 trillion yen ($137 billion) to 66 trillion yen to bolster
growth through lower borrowing costs. In the previous meeting
earlier that month, the central bank avoided adding to stimulus.  Panasonic, Japan’s second-biggest TV maker, scrapped its
profit forecast yesterday, saying the net loss may total 765
billion yen in the year ending March 31. Nintendo Co., the
world’s largest maker of video-game machines, cut its full-year
net income projection last week by 70 percent, citing a stronger
yen.  Japan ’s imports exceeded exports by 3.22 trillion yen in
the six months ended Sept. 30, the biggest  trade deficit  for a
fiscal half-year period, the Ministry of Finance said on Oct.
22. The nation posted a  shortfall  in September for a third-
consecutive month.  The JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index, calculated based on
premiums on currency options, was at 7.53 percent after touching
7.46 percent yesterday, the lowest since October 2007. The yen
has weakened more than 6 percent since reaching the record high
of 75.35 per dollar a year ago.  Risk Hedge  “In the current low volatility environment, we suggest
Australian, New Zealand and European-based importers of Japanese
products consider protection to hedge the risk of a lift in the
yen and yen volatility while it is still relatively
inexpensive,”  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , wrote in a research note
today.  Official figures today showed that a Chinese manufacturing
gauge based on a survey of purchasing managers climbed to 50.2
in October from 49.8 in September. That matched the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  A separate measure by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics was at 49.5 in October, higher than both the
preliminary reading of 49.1 reported Oct. 24 and the 47.9 level
for September. For both indexes, 50 is the dividing line between
contraction and expansion.  “We’ve been seeing a pickup in the Chinese economy,” said
Takuya Kawabata, an analyst at Gaitame.com Research Institute
Ltd. in  Tokyo , a unit of Japan’s largest currency margin
company. “The improved sentiment about China can create upward
pressure” for the Australian dollar.  The so-called Aussie traded at $1.0360 from $1.0376 after
climbing as much as 0.3 percent to $1.04 yesterday, the
strongest since Oct. 18.  Moving Averages  The Aussie’s 200-day moving average of $1.0340 and 55-day
moving average of $1.0354 are serving as a base for a potential
attempt to climb above the $1.04 resistance, analysts led by
Selena Ling at Overseas-Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore  wrote
in a research note today. Resistance refers to an area on a
chart where sell orders may be clustered.  The  Swiss National Bank  said yesterday the euro accounted
for 48 percent of its foreign-exchange reserves at the end of
the third quarter, down from 60 percent the previous quarter.
The central bank imposes a limit on the franc at 1.20 per euro
to keep the local currency weaker and protect exporters.  The gain in the euro following the central bank’s release
suggests “investors were anticipating the selling pressure from
the SNB to ease from here,”  Valentin Marinov , head of European
Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Citigroup Inc. in
London, wrote in a research note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  