-- Hong Kong’s Tsang May Hand Out $5.2 Billion in Last Budget Amid Slowdown
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-01-31T08:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/h-k-may-hand-out-5-2b-in-budget-on-slowdown.html
Hong Kong Financial Secretary  John Tsang  may hand out as much as HK$40 billion ($5.2 billion) in
his last budget tomorrow, from tax rebates to property-rate
waivers, as an economic slowdown starts to bite.  The government may report that gross domestic product
shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter from the three months
ended September, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of six economists. That would compare with a 0.1
percent expansion in the third quarter.  Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said last week in
Davos that he has “never been as scared” about the global
economic outlook, and UBS AG said the city may have a
“shallow” recession in the first half. Besides tax rebates for
individuals and companies, the government will tomorrow announce
the sale of at least HK$10 billion ($1.3 billion) of
inflation-linked bonds, a person familiar with the matter said.  “Much of the ammunition is likely to be spent on
countering economic hardship stemming from slowing growth and
the widening income gap,” said Kelvin Lau, an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong . “We expect the upcoming
budget to be long on one-off concessions and short on new
vision.”  An estimated HK$72 billion surplus will boost the city’s
reserves to a record HK$667 billion, or two years of government
expenditure, according to Daiwa. That leaves room for relief
measures and stimulus as  Europe ’s crisis damps exports, growth
slows in  China  and Hong Kong’s government approaches the end of
its term on June 30.  Giveaway Estimates  KPMG Tax Ltd. said this year’s budget giveaways, including
utility subsidies and tax rebates, will total HK$40.3 billion
and  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  predicted HK$39.5 billion. Small
and medium-sized businesses will get one-time tax rebates, Sing
Tao Daily reported today, without citing anyone.  Hong Kong stocks rose today, pushing the  Hang Seng Index  to
its biggest monthly gain since October after Greek Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  said progress had been made in talks
with the country’s creditors, easing concern Europe won’t be
able to manage its debt crisis. The Hang Seng Index gained 0.5
percent as of 1:56 p.m. local time.  The city’s economy expanded 3 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, the least in two years, according to the
median forecast of nine economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Infrastructure Spending  John Tsang was last year forced to add a cash handout of
HK$6,000 for each permanent resident after his original budget
proposal drew criticism from lawmakers and led to street
protests seeking more aid for workers. Hong Kong is prepared to
support growth by boosting expenditure on infrastructure,
education and health, Tsang said  this week . Last year, he
allocated a record HK$58 billion for capital works.  “Hong Kong has plenty of fiscal firepower and this will
underpin the government’s aggressive infrastructure investment
to offset the external driven slowdown,” said Silvia Liu, an
economist at UBS. She said that she doesn’t expect a repeat of
last year’s cash handouts.  The government may also offer salary-tax rebates and raise
tax allowances for children and medical insurance, according to
Yvonne Law, a partner at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.  Home prices  have slipped 6 percent from a 14-year-high in
June and the number of transactions plunged 54 percent in
December from a year earlier. In China, the economy grew at the
slowest pace in more than two years in the fourth quarter.  Unemployment (HKUERATE)  may climb to 4.4 percent by year’s end from
3.3 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, DBS Group
Holdings Ltd estimated.  Inflation (HKCPIEXY)  excluding distortions from
temporary government subsidies was 6.4 percent in December,
matching the highest level since data began in 2007.  -- With assistance from Fion Li and  Michael Munoz  in Hong Kong.
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Tan Hwee Ann  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  