-- ‘Little Child’ CFTC Ignores Futures Oversight Role, O’Malia Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-01-31T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/-little-child-cftc-ignores-futures-oversight-role-o-malia-says.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  is fixating childishly over Dodd-Frank Act rules
while ignoring its traditional responsibility for overseeing
 futures markets , Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said today.  “The commission has acted like a little child, abandoning
the old toy and ‘swapping’ them out for the new,” O’Malia, one
of two Republicans on the five-member panel, said in remarks
prepared for a conference at  New York Law School . “It has
concentrated on swaps rulemaking, while averting its gaze from
the futures markets and their developments.”  The agency should be focused on identifying weaknesses in
existing regulations that failed to prevent as much as $1.2
billion of client money from going missing as futures broker  MF
Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) . collapsed last year, O’Malia said.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in 2010, gave
the CFTC authority to regulate most of the swaps market after
largely unsupervised transactions helped fuel the credit crisis
that led to the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  has said the agency may complete the
regulations this year.  The agency’s recent rulemakings to improve customer
protection in derivatives markets aren’t comprehensive efforts
to understand what went wrong at MF Global, O’Malia said.  “I’m puzzled by the commission’s attempts to regain public
confidence through new regulation. I am particularly puzzled
because the commission’s most recent rulemakings don’t even
address MF Global,” he said in the speech. “I am not aware of
any evidence that the MF Global shortfall was related to
investments of customer funds.”  ‘MF Rule’  The agency on Dec. 5 unanimously approved restrictions on
how customers’ funds can be invested by brokers in a measure
dubbed the “MF Rule.” On Jan. 11, the CFTC voted 4-1, with
O’Malia in support, to complete regulations for the segregation
of customers’ funds in swaps markets.  O’Malia said regulators should have a system of random
spot-checks to ensure compliance with rules governing the
segregation of customer funds. Futures and other brokers should
face higher disclosure requirements to their customers about the
risks of their own trades, he said.  The agency should recommend that congressional lawmakers
make explicit in law that customers are first in line to recoup
money when a broker files for bankruptcy, he said. “If there is
a shortfall, the intermediary’s proprietary assets must go to
customers first,” O’Malia said.  The CFTC, Securities and Exchange Commission,  Justice
Department  and bankruptcy trustee overseeing the liquidation of
MF Global are investigating the missing money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  