-- L’Oreal, Wolf Trap, Nestle, Gingrich: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-31T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/l-oreal-htc-wolf-trap-nestle-gingrich-intellectual-property.html
L’Oreal SA (OR) , the French beauty-care
company, sued the owners of Coppertone and Neutrogena, claiming
their sunscreens use patented ingredients.  L’Oreal sued  Merck & Co. , the maker of Coppertone, and
 Johnson & Johnson , which owns Neutrogena Corp., for patent
infringement in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , on Jan.
27.  In dispute are parents 5,576,354, issued in November 1996,
and 5,587,150, issued in December 1996. Both cover compounds
used to block the skin’s exposure to ultraviolet-light damage,
and, according to the patents, both are more stable and provide
longer-lasting protection than other sunblocking compounds.  According to  the National Cancer Institute, at least 32
percent of all adults over 18 regularly use some sort of
sunscreen product.  The “acts of infringement have caused and will continue to
cause damage to L’Oreal,” the Paris-based company said in court
papers.  Last year, L’Oreal earned 2.51 billion euros ($3.29
billion) on revenue of 20.3 billion euros, according to
information compiled by Bloomberg.  L’Oreal seeks unspecified damages after a jury trial, a
ruling that the patents are infringed and an order to stop
further use of its inventions.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  spokeswoman Seema Kumar and Merck
spokeswoman Amy Rose didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail
messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The cases are L’Oreal v. Johnson & Johnson, 1:12-cv-00098,
and L’Oreal v. Merck & Co., 1:12-CV-00099, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  HTC Must Face IPCom Patent-Infringement Claim in U.S. Court  HTC Corp., the world’s largest maker of mobile phones using
Google Inc.’s Android system, must face a patent-infringement
claim brought by  IPCom GmbH (0065736D)  in a U.S. court.  An appeals court said yesterday that a lower court judge in
2010 was wrong to invalidate an IPCom patent that the closely
held company was using against HTC in a dispute over mobile-
device base stations. The case is being sent back to the judge,
who can consider additional arguments on the validity of the
patent, according to the ruling posted on website of the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington.  HTC, based in Taoyuan,  Taiwan , sued Pullach, Germany-based
IPCom in 2008 to challenge the company’s patent 6,879,830, which
covers a way to maintain service as a mobile phone moves from
one coverage area to another. The companies have sued each other
in the U.S., U.K. and  Germany .  IPCom (0065736D)  is seeking royalties from a family of mobile-
technology patents it acquired in 2007 from Robert Bosch GmbH,
the world’s largest automotive supplier. IPCom bought the
patents after Bosch failed to license them to  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  in 2003.  In addition to patent claims against HTC, IPCom has sued
stores in Germany that sell HTC’s 3G mobile phones.  The case is  HTC Corp. (2498)  v. IPCom GmbH, 11-1004, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court
case is HTC Corp. v. IPCom GmbH, 08cv1897, U.S. District Court
for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  Google Chafes as Lawyers It Hired Sue Company’s Android Partners  Google Inc. is sparring with a law firm it’s been using
since 2008 after discovering lawyers there began representing a
patent-licensing business that sued the company’s Android
partners last month.  Google claims Philadelphia’s Pepper Hamilton LLP never
provided notice that the law firm was hired by Digitude
Innovations LLC, which filed patent-infringement complaints
against handset makers, including Android partners HTC Corp. and
Samsung Electronics Co. Pepper Hamilton should be disqualified
from the case, Google said in a Jan. 27 request to the U.S.
International Trade Commission in  Washington , where one of the
complaints was filed.  “In short, Pepper Hamilton is accusing its own client of
infringement,”  Mountain View , California-based Google said in
the filing. “Pepper Hamilton should not be allowed to continue
alleging infringement against the products and interests of its
current client.”  Google, which has used Pepper Hamilton to help it apply for
patents related to its Android mobile operating system, accused
the law firm of disloyalty and said confidential information it
shared creates conflicts of interest in the Digitude case. With
so much patent litigation among technology companies there is
bound to be some overlap among lawyers, said Scott Daniels, a
partner with Westerman Hattori Daniels in Washington.  “Conflicts are hard on law firms,” Daniels said in an
interview. “You don’t want to anger your clients.”  Pepper Hamilton lawyers who are representing Alexandria,
Virginia-based Digitude didn’t return telephone messages seeking
comment about Google’s complaint. A spokesman for the law firm
in Philadelphia had no immediate comment. The firm’s website
says it has about 500 lawyers.  Pepper Hamilton represents Google in efforts to get more
than 50 patents, including 12 directed at Android, according to
the filing.  Google said it unsuccessfully sought to resolve the issue,
and Pepper Hamilton tried to “fire” Google as a client, the
company said in the filing without elaborating. Digitude is
opposing the request to have Pepper Hamilton disqualified from
the ITC case, Google said.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Portable Communication
Devices, 337-827, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Wolf Trap, Barns of Rose Hill Settle Trademark Infringement Suit  Wolf Trap Foundation for the Performing Arts , which owns
and operates the Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts
in collaboration with the National Park Service, has settled a
trademark infringement suit with a  Virginia  performing arts
venue.  The suit, filed in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia,
accused  The Barns of Rose Hill Inc.  of infringing Wolf Trap’s
“The Barns” trademarks. According to court papers, Wolf Trap
registered the phrase as a trademark and has used it since 1981.
It says it has made “a substantial investment” in advertising
and promoting events held at its sites and using “The Barns”
marks.  The Barns of Rose Hill, based in Berryville, Virginia, was
accused of also using the term “The Barns” to promote services
that are “virtually identical” to those offered under the mark
at Wolf Trap, according to the complaint.  The notice of dismissal was filed Jan. 27, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Rose Hill group posted a  notice  on its website saying
the dispute had been settled with a “mutually agreeable
outcome.”  Ann Lesman, chairwoman of the Barns of Rose Hill,  told the
Clarke Daily News  that her organization is dropping “The” from
its name, and will also include the phrase “a cultural center
for the Shenandoah Valley” in its promotional material.  Wolf Trap is represented by  James R. Davis II ,  Anthony V.
Lupo  and  Ross Q. Panko  of Washington-based Arent Fox LLP.  The case is Wolf Trap Foundation for the Performing Arts v.
The Barns of Rose Hill Inc., 1:11-cv-01352-CMYH -JFA, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Nestle  India ’s ‘A+’ Brand Raises Dairy Marketing Group’s Ire  Nestle India Ltd. (NEST) , which manufactures Nestle brand-name
products in India, is involved in a trademark dispute with an
Indian dairy cooperative marketing group, the Times of India
 reported.   The dispute, with the  Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing
Federation , is over Nestle’s use of “A+” with its milk and
yogurt products, according to the Times.  The dairy group has claimed Nestle infringed the “Amul
A+” brand it uses for cheese, and “Amul Calci+” for high-
calcium milk, the newspaper reported.  A Nestle India official told the Times the company had
purchased the “A+” trademark from another company and the
brand “was legally assigned to use in accordance with accepted
practice.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Gingrich Sued for Using ‘Eye of the Tiger’ at Campaign Stops  Newt Gingrich , fighting for the Republican Party’s
nomination to challenge President Barack Obama in the 2012
election, was sued for unauthorized use of “ Eye of the Tiger ,”
the Grammy-winning theme song from “Rocky III.”  Rude Music Inc., an  Illinois  corporation owned by Frank
Sullivan, a co-author of the song, sued the candidate yesterday
in federal court in  Chicago , seeking a court order blocking
Gingrich’s unauthorized use of the song at campaign rallies.
Rude Music is also seeking unspecified money damages.  Newt 2012 Inc. and the American Conservative Union, a
political advocacy group, are also named as defendants in the
five-page complaint.  “Newt 2012’s and Mr. Gingrich’s unauthorized public
performance or inducement of or contribution to the public
performance of the copyrighted work infringes Rude Music’s
copyright,” according to the complaint.  Performed by the rock band Survivor, of which Sullivan was
a founding member, “Eye of the Tiger” was released in 1982,
topped the U.S. pop music charts and won a Grammy Award. It was
also nominated for an Academy Award.  R.C. Hammond, a spokesman for the Gingrich campaign, didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mailed request for comment on the
lawsuit.  Among the other political figures who have been accused of
unauthorized use of music in their campaigns over the years have
been Nicaragua’s Daniel Ortega, for his use of “Stand by Me;”
 New Zealand ’s National Party, for using a track that sounded
like one belonging to the band Coldplay; and Republican
presidential candidate John McCain, who was accused of
infringing Jackson Browne’s “Running on Empty.”  The case is Rude Music Inc. v. Newt 2012 Inc., 1:12-
cv-00640, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Animal-Rights Group Hail Downfall of  Florida ’s ‘Ag Gag’ Measure  Both the Humane Society of the U.S. and the American
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals have hailed the
Florida legislature’s rejection of proposed legislation that
would make the taking of photos on a farm without the owner’s
permission a potential trade-secrets violation, the Florida
Independent  reported .  The measure was aimed at the gathering of information
leading to exposes of unsafe working conditions or animal abuse,
the animal-rights groups claimed and the Independent reported.  A committee of Florida’s lower house voted to strike the
so-called “Ag Gag” provision from pending legislation and the
state senate postponed a consideration of the same bill,
according to the Independent.  A Florida egg producer had been behind the “Ag Gag”
provision, the Independent reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 