-- #TwitterBlackout Emerges as Web Bows to Rogues: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-01-31T20:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/-twitterblackout-emerges-as-web-bows-to-rogues-william-pesek.html
Twitter Inc.  needs an Arab Spring.  In the past 12 months, the micro-blogging social-networking
service played a role in changing the world, 140 characters at a
time. From  Egypt  to  Libya  to  Syria  and beyond, Twitter helped
activists thwart censorship dragnets, connect with the similarly
aggrieved and put underperforming leaders on the defensive.  Well, that was then. This will be remembered as the year
Twitter  sold  its corporate soul at a time when the world needs
genuine transparency and the tools to realize it. By blocking
messages on behalf of governments, Twitter is both doing the
dirty work for leaders from  Beijing (SHCOMP)  to Damascus and answering
the biggest question of the day: Will the Internet change the
world’s authoritarian regimes, or will repressive governments
change the Web? Unfortunately, it looks like the latter.  Twitter said it would withhold a posting, or tweet, in a
country where a particular kind of content is banned, but the
company won’t pull offending tweets from its entire audience.
Such claims are no more convincing than those of Google Inc.,
which spent years rationalizing why it helped nations like  China 
stifle information. Google eventually developed a conscience and
left the most-populous nation.  Tough Spot  Granted, Twitter is in a tough spot as it goes from a
scrappy Internet startup into a global power looking to win Wall
Street’s blessing. Yahoo! Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Cisco
Systems Inc. at times did their own bit for the Communist Party.
I just wonder if there’s a better way for technology executives
to go -- one that doesn’t enable the worst impulses of paranoid
world leaders in the name of market share and profit.  Egyptians who bravely took to Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  to oust
Hosni Mubarak are lucky they did so last year. One shouldn’t
overhype the roles Twitter or Facebook Inc. played in toppling
rogue regimes. Yet if Egyptians were to take to the streets in
2012 rather than 2011, there’s a genuine question about whether
history might be different.  An even bigger issue is how governments undermine their own
nations’ economic performance. You won’t read about this on
Twitter or Facebook, but in the pages of George Orwell’s 1949
classic “Nineteen Eighty-Four.” Orwell invented concepts like
“Big Brother” and “‘thought crime” and “Newspeak” and
offered prescient insights into how the Internet would evolve.
Make that devolve, as events in Asia become decidedly Orwellian.  Chilling Effect  The free flow of ideas and data has never been more
important to raising living standards. Any country that censors
the conduits of those Information Age forces is handicapping
itself and restraining the intellectual energy needed to drive
growth. It was heartening to see Americans rise up against the
Stop Online Piracy Act, a law so vaguely written that it would
have had a chilling effect on free expression.  Asia  is going in the opposite direction. Take  South Korea ,
which is among the most plugged-in nations, with broadband
speeds that are the envy of techies the world over.  Korea ’s
curbs on online communications are about social morals and good
conduct. Yet there’s plenty of doubt that such controls are
compatible with democracy and economic progress.  In  India  there’s a move to block material deemed
objectionable. Who decides what meets that criteria and at what
cost? In 2011, leaders were taken aback by an anti-corruption
campaign that caught fire on Twitter and Facebook. India’s 1.2
billion people need more of that kind of social disruption.
 Indonesia ,  Singapore ,  Thailand  and  Vietnam  aren’t above blocking
websites or certain content.  Japan (JGDPAGDP)  and Malaysia are making
similar noises.  China’s Model  Imagine a world where technology giants weren’t so quick to
help governments censor. China should be of particular concern
because its capital-markets, social-control model is attracting
fans around the developing world.  What if you are an investor exchanging controversial ideas
about China’s stability? Or an economist wondering about the
accuracy of China’s data? You may be less inclined to question
the conventional wisdom and the propaganda. It means the true
state of two of the biggest dangers to China’s future --
corruption and pollution -- will become harder to discern.
Officials are clamping down on micro-blogging services like
those run by U.S.-listed Sina Corp.  ‘#TwitterBlackout’ Movement  One can argue that social media helped uncover conditions
at the Shenzhen sweatshops that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  relies on to churn
out iPads and iPhones. These hypermodern gadgets are assembled
in retrograde working conditions. The rash of suicides at
Foxconn International Holdings Ltd.’s factories tarnished the
late  Steve Jobs ’s legacy as the world was celebrating him as an
unambiguous force for good.  Apple faces an Internet Age conundrum. The ubiquity of
gadgets and Internet access gives voice to the masses, including
those angry about the human toll of Apple’s fat profits. Some
users called for a Twitter boycott, using “#TwitterBlackout”
as a hash tag, or labels that let people easily find tweets.
Organizations such as  Reporters Without Borders  are decrying a
move it says runs counter to the Arab Spring, in which Twitter
served as a sounding board and information exchange.  There’s just one problem with calls to stop tweeting.
Twitter can block those, too.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  