-- Macquarie Group Is Said to Compete for Deutsche Bank Asset-Management Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-02-01T12:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/macquarie-group-is-said-to-compete-for-deutsche-bank-asset-management-unit.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
biggest  investment bank , is vying with at least three companies
to buy asset-management divisions from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The deadline for second-round offers is next week, and the
German lender plans to reach an agreement by mid-March, said the
people, who declined to be identified as talks are private.
Other bidders include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  State Street Corp. (STT) 
and  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP) , people with knowledge of the
matter said last month.  A purchase would help Macquarie build out its asset-
management business beyond its 2010 purchase of Delaware
Management Holdings Inc. from Lincoln National Corp. The
businesses Deutsche Bank put up for sale have almost 400 billion
euros ($523 billion) in assets under management, the people said
last month.  “Macquarie should be interested in this asset,” said
 James Ellis , a bank analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Sydney.
“It’s one of the areas of clear strategic thrust under  Nicholas Moore ,” Macquarie’s chief executive officer since 2008, Ellis
said.  Shares of Macquarie  slipped  1.9 percent to A$25.02 ($26.72)
in Sydney today. Deutsche Bank shares  rose  2.6 percent to 33.24
euros in  Frankfurt  by 12:57 local time.  A Macquarie spokeswoman, Karen Smith, and Klaus Winker, a
Deutsche Bank spokesman, declined to comment.  Profit Climbs  Profit at Sydney-based Macquarie’s asset-management
division almost doubled in the six months ended Sept. 30 from
the same period a year earlier, helping offset an 18 percent
slump in trading income from the fixed-income, currencies and
commodities units, the company said in October.  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  announced the review of the asset-management
units, excluding the operations of the DWS mutual-fund units in
Europe and  Asia , in November. The divisions may fetch 1.5
billion euros to 2.5 billion euros, people with knowledge of the
matter said last month. Deutsche Bank would prefer to sell the
business as a whole, though it is also accepting offers for
parts of the business, the people said.  The businesses for sale include DB Advisors, an
institutional money-management unit, which has 163 billion euros
in client assets; Deutsche Insurance Asset Management oversees
142 billion euros; the RREEF unit, which specializes in real-
estate and infrastructure investments, has 45 billion euros; and
DWS in the Americas has about 42 billion euros.  Deutsche Bank’s entire asset-management unit, including the
DWS businesses being kept, reported nine-month pretax profit of
316 million euros, up 83 percent from the year-earlier period.
Kevin Parker, head of asset management, cut costs and headcount
by about a third from 2007 to 2010 while exiting businesses not
considered strategically relevant to boost profit.  The German lender needs to raise 3.2 billion euros after
 Europe ’s top regulator asked the region’s banks to bolster their
capital buffers amid the sovereign debt crisis.  Macquarie, regulated by the Australia’s banking watchdog,
had A$3.5 billion in capital surplus above minimum requirements,
the bank said Oct. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  