-- ADM Profit Misses Estimates After Corn Costs Rise, Oilseed Earnings Fall
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-01-31T12:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/adm-profit-misses-estimates-after-corn-costs-rise-oilseed-earnings-fall.html
Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest grain processor, posted a second-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates after oilseed earnings fell and
corn costs rose.  Net income  fell 89 percent to $80 million, or 12 cents a
share, in the three months ended Dec. 31, from $732 million, or
$1.14, a year earlier, the Decatur, Illinois-based company said
today in a statement. Earnings adjusted for inventory and
impairment charges were 51 cents, lower than the 76-cent average
of 12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 11 percent to
$23.3 billion from $20.9 billion.  “It was a tough quarter,” ADM Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Patricia Woertz said in the statement.
“Ongoing weakness in global oilseeds margins, lower results in
corn and poor international merchandising results hurt our
second-quarter profits.”  ADM is among traders and processors of basic foodstuffs to
report declining earnings amid increasing commodity-price
volatility. Cargill Inc., the largest closely held U.S. company
and a competitor of ADM, said earlier this month its fiscal
second-quarter profit fell 88 percent as the European debt
crisis and political uncertainty weighed on commodity markets.  Investors have taken a “very pessimistic view” of grain
processors, with the group trading as much as 50 percent below
its 10-year historical average valuation, David Driscoll, a New
York-based analyst for Citigroup Global Markets Inc. who has a
“buy” rating on ADM shares, said in a report Jan. 24.  Cost Cuts        ADM said Jan. 11 it will reduce its workforce by about
1,000, or 3 percent, to cut annual pretax expenses by more than
$100 million. The company said the following day it will take a
pretax impairment charge of as much as $360 million in the
second quarter to end a bio-plastics joint venture with
Metabolix Inc.  “ADM’s recent cost-cutting announcement supports the idea
that margins are disappointing,” Lindsay Drucker Mann, a New
York-based analyst for Goldman Sachs Group who has a “neutral”
rating on the shares, said in a report on Jan. 26.      ADM
dropped 0.4 percent to $29.71 in  New York  yesterday. The shares
have dropped 9.1 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 