-- Aflac Profit Misses Estimates as Insurer Forecasts Slump in Japanese Sales
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-01-31T22:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/aflac-quarterly-profit-climbs-25-as-yen-makes-gains-investments-improve.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the world’s biggest
seller of supplemental health insurance, said sales in Japan
probably will fall this year and posted fourth-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates.  Operating income, which excludes some investment results,
was $1.48 a share in the three months ended Dec. 31, the
Columbus, Georgia-based insurer said today in a statement.
That’s short of the $1.51 average estimate of 19 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Aflac, led by Chief Executive Officer Dan Amos, gets about
three-quarters of its revenue from Japan. Sales in the country
rose last year, helped by a push to sign up policyholders in
bank branches and a strengthening of the yen against the dollar.
Aflac, which uses a talking duck mascot to promote policies,
said  Japan  sales may fall 2 percent to 5 percent this year.  “The stronger the numbers are,” Amos said of 2011 in an
interview last week, “the harder it makes next year.”  Aflac declined 1.8 percent to $47.35 in extended New York
trading after the results were announced. The shares had dropped
16 percent in the past year on the New York Stock Exchange.  Aflac’s premium income in Japan jumped 13.5 percent to $4.1
billion in the fourth quarter, or about 6 percent excluding the
impact of currency fluctuations, the insurer said.  Net income 
rose 25 percent to $546 million, or $1.17 a share.  Sales in the U.S. this year probably will increase 3
percent to 8 percent, Aflac said.  ‘Ridiculously Strong’  “The sales in the fourth quarter in Japan were
ridiculously strong,” said  Steven Schwartz , an analyst at
Raymond James & Associates Inc., who has an “outperform”
rating on Aflac. “The sales were so strong in the fourth
quarter that just looking at the decline in sales for 2012 takes
it completely out of context.”  The yen gained more than 5 percent against the dollar last
year, magnifying the value of premiums collected from Japanese
policyholders. The yen advanced to 76.91 per dollar on Dec. 30,
compared with 81.12 on the last trading day of 2010. The
Japanese currency traded at a record 75.35 in October.  Shareholders’ equity  per share rose to $28.96 as of Dec. 31
from $27.25 on Sept. 30, the company said. Profit for the full-
year fell 16 percent to $1.96 billion as the company recorded
investment losses. In the fourth-quarter, after-tax realized
investment losses narrowed to $145 million from $191 million a
year earlier.  Debt Crisis  Amos, 60, repositioned Aflac’s investment portfolio last
year as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis pushed the company to
write down the value of some holdings and sell some securities
at a loss. The company took impairments on yen-denominated bonds
issued by Greek, Irish and Portuguese banks.  “The market changed faster than we could even keep up
with,” Amos said on Jan. 26. “When it changes like that,
that’s the responsibility of the CEO to fix it. And that’s what
I plan to do.”  Amos hired Eric Kirsch in September to oversee Aflac’s $93
billion portfolio. Kirsch, previously head of insurance asset
management at New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc., has said
he’ll seek to add new asset classes to Aflac’s holdings.  Aflac sales were boosted in Japan last year by signing up
new customers in banks. The company posted a 14 percent gain in
Japanese sales for the nine months ended Sept. 30 as the country
recovered from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  