-- After-Hours E-Mail Ban Swells Brazil Cost as Business Rues Latest Hurdle
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-01-31T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/after-hours-e-mail-ban-swells-brazil-costs-as-business-rues-latest-hurdle.html
Brazilians tired of answering their
boss’s after-hours e-mails may be able to charge overtime based
on a law businesses see hurting competitiveness in Latin 
America’s largest economy.  Using portable communications devices is equivalent to
working in the office, according to legislation signed by
President  Dilma Rousseff  last month.  The law is one more obstacle companies say they face in
 Brazil , where regulations mandating everything from employer-
provided breakfasts to union contributions are a daily drag on
efficiency bemoaned for decades as the “Custo Brasil,” or
Brazil Cost. It takes less time to set up a business in Nigeria
or Mongolia than it does Brazil, according to the  World Bank ,
which ranked it No. 126 out of 183 countries in its 2012
competitiveness study.  “It’s very worrying,” Emerson Casali, head of labor
relations at the National Industry Confederation, said in a
phone interview from Brasilia. “If enforced, it could have an
enormous impact, a large loss of productivity.”  The law coincides with a growing concern in countries
ranging from the U.S. to  Germany  over how to set boundaries
between work and leisure in an era of virtual offices and the
need for 24/7 communication. Among the companies taking steps to
spare workers after-hours e-mails is  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Employee-Friendly  The law has elicited concern because Brazilian law and
judges tend to favor employees in disputes related to overtime
pay, said Bruno Checchia, a Brasilia-based labor attorney for
 Pinheiro Neto Advogados . Already the country’s top labor court
has agreed to study the law and decide how to enforce it. The
Superior Labor Tribunal said it will also consider whether being
on call with a mobile device in hand is considered work and
subject to compensation.  “The law says working remotely is like clocking in,” Joao
Oreste Dalazen, head of the court, said in a statement.  Employers are bracing for trouble. Checchia said he’s
fielded several calls from clients worried the law could drive
their personnel costs up. That would compound the woes of
Brazilian manufacturers already struggling with a strong local
currency and declining global demand.  Woken at Night  While it’s too early to know if the law will have any
impact on share prices, it “creates uncertainty and could
impact business activity,” Joao Mauricio Rosal, chief economist
with Raymond James Brasil SA, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .  Employers could try to offset increased overtime pay by
freezing or reducing salary increases, Rosal added.  Unions say the law is essential to prevent work from
further encroaching on personal time.  “With the advance of technology it’s become a necessity,”
Manoel Melo, secretary for labor relations at Central Unica dos
Trabalhadores, the nation’s largest union confederation, said by
phone from Recife. “This issue is being discussed the world
over and Brazil has taken the forefront.”  A  survey  by Washington-based Wakefield Research for Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc last year showed almost half of Americans
say they’ve been woken at night by a call, text message or e-
mail from work.  In the U.S., where managers and professionals often aren’t
paid for overtime, a growing number of companies are reviewing
their policies on the use of smart phones, said Eric Pelton, a
partner at Kienbaum, Opperwall, Hardy and Pelton Plc.  “There’s a lot of talk right now on how to deal with this
issue,” Pelton said by phone from Birmingham,  Michigan . “If
managers handle it smartly, they’ll avoid lawsuits.”  Lawsuits Elsewhere  Companies such as Verizon Communications Inc, T-Mobile USA
Inc. and Stanley Black & Decker Inc. have already been sued for
unpaid overtime related to smart phone use.  “This is likely only the beginning,” Spencer Silverglate,
a lawyer at Clarke Silverglate PA in Miami, said in a telephone
interview.  Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW agreed in December to stop
sending e-mails to 1,150 employees in Germany 30 minutes after
their shift ends and to resume half an hour before it begins the
next day.  VW spokesman Markus Schlesag said last month that  Europe ’s
largest carmaker needed to balance the benefit of being able to
reach its staff at all times with the protection of employees’
private lives.  Such voluntary agreements are preferable to a nationwide
law that risks ignoring each company’s specific needs and
further entangling an already unwieldy web of  labor laws  in
Brazil, said Checchia.  “There are many employers willing to negotiate flexible
rules that could even generate higher income,” Checchia said.
“On that point Brazil is behind because it has a rigid,
outdated labor law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  