-- Tainted-Well Lawsuits Mount Against Gas Frackers Led by Cabot
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-01-31T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/tainted-well-lawsuits-mount-against-gas-frackers-led-by-cabot.html
For 36 years, Norma Fiorentino drew
water from a well near her home in Dimock,  Pennsylvania . “It
was the best water in town,” she says.  Then on Jan. 1, 2009, she says her well blew up.  State regulators later blamed natural gas drilling by  Cabot
Oil & Gas Corp . for elevating methane levels in Dimock wells.
Fiorentino and her neighbors sued, alleging Cabot’s activities
caused contamination and, in Fiorentino’s case, an explosion
that cracked a concrete cap into three pieces. Cabot has denied
responsibility.  The Dimock case, in federal court in Scranton, Pennsylvania,
is among a batch of claims that aim to put hydraulic fracturing,
the process that injects a mix of water, sand and chemicals
underground to free gas trapped there, on trial. The suits could
lead to payouts to plaintiffs and stricter government regulations,
raising costs on an industry President Barack Obama says can boost
the economy.  “The plaintiffs bar is always looking for the next big
thing,” said Jennifer Quinn-Barabanov, a partner at Washington-
based  Steptoe & Johnson LLP , which has represented oil and gas
companies. “There were a number of lawsuits filed, and now
everyone is kind of waiting and seeing.”  No Bounty Yet  The holdup is that plaintiffs’ lawyers haven’t been able to
prove that chemicals injected thousands of feet underground
migrate upward into drinking aquifers located just a few hundred
feet below the surface, Quinn-Baranov said  That’s kept fracking from becoming the bounty for
plaintiff’s attorneys that, say, methyl tertiary-butyl ether, or
MTBE, has been, she said. That gasoline additive has leaked into
drinking water sources, leading to multimillion dollar
settlements against companies including  Chevron Corp . and  BP
Plc .  Stuart Smith, a New Orleans-based plaintiffs’ attorney,
said the number of cases will increase as fracking expands into
more populated areas and complaints grow. More drilling may also
create new routes for the chemicals to migrate, he said.  “Anyone that tells you this is not very risky and
dangerous operation is not telling you the truth,” Smith said
in an interview. “You have a wildcat mentality where people are
out there just fracking away.”  More Analysis Needed  Tighter regulations, including more analysis of what lies
between the shale that’s being fracked and the drinking wells
above, is needed to ensure no pathways could be created, Smith
said.  Whether fracking chemicals are reaching groundwater is
“where the real rub is,” said Gregory Hoffnagle, a  New York- 
based attorney for Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP, in an interview.  At least 23 cases involving fracking have been filed since
August 2009 by landowners from  Arkansas  to  New York , according
to an analysis by  Fulbright & Jaworski LLP , a Houston-based
firm.  Besides Cabot,  Chesapeake Energy Corp . and  Southwestern
Energy Co.  have faced lawsuits claiming harm, according to the
summary.  In December, Chesapeake settled a lawsuit by paying $15,000
to two Texas landowners who claimed the company polluted their
well, Jim Gipson, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-
mail.  Southwestern denies claims made by families in Susquehanna
County, Pennsylvania, that the company’s drilling contaminated
their wells. That case is still active.  Air, Water Impact  The allegations in the lawsuits include water contamination
from the spills in transport of the chemically-laced fracking
fluid or the wastewater the drilling produces; methane leaks
from poorly encased or cemented wells; and poorer  air quality 
due to drilling emissions.  In the Dimock case, 23 families are asking the court to
classify fracturing as inherently dangerous, a designation that
may make it easier to win damages. The trial is set for April.  While the cases point to particular hazards of fracking,
 David Pursell , head of securities for Tudor, Pickering, Holt &
Co. LLC, a Houston-based investment bank that concentrates on
the  energy industry , said the allegations are similar to those
made against more conventional forms of drilling, such as
contamination from surface spills or poorly encased wells.  He said he doesn’t believe fracking poses unique risks.  “I think the science is clearly on the side of the
industry guys,” he said in an interview.  Pavillion, Wyoming  The Environmental Protection Agency in December for the
first time linked fracturing to water contamination in
Pavillion,  Wyoming .  Encana Corp ., which owns 123 wells in the
area, disputes EPA’s findings, saying in a statement the agency
ignored “well-known historical realities with respect to the
Pavillion field’s unique geology and hydrology.”  While Pavillion drilling occurred at much shallower depths
than seen in shale-rock formations, Keith Hall, a lawyer at
Stone Pigman Walther Wittmann LLC in  New Orleans , said in an
interview that attorneys on both sides are watching the case to
see if it proves to be the first instance that fracking itself,
not just general drilling activities, created a problem.  The EPA has started providing fresh water to four Dimock
families, and that it plans to test water at 60 homes to assess
whether residents have been exposed to hazardous substances.  ‘No Credible Evidence’  In a Jan. 26 letter to EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson ,
Chief Executive Officer Dan Dinges said the company had provided
more than 10,000 pages of data to the EPA and there is “no
credible evidence” that the water needs further analysis by the
federal agency.  Doctors at a fracking conference earlier this month
recommended that the U.S. should declare a moratorium on
hydraulic fracturing in populated areas until the health effects
are better understood. That may spur more cases, said Hoffnagle
of Providence, Rhode Island-based Edwards Wildman.  Any seemingly objective opinion that “demonstrates that
fracking has or may have negative health effects will be
beneficial to the plaintiff’s bar and would increase the number
of lawsuits filed,” Hoffnagle said.  Fracking now accounts for a third of the U.S. gas supply,
up from 14 percent in 2009, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. Natural  gas prices  dropped 32 percent in 2011,
driven primarily by the rise in recoveries from the shale
formations, the department said.  Dimock’s Water  The alleged risks of fracking are on display in Dimock, a
town of 1,368 residents in the northeastern part of the state.  Fiorentino, 68, was at her daughter’s house for dinner on
New Year’s Day when the well exploded. She wasn’t injured.  Under an agreement with state regulators, Cabot established
a $4.1 million fund that the 19 families with polluted wells
could draw from. It didn’t accept blame for the contamination.  About $1.9 million of the set aside by Cabot had been
claimed, the company said earlier this month. Spokesman George
Stark did not return a call for further comment on the
litigation.  Fiorentino said she planned to take payment from the escrow
account as she pursued additional damages in court. She believes
her water is toxic and is “never going to drink” from the well
again.  The Dimock case is Fiorentino v.  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG) ,
09-02284, U.S. District Court for the Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Scranton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  