-- Taiwan President Names Government Veteran Sean Chen as Second-Term Premier
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2012-02-01T07:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/taiwan-cabinet-to-resign-in-transition-after-ma-re-election-to-second-term.html
Taiwan  President Ma Ying-jeou named
Sean Chen as premier, choosing an official who oversaw the
island’s markets during the 2008 financial crisis to revive
growth in an economy expanding at the slowest pace in two years.  Chen announced later yesterday that Christina Liu, head of
the Council for Economic Planning and Development, would be
finance minister. The appointments were part of a leadership
transition after Jan. 14 elections saw Ma win a second term and
the ruling Kuomintang party keep its majority in parliament.  Appointing Chen suggests that Ma’s main priorities in his
next four-year term will be restoring growth and helping
Taiwan’s export-driven economy weather the global economic
downturn, said Ellen Shen, a Taipei-based  fund manager  at Union
Securities Investment Trust Co. Taiwan’s economy expanded 1.9
percent in the fourth quarter, the slowest pace since the third
quarter of 2009, the statistics bureau said yesterday.  The Taiex Index gained 0.4 percent to close at 7,549.21
today, the highest since Nov. 9. The index has risen 6.3 percent
since Taiwan’s Liberty Times reported on Jan. 16 that Ma may
appoint Chen his premier.  “The global economic slowdown is the biggest challenge
facing the new Cabinet,” Shen said. “Chen should be able to
handle it, given his background in  economy  and finance.”  Slower Growth  The government’s challenges became clear after the
statistics bureau released yesterday’s economic data, which
showed the economy had entered a technical recession. The
economy contracted 0.25 percent last quarter from the prior
three months, shrinking for a second successive quarter,
yesterday’s report showed.  The 1.9 percent growth rate for the last three months of
2011 was the slowest since a 1.41 percent contraction in the
third quarter of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The median estimate of nine economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 2.8 percent expansion.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is hurting Asian exporters
from  Singapore  to  South Korea , and policy makers have either cut
borrowing costs or refrained from further increases in recent
meetings.  “Faltering external demand proved to be a considerable
drag on investment, and hence GDP growth,” Raymond Yeung, a
senior economist in  Hong Kong  at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., said after the report. “But I don’t think the trend
will continue in 2012. Political uncertainties have waned”
after the Kuomintang’s re-election.  Victory Signal  Ma saw his victory as a signal that voters don’t want major
policy or leadership changes in his second term, according to
government spokesman Philip Yang.  “There’s continuity in the government,” Yang said.
“Taiwan weathered the financial tsunami and  Europe  debt crisis
better than a lot countries,  recovering  in a very short period
of time.”  Chen has served as deputy finance minister and headed the
Financial Supervisory Commission. Liu was chief economist at
Chinatrust Financial Holding Co. before she became minister of
the Council for Economic Planning and Development. She was also
a member of the Cabinet’s tax reform committee between 2008 and
2009.  Chen also announced that Jiang Yi-Huah, the current
interior minister, will be promoted to vice premier.  Campaign Promises  Ma won re-election after making campaign promises to push
ahead with his policy of closer ties with China. He restored
air, sea and postal links for the first time in six decades
during his first term and signed trade agreements with the
mainland.  The new parliament will take office today, while Ma and
Vice President-elect Wu Den-yih, the outgoing premier, will take
office on May 20.  Overseas sales, which are equivalent to about two-thirds of
Taiwan’s economy, rose at the slowest pace in 26 months in
December. Export orders, an indication of shipments in the next
one to three months, fell last month for the first time since
2009 as demand from  China  and  Japan  declined.  Slowing overseas demand is already affecting Taiwan’s
manufacturers and the nation’s job market.  HTC Corp.,  Asia ’s second-largest smartphone maker, this
month reported its first quarterly profit decline in two years.
Nanya Technology Corp. and Inotera Memories Inc., Taiwan’s
second- and third-largest memory-chip makers, reported their
eighth quarter of losses as slowing demand for personal
computers pushed down prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  