-- Taiwan Economy Grew Slowest Since 2009
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2012-01-31T08:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/taiwan-economy-grew-slowest-since-2009.html
Taiwan ’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace in more than two years, giving the central bank
more reason to extend an interest-rate pause to support domestic
spending and investment.  Gross domestic product  rose 1.9 percent in the three months
through December from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
in a preliminary report in Taipei today. Growth was the slowest
since a 1.41 percent contraction in the third quarter of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median estimate of
nine economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 2.8 percent
expansion.  President Ma Ying-jeou, who won re-election on Jan. 14, has
promoted Vice Premier Sean Chen, a former deputy finance
minister, to the post of premier in a sign he plans to focus on
reviving growth in the island in his second term.  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis is hurting Asian exporters from Singapore
to  South Korea , and policy makers have either cut borrowing
costs or refrained from further increases in recent meetings.  “Forward-looking export orders suggest demand is still weak,
condemning Taiwan to a weak first quarter in 2012,” Katrina Ell,
a Sydney-based economist at Moody’s Analytics Australia Pty Ltd.,
said before the data release. “We expect rates will remain on
hold in March.”  Taiwan’s central bank will keep the discount rate on 10-day
loans to banks unchanged at 1.875 percent through the middle of
next year, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  The benchmark  Taiex stock index  ended 1.5 percent higher
before the data. It lost 21 percent last year, the worst decline
since 2008.  Technical Recession  The economy contracted 0.25 percent last quarter from the
prior three months, shrinking for a second successive quarter
and pushing the economy into a technical recession, today’s
report showed.  GDP grew 4.03 percent in 2011, compared with the 4.51
percent pace forecast by the statistics bureau earlier. The
agency cut the forecast for this year to 3.91 percent from 4.19
percent previously.  Inflation in 2012 may be 1.29 percent, it said, compared
with an earlier projection of 1.14 percent. Exports may grow
4.97 percent this year, compared with a previous estimate of
5.27 percent, the statistics bureau said.  Exports Slow  Overseas sales, which are equivalent to about two-thirds of
Taiwan’s economy, rose at the slowest pace in 26 months in
December. Export orders, an indication of shipments in the next
one to three months, fell last month for the first time since
2009 as demand from China and  Japan  declined.  “The external outlook remains extremely challenging,
especially for the first quarter,” Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-
based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said before the release.
“Euro-zone demand continues to worsen as the region slips into
outright recession. If growth continues to worsen faster than
expected, a 12-basis-point rate cut remains on the cards for the
central bank in March.”  Slowing overseas demand is already affecting Taiwan’s
manufacturers and the nation’s job market.  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest smartphone maker, this
month reported its first quarterly profit decline in two years.
Nanya Technology Corp. and  Inotera Memories Inc., (3474)  Taiwan’s
second- and third-largest memory-chip makers, reported their
eighth quarter of losses as slowing demand for personal
computers pushed down prices.  A total of 91 companies reached agreements with 11,630
workers to take leave without pay as of Jan. 15, the Council of
Labor Affairs said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore  at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  