-- Amazon’s Shares Tumble After Sales Miss Estimates: Seattle Mover
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-02-02T02:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/amazon-s-sales-miss-estimates-profit-drops-as-expenses-surge-shares-drop.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  fell the most in
three months after sales missed estimates, signaling that its
investments in media services, Kindle devices and shipping
promotions have been slow to pay off.  Amazon shares dropped 7.7 percent to $179.46 after the
Seattle-based company said yesterday that fourth-quarter revenue
was $17.4 billion, trailing the $18.3 billion estimated by
analysts in a  Bloomberg survey . It was the biggest one-day stock
decline since Oct. 26.  Amazon, the world’s largest Internet retailer, got less
revenue from digital media than anticipated, especially in the
video-game market. The company also is relying more on third-
party sellers, which can bolster profit but generate less
revenue than direct sales. Amazon has conditioned investors to
expect stronger growth, making the latest results disappointing,
said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New York .  “To miss on the top line, that’s what breaks the
momentum,” said Gillis, who recommends selling Amazon stock.  Net income fell 57 percent to $177 million, or 38 cents a
share, from $416 million, or 91 cents, a year earlier, the
company said in a statement.  First-quarter operating income may range from a loss of
$200 million to a gain of $100 million, the company said.
Analysts were projecting a profit of $268.1 million. Sales will
be $12 billion to $13.4 billion, Amazon said, compared with an
estimate at the top of that range.  Hard to Explain  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is squeezing margins in
search of growth, looking to add customers by pushing free
shipping and offering its Kindle devices at cut-rate prices.
While investors were expecting profit to take a hit, the sales
slowdown is harder to accept, said Brian Nowak, an analyst at
Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York. The reasons
outlined by the company don’t seem to fully account for the
sluggishness, said Nowak, who rates Amazon shares “neutral.”  Amazon’s third-party sellers use the company’s site to hawk
their products and then provide a commission. Unit sales by
outside retailers increased 65 percent during the holiday
quarter and now make up 36 percent of units sold, Bezos said in
the statement. Total sales rose 35 percent.  “Whenever there’s a mix-shift toward third party, it helps
margins, but it reduces revenue,” said  Colin Sebastian , an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco . He has an
“outperform” rating on Amazon’s stock.  Earnings Top Estimates  The shift helped earnings top estimates last quarter, even
with the sales shortfall. Analysts projected 16 cents a share.
Still, the operating margin tightened to 1.5 percent in the
period, from 3.7 percent a year earlier.  “Trying to predict during a seasonal Q4 is challenging,”
Tom Szkutak, Amazon’s chief financial officer, said on a
conference call. “That third-party increase is great for
customers, great for sellers and helped our bottom line.”  Amazon’s Prime program, which offers unlimited two-day
shipping for $79 a year, boosted expenses over the  holiday
shopping season , said Jason Helfstein, an analyst at New York-
based Oppenheimer & Co.  “With shipping, if you look at that net loss number as a
percentage of revenue, it keeps going up,” he said. “They’re
trying their best to offset that in other ways.”  The money-losing Kindle Fire tablet also has raised
expenses. At $199, the device is less than half the price of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s cheapest iPad. The expectation is that consumers
will spend the money they save on Amazon’s e-books and video
content,  Jordan Rohan , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said
in a note this week. That eventually will more than make up for
revenue lost selling the device, he said.  Video-Game Decline  For now, Amazon’s media sales aren’t growing as quickly as
anticipated. U.S. media revenue climbed 8.1 percent last
quarter, about half the 15 percent that Sebastian was
predicting. The decline in video-game sales hurt the unit’s
results, Szkutak said.  Investors had speculated that the company would get a
bigger boost from a 15 percent gain in industrywide holiday e-
commerce spending, which  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  pegged at a record $37.2
billion.  Shareholders may now be wondering if the stock has become
too expensive, Gillis said. It trades at 141.9 times earnings
over the past 12 months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. By comparison, Apple’s price-to-earnings ratio is 13.  “When you have revenue growth start to stall, then the
valuation question marks start to rise,” he said.  The company also elaborated on its potential risks in a
filing today. Amazon said it relies on third-party providers for
the technologies that encrypt, authenticate and send
confidential information, and that a security attack could
result in litigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  