-- American Sales Seen Surging 6% in Longest Streak Since ‘00: Cars
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/american-sales-seen-surging-6-in-longest-streak-since-00-cars.html
Martha Patterson started selling
real estate in the 1990s and replaced her car every five or six
years until the housing market collapsed. Then she kept her
Volkswagen Passat GLS for a decade, until last June.  “I just kept holding onto my car,” said Patterson, 50, of
Wilmington,  Delaware , recalling how her annual commissioned
sales plunged to $1 million from $5 million. “I wanted a new
one, but it’s really hard to get a decent deal when you’re not
making steady income.”  Millions of consumers like Patterson, who traded her 2001
model for a new Chevrolet Malibu, deferred purchases to replace
older vehicles. With the average age of U.S. cars and trucks
rising to a record 10.8 years, according to R.L. Polk & Co.,
analysts see pent-up demand boosting sales in January and
driving demand to a third straight annual gain, the longest
streak since U.S. sales peaked in 2000.  Light-vehicle sales in January, set for release tomorrow,
may have run at a 13.4 million seasonally adjusted annual  rate ,
the average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
pace probably accelerated from 12.7 million a year earlier while
automakers’ spending on incentives stayed steady or slid from a
year earlier, according to analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., RBC
Capital Markets LLC and  Barclays Capital .  Pent-up demand for new cars and trucks, combined with
 declining unemployment , rising consumer confidence and available
credit may drive up full-year sales more than 6 percent to 13.6
million, the average of 12 analysts’ estimates. About 8 million
vehicle purchases were deferred from 2008 to 2010, said  Lacey
Plache , chief economist for Edmunds.com, the  Santa Monica ,
California-based auto-market researcher.  Returning Buyers  “You’re going to see more buyers coming back to the
market, triggered by the fact that their cars are old,” Plache
said.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. may gain the most,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts last week. Buyers
who are loyal to the brands put off purchases last year while
the companies dealt with production disruptions caused by the
March earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  and floods late in the
year in  Thailand .  Auto-sales growth in January may be led by Chrysler Group
LLC and Korea-based affiliates  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270) , and be supported by improvement from Japanese automakers
who are adding to inventories after rebounding to full
production.  Chrysler’s Streak  Chrysler, the U.S. automaker majority-owned by  Fiat SpA (F) ,
may increase deliveries by 32 percent, the average estimate of
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be the 
company’s 22nd consecutive monthly sales gain on a year-to-year
basis. Seoul-based Hyundai and Kia may combine to sell 18 percent
more vehicles than a year earlier, the average of four estimates.
That would be the duo’s 17th straight monthly sales increase on a 
year-to-year basis.  Toyota sales may gain for a third consecutive month, rising
7 percent, while Honda deliveries may drop 1.2 percent, the
averages of six analysts’ estimates.  Deutsche Bank AG yesterday raised its 2012 U.S. sales
estimate by 700,000 vehicles to 13.7 million, citing sales
trends from late last year carrying into early 2012 and the
probability that supply constraints will continue to ease for
Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota and Tokyo-based Honda.  Trade-Ins  The new-car market also will be boosted by a smaller supply
of three- to four-year-old vehicles, which compete with new-
vehicle sales,  Rod Lache , a New York-based analyst for Deutsche
Bank, wrote in a research note yesterday. Availability of those
vehicles will decline by 5.7 million, or 19 percent, this year
after dropping by 3.3 million last year.  While shoppers with older models may get less at trade-in,
they also may not owe money on their car.  “New-vehicle buyers are usually trading in three-, four,
five-year-old vehicles,” Thomas Webb, chief economist for
Manheim Consulting, said in an interview. “They will be trading
in an older vehicle now, which means they might have actually
paid off the loan and have some positive equity. That’s
supportive to the new-vehicle market.”  Nissan Motor Co. may increase sales 7.6 percent, the
average of six analysts’ estimates, while  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
deliveries may climb 7.9 percent, the average of eight
estimates.  General Motors Co. (GM) , which regained global sales leadership
last year, may sell 7.3 percent fewer cars than a year earlier,
the average of eight analysts’ estimates. The Detroit-based
automaker may have pulled back on incentives from a year ago,
when it outspent the industry average by 42 percent, according
to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata Corp.  ‘Pricing Discipline’  “Unlike last January, pricing discipline is maintained,”
 Brian Johnson , a New York-based analyst for Barclays Capital,
wrote in a Jan. 26 research note. GM’s average spending on
incentives per vehicle may drop 21 percent from a year earlier,
while Toyota’s and Chrysler’s may decline 17 percent and 10
percent, respectively, according to Barclays estimates.  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) , which is targeting U.S. sales growth of more
than 10 percent this year, may increase combined sales of its
Volkswagen and Audi brand vehicles by 27 percent in January from
the year-earlier month, the average of three estimates. The
Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker plans to sell more than
500,000 cars in the U.S. this year as part of its goal to become
the world’s biggest automaker by 2018.  Patterson, the Realtor in Wilmington, said the 2011 Malibu
she bought in June is a quieter, smoother ride than her old
Passat, with better fuel economy, more airbags, a bigger sunroof
and Bluetooth wireless technology. She said she wants to buy a
new Audi in a year or two.  “I’m just going along with the economy right now and
trying to stay stable,” she said.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from January 2011. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  January had 24 selling days, matching the year-earlier
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  