-- Repeat Breast Cancer Surgery Varies Widely for Little Reason, Study Finds
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-31T22:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/many-breast-cancer-patients-need-repeat-surgery-after-lumpectomy.html
The number of repeat surgeries in
women who had a breast tumor removed varies dramatically based
on their individual surgeons and medical centers, without any
clear reason for the discrepancies, a study found.  Almost one in four women who get breast-conserving
“lumpectomy” surgery undergo another operation to ensure no
malignant cells remain, according to a report in the  Journal of
the American Medical Association . Nearly half of those women had
no conclusive evidence of lingering cancer, the data showed.  “There continues to be considerable variation in how we
deliver health care based on individual opinion rather than
strong evidence,” said lead researcher Laurence McCahill,
director of surgical oncology at the  Lacks Cancer Center  in
 Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , in a telephone interview. “In an ideal
world, there would be a greater degree of logic or evidence as
to why someone would undergo a second operation.”  The investigators tracked 2,206 women with invasive breast
cancer who elected to undergo a lumpectomy, a surgical removal
of the tumor that leaves the healthy breast intact and has been
shown in studies to be as effective as a full mastectomy, with
similar survival rates.  The need for additional surgery after a  lumpectomy  can
extract a financial and psychological cost, the researchers
said. Of those women who got a repeat operation, one-third had a
mastectomy, which entails complete removal of the breast.  Fine Line  Surgeons walk a fine line between trying to cut out all of
the cancer and leaving enough of the breast for cosmetic
appearances. While some didn’t do any repeat surgeries on women
whose tests were inconclusive, others brought back 70 percent of
patients, the research found.  The inconsistency is a challenge, said Shawna Willey,
director of the  Betty Lou Ourisman Breast Health Center  at
Georgetown University Hospital in  Washington , who wasn’t
involved in the study. Willey said she tells patients that as
many as 40 percent of women may need a second surgery.  One problem for doctors is determining if the surgeon
removed all the cancer, Willey said in a telephone interview.
Currently, physicians put six different colors of ink around the
extracted tumor, then study it under a microscope to see how
close the malignant cells are to the edge.  While some are satisfied if there are no signs of cancer on
the rim, called a clear or negative margin, others want a bigger
zone of safety, she said.  ‘Clear Margin’  “What’s the definition of a clear margin? We have whole
conferences discussing that,” she said. “It would be nice if
all practitioners in the  breast cancer  field could arrive at a
consensus of what a negative margin is. That’s one reason we see
so much variability among surgeons.”  Fourteen percent of women with cancer at the edge of the
extracted tissue didn’t undergo a repeat operation, known as a
 re-excision , the researchers said.  While previous work found positive margins increase the
risk that the cancer will return, no studies have shown how
large a cancer-free rim is needed to reduce the risk. Removing
additional tissue in women with no remaining signs of cancer
hasn’t been shown to influence recurrence rates, they said.  The findings show why tissue margins shouldn’t be used to
evaluate the quality of surgical care for breast cancer, said
Monica Morrow, from  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center ’s
department of surgery in  New York  and Steven J. Katz, from the
University of Michigan’s department of health management and
policy in  Ann Arbor .  Many Causes  The research didn’t take into account the reasons for
returning to the operating room, Morrow and Katz wrote in an
editorial. Some physicians may have low rates because they offer
breast-conserving surgery only to patients with tiny tumors that
are easiest to remove, leaving others to get an unnecessary
mastectomy. It can also be avoided by removing large amounts of
normal breast tissue, with a poor cosmetic result, they said.  “Uncertainty about the link between process and patient
health outcomes underscores the challenge of determining ‘which
rate is right,’” they wrote. Providing retreatment rates for
individual doctors “may result in greater use of mastectomy as
surgeons restrict breast-conserving surgery to patients for whom
negative margins are easily achieved.”  The researchers used electronic medical records for
patients treated from 2003 to 2008 at the University of  Vermont ,
 Kaiser Permanente  in  Colorado , Group Health in western
Washington and the Marshfield Clinic in  Wisconsin  to conduct the
study. It was funded by the U.S.  National Institutes of Health .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  