-- Maple Extends TMX Takeover Offer to Feb. 29 to Get Approvals
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-01-31T14:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/maple-extends-tmx-takeover-offer-to-feb-29-to-get-approvals.html
Maple Group Acquisition Corp.,
comprised of 13 Canadian financial-services firms, extended its
C$3.73 billion ($3.73 billion) offer for  TMX Group Inc. (X)  to Feb.
29 while it pursues regulatory approvals to buy Canada’s main
equities and derivatives markets.  “We are committed to the transaction and are working
diligently to obtain the required regulatory approvals,” Maple
spokesman  Luc Bertrand  said today in a statement. “To this end,
we are in ongoing discussions with the regulators and have made
numerous submissions to them.”  The takeover by Maple, whose 13 members include Toronto-
Dominion Bank,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  and  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC) , requires approval from provincial regulators
and Canada’s Competition Bureau.  The Competition Bureau said Nov. 29 that it had “serious
concerns” about the plan in connection with equities trading
and clearing settlement.  Maple intends to buy 100 percent of TMX and integrate it
with  Canada ’s securities clearinghouse and Alpha Group, a bank-
owned alternative trading venue that competes with TMX.  Maple said today it “recently” submitted a pricing model
for Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd. clearing house and
proposed remedies to address concerns on equities trading.  An Oct. 30 agreement between Maple and TMX says that if
conditions aren’t satisfied by the offer expiry date, “Maple
shall be required to extend the expiry time.” The tender offer
to buy at least 70 percent of TMX shares can be extended up to
April 30, according to the agreement.  Maple has extended its offer four times since proposing to
buy the Toronto Stock Exchange owner in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  