-- Apple Names Dixon’s Browett to Lead Retail Business Amid Global Expansion
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-31T20:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/apple-names-browett-to-lead-retail-business-in-global-expansion.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s  Tim Cook , in his first
major hire since becoming chief executive officer, picked the
head of the largest U.K. consumer-electronics retailer to run
the iPhone maker’s chain of stores and oversee global expansion.  John Browett, 48, will start at Apple in April as a senior
vice president, reporting to Cook, the Cupertino, California-
based company said in a statement today. The appointment ends a
more than seven-month search to replace former retail head Ron Johnson, who last year left what is now the world’s most
valuable company to lead JC Penney Co.  Browett has been CEO of  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  since 2007 and
previously helped turn U.K. grocery-store chain Tesco Plc into a
leading online food seller. He will head Apple’s 361-store
business as it focuses on growth outside the U.S, including the
fastest-growing market of China. Of Apple’s 40 locations opening
this year, 30 will be abroad.  “International growth is a key component of their strategy
going forward,” said Robert Gregory, research director of
 Planet Retail , an industry research company based in London.
“He’ll be spending quite a bit of time in the Asian markets
because long term that’s where there is going to be significant
growth for Apple’s retail stores.”  Apple Ties  Dixons, which is similar to U.S. retailer Best Buy Co.,
sells Apple products, along with televisions, cameras and video-
game systems. As the CEO, Browett forged a close relationship
with Apple, including striking a deal to be able to sell the
iPad ahead of rival electronics retailers in the U.K. He also
implemented new store formats and added customer service areas
similar to the Genius Bar at Apple stores to provide technical
support and help with repairs and upgrades.  “Our retail stores are all about  customer service , and
John shares that commitment like no one else we’ve met,” Cook,
who succeeded Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  as CEO in August, said
in the statement. “We are thrilled to have him join our team
and bring his incredible retail experience to Apple.”  Dixons, which operates the PC World and Currys stores, said
in a separate statement that Browett would be replaced by
Sebastian James, who has been with the company since 2008, most
recently as group operations director. Browett will leave Dixons
on April 20, according to the company.  Before joining Dixons, Browett had been at Tesco for almost
a decade, including time running the supermarket’s online
operations and expanding into markets such as  South Korea  with
groceries, consumer electronics, books and CDs. As the CEO of
Tesco.com, he built a grocery-delivery service that fought off
rivals inspired by web startups such as Webvan Group Inc., which
later went out of business.  ‘Rising Star’  Browett is a graduate of the University of Cambridge in the
UK and has an MBA degree from the  University of Pennsylvania ’s
Wharton School in Philadelphia, according to Apple’s statement.
Browett, who also previously worked for the  Boston Consulting
Group , had been touted as a possible Tesco CEO, analysts at
Teather & Greenwood said at the time.  “He was well regarded at Tesco,” said Nick Coulter, a food
analyst at Nomura, calling him a “rising star.”  Dixons’ shares have dropped 81 percent since Browett became
CEO, including a 57 percent decline in 2011. Apple has more than
 doubled  in that period. Dixons had gained 55 percent this year
until yesterday, after the retailer said profitability improved
as it sold more products at full price during the Christmas
period.  Today’s announcement sent Dixons’ shares down 7.5 percent
to 14.10 pence in  London . Apple rose 0.6 percent to $455.80 at
2:53 p.m. in  New York .  Outside Hire  In selecting Browett as Apple’s second retail head in more
than a decade, Cook decided to go outside Apple’s ranks. A team
of Johnson’s main deputies had helped run Apple’s stores during
the holiday rush, including Jerry McDougal, the vice president
of retail, and Steve Cano, the global head of store personnel.
Jobs also went outside the company when he hired Johnson from
Target Corp. to build the first stores.  More than a decade later, Apple generates more sales per
square foot than luxury chains such as Tiffany & Co. The stores
had $6.1 billion in sales in the quarter ended Dec. 31, up 59
percent from the year-earlier period.  Mickey Drexler , the
chairman and CEO of J. Crew Group Inc., serves on Apple’s board.  “Retail is very important to Apple as a large proportion
of their shipments, especially the iPad, is going through their
own retail stores,” said  Tim Coulling , an analyst at U.K.
researcher Canalys.  China Expansion  Apple is using the stores to fuel an expansion in  China ,
where outlets in Shanghai, Beijing and  Hong Kong  are among the
company’s most trafficked locations.  “It’s not surprising that they found someone from outside
the U.S., given that they’re going for quite significant growth
in Europe and Asia-Pacific,” said James Cordwell, an analyst at
Atlantic Equities Service in London. Apple’s said last week that
sales in the Asia-Pacific region rose 54 percent to $7.7 billion
in the quarter ended Dec. 31.  Part of Apple’s strategy in expanding outside the U.S. will
be to keep putting stores in heavily trafficked areas, even if
it means paying the highest real-estate prices. Its stores on
Fifth Avenue in New York, near the Louvre in Paris and on Regent
Street in London attract hundreds of people who line up for
introductions of new iPads or iPhones.  Store Traffic  Store traffic reached 110 million visitors in the holiday
period -- almost equivalent to the population of  Mexico .  The success can have its drawbacks. Apple faced angry
crowds at one of its Beijing locations after shoppers grew
restless waiting for the new iPhone 4S to go on sale. Some
people threw eggs at the store when it didn’t open.  Apple reported  quarterly profit  last week that more than
doubled to $13.1 billion, boosted by record holiday sales of the
iPhone, iPad and Mac. The results helped push the stock to a
record.  Cook has been making his mark on other parts of the
management team. He promoted Eddy Cue to senior vice president
last year. The executive oversees iTunes and the  App Store . The
company also hired Todd Teresi to lead its iAd mobile-
advertising network and report to Cue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  