-- Apple's Greatness, and Its Shame
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i n s t o n
-- 2012-01-31T17:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/apple-s-greatness-and-its-shame.html
     Is there such a thing as too much profit? A disciple of
 Milton Friedman  would say "never." The idea that companies
should only maximize  shareholder value  has had a stranglehold
on the business world for decades. It's time to rethink this
assumption.  Last week, Apple reported breathtaking earnings. In the
fourth calendar quarter of 2011, Christmas shoppers snapped up
15 million iPads and 37 million iPhone 4Ss. The world's most
innovative company brought in $46 billion in revenues, $13
billion in profit, and an
eye-popping $17.5 billion in cash flow. Apple is the only
company competing with, and now beating, Exxon for the title
of "most profitable company ever."  But last week the New York Times also hit us with two
powerful articles about Apple's supply chain that revealed
some deeply troubling issues for the company's business model.
The first, "How the U.S. Lost Out on iPhone Work," painted a
dim picture of U.S. competitiveness by demonstrating what
Chinese suppliers are willing to do to get Apple's business.
But the second
article, "In  China , Human Costs are Built Into an iPad," shows
us the enormous human cost of getting work for cheap. It's a
horrifying picture of life at the
nowinfamous Foxconn facilities.  Combine Apple's incredible earnings with the reality of
life in its supply chain, and it's clear that the tech giant
could afford to do much better by workers. It's not
sustainable for any company to continue relying on people with
such limited rights and life prospects.  But is it fair to pick on Apple? Yes, to some
degree, since other companies with deep connections to China
have done better on working conditions (a Times source name
checks HP, Intel, and Nike for example). In the spirit of
being balanced, a few points: (1) even with a few good
actors, worker treatment is a systemic challenge common to
electronics, apparel, and any other sector with
complex, worldwide supply chains; (2) Apple has
put some effort into improving supplier conditionsand
CEO Tim Cook replied last week to the concerns; (3) Consumers
also take on some responsibility-we should be demanding more
transparency and information about how our products are made
(I'm targeting myself here as well since I'm typing this on a
MacBook Pro).  But Apple too should be doing far more.  We'll only fix the problem if the largest, most
profitable, and most powerful brands demand better treatment
for all people who work on a product. The most damning quotes
in the Timespiece come from former Apple execs: "Noncompliance
is tolerated...If we meant business, core violations would
disappear" and "Suppliers would change everything tomorrow if
Apple told them they didn't have another choice."  So am I suggesting companies pursue unprofitable paths?
Hardly. These labor challenges are complicated, but any
argument that it would be too expensive to pay people better
and give them much better working conditions is absurd.  Some reasonable estimates from The Atlantic place the
cost of materials (of a mid-level 32GB $600
iPad) at about $325. Labor is a whopping $10. If we
assume, very conservatively, that iPhone assembly costs the
same, then in the fourth quarter, Apple spent about $500
million assembling iPhones and iPads.  Let's imagine that Apple tripled expense on assembly to
ensure better pay and worker treatment. The total additional
cost: $1 billion The cost of an iPad or iPhone would go up $20
or — and here's a radical thought — Apple would make a little
bit less money. I'm not remotely saying Apple shouldn't be
profitable.  But would anybody in their right mind be disappointed
with $16.5 billion in quarterly  cash flow  instead of $17.5
billion?  Am I making a complex issue too simple? To check my
thinking, I spoke with a former Nike exec with deep experience
in supply chains and China. Here's his view:  "Someone needs to break the cycle...why not Nike —
or Apple? I don't see that as an oversimplification at all.
The current "low cost" business model is not really low cost.
Isn't one purpose of business to create the prosperity needed
to increase the number of consumers capable of buying the
goods we make? In fact, I would argue that what Apple is doing
now is against the best interests of the shareholders...I've
never heard a lucid explanation of what I'm missing."  This is about what we value in the world. Consider
IKEA, one of the most sustainability-minded large companies in
the world. The Swedish furniture giant has its own challenges
(some history of labor issues as well and concerns about the
sustainability of its short-lived products, for example), but
the company has stated clearly that it's about
"low prices...but not at any price."  Why is that a radical idea? I refuse the notion that
maintaining a moral compass is
anti-business, anti-competitive, or naïve in some way.
Smart, innovative, lean companies can make plenty of money and
do the right thing. And, frankly, since companies have an
awful lot of the rights of humans, they should share some of
the moral responsibility as well.  Our system of competition yields amazing results —
incredible technological innovation provided in massive
quantities very quickly. But these marvels often rely on very
real human costs. The whole system has some deep flaws that we
must fix.  Apple prides itself on changing the game. So just imagine
a world where the company applied its staggering innovation
and design skills to create the iSupplyChain or
iWorkingConditions. Everyone, including this fan of Apple
products, would be a lot iHappier.  Andrew Winston is the co-author of the
best-seller Green to Gold and the author of Green Recovery. He
advises some of the world’s biggest companies on environmental
strategy.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business. 