-- Arabs Implore UN Council to Back Plan for Assad’s Exit
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-01-31T22:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/arabs-implore-un-council-to-back-plan-for-assad-s-exit.html
Arab leaders made their case before
the  United Nations  Security Council that Russia shouldn’t block
a draft resolution backing their plan to get Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad to step aside.  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi and Qatari
Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani addressed the
15-member council today in New York in the presence of Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  and her French and U.K. counterparts.  The Arab League is turning to the UN after its efforts and
initiatives became “useless because the Syrian government
failed to make any sincere effort to cooperate with us and
unfortunately the only solution available to it is to kill its
own people,” al Thani told an audience of UN ambassadors and at
least four foreign ministers.  Syria  is at the center of talks at the world body almost a
year after an uprising began against Assad. The UN says more
than 5,400 people have been killed in the conflict, which is
evolving into a civil war.  The European Union and its allies have stepped up pressure
on Russia to overcome its resistance to an Arab initiative for
Assad to hand over power to a deputy within two months.  “It is time for the international community to put aside
our own differences and send a clear message of support to the
people of Syria,” Clinton said in a direct appeal to Russia.  Failure of Responsibility  “The alternative -- spurning the  Arab League , abandoning
the Syrian people, emboldening the dictator -- would compound
this tragedy, mark a failure of our shared responsibility, and
shake the credibility of the United Nations,” she told the
council.  Russia counters that the plan imposes regime change and has
threatened to use its Security Council veto. It did that in
October when, together with  China , it blocked a draft UN
resolution calling on Assad to stop killing protesters.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, speaking from
Sydney, told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. that it is “up
to the Syrians themselves to decide how to run the country.”  The latest draft of a Western-backed Arab League resolution
on Syria seeks to assure  Russia  that military intervention isn’t
planned to force out Assad.  “Nothing in this resolution compels states to resort to
the use of force or the threat of force,” says the draft,
obtained today.  No Foreign Intervention  “I should like to stress” that the road map adopted on
Jan. 22 should “in no way be interpreted as calling on the
Syrian president to renounce power,” El-Arabi said, citing a
pledge made to him by Assad in July that he would put his
deputy, Farouk al-Sharaa, in charge. “This is very similar to
the call of the Arab League as of now.”  Syria’s Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari, Assad’s sole
representative at today’s meeting, accused foreign powers of
meddling.  “Unbridled tendency by foreign states to interfere in our
internal and external affairs through various mean is neither
sudden nor novel,” he said.  To mollify Russia, which insists a peace plan can’t be
imposed on a sovereign state, the draft underwent several
rewrites to deal with accusations that Western powers were
seeking a Libya-style overthrow of an autocrat.  A call for  member states  to prevent arms sales to Syria was
dropped, as Russia sells weapons to the regime, and language
that urged Assad to relinquish power was replaced with a call
for him to delegate power to his deputy, a move that could leave
Assad the nominal leader even if devoid of powers.  “Can any member of this council today claim to be in a
better position to judge how best to support peace and stability
in Syria than these Arab nations themselves?” U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  told the council. “The resolution does
not propose imposing change on Syria from outside, it calls for
the Syrian people to be allowed to make their choices.”  -- Editors: Larry Liebert, Terry Atlas  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net 
Nicole Gaouette in  New York  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  