-- Arab Spring Auto Sales Rise as Shaken Regimes Spread Money: Cars
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-02-07T08:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/arab-spring-auto-sales-climb-as-regimes-spread-money-for-stability-cars.html
(Corrects investment reference to Ford’s parts
distribution center in Dubai in 16th paragraph in story
published Feb. 1.)  In the midst of rebellion and
turmoil, automakers led by  Volkswagen AG  and  Ford Motor Co.  are
investing more heavily in the  Middle East .  VW plans to introduce the Polo subcompact and the U.S.-
built Passat sedan in the region this year. VW’s Lamborghini
projects growth of 50 percent.  “With the new models, we have new segments that we
conquer,” said Stefan Mecha, managing director of  Volkswagen ’s
operations in the Middle East. “Last year, we didn’t have the
Passat at all, so I would say we have huge opportunities with
this car.” He said VW may increase sales 40 percent this year
in the region, which includes Iraq,  Israel  and the Gulf states.  Car sales are growing because oil prices are high and
several countries are pumping money into their economies to seek
social stability amid the Arab Spring uprisings. The price of
crude has gained 6.7 percent over the past 12 months.  “The rest of the world is struggling, so you think, ‘Why
are sales in the Gulf going up?’” said Pierluigi Bellini, a
Milan-based IHS Automotive analyst who oversees the Middle East
market. “You have  oil prices  that are not going down, and
governments spending more because they want to reassure
people.”  Abdullah Saeed, who works at a Saudi investment firm, was
browsing for an  Audi  sedan at a Riyadh showroom this week.  “Most people, when an increase in their income happens,
they spend it on buying cars,” he said, adding that unrest in
nearby  Bahrain  and Syria didn’t make him think twice about
making a major purchase to replace his Audi Q7 sport-utility
vehicle.  Sales Forecasts  Sales of cars and light commercial vehicles in the six-
nation Gulf Arab region are expected to grow 6.6 percent this
year to 1.28 million vehicles, according to IHS. Deliveries in
Western Europe are projected to drop 5.7 percent to 13.6 million
autos, which would mark the fifth consecutive annual decline.  The unrest that erupted last year toppled leaders in
Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya .  Saudi Arabia , the No. 1 oil exporter and the Arab world’s
largest economy, is the automakers’ biggest regional market,
representing 50 percent of sales.  King Abdullah  pledged 66,000
jobs in teaching and health care, as part of $130 billion of
extra spending.  In the  United Arab Emirates , the second-biggest Arab
economy and home of Dubai, the region’s trade and business hub,
the government plans to allocate 7 billion dirhams ($1.9
billion) of its budget for housing loans for citizens to
maintain “social stability.” In March, it announced a 5.7
billion-dirham package to fund water and infrastructure projects
in northern emirates.  Porsche Tests  Qatar raised salaries of government employees 60 percent,
while army and police received a 120 percent raise.  “A stable political situation, of course, is a substantial
driver for any economy, and the same is true for the Middle
East,” said Bernhard Maier, head of sales at Porsche SE’s car-
making business, which plans to start setting up a site in  Qatar 
this year to test new materials. “We really experienced a very
strong 12-year period here in the region and are very confident
looking forward to 2012.”  Volkswagen, Ford and  Renault SA  said they plan to invest in
showrooms and offer new vehicles to tap the region’s mainstream
buyers.  “The middle class are more and more empowered now,”
Hussein Murad, director of sales for  Ford  in the Middle East,
said in a Jan. 22 interview in Dubai.  Ford, Toyota  Ford plans to open six sales outlets in Saudi Arabia this
year, after investing in a $53 million parts distribution center
in Dubai in 2011. Eight new models will be brought to the region
this year including the Focus, Taurus and Escape.  Toyota Motor Corp.  recently introduced the Yaris and Camry
to the U.A.E. and plans to roll out more models and open two
showrooms this year, said Simon Frith, managing director at Al-
Futtaim Motors, the carmaker’s distributor in the country.  Renault increased showrooms in the Gulf last year to 30
from 22 and plans to expand sales outlets by as much as 15
percent this year as it targets a 30 percent increase in
deliveries, Mustansir Lakdawala, managing director for the
French carmaker in the Gulf, said in a Jan. 30 interview.  VW’s Lamborghini expects sales to be boosted by demand for
the V12-powered Aventador, which has a two-year waiting list,
said Stephan Winkelmann, the brand’s chief executive officer.  “There is a change, a slow change but a steady change, an
opening, which is good for us, which is good for everybody,”
said Winkelmann.  Syrian Clashes  The Gulf region’s appetite for cars stands in stark
contrast to countries in North Africa and  Syria , where thousands
have died in clashes with President Bashar al-Assad’s government
since March. In North Africa, where the Arab Spring movement
began, sales fell 28 percent last year to 274,200 cars and will
probably be little changed this year, according to IHS.  The situation in Syria has been more dramatic as residents
worry about survival. Abdul Hafiz Attasi, 31, who drives a  Land
Rover  in the capital of Damascus, where he owns a food
distribution company, was considering buying a new car a year
ago. He’s now keeping an eye on shrinking supplies.  “Everything’s changed,” said Attasi. “No one’s buying
cars anymore, unless you’re into  money laundering .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  