-- Archie Manning Says He Didn’t Think Eli Was Interested in Sports as a Boy
-- B y   K e e n a n   M a y o
-- 2012-01-31T18:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/archie-manning-says-he-didn-t-think-eli-was-interested-in-sports-as-a-boy.html
Archie Manning, who played 14 years
in the  National Football League  and is father of Super Bowl-
winning quarterbacks Peyton and Eli, tells Keenan Mayo in the
Feb. 6 issue of Bloomberg Businessweek how he raised his boys
without making sports a priority.  “I didn’t want to be one of these pushy daddies. I’m as
proud as the next guy, but I’ve always been a little skeptical
of the daddies who walk around talking about what great athletes
their kids are. This is probably because I played athletics. I
had played here in  New Orleans  for the Saints, and I retired
here. At the time we were the only game in town. I was worried
about that, too; I didn’t want (my sons) to be singled out. We
went to school board meetings, we went to Little League games,
and we did everything to be normal.  “Cooper was the first one. He wasn’t, you know, a blue-
chip, four-star recruit at wide receiver. He was more marginal.
He probably wound up with about seven or eight offers. He wanted
to play college football but unfortunately had some spinal cord
trouble and had to give it up. Cooper and Peyton -- they played
a lot of ball. If they ever asked me to play catch with them, I
went. But they kind of had to ask. I wasn’t trying to raise
professional quarterbacks. Eli came along five years later.
Having those first two, two years apart, you can imagine all of
the Little League games and basketball games.  “As for Eli, we kind of dragged him around. I always told
Olivia (his wife), ‘This child is not going to want to play
sports.’ But he just followed the same path as Peyton. The same
sports, the same position. Then a lot of folks started coming
around, recruiting Eli, too. I didn’t really know how good they
were until it was confirmed by the colleges.  Peyton vs. Eli  “The first time Peyton and Eli played against each other
was the (NFL) opening game of 2006. It turned into a pretty big
deal. They called it the Manning Bowl. And I thought the boys
did a wonderful job of playing that down and making it the
Giants vs. the Colts. They didn’t compete when they were little
like Cooper and Peyton did, because there was a five-year gap.
They handled it really well, but it was tough on me and Olivia.
Naturally, the cameras were on us. And we kept saying that we
were just pulling for the offense.  We’re really excited for the Giants and Eli this year. They
had some problems this season, but they hung in and got hot at
the end. We kind of pinch ourselves. A lot of the last six
years, we’ve had a child play in the  Super Bowl ."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keenan Mayo in New York at 
 kmayo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julian Sancton in New York at 
 jsancton@bloomberg.net  