-- Tata Global Surges After Venture With Starbucks: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-01-31T10:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/tata-global-surges-after-venture-with-starbucks.html
Tata Global Beverages Ltd. (TGBL)  climbed
the most in more than 4 1/2 years in Mumbai trading after
announcing a joint venture with  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s
largest coffee-shop chain.  Tata Global surged 10 percent, the stock’s biggest jump
since April 2007, to 107.75 rupees at the close in Mumbai. The
stock was the  biggest gainer  today on the BSE100 Index.  The equal venture Tata Starbucks Ltd. will open outlets in
Mumbai and  New Delhi  this year beginning August and will have 50
stores within the first 12 months, Tata Global Vice Chairman
R.K. Krishna Kumar said yesterday. The partners plan to
capitalize on the rising coffee consumption in the world’s
fastest growing major economy after  China .  “The venture will benefit from changing spending patterns
here, as Indian consumers are looking to adopt the ways of the
developed economies,” said Sreekanth P V S, an analyst at Angel
Broking Ltd. in Mumbai.  The Indian stores will build on the world’s largest coffee-
shop chain’s expansion outside the U.S., where stores are  less
profitable  than those in the Asia-Pacific region. Starbucks will
compete with Barista Coffee Co., a unit of  Italy ’s  Lavazza SpA (LAVA) ,
and Cafe Coffee Day, run by Amalgamated Bean Coffee Trading Co.
in  India , where consumption of the drink almost doubled in the
decade through 2010 to 108,000 metric tons.  The Starbucks Experience  “We are going to bring the Starbucks experience that is
known around the world to India,” John Culver, Starbucks
president for China and Asia Pacific, said in an interview.
“All the coffee we serve here will be locally sourced.”  The Seattle-based restaurant operator has an agreement to
source beans from Bangalore-based  Tata Coffee Ltd. (TCO) , a unit of
Tata Global.  Starbucks rose 1.3 percent to $48.48 yesterday, boosting
its gain so far this month to 5.4 percent. The stock climbed 43
percent in 2011, the third straight  year  of gains.  Tata Coffee fell 1 percent to 857.75 rupees.  India’s government on Jan. 10 raised the ownership limit to
100 percent for foreign retailers selling a single brand, a
decision benefiting companies including Starbucks. The new rules
require the overseas companies to procure at least 30 percent of
their products or inputs from small Indian companies if they own
more than 51 percent in the venture.  The Indian economy will expand an estimated 6.5 percent
this year, the fastest pace among developing Asian economies
excluding China, according to January estimates from the  World
Bank . The  Reserve Bank  of India projects 7 percent growth for
the 12 months ending March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  