-- Atlas Copco Profit Matches Estimates as Demand Seen Falling
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-01-31T16:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/atlas-copco-profit-matches-estimates-as-demand-seen-falling-1-.html
Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA) , the world’s largest
maker of air compressors, reported quarterly profit in line with
analysts’ estimates as global manufacturing slows.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to 3.37 billion kronor ($495
million) from 2.91 billion kronor a year earlier, the Stockholm-
based company said in a statement. Profit was equal to the
average estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 15 analysts. Sales
rose 15 percent to 22.3 billion kronor.  “The demand situation is a mixed picture,” Chief
Executive Officer Ronnie Leten said today in an interview.
“Europe and China are uncertain while North and  South America 
are doing fine.”  Atlas Copco, which benefits when metals prices are high
because miners buy more rock drills and blast-hole rigs, said
near-term demand will probably “weaken somewhat,” reiterating
a forecast from October. The company will continue to boost
investments in  China  even in an economic slowdown, while it may
slow expenditure in other markets, Leten said in October. China
overtook the U.S. as Atlas Copco’s biggest market in 2009.  Atlas Copco fell as much as 2.1 percent to 161.3 kronor and
traded down 1.9 percent at 5:08 p.m. in  Stockholm . That pared
the stock’s gain in the past 12 months to 4.5 percent, valuing
the manufacturer at 191.8 billion kronor.  Leten plans to continue adding  employees , mostly service
engineers, “all over the world” unless the economy
deteriorates significantly, the CEO said. Atlas Copco, cut 6,000
jobs in the recession that started 2008, is likely to have a
larger workforce a year from now, Leten, a 55-year-old Belgian
national, said.  SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s biggest maker of ball bearings,
predicted on Jan. 26 that worldwide demand will be little
changed in the first quarter, even as European customers in the
transport industry curtail investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  