-- Australian Business Confidence Rises to Highest in Seven Months
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-31T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/australian-business-confidence-rises-to-highest-in-seven-months.html
Australian  business confidence  rose
in December to the highest level in seven months after the
central bank made the second of two consecutive rate cuts, a
private survey showed.  The  confidence index  was 3 last month from 2 in November,
according to a  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey of about 400
companies from Jan. 9-13 that was released in Sydney today. That
was the highest since May. The business conditions gauge, a
measure of hiring, sales and profits, was unchanged at 1.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia reduced the benchmark rate by
a quarter percentage point on Nov. 1 and again on Dec. 6 as
inflation pressures eased and risks to global growth increased.
Australia recorded its worst annual job growth in 19 years in
2011 as consumers boosted savings amid concern about potential
fallout from fiscal problems in the U.S. and Europe.  “Business sentiment over recent months has been seemingly
resilient to the weakness in  Europe , which has contributed to a
slowing in global activity, perhaps reflecting the effects of
the RBA’s recent interest rate cuts,” NAB Chief Economist  Alan Oster  said in a statement.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the overnight cash rate
target to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent on Dec. 6, citing
“considerable turbulence” in financial markets and an
increased chance of a “further material slowing in global
growth.”  Traders are pricing in a 64 percent chance Stevens will
lower borrowing costs again at the central bank’s next meeting
in February, interbank cash-rate futures show.  Driving Australia’s economy is demand from developing
nations including China and India for  iron ore , coal and natural
gas. That has spurred the nation’s currency, which reached
$1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was freely
floated in 1983. Earlier today it bought $1.0590.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  