-- Diamond, Gulliver May Avoid Hester’s Zero-Bonus Fate
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-01-31T09:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/barclays-s-diamond-hsbc-s-gulliver-may-escape-hester-s-zero-2011-bonus.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Robert Diamond ,
Britain’s top-paid bank chief executive officer, will probably
receive his bonus even as his counterparts at state-backed
lenders are forced to forgo theirs, analysts and investors say.  Diamond is the next executive likely to face scrutiny as
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  CEO  Stephen Hester  waived his
963,000-pound ($1.5 million) bonus after the payout sparked a
political and public backlash. RBS Chairman  Philip Hampton  also
abandoned his 1.4 million-pound stock award.  “The pressure will probably stop at the government-
controlled banks,” said Guy de Blonay, a London-based fund
manager at Jupiter Asset Management Plc, which holds RBS shares.
“Hester has taken a sensible decision in waiving his award. It
will allow him to continue to focus on his job.”  Unlike RBS and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , where the U.K.
taxpayer is also the biggest shareholder, the government has no
stakes in Barclays, HSBC Holdings Plc or  Standard Chartered  Plc,
making it difficult for the state to exert bonus restrictions.
Institutional shareholders also have different priorities than
the government and the public, fund managers and analysts said.  ‘The Larger Question’  “We tend to focus this debate on the top people whose pay
is made public,” said George S.  Dallas , a director of corporate
governance at F&C Management Ltd. in  London , which holds shares
in all five of the U.K.’s largest banks. “Attention needs to
focus on that, but in banks the larger question is what is
happening below the boardroom -- the people whose names we don’t
see?”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday banks must
show “proper regard” in limiting bonuses. “What needs to
happen is a sense of restraint,” Cameron told reporters in
Brussels after a meeting of European leaders. “They need to do
a better job of demonstrating how pay is related to
performance,” he said. “What I care about is the taxpayer
going to get the money back.”  The CEO of Britain’s second-biggest government-aided bank,
Lloyd’s Antonio Horta-Osorio, said on Jan. 13 that he also won’t
take a 2011 bonus following his nine-week absence for
exhaustion. The payment could have been as much as 2.39 million
pounds, according to company filings.  Bonus Pool Declines  London bankers are expected to receive 4.2 billion pounds
in bonuses for 2011, the lowest in almost a decade as financial-
services firms face tougher regulations and post “weak”
earnings, the Centre for Economics & Business Research Ltd. said
in October.  “It looks like Barclays is next on the list, but it’s the
same for all the banks,” said Oliver Roethig, regional
secretary of UNI-Europa, a federation of European labor unions,
including Britain’s Unite and Accord. “The decision-making
system to decide on bonuses is murky. We are all talking about
market systems and if you look at how these bonuses have grown
compared with everyone else’s this is a hint to market
failure.”  Diamond, 60, was awarded a 6.5 million-pound bonus for 2010
and a further 2.25 million pounds depending on the lender’s
performance, London-based Barclays said in March. His base
salary rose to 1.35 million pounds from 250,000 pounds after he
became CEO on Jan. 1 last year.  HSBC (HSBA)  CEO  Stuart Gulliver  received a 2.9 million-pound bonus
for 2010, less than the 6.5 million-pound bonus Barclays gave
Diamond for the same year.  Gulliver’s Compensation  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, sought backing from investors
to pay Gulliver as much as 13.3 million pounds for 2011,
including 1.25 million pounds base salary, a bonus of as much as
three times his base salary and a long-term incentive payment
equal to six times his salary, two people with knowledge of the
talks said in March. If awarded, it would make Gulliver the top-
paid bank chief for 2011.  Spokesmen for Barclays and HSBC in London declined to
comment on bonus awards yesterday.  Barclays is due to report 2011 results on Feb. 10 and will
disclose pay proposals of its senior management with its annual
report in March. The bank is expected to post a pretax profit of
5.87 billion pounds for 2011, down 3 percent from a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts.  The  Association of British Insurers , which represents
investors with about 1.5 trillion pounds of assets, wrote to
banks in December warning them to reduce pay.  Bank Shares Down  “We made clear in our letter to the U.K. banks in December
remuneration costs as a proportion remain too high, particularly
in an environment where we can expect lower returns from banks
in the medium term,” the ABI said last week. “Failing to deal
with this issue will affect the investment case for banks.”  The share price of Lloyds fell 61 percent last year while
RBS declined 48 percent and Barclays 33 percent. HSBC dipped 25
percent and  Standard Chartered (STAN)  about 18 percent.  Ultimately, shareholders will decide if senior executives
among the private banks deserve their pay, especially after the
government’s proposal to empower shareholders to block
compensation deals, said Tom Powdrill, a spokesman for adviser
Pensions Investment Research Consultants Ltd. in London.  “The question is, do shareholders have the same kind of
views on these issues as the public, as the taxpayer,” he said
by phone yesterday. “In the case of Barclays, HSBC or Standard
Chartered, decisions are mediated through asset managers, and
reality is asset managers have quite a different view of the
world to the public.”  The group has advised opposing the pay proposals of
Barclays, Lloyds, HSBC and RBS for the last two years.  Labour’s Gambit  RBS’s Hester waived his bonus after the U.K.’s opposition
 Labour Party  said it would ask Parliament to vote on the award.
His decision, should not be “just a one-off episode” Labour
leader  Ed Miliband  said in Glasgow,  Scotland , yesterday.  “If we don’t deal with this systematically, if we don’t
deal with the issue of bankers’ bonuses in a proper way, then
this sort of thing is going to reoccur,” he said.  Cameron’s government is trying to respond to political
pressure triggered by the bonuses bankers are being paid,
starting this month, at a time that voters face pay freezes and
unemployment at a 17-year high. U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable this month outlined measures to make companies more
transparent about top pay and give shareholders more power to
vote on it. Cameron also said a knighthood awarded to former RBS
chief  Fred Goodwin  may be revoked.  Political Storm  “This will stop at the government controlled banks,” said
Tom Kirchmaier, a fellow in financial-markets group at the
 London School of Economics . “However, the political mobbing of
Hester over the last few days allowed the government-owned bank
to renege on its own promises” on bonuses. “This raises a
number of questions about the governability of state-owned banks
bank, something we should be very concerned about”  Hester, 51, has been at the center of a political storm
over executive pay since the announcement on Jan. 27 that he
would receive 3.6 million shares on top of his 1.2 million-pound
salary. The Edinburgh-based bank has risen  33 percent  this year
to about half what the government paid for its stake.  “Only government-run banks have the ability to put
pressure on their banks to control pay,” said  Jason Kennedy ,
CEO of Kennedy Group, a London recruitment firm. “In the
private sector, it’s not going to happen. They provide a bonus
structure where if their employees get paid, so should the
CEO.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  