-- Barnes & Noble’s Patent-Misuse Claim Against Microsoft Thrown Out by Judge
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-01-31T23:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/barnes-noble-s-patent-misuse-claim-against-microsoft-rejected.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. ’s claim that
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is misusing patents to undermine competition
from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system was thrown out by a
U.S. trade judge.  U.S. International Trade Commission Judge Theodore Essex
rejected today Barnes & Noble’s arguments the patents should be
held unenforceable, Microsoft Deputy General Counsel  David
Howard  said in a statement. Essex’s decision is subject to
review by the six-member commission, which has the power to
block imports of products that violate U.S. patent rights.  A trial on whether bookseller Barnes & Noble’s Nook e-
reader infringed the four patents, and whether they are valid,
is scheduled to begin Feb. 6 in  Washington . Essex separately
today declined to rule in Barnes & Noble’s favor on two of the
four Microsoft patents, according to a posting on the agency’s
website.  “Today’s action by the ITC makes clear that Barnes &
Noble’s patent misuse defense was meritless,” Howard said in an
e-mailed statement. “This case is only about one thing --
patent infringement by Barnes & Noble’s Android-based devices.”  The judge didn’t release a public version of his findings.
Notice of the decision was reported earlier by the Fosspatent
Web blog.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
said the company had no comment.  Licensing Accords  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, has said it
reached licensing agreements with makers of more than 70 percent
of the Android-based smartphones sold in the U.S. It got a mixed
ruling at the ITC in a case against Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc., with Essex saying in December that only one of seven
patents asserted by Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft were
infringed.  “We remain as open as ever to extending a license to
Barnes & Noble, and invite them to join the many other major
device makers in paying for the Microsoft-developed intellectual
property they use in their devices,” Howard said.  Barnes & Noble, based in  New York , has complained to the
U.S. Justice Department that Microsoft is trying to raise costs
to drive out competition by “asserting trivial and outmoded
patents against manufacturers of Android devices.”  According to Barnes & Noble’s filing in the case, through
several meetings beginning in July 2010, Microsoft said its
patents “were sufficient to dominate and entirely preclude the
use of the Android operating system by the Nook.” An offer for
a licensing agreement would have limited Barnes & Noble’s
ability to upgrade its e-reader and set a rate that was higher
than what it costs to license Microsoft’s own operating system.  Microsoft, in its response, said its actions were
appropriate to enforce its  patent rights .  The case is In the Matter of Certain Handheld Electronic
Computing Devices, 337-769, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  