-- Baucus Says Stable U.S. Tax Code Better for Business Than Temporary Breaks
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-31T17:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/baucus-says-temporary-tax-breaks-disastrous-for-businesses.html
Senate Finance Committee Chairman
 Max Baucus  said the temporary nature of tax breaks known as
extenders is “disastrous” for U.S. companies.  “For businesses to succeed, Congress must provide a stable
and certain tax code,” Baucus, a Montana Democrat, said today
at a panel hearing in  Washington .  About 60 temporary tax breaks expired at the end of 2011 as
Congress didn’t act to extend them, including credits for
research and development and expanded benefits for transit
commuters. Another 41 provisions are slated to lapse at the end
of 2012, including a credit for wind energy production.  These tax breaks are gaining more attention as lawmakers
seek to extend a payroll tax cut for workers through 2012. That
measure may be the last vehicle for major tax legislation until
after the November election. Lawmakers will probably wait until
after the election to consider the expiring 2001 and 2003 tax
cuts on income,  capital gains  and dividends.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, has said he
wants to include an expired provision in the payroll-tax package
to allow transit riders to set aside $230 a month before taxes
to pay for their mass-transit commutes. The benefit has been
capped at $125 a month since the higher amount expired Dec. 31.  Commuter Benefit  He said lawmakers shouldn’t wait until later in the year to
act on the benefit because commuters might switch to using their
cars instead of mass transit. Workers can set aside $240 before
taxes to pay for certain parking expenses.  “Of all the extenders that expire, this is the one that’s
hardest to go back and do retroactively,” Schumer said at
today’s hearing.  Baucus said he thinks the  tax code  includes too many
temporary provisions. He said at the hearing that eliminating
some of these tax breaks may help pay for lowering rates as part
of a broader tax overhaul.  “If you’re broadening the base, you have to get rid of
some expenditures to lower the rate,” he said. “It’s hard to
do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  