-- Benetton Says Founding Family Is Studying Offer to Delist Clothing Company
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-01-31T14:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/benetton-family-considering-a-buyout-of-clothing-company-delisting-stock.html
The Benetton family is studying an
offer to buy the shares it doesn’t already own in  Benetton Group
SpA (BEN) , Italy’s biggest clothing company, and remove the stock from
trading in Milan.  The Benettons’ investment firm Edizione Srl will meet
tomorrow to review the plan, the Treviso, Italy-based company
said in a statement today. Edizione owns about 67 percent of
Benetton, according to the website of market regulator Consob.  A delisting would end Benetton’s 26-year history as a
publicly traded company. Benetton sold shares to the public for
the first time in 1986, when it listed stock in Milan, according
to the company’s website. The shares began trading in  Frankfurt 
two years later and on the New York Stock Exchange in 1989.  Edizione, with net assets of 5.5 billion euros ($7.2
billion) at the end of 2010, owns stakes in Atlantia SpA,
 Italy ’s biggest toll-road operator, and RCS Mediagroup SpA,
publisher of the country’s largest daily newspaper,  Corriere
Della Sera .  Benetton Group’s net income in 2011 fell to “slightly”
more than 70 million euros from 102.8 million euros in 2010, the
company said in a separate statement today. The company expects
profit to be under pressure this year as the economic slowdown
hurts retail spending.  The  stock  rose as much as 12 percent to 4.14 euros and
traded 9.3 percent higher before being suspended pending the
statement. Benetton jumped 13 percent yesterday. Consob
routinely monitors the trading of securities before deal
announcements, said a spokesman for the Rome-based regulator.  Benetton shares have lost 20 percent in the past year,
cutting its market value to 739.9 million euros. Trading of
Benetton shares will resume after a new statement expected
tomorrow, the stock exchange said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  