-- Biogen CFO Clancy Says Shareholder Dividend a ‘Longer-Term’ Possibility
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-01-31T21:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/biogen-cfo-clancy-says-dividend-a-longer-term-possibility.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  may ultimately join
 Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  as biotechnology companies that pay a dividend, Chief
Financial Officer Paul Clancy said.  The world’s largest maker of medicines for multiple
sclerosis had about $3.1 billion in cash and equivalents at the
end of 2011, and will use it for business development and
rewarding shareholders through buybacks and, potentially, a
dividend, Clancy said today in a telephone interview.  “We always get this question as either/or,” Clancy said.
“The reality is it’s a mixture of all, potentially.” A
dividend, he said, is a “longer-term” possibility.  Biogen, based in Weston, Massachusetts, has been seeking
deals with companies in earlier stages of  drug development  to
build out its pipeline. The drugmaker has therapies for MS,
hemophilia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in late-stage
trials, and this year expects to file for marketing approval of
its first pill for MS.  Biogen rose 1.2 percent to $117.95 at the close of  New York 
trading. The shares have gained 80 percent in the last 12
months.  Biogen will spend as much as 25 percent of 2012 revenue on
research and development to support those programs and others,
the company said today in a statement. That’s higher than the 23
percent of sales estimated by analysts, said  Mark Schoenebaum  of
ISI Group Inc. in New York. The research spending led Biogen to
forecast 2012 earnings that were less than analysts estimated.  “It’s a very high-class problem,” Clancy said. “We just
happen to have right now a very robust late-stage pipeline. It’s
a great position to be in.”  Portola Collaboration  Biogen said in October it would collaborate with Portola
Pharmaceuticals Inc. on medicines for autoimmune and
inflammatory diseases, in a deal worth $45 million upfront and
$508.5 million in potential milestone payments. Earlier this
month, Biogen partnered with  Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS)  on a
program for spinal muscular atrophy, paying $29 million upfront
with an additional $270 million possible.  The company said today that 2012 earnings, excluding some
items, will be $6.10 to $6.20 a share. Twenty-four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated profit on that basis of
$6.31 a share, on average. Revenue will grow in the “low to
mid-single digits,” Biogen said.  Net income  in the fourth quarter rose 25 percent to $300.2
million, or $1.22 a share, Biogen said.  Adjusted for some items, profit of $1.51 a share topped
analysts’ average $1.49 estimate. Revenue rose 8.8 percent to
$1.33 billion, helped by an 8 percent increase in sales of the
top-selling MS drug Avonex, to $703 million, and an 11 percent
increase in revenue from Tysabri, also used to treat the
condition, to $269 million.  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen, the world’s largest
biotechnology company, started paying a dividend last year for
the first time. Biogen is the third-largest biotechnology
company by revenue, after  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  of  Foster City ,
 California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  