-- Volcker: ’Confidence in Government is Shaky’
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-01-31T22:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/bogle-rates-u-s-financial-system-a-d-as-volcker-says-confidence-broken.html
Together they have 120 years
experience in financial markets.  John Bogle , 82, popularized
index investing.  Paul Volcker , 84, broke the back of 15 percent
inflation as Federal Reserve chairman in the 1980s.  Today, they shared the same stage in New York and this
view: confidence in the U.S. financial system is broken.  Bogle, the founder of mutual fund company Vanguard Group
Inc. who has spent his career advocating a low-cost approach to
personal investing and railing against conflicts of interest in
his industry, said he would grade the U.S. financial system a
‘D’. Volcker, who has urged Congress to ban proprietary trading
by commercial banks, said banks are lobbying to undermine
financial regulation aimed at making the industry more stable.  “There’s no question that confidence in government is
shaky,” Volcker, who’s a towering 6 foot 7 inches (201
centimeters) tall, said in New York today at The John C. Bogle
Legacy Forum hosted by  Bloomberg Link .  Washington  is “filled up
with law firms that cover whole city blocks. Lobbying firms. And
it’s all living off the influence of the government.”  The so-called Volcker rule seeks to stop regulated banks
that receive support from the government from making risky bets
with their own money. Wall Street firms including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  have argued the limitations could harm  capital
markets  by reducing the role of banks. The Dodd-Frank Act, the
regulatory overhaul enacted in 2010, requires that the rule be
in place by July 21.  ‘Giant Distraction’  Bogle, whose influence on the fund industry was discussed
at the event by more than a dozen figures from the fields of
investing and finance, said he backed the Volcker rule and
called for investors to focus on longer-term investing instead
of short-term trading and chasing stock-market swings.  “Returns are not created in the stock market,” said
Bogle, who suffered at least six heart attacks before a
successful transplant in 1996. “The stock market is a giant
distraction and investor confidence in active management is
broken.”  Bogle, a Princeton University graduate, founded  Valley
Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard in 1974 and introduced the
 Vanguard 500 Index Fund , the first retail index mutual fund, two
years later. His economics research at Princeton helped lay the
groundwork for index mutual funds. When Bogle retired from
Vanguard in 2000, the company established the Bogle Financial
Markets Research Center.  Rather than relying on a manager to choose individual
stocks or bonds in the hope of outperforming the market, the
index fund simply bought most of the securities to closely track
the  Standard & Poor’s 500  and kept costs low.  Passing Fidelity  The Vanguard 500 Index fund has $99.5 billion in assets.
Vanguard index funds make up four of the 10 biggest stock and
bond mutual funds in the U.S., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company, which oversees about $1.65 trillion,
surpassed  Boston ’s  Fidelity Investments  in 2010 to become the
largest mutual-fund manager.  David Swensen , who pioneered an investing style that helped
endowments beat markets by using alternative assets such as
private equity and real estate, said at the same conference that
investors who don’t have access to top managers are best off
using index products such as those promoted by Bogle.  “There are two sensible approaches to investing -- either
100 percent active or 100 percent passive,” said Swensen, the
chief investment officer of  Yale University ’s $19.4 billion
endowment. Unless an investor has access to “incredibly high-
qualified professionals,” they “should be 100 percent passive
-- that includes almost all individual investors and most
institutional investors,” he said.  Excessive Compensation  Bogle has also long criticized what he calls excessive
 executive compensation  and the conflicts of interest that he
says most money managers confront in pledging to maximize
returns for clients and profits for company shareholders.  Bogle aimed to solve the potential conflict for Vanguard by
setting up the company as a cooperative, owned by the funds it
managed. The firm doesn’t distribute profits. It lowers fees
when revenue grows faster than expenses, in effect returning
excess proceeds to investors.  “Ordinary investors were for the first time given a fair
shake,” because of Vanguard’s structure, Burton Malkiel, a
Princeton economist, said during the conference.  Yale’s Swensen said that, by contrast, many other mutual
fund firms still “allow profit to trump fiduciary
responsibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  