-- BP Must Cover Some Halliburton Gulf Spill Costs, Judge Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-01-31T21:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/bp-must-indemnify-halliburton-for-gulf-oil-spill-judge-says.html
BP Plc (BP)  must cover some of any direct
damage claims awarded against  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  for the
$40 billion in cleanup costs and economic losses caused by the
2010 oil-well blowout and  Gulf of Mexico  spill.  BP must indemnify Halliburton for compensatory damage
claims under its drilling contract, U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans ruled today.  London-based BP (BP\)  sued
Halliburton, which provided cementing services for the project,
in April to recover a share of any damages and costs from the
spill. Any punitive damages awarded against Halliburton don’t
have to be paid by BP, the judge said.  “BP is required to indemnify Halliburton for third-party
compensatory claims that arise from pollution or contamination
that did not originate from the property or equipment of
Halliburton located above the surface of the land or water, even
if Halliburton’s gross negligence caused the pollution,”
Barbier wrote.  Any civil penalties under the Clean Water Act against
Houston-based Halliburton also won’t have to be covered by BP,
Barbier said. The judge said he wouldn’t express an opinion on
whether Halliburton would be held liable for punitive damages or
Clean Water Act fines.  Barbier has scheduled a nonjury trial to begin Feb. 27 to
determine fault for the explosion. Trials to determine damages
haven’t been scheduled yet.  Today’s decision follows an earlier ruling that BP must
indemnify  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig
that exploded and sank. The Transocean ruling also didn’t cover
fines or punitive damages.  Fraud Claim  Barbier said he wouldn’t rule yet on BP’s claim that
Halliburton committed fraud by concealing material information
about the cement tests it conducted. A ruling against
Halliburton on this issue may put the company back on the hook
for damages.  “Fraud could void an indemnity clause on public policy
grounds, given that it necessarily includes intentional
wrongdoing,” Barbier said. “There are material issues of fact
that preclude summary judgment on this issue.”  The two indemnity rulings “should put an end to the
attempts by Transocean and Halliburton to avoid their
obligations,” BP said in a statement.  Punitive Damages  “Halliburton is, at a minimum, responsible for any
punitive damages as well as civil penalties to the extent that
they may apply under the  Clean Water Act ,” BP said. “Moreover,
the court determined that if Halliburton is found to have
committed fraud, then the indemnity could be void.”  BP said it has paid more than $7.8 billion in claims,
advances and other payments to individuals, businesses and
government.  “Halliburton agrees with the ruling to the extent that it
requires BP to honor its contractual indemnity obligations,”
Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman for Halliburton, said in an e-
mail.  BP rose $1.77 to $45.91 at 3:54 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Halliburton climbed 11 cents to
$36.78. Earlier the shares rose as much as 3.5 percent to
$37.95.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that
followed killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore  oil
spill  in U.S. history. The sinking of Transocean’s Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig and the spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors.  Gulf Property  Thousands of property owners and businesses along the Gulf
of Mexico are claiming economic and environmental harm from the
spill. The coastal states of  Louisiana , Alabama and  Mississippi 
have also sued the companies. The lawsuits are consolidated for
pretrial processing by Barbier in New Orleans.  Halliburton asked Barbier in November to find that the
drilling contract required BP to indemnify the company “for any
and all claims related to a blowout or uncontrolled well
condition and for any and all claims relating to pollution
and/or contamination from the reservoir.”  BP (BP/)  called Halliburton’s motion for indemnity “fatally
premature.” Claims about Halliburton’s conduct “remain to be
resolved at trial,” including whether the company “was grossly
negligent or committed fraud by making false statements and
concealing test results before it used a defective cement slurry
on the Macondo well,” BP said in a Dec. 21 filing.  ‘Intentional Torts’  The terms of the indemnity provisions in the contract
between the companies “do not cover intentional torts or
willful misconduct such as fraudulent concealment,” BP said.  “Halliburton denies that it committed fraud, but also
argues that BP’s allegations are merely breach of contract
claims cloaked as fraud,” Barbier said in today’s ruling.
Failure to perform contractual obligations as promised isn’t
fraud, Barbier said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  