-- Brazil Industrial Output Rises Most Since May as Economy Shows Resilience
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-01-31T13:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/brazil-industrial-output-rises-most-since-may-as-economy-shows-resilience.html
Brazil ’s industrial production in
December rose at the fastest pace in seven months, as a weaker
currency and falling  interest rates  help domestic manufacturers
in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Output increased 0.9 percent in December, in line with the
median forecast for a 1 percent rise in a Bloomberg survey of 39
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The December number was the
biggest jump since May 2011, when output rose 1.2 percent.
Production in December declined 1.2 percent from a year ago, the
national statistics agency said in  Rio de Janeiro  today.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is cutting interest
 rates , taxes and loosening lending requirements to boost growth
and offset the effects of  Europe ’s debt crisis. Traders are
betting the central bank will cut the benchmark rate by as much
as 100 basis points to 9.5 percent by May, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  “The outlook for Brazil’s industry improved because of the
measures adopted by the government,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo.  The 11 percent drop in the real against the dollar since
the end of July has provided some relief for manufacturers hit
by slowing demand and an increase in  imports . Since the
beginning of the year, the real has rallied 7.4 percent, the
second best performer among the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the  Mexican peso .  The currency rose 0.7 percent to 1.7365 per dollar at 10:04
a.m. Brasilia time. The yield on the interest rate futures
contract maturing in January 2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo
today, rose two basis points to 9.53 percent.  Recovery in Sight?  While production has shown signs of recovering, output last
year rose 0.3 percent last year, well below the 10.5 percent
pace in 2010, when the economy expanded at the fastest pace in
two decades.  Car and consumer goods manufacturers serving Brazil’s
expanding middle class, who are spending the windfall provided
by rising wages and record-low unemployment, fared better last
year than import-sensitive industries.  Automotive production rose 2.4 percent last year, while
production of textiles plunged 14.9 percent and electronics
slipped 3.7 percent as the strong real during the first half of
the year fueled demand for Chinese imports.  Looking ahead, production of capital goods, a barometer of
future investment, rose 3.7 percent in December.  Consumer goods 
increased 1.5 percent.  “Industrial production will have reasonable growth this
year, reducing the mismatch between supply and demand that we
saw last year,” said Rostagno, who forecasts output may expand
as much as 3 percent this year.  Interest-Rate Futures  The Brazilian economy contracted in the third quarter for
the first time in more than two years, while business confidence
in the fourth quarter fell to its lowest level since the start
of 2009.  Economists maintained their estimate for 2012 growth at
3.27 percent in a Jan. 27 central bank survey, down from a
forecast of 3.3 percent four weeks earlier.  The government has cut taxes on personal loans, home
appliances, food staples and foreigner purchases of stocks and
corporate bonds tied to infrastructure projects in a bid to
bolster demand. It also increased a tax on imported cars to
protect local manufacturers from Chinese and South Korean
competitors.  The central bank may resume dollar purchases in the  spot
market  and the  Finance Ministry  may implement new measures to
stem a recent rally in the real in a bid to protect local
manufacturers, Andre Carvalho, an economist with UBS AG in  Sao
Paulo , wrote in report yesterday.  Annual inflation slowed for a fourth straight month in mid-
January, to 6.44 percent. Brazil targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  