-- Brisbane Paces Australia-Wide Home Price Decline With 6.8% Slide in 2011
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-01-31T00:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/brisbane-led-declines-in-australia-home-price-in-2011-on-lagging-demand.html
Brisbane  home prices  plunged the
most among Australian capital cities in 2011, as lagging demand
weighed on an oversupplied market.  House and apartment prices in Brisbane fell 6.8 percent
last year, according to a RP Data-Rismark report released today.
Across  Australia ’s eight capital cities, prices slipped 3.6
percent last year and declined 0.2 percent in December.  “The oversupply issue, the weaker pace of activity outside
the mining areas, and weaker population growth all combined to
see a very weak housing market last year,” said Spiros Papadopoulos, Melbourne-based senior economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd.  A jump in construction spurred by a surge in prices before
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. has left  Brisbane 
with a glut of homes. In Queensland, mining areas with soaring
prices and rents contrast with struggling tourist destinations,
illustrating the state’s so-called two-speed economy.  Queensland, home to more than A$50 billion ($53 billion) of
planned resource projects, grew 3.5 percent in the three months
to Sept. 30 from the previous quarter, compared with 2.1 percent
nationally, according to latest statistics bureau figures.  “Queensland has been the big improver over the last three
months,”  Craig James , Sydney-based chief equities economist at
Commonwealth Securities Ltd., wrote in a report dated Jan. 23.
“Only a soft housing market is holding back the economy.”  Housing Weakness  Brisbane property prices jumped 7.9 percent in 2006 and 24
percent in 2007, according to  RP Data . When demand faded in 2010,
the resulting oversupply of homes pushed prices down 1 percent,
compared with a 4.7 percent increase across all capital cities.  The continued weakness has been further exacerbated by a
slowdown in  population growth , which is now 30 percent below the
10-year average, James said in a telephone interview.  Queensland’s  population  grew 1.7 percent in the year ended
June 30, after  expanding  2 percent over the previous 12 months,
according to the Australian statistics bureau.  The amount of time it took for houses in Brisbane to sell
rose 24 percent in the 12 months to October to 86 days, RP Data
figures this month showed. The time on the market for apartments
jumped 33 percent to 91 days.  The state also had more development land in receivership
than anywhere else in the country, according to a report by real
estate broker Colliers International. The company handled 106
distressed property sales in Queensland last year, more than
half of the total across the country, and similar numbers are
expected to be put up for sale this year, it said.  Tourism vs. Resources  The median house price in Queensland’s Sunshine Coast, home
to “Crocodile Hunter” Steve Irwin’s Australia Zoo, dropped 5.3
percent in the year ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier,
according to the Real Estate Institute of Queensland. Prices in
the  Gold Coast , known for its surfing beaches and casinos, have
declined 3.9 percent, and in Cairns in Far North Queensland, the
starting point for visitors to the Great Barrier Reef, prices
have fallen 2.7 percent.  In contrast, prices in Gladstone, the hub of the state’s
mining activity, surged 10.5 percent. In MacKay, the gateway to
the state’s Bowen Basin, where BHP Billiton Ltd., Macarthur Coal
Ltd. and Aquila Resources Ltd. all have mines,  home prices  have
climbed 2.5 percent.  “There’s great amounts of money being spent in these
places,” said Brisbane-based Anton Kardash, chief executive
officer of the Real Estate Institute of Queensland. “We’re
quietly expecting 2012 to show us some measured growth as that
money starts to filter through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney on 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  