-- Broadcom Forecasts Sales That May Top Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-01-31T23:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/broadcom-forecasts-first-quarter-sales-that-may-beat-analysts-estimates.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , a maker of chips
that help mobile devices connect to the Internet, forecast
first-quarter sales that may exceed analysts’ estimates amid
stronger demand for parts for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  First-quarter revenue will be $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion,
the Irvine, California-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts on average had  estimated  sales of $1.73 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Broadcom is benefiting from demand for radio chips that
help Apple’s smartphones and tablets connect over Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth signals. Apple’s phone sales more than doubled to  37
million  in the quarter. Broadcom’s forecast allayed concerns
that weaker mobile-phone shipments in the first quarter would
drag down chip orders, said  Daniel Amir , an analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets in  San Francisco .  “This is definitely a positive surprise,” said Amir, who
recommends  buying  the shares. “It’s possible that their share
gains are leading to them outgrowing the industry.”  Broadcom  shares  climbed 2.5 percent to $35.20 in extended
trading after the report. They fell less than 1 percent to
$34.35 at the close in New York. The stock has gained 17 percent
this year.  Fourth-Quarter Profit  Fourth-quarter net income fell to $254 million, or 45 cents
a share, from $266 million, or 47 cents, a year earlier, the
company said. Sales in the period declined 6.4 percent to $1.82
billion. Excluding certain costs, Broadcom’s profit was 68
cents.  Broadcom was  estimated  to have fourth-quarter profit before
costs of 65 cents a share on sales of $1.8 billion, the average
analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  While demand for older, so-called 2G mobile-phone chips is
declining, the company expects to gain market share with 3G
wireless products and combination chips that only Broadcom can
make, Chief Executive Officer Scott McGregor said today on a
conference call with analysts.  “We know of no other competitor who can say they’re best
in class for all of these components,” he said. “There’s an
opportunity for us to increase share in combo chips this year.”  Apple accounted for 16 percent of Broadcom’s total sales in
2011, according to an estimate from Uche Orji, an analyst at UBS
AG in  New York . Apple uses a Broadcom chip to supply Wi-Fi,
Bluetooth and other radio connections.  Product gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining
after deducting the cost of production, will be “roughly flat”
in the current quarter from the 49.3 percent reported in the
fourth quarter, the company said.  Separately, Broadcom said it increased its quarterly
 dividend  by 11 percent to 10 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  