-- BSkyB to Start Online-Movie Service Rivaling Netflix, Lovefilm Offerings
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-01-31T09:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/bskyb-first-half-operating-profit-rises-on-demand-for-broadband-services.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
will start an Internet-television service to gain new customers
outside its traditional satellite offering after winning fewer
TV clients in the second quarter than estimated.  The U.K.’s largest pay-TV broadcaster will start the movie
offering in the first half of the year to help it compete with
online-streaming rivals Netflix Inc. and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s
Lovefilm. BSkyB, based in Isleworth, England, added 40,000 TV
clients in the second quarter, it said in a statement today.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had estimated 59,400.  “It’s a very quick and sharp response to the Netflix
launch and an indication that management is extremely
pragmatic,”  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein
in  London , said in an interview.  BSkyB, with more than 10 million subscribers, is facing
increased competition from  Internet TV  offerings after U.S.
streaming-service Netflix started offering movies and TV shows
in the U.K. this month. BSkyB is also trying to distribute more
content on mobile phones and games consoles, outside its
traditional satellite transmission.  “Lots of people see an opportunity” in Internet TV, Chief
Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch said today on a conference
call. “I don’t see it as a threat to our business at all.”  BSkyB first attempted to offer content beyond the
television with a wireless service, which it starting selling
through mobile-phone operators in 2005.  The company has altered its strategy as subscriber growth
slows. The broadcaster, in which  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) 
owns 39 percent, has focused on selling Internet broadband and
telephone subscriptions to existing clients and said today it
will offer its first high-speed fiber broadband product from
April.  Rising Profit  The company said today first-half operating profit rose 16
percent, beating analyst estimates, as it sold more broadband
products. Earnings before interest, taxes and exceptional items
in the six months ended Dec. 31 increased to 601 million pounds
($946 million). Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had estimated 585
million pounds. Sales climbed 6 percent to 3.4 billion pounds.  BSkyB climbed 3.5 percent to 689 pence in London trading as
of 9:21 a.m., valuing the company at 12 billion pounds.  BSkyB said in July it would buy back 750 million pounds in
shares after News Corp. abandoned its 7.8 billion-pound bid for
the rest of the company. BSkyB said at the time that  James Murdoch , the 39-year-old son of Rupert Murdoch, will remain
chairman after his position had come under scrutiny as a phone-
hacking scandal engulfed News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit.  Streaming Competition  Before today, the stock had fallen 22 percent from last
year’s high of 850 pence when the Guardian reported July 4 that
News Corp.’s News of the World employees intercepted murder
victim Milly Dowler’s voicemails.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  this
month forecast the company will attract millions of subscribers
within a few years to the Internet film and television service
it started in the U.K. and Ireland. The service will offer films
and TV programs such as “Top Gear” and “90210” from
broadcasters and studios including Disney U.K. & Ireland, the
BBC, CBS and Miramax, Netflix said on Jan. 9.  Other video-streaming providers in the U.K. include
Lovefilm and free services such as Channel 4’s 4oD and the BBC’s
iPlayer. Lovefilm had about 900,000 users in early 2008 and now
has more than 2 million subscribers in the U.K.,  Germany ,
Sweden, Denmark and Norway.  “The strategic dilemmas for BSkyB are increasingly
difficult,” Aspesi said. “The pricing structure will need to
be competitive to stop Netflix but not competitive enough for
people to cancel their existing subscriptions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  