-- Government Deficit Report Inflames, Illustrates Budget Debate
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/budget-deficit-of-u-s-will-shrink-15-to-1-1-trillion-in-2012-cbo-says.html
A  report  showing the government will
run a  budget deficit  of more than $1 trillion for the fourth
consecutive year inflamed a debate over the federal shortfall
that’s unlikely to be resolved before the November election.  The  Congressional Budget Office  said yesterday it expects
this year’s gap between spending and revenue to total $1.1
trillion, down from last year’s $1.3 trillion. It attributed the
decline to stronger  tax revenue  and the smallest increase in
spending in years.  The report illustrates the stakes in the presidential and
congressional elections. It shows that future deficits may vary
widely depending on budget decisions lawmakers are unlikely to
make until after the November vote.  “How much and how quickly the deficit declines will depend
in part on how well the economy does over the next few years,”
the report said. “Probably more critical, though, will be the
fiscal policy choices made by lawmakers as they face the
substantial changes to tax and spending policies that are slated
to take effect within the next year.”  Lawmakers have disagreed over what to do about income-tax
cuts, first enacted during  George W. Bush ’s presidency, that are
scheduled to expire at the end of this year. At the same time,
$1 trillion in automatic spending cuts will begin taking effect
in January 2013 if Congress doesn’t intervene.  “The elections are going to clarify a lot of this,” said
Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican. “There’s going
to be a very clear contrast this fall.” He added, “I hope
there is a clear mandate from the American people” against the
approach of President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats.  Borrowed Money  This year’s deficit may be larger than $1.1 trillion if
lawmakers decide not to finance a continuation of a payroll tax
break and expanded unemployment benefits with savings elsewhere
in the budget. Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat and a
member of a House-Senate panel trying to negotiate an extension,
said he supports financing jobless benefits with borrowed money.  “We don’t have to pay for all this,” Cardin told
reporters yesterday. Lawmakers don’t typically offset the cost
of unemployment assistance, and doing so would reduce the
stimulative effect on the economy of the benefits, he said.  The economy will expand this year by 2 percent, CBO said,
while the  unemployment rate  will probably climb to 8.9 percent
from the current 8.5 percent.  Trading Blame  Lawmakers traded blame over the budget deficit.  “This report from the Congressional Budget Office serves
as a harsh indictment of President Obama’s failed policies,”
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, said in a statement. The Republican-controlled House
has “fought to put the brakes on the president’s spending spree
and continues to advance pro-growth solutions.”  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  said Obama
“called for a balanced approach to reducing the  debt  with both
spending cuts and new revenue.” Conrad added, “Republicans
must be willing to put revenue on the table and accept a  tax
code  where everyone, including the wealthiest, pay their fair
share.”  Obama is scheduled to release his latest budget request to
Congress on Feb. 13.  If lawmakers permanently extend the Bush-era tax cuts,
abandon the automatic spending cuts and continue to protect
doctors from scheduled cuts in  Medicare (NHEXNHMD)  payments, the CBO said,
the deficit will total at least $900 billion annually for the
foreseeable future.  $1.5 Trillion  The deficit would reach $1.5 trillion by 2022, CBO
estimated, and the debt would reach levels unseen since the
government was paying off its World War II expenses.  If all of the scheduled tax increases and spending cuts are
allowed to take effect, CBO said, the deficit would shrink to
$200 billion by 2018. The agency said that would be a blow to
the economy that would drive the jobless rate to 9.2 percent by
the fourth quarter of next year.  Three government trust funds, meanwhile, are projected to
run dry in coming years, the CBO said. A highway trust fund
financing road projects will run out sometime next year. The
Social Security disability program’s trust fund will be
exhausted in 2016. Six years later, a Medicare trust fund that
makes payments to hospitals also will be depleted, CBO said.  Spending this year will grow by 0.1 percent, or $3 billion,
partly as a result of a budget agreement reached last year. That
compares with last year’s 4 percent increase; in the decade
before that, expenditures rose by an average 7 percent annually,
CBO said.  Defense Spending  Defense (USBODEFN)  and non-defense discretionary spending will fall
this year by 3 percent, the report said. So-called mandatory
spending on entitlement programs will rise by 2 percent, in part
because of cost-of-living adjustments provided to  Social
Security (USBOSOCS)  beneficiaries.  The projected cost of the government’s bailout of the
financial industry, known as TARP, probably will climb, CBO
said. That’s because investments the Treasury Department still
holds in General Motors Co. and insurer American International
Group Inc. have declined in market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomerg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  