-- Buffett Rule Fixes a Non-Existent Problem: Douglas Holtz-Eakin
-- B y   D o u g l a s   H o l t z - E a k i n
-- 2012-01-31T00:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/buffett-rule-fixes-non-existent-problem-commentary-by-douglas-holtz-eakin.html
Although  Warren Buffett  may be a
stellar investor, his entry into the world of federal  tax policy 
has brought forth nothing but bad ideas based on flawed
information and misleading demagoguery. Let’s review the record.  In his State of the Union address last week, President
 Barack Obama  called for enactment of the so-called Buffett rule,
saying it wasn’t fair that a rich person pays a lower tax rate
than Buffett’s secretary. In a bald act of political theater,
Obama invited Buffett’s secretary to sit in one of the guest
seats in the gallery near first lady  Michelle Obama  during the
speech.  Last year, the president proposed that no household making
more than $1 million a year pay a smaller share of its income in
taxes than middle-class families. In support of this rule, he
called for these earners to pay a minimum effective tax rate of
at least 30 percent.  The trouble with the Buffett rule is that it is an example
of the dangers of making policy based on anecdote, instead of
facts. As the Congressional Research Service documents, the
average effective  tax rate  among millionaires is already about
30 percent. The president is trying to solve a problem that
doesn’t exist.  Taxation Objectives  Of course, it is true that not every millionaire has an
effective  tax rate  of 30 percent. But what does that tell us?
Tax policy reflects a balance among the objectives of economic
growth, ease of compliance, cost of administration, social
policy and -- yes -- fairness. Because millionaires can legally
reduce their tax liability below some perceived “fair” level,
it implies that they are contributing to some or all of these
other objectives. Obama may succeed in his single-minded,
fairness-only approach to income taxation, although I think he
will come to regret it.  Let’s think for a second about the other consequences of
instituting the Buffett rule. Taken at face value, it could mean
another  alternative minimum tax . An early version of the AMT was
born in 1969 to make sure that 155 high-income Americans didn’t
use loopholes to avoid paying taxes. Today, it stands as a
perennial threat to the middle class because it was never
indexed to inflation. Each year Congress struggles to devise a
“patch” to protect the middle class from being hit by the AMT,
which deprives millions of taxpayers from taking deductions for
dependent children and local real-estate taxes.  Maybe Obama envisions it as part of a reform of the AMT. If
so, imposing the Buffett rule would mean an overhaul not worth
undertaking. Why spend the political capital and energy fixing
the AMT when the entire code is a mess?  That brings me to the primary cost of the Buffett rule: It
gets in the way of real and needed  tax reform . The very
existence of the AMT is striking evidence of a broken system.
The U.S. should be able to raise the  revenue  needed to pay for
government operations with a code that promotes the needed mix
of growth, fairness and other objectives. Tax reform would mean
raising the desired revenue with a broader base and the lowest
rates possible. The Buffett rule (as would every tax-policy
proposal in Obama’s speech) goes in the wrong direction: a
narrowing base (millionaires) and a desire for higher rates.  Of course, the biggest misconception about the Buffett rule
is that it would help balance the  budget . Not really. A rough
static estimate -- meaning no assumptions about growth or
changes in behavior -- suggests that the additional revenue
would amount to about $35 billion a year. This works out to less
than 3 percent of the $1.3 trillion annual federal  budget
deficit .  Boosting Growth  Compare this with a tax reform that broadens the base and
lowers rates. Some  studies  indicate this might raise the U.S.’s
average growth by roughly 0.3 percentage point annually. That
increase in growth might boost federal revenue by $80 billion to
$100 billion. Put differently, adopting the Buffett rule,
instead of a fundamental tax reform, would deprive the
government of a net $45 billion to $65 billion a year.  Fairness in public policy is important, but the Buffett
rule gets it wrong. With spending racing out of control, there
are many better places to look for fairness. One place to start
is to reduce the entitlement benefits of the affluent. In an era
when a debt crisis could cripple the economy and bequeath a
lower standard of living to the next generation, it is a moral
imperative to undertake tax and entitlement reform.  Perhaps Buffett could have that conversation with his
secretary.  ( Douglas Holtz-Eakin , who was chief economist for the 
 Council of Economic Advisers  to Presdient  George W. Bush  from
2001 to 2002 and the director of the  Congressional Budget
Office  from 2003 to 2005, is the president of the American
Action Forum, a public-policy institute. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Douglas Holtz-Eakin at  dholtzeakin@americanactionforum.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  