-- Cameroon Targets Unlicensed Cocoa Buyers With Seizure of Beans
-- B y   P i u s   L u k o n g
-- 2012-01-31T14:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/cameroon-targets-unlicensed-cocoa-buyers-with-seizure-of-beans.html
Cameroon’s cocoa agencies have
started a joint effort to eradicate unlicensed buyers and end
purchases of low-quality beans sold by farmers who need money
quickly, according to the Cocoa and Coffee Interprofessional
Council.  The council and the Cocoa and Coffee Board started the
program Jan. 20 to find the buyers and seize the beans they’ve
purchased, Yves Abissi, head of communications for the council,
said in an e-mailed response to questions today from the port
city of Douala. Officials are monitoring parts of the Center,
South and South West regions where the chocolate ingredient is
grown, he said.  Cameroon,  Africa ’s fourth-biggest producer of the crop,
requires cocoa buyers to get a license from the council before
making purchases, proving they have financial means and storage
and transportation facilities. There are 92 buyers with permits
and more than 250 without, said Abissi.  Unlicensed buyers purchase cocoa that “is not well
dried,” said Benjamin Ndongo Ndjemba, head of the board in the
Center, East and South regions, in an interview. “As the number
of illegal buyers keeps increasing, it becomes difficult to get
credible statistics on cocoa production in Cameroon.” So far,
120 kilograms (264 pounds) of beans have been seized, he said.  Cocoa farmers who need money will try to sell the beans
before they are properly dried, said Sama Aloysius, an
unauthorized buyer, in a phone interview. “When the farmer is
in dire need of money to buy his kerosene, rice or cooking oil,
he looks for us, sometimes with cocoa as small as five
kilograms,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pius Lukong in Yaounde via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  