-- Cameron Sues Insurer Over Refusal It Says Threatened BP Deal
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/cameron-sues-insurer-over-refusal-it-says-threatened-250-million-bp-deal.html
Cameron International Corp., facing
thousands of claims from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, sued
one of its insurers for allegedly refusing to pay $50 million in
coverage, a move the manufacturer says threatened a $250 million
settlement with  BP Plc. (BP/)   Cameron, in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
 New Orleans , accused a Liberty Mutual Holding Co. unit of breach
of contract and of acting in bad faith by holding up the
settlement with BP “hostage” so the insurer could negotiate a
“steep discount” on the amount it owed.  “When Cameron needed it the most, Liberty refused to
provide Cameron the $50 million in insurance limits it sold
Cameron,” according to the complaint. “Instead, Liberty
offered Cameron a choice: either continue the Gulf oil spill
litigation and face potentially crippling liability, or agree to
accept much less than what Liberty was contractually obligated
to pay under its insurance policy.”  Cameron, which said it paid the $50 million from its own
funds, seeks a court order requiring Liberty Insurance
Underwriters to indemnify it for that amount.  Cameron said it has now paid $250 million to BP. The
settlement proceeds are to be contributed by BP into a fund for
the victims of the spill.  Cameron manufactured the blow-out preventer, the subsea
device that failed to stop the BP well explosion on April 20,
2010, that killed 11 workers aboard the Deepwater Horizon oil
rig. The rig burned and sank, triggering the worst offshore  oil
spill  in U.S. history.  Trial Date  More than 100,000 individual claims filed against BP,
Cameron and other defendants, were consolidated before a federal
judge in New Orleans who will decide liability and apportion
fault after a nonjury trial set to begin Feb. 27.  Cameron said it cooperated with Liberty’s claims
investigation, which covered such topics as maintenance of the
blow-out preventer and whether it was pressure-tested for use on
the deep-water drilling rig, 50 miles off the  Louisiana  coast.  Adrianne Kaufmann, a Liberty spokeswoman, didn’t return a
phone call after regular business hours yesterday seeking
comment on the lawsuit. Rhonda Barnat, a spokeswoman for
Houston-based Cameron, declined to comment.  The case is  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  v. Liberty
Insurance Underwriters, 2:12-cv-0311, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  