-- Cameron Draws Criticism From Labour for Watering Down EU Veto
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-01-31T18:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/cameron-draws-criticism-from-labour-for-watering-down-eu-veto.html
David Cameron  drew criticism from
Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  for softening his opposition to
a pact to enshrine fiscal discipline in the euro area after he
found himself isolated in the European Union last month.  The prime minister said following an EU summit in Brussels
last night that Britain he will allow  European institutions 
including the  European Court  of Justice to be used to enforce
new fiscal rules in the euro region, a reversal from the line he
took in December.  Amid jeers from Miliband and his opposition lawmakers in
the House of Commons in London today, Cameron said Britain’s
interests remain untouched because the agreement signed by 25 of
the 27 members of the EU isn’t a treaty. As such, the new
agreement affects only the 17-nation euro area and doesn’t
encroach on how the rest of the EU is run, Cameron said.  “The phantom veto of December is now exposed,” Miliband
told lawmakers. “He has secured absolutely no protections at
all. He says it’s not really a treaty. It talks like a European
treaty, it walks like a European treaty, it is a European
country.”  Miliband said Cameron had walked out of the December
meeting without gaining anything for the U.K. and that he was
now forced to make concessions.  “It doesn’t have the force of EU law for us,” Cameron
told the Commons. That’s the fundamental protection I secured
with our veto in December. That protection remains.”  Legal Action  Seeking to keep rank-and-file euro-skeptic members of his
own  Conservative Party  on side, Cameron said he will take steps
to protect Britain’s interests and pursue legal action if
needed.  The premier won praise from his own lawmakers in the
chamber, after initially drawing Tory anger following the summit
last night.  The leader of the Conservatives in the European Parliament,
Martin Callanan, accused Cameron of giving way to his Liberal
Democrat deputy,  Nick Clegg . “I blame a combination of
appeasing Nick Clegg, who is desperate to sign anything the EU
puts in front of him, and the practical reality that this pact
is actually quite hard to prevent,” Callanan said in an e-
mailed statement.  Tory lawmaker Bernard Jenkin said the euro region was
embarking on fiscal union “in the full expectation that the EU
institutions will do their bidding,” nullifying the U.K. veto.  ‘Fundamental Change’  “This is a fundamental change in the nature of the EU,
where a veto counts for nothing and highlights how the terms of
U.K. membership of the EU are becoming ever more unacceptable,”
Jenkin said in an e-mail.  EU leaders yesterday completed the fiscal-discipline
treaty, which speeds sanctions on high-deficit states and
requires European governments to anchor balanced-budget rules in
national law. Eight countries outside the euro backed the pact,
leaving Britain and the  Czech Republic  to boycott it.  Cameron broke ranks with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  last month after he failed
to secure guarantees of a British veto right over future
financial regulations. Cameron called them a threat to London’s
standing as  Europe ’s leading financial center.  Cameron said at the time that any changes made under the
alternative fiscal pact could not use EU institutions because
they could only carry out policies applying to all 27 members.  Europe has been a lethal issue for Conservative prime
ministers since at least 1990, when it led to  Margaret Thatcher ’s downfall over her refusal to agree to a timetable for
joining the single currency. Her successor,  John Major , found
his leadership undermined by euro-skeptics on his own side.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  