-- Canadian Dollar Touches Strongest Level Since October Before Growth Data
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-31T12:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/canadian-dollar-touches-strongest-level-since-october-before-growth-data.html
Canada ’s dollar rose to a three-
month high before a report today that economists predict will
show the nation’s economy expanded in November.  The currency is up 2.5 percent in the past three months
against nine major peers in Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes. It rose today as Greece said progress was being made in
debt-swap talks with creditors, increasing demand for currencies
of nations with higher-yielding assets.  “There’s a risk rally and the Canadian dollar is
participating,” said Firas Askari, head of  currency trading  at
Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, in an e-mail
message. “This will be a choppy market, and the euphoria of
 Europe  agreeing will wear off.” BMO predicted the currency will
weaken to C$1.05 by the end of March versus the greenback.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, climbed 0.4 percent to
99.71 Canadian cents per  U.S. dollar  at 7:41 a.m. Toronto time.
It touched 99.67 cents, the strongest level since Oct. 31. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0029.  Canada’s economy expanded 0.2 percent in November,
according to the median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  Statistics Canada  is due to release the data at 8:30
a.m. in Ottawa.  The numbers will matter “just near term and only if it’s
an outlier,” Askari said. He predicted the Canadian currency
will trade in a range of 99.50 cents to C$1.0350.  The U.S. dollar dropped as stocks and commodity prices
rose. Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos said progress had
been made in debt-swap talks with bondholders and European
chiefs meeting in Brussels yesterday agreed to accelerate the
introduction of a permanent 500 billion-euro ($659 billion)
rescue fund and signed a deficit-control treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  