-- Canada’s Economy Records Surprise 0.1% Drop in November on Energy Declines
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-01-31T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/canada-s-economy-records-surprise-0-1-drop-in-november-on-energy-declines.html
Canada ’s  gross domestic product 
posted an unanticipated decline in November, shrinking for the
first time in six months on maintenance shutdowns by crude oil
producers and lower natural gas extraction.  Output fell 0.1 percent to an annualized C$1.27 trillion
($1.27 trillion) after being little changed in October,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists in a
Bloomberg  survey  forecast the economy would grow 0.2 percent,
based on the median of 23 responses.  The report suggests fourth-quarter growth will fall short
of the 2 percent annualized pace the  Bank of Canada  estimated
last month, with BMO Capital Markets today cutting its
projection to 1.5 percent. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  have said growth will be
modest this year as weak global demand curbs exports.  The report “shows how the economy is vulnerable to even
minor hits,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist with Bank
of Montreal’s capital markets unit in Toronto.  Output from oil and gas extraction and mining fell 2.2
percent in November to C$57.7 billion, which  Statistics Canada 
said accounted for most of the decline in gross domestic
product.  Wholesale trade fell 0.6 percent in November, offset by a
similar increase in retailing. Construction fell 0.3 percent
while manufacturing rose 0.6 percent, the third straight gain.  Home sales drove a 2.2 percent increase in the output of
real estate agents and brokers, and reduced stock trading cut
output in finance and insurance by 0.4 percent.  Dollar Trims Gains  Canada’s dollar trimmed gains following the report, after
appreciating to the strongest level since October against its
U.S. counterpart as optimism  Greece  is close to a debt-swap deal
with creditors improved the outlook for riskier assets. The
currency traded at 99.92 Canadian cents per  U.S. dollar  at 9:57
a.m. Toronto time, 0.2 percent stronger than yesterday. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.008.  The world’s 10th-largest economy grew 2 percent in November
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since February 2010,
Statistics Canada said today. Growth will weaken to an average
of 1.8 percent in the first three months of this year, according
to a monthly Bloomberg economist forecast published yesterday.  Output would have to grow by 0.6 percent to 0.7 percent in
December to generate a fourth-quarter growth rate of 2 percent,
said Scotia Capital economist Karen Cordes Woods in a note to
clients. The economy hasn’t grown that fast since December 2010.  Energy May Rebound  Porter also said that the economy is unlikely to shrink in
the fourth quarter, in part because the  energy industry  may
rebound in December.  In a separate report, the agency said the industrial
product price  index  fell 0.7 percent in December from November,
the most since June 2010, on a drop in petroleum and coal.
Economists forecast a 0.1 percent decline in a survey with 11
responses.  The raw-materials price index fell 2.4 percent in December
on a 3 percent drop in mineral fuels. A Bloomberg survey of nine
economists had a median forecast for no change in the index.  Over 2011, industrial prices rose 2.8 percent while raw-
materials costs rose 4.7 percent, suggesting factory profit
margins have been shrinking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 