-- Canada Dec. Industrial Product and Raw Materials Prices (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-01-31T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/canada-dec-industrial-product-and-raw-materials-prices-text-.html
The following is the text of
the industrial product and raw material prices report as
reported by  Statistics Canada .  From November to December, the Industrial Product Price
Index (IPPI) declined 0.7% and the Raw Materials Price
Index (RMPI) was down 2.4%. These declines were mainly the
result of lower petroleum and metals prices.  Prices for industrial goods decline  Industrial Product Price Index, monthly change  The IPPI decreased in December after posting a 0.3%
increase in November. It was the IPPI's largest decline
since the 0.9% decrease in June 2010. The downturn in the
index was largely a result of lower prices for petroleum
and coal products (-3.7%) and primary metal products 
(-2.4%). Chemical products also contributed, though to a
much lesser extent, with a 0.7% decline.  The decrease in petroleum and coal product prices in
December was primarily the result of declines in  diesel
fuel  (-5.2%) and gasoline (-2.8%). North American demand
for petroleum products was weaker in December, partly
because of milder weather. In addition, high inventories
in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
countries and excess capacity in oil-producing countries
contributed to the decline in  oil prices .  Primary metals prices (-2.4%) declined in December for
a fourth consecutive month, pulled downward mainly by
lower demand for precious metals. Prices decreased for
precious metal basic manufactured shapes (-12.7%), gold in
primary forms (-4.0%) and silver and platinum (-6.4%).
Further price reductions were observed for primary
aluminum products (-5.7%) and primary copper products 
(-6.1%). Aluminum prices were affected by global excess
supply, while weaker demand pushed copper prices downward.  Some product groups experienced increases in December,
particularly motor vehicles and other transportation
equipment, lumber and other wood products, and machinery
and equipment, which all rose 0.3%. These price increases
were moderated slightly by the 0.2% appreciation of the
Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar.  Some Canadian producers who export their products are
generally paid on the basis of prices set in US dollars.
Consequently, the strength of the Canadian dollar in
relation to the US dollar in December had the effect of
reducing the corresponding prices in Canadian dollars.
Without the impact of the exchange rate, the IPPI would
have declined 0.6% instead of 0.7%.  The IPPI excluding petroleum and coal prices products
declined 0.3% in December, following a 0.1% increase in
November.  12-month change in the Industrial Product Price Index  The IPPI was up 2.8% in December compared with the same
month a year earlier. The growth in prices continued to
slow for the third straight month since the 5.5% peak in
September. Of the 21 major commodity aggregations, 17 were
up in December, compared with 19 in October and 18 in
November.  Relative to December 2010, the IPPI was pushed upward
mainly by higher prices for petroleum and coal products
(+12.8%). More moderate contributions were made by
chemical products (+4.8%), motor vehicles and other
transportation equipment (+2.3%), fruit, vegetables and
feeds (+3.2%) and meat, fish and dairy products (+3.1%).  Year over year, the growth of petroleum and coal
product prices continued to slow, declining steadily to
12.8% in December. The 2011 high was 31.9% in July.  Similarly, year over year, the IPPI excluding petroleum
and coal products increased 1.4% from December 2010. This
was a weaker increase than that seen in March (+2.8%), the
highest level reached in 2011.  The advance of the IPPI in December relative to the
same month a year earlier was moderated by a decrease in
primary metal products (-5.2%). This second consecutive
decline for this product group was much larger than the
0.8% decrease observed in November. The largest
contributors to the decline in metals in December were
lower prices for copper and copper alloy products 
(-15.0%), nickel products (-23.5%) and aluminum products 
(-8.1%).  In December, the 1.6% year-over-year decline in the
value of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar had
an upward effect on the IPPI. Without the impact of the
exchange rate, the IPPI would have risen 2.4% instead of
2.8%.  Raw Materials Price Index, monthly change  In December, the RMPI declined 2.4%, following a 3.8%
increase in November. The decline in prices was led by
mineral fuels (-3.0%) and non-ferrous metals (-3.3%).
Smaller contributions were made by vegetable products 
(-2.3%) and animals and animal products (-0.8%).  Prices for raw materials decline  Within mineral fuels, crude oil declined 3.2%, a
substantial change from the 8.9% increase in November.  In December, other than lead and nickel concentrates,
all non-ferrous metal groups declined, notably copper
concentrates (-6.4%) and precious metals (-4.6%).  The main factors in the December price decrease for
vegetable products were wheat (-5.9%) and corn (-4.7%).
The excess wheat supply in the  United States  was the
result of favourable weather and the high level of seeded
acreage. The decline in corn prices was largely a result
of weaker demand for feed and biodiesel manufacturing.  The RMPI excluding mineral fuels was down 1.7% in
December, a larger decrease than the 0.3% observed in
November. This was the fourth consecutive decline of the
index.  12-month change in the Raw Materials Price Index  Relative to December 2010, the RMPI rose 4.7%,
continuing the slowdown in growth that has prevailed since
May (+25.6%), when the index posted its highest growth
rate for 2011. The main contributors to the RMPI's year-
over-year advance in December were higher prices for
mineral fuels (+10.8%) and animals and animal products
(+14.5%). The RMPI's increase was moderated by non-ferrous
metals (-11.9%), which had a third consecutive decline.  Year over year, the RMPI excluding mineral fuels was
down 0.6% in December, its first decrease since the 3.3%
decline observed in October 2009.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally unadjusted and
usually subject to revision for a period of six months
(for example, when the July index is released, the index
for the previous January becomes final).  The Industrial Product  Price Index  (IPPI) reflects the
prices that producers in Canada receive as the goods leave
the plant gate. It does not reflect what the consumer
pays. Unlike the  Consumer Price Index , the IPPI excludes
indirect taxes and all the costs that occur between the
time a good leaves the plant and the time the final user
takes possession of it, including transportation,
wholesale and retail costs.  Canadian producers export many goods. They often
indicate their prices in foreign currencies, especially in
US dollars, which are then converted into Canadian
dollars. In particular, this is the case for motor
vehicles, pulp, paper and wood products. Therefore, a rise
or fall in the value of the Canadian dollar against its US
counterpart affects the IPPI. But the conversion into
Canadian dollars only reflects how respondents provide
their prices. Moreover, this is not a measure that takes
into account the full effect of exchange rates, since that
is a more difficult analytical task.  The conversion of prices received in US dollars is
based on the average monthly exchange rate (noon spot
rate) established by the Bank of  Canada  and is available
on CANSIM in table 176-0064 (series v37426). Monthly and
annual variations in the exchange rate, as described in
the text, are calculated according to the indirect
quotation of the exchange rate (for example, CAN$1 =
US$X).  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) reflects the
prices paid by Canadian manufacturers for key raw
materials. Many of those prices are set on the world
market. However, as few prices are denominated in foreign
currencies, their conversion into Canadian dollars has
only a minor effect on the calculation of the RMPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  