-- Canadian Currency Falls From Three-Month High After U.S. Confidence Sinks
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-31T22:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/canadian-currency-falls-from-three-month-high-after-u-s-confidence-sinks.html
Canada ’s dollar fell from a three-
month high versus its American counterpart after  consumer
confidence  unexpectedly dropped in the U.S., the nation’s
biggest trade partner.  The Canadian currency gained earlier as optimism  Greece  was
close to a debt-swap deal with creditors improved the outlook
for riskier assets. It weakened below parity after the
confidence report and an unexpected decrease in the Institute
for Supply-Management Chicago Inc.’s purchasing-manager index.
The currency gained last week beyond a one-for-one basis with
the U.S. dollar for the first time since Nov. 1.  “We’ve just got hit by two surprises -- U.S. consumer
confidence and Chicago PMI,” said  Sebastien Galy , a strategist
at Societe Generale SA in  London . “That’s putting a bit of a
damper on the recovery in the Canadian dollar. The fact that we
broke through parity so soon means we’re seeing a natural
retracement.”  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.1 percent to
C$1.0026 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. Toronto time. Earlier it
strengthened 0.5 percent and touched 99.65 Canadian cents, its
strongest level since Oct. 31. The loonie gained 1.9 percent
against the greenback in January, its first monthly advance
since October. One Canadian dollar buys 99.74 U.S. cents.  Euro Weakens  Canada’s dollar gained 0.4 percent to C$1.3118 per euro and
climbed 0.7 percent to 5.8496 Norwegian kroner. It fell against
 New Zealand ’s dollar, the top performer today among its 16 most-
traded peers, losing 1 percent to 82.86 Canadian cents.  Commodities and stocks reversed gains after the two U.S.
reports. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index (CRY)  of raw
materials decreased 0.5 percent after rising as much as 0.8
percent, and crude oil for March delivery fell 0.7 percent to
$98.31 a barrel in  New York . Raw materials generate about half
of Canada’s export revenue, and crude is the nation’s biggest
export. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 0.5
percent after gaining 0.6 percent earlier.  The euro dropped against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  “We’ll continue to trade off equities and the direction of
the euro,” said  Shane Enright ,  executive director  at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit in Toronto.
“As long as we hold above C$1.30 per euro, there’s a risk
shorts get squeezed and the Canadian dollar should rally.  We
backed up a bit today on month-end rebalancing flows rather than
anything fundamental.” Shorts are bets a currency will weaken.  Bonds Gain  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing yields on the
benchmark  10-year note  to a five-week low. The yields fell five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.89 percent, the
least since Dec. 21. The price of the 3.25 percent securities
due in June 2021 increased 43 cents to C$111.60.  The loonie erased gains after the New York-based Conference
Board’s index of  U.S. consumer confidence  dropped in January to
61.1, lower than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists, from a revised 64.8 reading the prior
month. The ISM-Chicago’s business barometer declined to 60.2
from 62.2 in December. Readings above 50 signal growth.  The Canadian currency slipped earlier from its high of the
day after a report showed the nation’s economy unexpectedly
shrank in November for the first time in six months on
maintenance shutdowns by crude-oil producers and lower natural-
gas extraction.  Drop in Output  Output (CAGDPMOM)  declined 0.1 percent to an annualized C$1.27
trillion ($1.27 trillion) after being little changed in October,
 Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey forecast the economy would grow 0.2 percent.  The data dimmed the outlook for  interest-rate  increases.
The  Bank of Canada  has held its key  interest rate  at 1 percent
since September 2010. The  Federal Reserve ’s benchmark has stayed
at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Morgan Stanley said it bet the U.K. pound will fall against
the loonie to an initial target of C$1.4900, saying sterling may
underperform amid speculation the  Bank of England  will increase
government-bond purchases next month to spur economic growth.  “Relative U.S. economic outperformance in the first
quarter and the possibility of further Fed easing will place a
bid under the Canadian dollar,” strategists for the New York-
based firm wrote in a client note. “Moreover, near-term
strength in risk appetite and commodities should support this
trade.”  Canada’s dollar weakened 0.4 percent today to C$1.5801 to
the pound.  Three-Month Gain  The loonie gained 2.5 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-market counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The  U.S. dollar 
strengthened 2.4 percent, while the euro slid 3.9 percent.  The Canadian currency rose earlier after Greece pledged a
last-ditch effort to prevent the collapse of a second rescue
package from creditors, aiming to complete talks this week.  Greek Premier  Lucas Papademos  told reporters he would try
to meet German-led demands for a bigger debt writedown by
investors and deeper budget cuts by his government. European
Union and International Monetary Fund officials are in  Athens 
thrashing out budget measures that would unlock the aid needed
to keep the government functioning.  Talks with EU and IMF officials on a new financing package
for Greece must be completed by Feb. 5, Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said today at a Parliament hearing. A
private-sector debt swap, for which a public offer must be made
by Feb. 13, can only proceed after a deal on the loan package is
sealed, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  