-- Canada Nov. Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-01-31T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/canada-nov-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Nov. GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product edged down 0.1% in
November, following no growth in October and monthly
increases from June to September. Most of the November
decline was accounted for by lower output in the energy
sector. Decreases were also recorded in wholesale trade,
finance and insurance, and construction. Gains were posted
in manufacturing, retail trade, accommodation and food
services, professional services and real estate agents and
brokers.  Real gross domestic product decreases in November  Oil and gas extraction falls  Oil and gas extraction declined 2.5% in November. The
decrease in output of crude petroleum, partially a result
of maintenance shutdowns, led the decline. Lower
extraction of natural gas was also recorded. Exports of
crude petroleum and natural gas were down. Support
activities for oil and gas extraction fell 3.8%,
particularly because of decreases in drilling activity.
However, mining excluding oil and gas extraction grew 0.3%
as a result of increased overall production at copper,
nickel, lead and zinc mines.  Oil and gas extraction falls  Manufacturing output continues to rise  Manufacturing increased (+0.6%) for the third
consecutive month. Growth was mainly based in the
production of durable goods (+0.9%) as opposed to non-
durable goods (+0.1%). Manufacturers of machinery and of
transportation equipment (primarily motor vehicles)
benefitted from an increase in foreign demand during the
month. Gains were also posted in fabricated metal
products, furniture and related products, and primary
metal products. Manufacturing of computer and electronic
products was down, as was wood products.  Wholesale trade declines while retail trade continues to
grow  Wholesale trade retreated 0.6%, mainly because of lower
wholesaling of miscellaneous products (which include
agricultural supplies). Conversely, retail trade grew
0.6%, a fourth consecutive monthly increase. The November
growth was largely the result of increased activity at
motor vehicle and parts dealers and at clothing stores.  Construction down, home resale market up  Construction was down 0.3% as both residential and non-
residential building construction decreased. Engineering
and repair work was unchanged in November. In the
residential sector, construction of single-family
dwellings continued to decline. In non-residential
building construction, the decrease in institutional and
commercial buildings outweighed the increase in industrial
buildings.  Activity in the home resale market increased in
November, particularly in Eastern  Canada , resulting in a
2.2% rise in the output of real estate agents and brokers.  The finance and insurance sector declines  The finance and insurance sector decreased 0.4%, mainly
as a result of lower volume of trading on the  stock
exchanges . Sales of mutual funds were down slightly. The
output of insurance carriers was unchanged.  Other industries  The utilities sector was down 0.6%, as unseasonably
warm weather contributed to lower demand for electricity.  Some tourism-related industries, such as air
transportation and accommodation and food services, grew
in November.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry
data at basic prices are chained volume estimates with
2002 as the reference year. This means that the data for
each industry and each aggregate are obtained from a
chained volume index multiplied by the industry's value
added in 2002. For the 1997 to 2008 period, the monthly
data are benchmarked to annually chained Fisher volume
indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-price input-
output tables.  For the period starting with January 2009, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index
to the prior period. The fixed weights are 2008 industry
prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data
more comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data,
chained quarterly.  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2011. For more information
about monthly GDP by industry, see the National economic
accounts module on our website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  