-- Honda Joins Toshiba in Cutting Forecasts as Yen’s Rise Hurts Manufacturers
-- B y   K a z u y o   S a w a   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-01-31T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/canon-fujifilm-shares-fall-on-weakening-earnings-outlook-tokyo-movers.html
Japanese makers of cars, chips and
computers said profit would be less than previously expected
this year as the stronger yen undermines a recovery from output
setbacks caused by the March 11 earthquake.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the nation’s No. 3 automaker;  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) , its biggest chipmaker; and Fujitsu Ltd, the largest
computer services firm, lowered their earnings forecasts
yesterday for the year ending March 31.  Toshiba, maker of televisions, aerospace components,
nuclear reactors and  notebook computers , said the stronger
Japanese currency would probably reduce operating profit by 40
billion yen ($524 million). Costs from floods that shut
factories in Thailand cut another 40 billion yen from the
previous projection for 300 billion yen, Makoto Kubo, executive
vice president, told reporters in Tokyo yesterday.  “The most important thing is the  exchange rate  for next
fiscal year,”  Masaru Hamasaki , chief strategist at Toyota Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo, said yesterday by phone. He said he
expects the currency to weaken to as far as 85 yen against the
dollar in 2012.  The Japanese currency’s gain of about 9 percent against the
euro and 5.5 percent versus the dollar last year reduced the
value of earnings repatriated from overseas and made the
country’s exports less cost-competitive.  Exchange Rate Forecasts  Honda revised its outlook for the yen against the dollar to
78 from 80, and 106 from 112 versus the euro. The Tokyo-based
automaker has said it would build its new NSX supercar in  Ohio 
as it shifts output to  North America  in response to the yen’s
gains. Operating income declines by 15 billion yen for every one
yen gain against the dollar, the company estimates.  The Thai floods will cost Honda about 110 billion yen this
fiscal year, while the yen’s advance will shave about 57 billion
yen from annual profit, it said in yesterday’s statement.
Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, will probably be 200 billion yen, 26
percent less than the previous forecast for 270 billion yen.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest camera maker, fell by 4.2
percent, the most in 10 months, in Tokyo trading after
forecasting annual profit that missed  analyst estimates  and
saying its president will resign.  Shifting Overseas  The camera maker, which also makes office equipment and
chipmaking gear, said yesterday it would invest 18 billion yen
to build a plant in the  Philippines , joining companies,
including Honda, Nissan Motor Corp. and Toshiba, that plan to
expand overseas.  Canon President and Chief Operating Officer Tsuneji Uchida,
70, will step down from both posts after the company said  net
income  this year will probably increase to 250 billion yen, less
than the 304 billion-yen average of 20 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg as of Jan. 30.  The company makes more than half of its  sales  overseas, and
based this year’s estimate on the yen averaging 75 versus the
dollar and 100 against the euro, appreciations of 5 yen and 11
yen, respectively. The company is also investing 15 billion yen
in  Thailand  for a new office-systems venture.  Thailand’s worst floods in decades may drag down full-year
profits of listed Japanese manufacturers this fiscal year, SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. estimated in October.  The surging waters forced factories to shut and snarled
transportation, causing supply chain disruptions that led to
shortages of auto parts, computer hard drives, electronics
components and semiconductors.  No Quarter  The effect of the strengthening yen has been grinding down
manufacturers competitiveness and profits all year, said
Hamasaki at Toyota Asset.  “These cuts in earnings forecasts could not be helped,”
Hamasaki said. “The effects of a stronger yen are just too
much, even for the best-run companies.”  The surging currency, pushed up as Japanese investors seek
a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis and a U.S. policy of pumping
dollars into the economy, has prompted calls for help from some
of  Japan ’s biggest and most powerful companies.  “How much longer should we insist on producing in Japan?”
Toyota Chief Financial Officer Satoshi Ozawa, seated next to
President  Akio Toyoda , said at a  Tokyo  press conference in May.
“Our efforts may have exceeded the limits of what is possible
in dealing with the yen’s impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  