-- Ireland’s Captive Banks May Help State Avoid Second Bailout With Bond Swap
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-01-31T10:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/captive-irish-banks-may-help-avoid-second-bailout-in-bond-swap.html
Ireland’s government bailed out the
banks. Now, the banks may help the state sidestep a second
rescue by easing the financing pressure on the nation just as
its aid is due to run out.  Irish  lenders  made up the majority of investors who decided
on Jan. 25 to shift about 30 percent of 11.9 billion euros
($15.6 billion) in government debt due in 2014 to a note
maturing in 2015, according to Davy, the country’s biggest
securities firm. Davy said it carried out about half the orders
as the Irish debt management agency sought to relieve funding
pressure when the aid package runs out at the end of next year.  “This is a smart solution and ticks a lot of boxes for
both the government and the banks,” said Gavin Blessing, a bond
analyst at  Collins Stewart  in Dublin. “Rather than trying to
get the market to absorb a fresh bond issuance, they were
dealing with a captive audience.”  While the debt crisis in  Greece  stems mainly from
government borrowing and spending, in Ireland it was the euro
region’s worst banking crisis that precipitated the economic
collapse. As a result, the Irish state now controls five of the
six biggest domestic lenders.  Ireland stepped out of bond markets in September 2010 and
sought a 67.5 billion-euro international bailout, which means
the state is fully funded through the end of 2013. The
government will then face what Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
has called a “funding cliff” in 2014. Spreading out repayments
means Ireland needs to raise less cash next year.  Perception Switch  “There had been speculation that Ireland would be forced
to seek a second bailout or even a Greek-style restructuring,”
said Jens Peter Soerensen, chief analyst in Copenhagen at  Danske
Bank A/S, (DANSKE)  a primary dealer in Irish  government bonds . “We
expect that the switch will change the perception, even though
apparently mainly Irish banks took part in the auction.”  Bank of Ireland Plc ,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Irish Bank
Resolution Corp., the three biggest lenders, declined to comment
on their role in the switch. A spokesman for the National
Treasury Management Agency, or NTMA, also declined to comment on
participation by the Irish banks.  The move came after Irish bonds posted the world’s best
returns during the past six months. In addition, the government
has met targets set by its bailout partners and convinced
investors that a line has been drawn under the woes in the
financial system.  ‘Well Timed’  “The NTMA’s offer to switch into 2015 paper was well timed
to take advantage of demand for short-term paper,” Conall
MacCoille, an economist at Davy in Dublin, said in a note. “It
is reasonable to assume that Irish banks played a key part.”  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark,
yielded 7.33 percent yesterday, down from 9.1 percent at the
start of December. The yield on the equivalent Greek security is
34 percent and 16.9 percent on the Portuguese note.  The 2015 bonds, which yield 5.1 percent, can be used as
collateral for banks to use to gain access to European Central
Bank three-year funding at 1 percent. Demand for “three-year
instruments” wasn’t being met before the switch, the NTMA said.  “This is bullish in so much as this represents the country
dipping its toe back into the market,” said  Richard McGuire , a
senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
 London . “However, the fact that the take-up was reportedly a
largely domestic affair does dilute the positive implications.”  ECB Lending  The ECB awarded 489 billion euros to banks across the
region in December and is planning another tender on Feb. 29.  Domestic and overseas lenders with operations in Ireland
borrowed 107.2 billion euros at the end of December, up from
102.9 billion euros a month earlier, the Irish central bank said
on Jan. 13. Ireland’s state-backed banks typically make up 70
percent of the financial industry’s borrowing from the ECB,
according to the  Finance Ministry .  In addition to giving the banks collateral, a successful
return to the international credit markets by the Irish state
also may ease the way for banks to sell debt again.  Bank of Ireland  was the last bank to auction a public
benchmark bond, in October 2010. The nation’s largest lender
sold 750 million euros of 2 ½-year notes priced to yield 420
basis points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate at the time.  Shares of Bank of Ireland rose 1.8 percent to 11.3 euro
cents at 9:31 a.m. in Dublin today, while Allied Irish Banks
rose 1.3 percent to 8 cents.  Ireland may repeat the exercise. The NTMA may seek to
undertake a further swap later this year, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter. Each time the state lessens the
payments due in 2014 it increases the chance they won’t need to
seek more external aid in 2013.  “The move was very positive and creates a viable route to
regain  market access  and issue in the primary market” said  Alan McQuaid , an economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “The
only disappointing aspect was the amount of foreign demand. To
make a really successful return to the bond market, the
international investor base has got to be more involved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net 
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  