-- Rousseff in Cuba Points to U.S. Human Rights Record
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C r i s   V a l e r i o
-- 2012-02-06T14:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/castro-rights-record-intrudes-on-rousseff-trade-mission-to-communist-cuba.html
(Corrects story from Jan. 31 to change description of
photograph in Sanchez blog in next-to-last paragraph.)  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
pushed back against criticisms of Cuba’s human rights record
that have intruded on her first state visit to the communist
island, saying a U.S. detention camp for suspected terrorists at
Guantanamo Bay is also a concern.  Rousseff, who was inspired by Cuba’s revolution to take up
arms against  Brazil ’s military dictatorship in the 1960s, said
that while she’ll discuss human rights in meetings today with
President Raul Castro and his brother Fidel, their government’s
record won’t be the sole focus. All countries, including Brazil,
must protect the rights of their citizens, she said.  “We’re going to begin talking about human rights in the
U.S., in regard to a base here called Guantanamo,” Rousseff,
referring to the U.S. detention camp, which is located on Cuba’s
southeastern tip, told reporters in  Havana . “It’s not possible
to use human rights as a political and ideological weapon.”  The death this month of jailed dissident Wilman Villar
after a 50-day hunger strike has drawn attention in Brazil’s
media to Castro’s rights record and the government’s refusal to
criticize it. While Rousseff has so far ignored requests for a
meeting from pro-democracy activists, her government last week
granted a tourist visa to Yoani Sanchez after the Cuban blogger
invoked the president’s experience surviving prison and torture
in an appeal to be allowed to leave the island.  ‘Awkward Situation’  Rousseff vowed to make human rights a priority of her
foreign policy, and in condemning abuses in  Iran , she’s also
distanced herself from the policies of her predecessor and
mentor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva .  Urged on by his Workers’ Party, some of whose leaders were
exiled in Cuba, Lula refused to criticize Castro or his
brother’s government while in power from 2003 to 2010. Following
a visit in 2010, which coincided with the death of another
hunger striker, the former union leader compared the country’s
dissidents to “criminals” in Sao Paulo jails.  “Rousseff is going to be in a very awkward situation by
choice,” former Brazilian Foreign Minister Luiz Felipe Lampreia
said in a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “She didn’t have
to go to Cuba.”  Rousseff, 64, said that with “great pride” she would meet
 Fidel Castro  during her three-day tour of Cuba and  Haiti , where
she’ll head tomorrow to oversee Brazilian troops leading an
United Nations peacekeeping force.  No Back-Slapping  While the Brazilian leader is unlikely to address Cuba’s
human rights situation publicly, she’s able to talk productively
to Castro about his government’s record behind the scenes, said
Julia Sweig, a senior fellow at the Washington-based Council on
Foreign Relations.  “There won’t be the kind of back-slapping that we saw when
Lula was there,” said Sweig, who is the author of several
 publications  on Brazil and Cuba. “Precisely because of Dilma’s
history and her explicit sensitivity to human rights I think she
is well positioned for political dialogue.”  Cuba’s government relies on beatings, short-term
detentions, forced exile and travel restrictions to repress
virtually all forms of political dissent, New York-based  Human
Rights Watch  said in a  report  this month. Cuba denies it’s
holding any political prisoners and considers dissident activity
to be counterrevolutionary.  In the run-up to Rousseff’s arrival yesterday, Brazilian
newspapers published almost-daily interviews with Sanchez and
activists from groups including the Ladies in White, in which
they called for a meeting with the president’s delegation.  Any such requests will be studied by Brazil’s Embassy in
Havana, the foreign ministry said in a statement. Rousseff’s
agenda doesn’t include any meetings with activists, and
underscoring the commercial nature of the visit, her human
rights minister is not among the cabinet officials and business
leaders making up her delegation.  Port Renovation  Brazil has emerged as one of Cuba’s biggest foreign
investors, along with China and  Venezuela , as Castro takes steps
to ease state control of the economy.  While Cuba isn’t among Brazil’s 30-biggest commercial
partners, trade between the two countries has been expanding at
a 30 percent annual pace since 2006, reaching $642 million last
year, according to Brazil’s Foreign Ministry.  Rousseff will visit today the deepwater port at Mariel,
which is undergoing a nearly $1 billion renovation led by
Odebrecht SA with funding from the Brazil’s state development
bank. The  Salvador , Brazil-based construction and raw materials
conglomerate said yesterday that it will also sign an agreement
to expand a sugar-cane mill operated by state-controlled Azcuba.  Brazil’s role in helping Cuba create jobs, contrasting with
longstanding hostility from the U.S., reinforces positive,
albeit slow-paced changes taking place on the island under
Castro, said Sweig.  Brazil’s investments in Mariel and elsewhere are
“fundamental so that conditions for sustainable development are
created here for the Cuban people,” Rousseff said.  Economic Overhaul  Since the 85-year-old Castro began handing power to his
brother in 2006, the former defense minister has taken steps to
open up the economy, which placed 177 out of 179 countries,
ahead of only  Zimbabwe  and  North Korea , in a ranking this month
of economic freedom by the Washington-based  Heritage Foundation .  For the first time in a half-century, Cubans can now buy
and sell property and cars. After the 80-year-old  Raul Castro 
began slashing state payrolls with a goal of eliminating 500,000
jobs, they’re able to seek self-employment as janitors and taxi
drivers.  The overhaul comes amid declines in tourism and the price
of nickel, the country’s biggest export, caused by a global
economy whose prospects for recovery have dimmed, according to
International Monetary Fund projections. The government expects
Cuba’s gross domestic product to expand 2.7 percent this year,
below the IMF’s 3.6 percent forecast for  Latin America  and the
Caribbean region.  U.S. ‘Blockade’  Echoing comments by the Castro government, Rousseff said
that a half-century U.S. trade embargo is also holding back the
economy.  The U.S. “blockade,” she said, “brings more poverty and
serious problems” for Cuba’s population of 11.2 million.
Brazil’s investments at Mariel are “fundamental so that
conditions for the sustainable development of the Cuban people”
take hold, she said.  Political Change  Political change has been slower. Speaking at a Communist
Party summit on Jan. 29, Castro vowed to maintain single-party
rule, adding that multi-party democracy would buoy U.S.
“imperialism” in Cuba.  Still, the government last year freed the remaining 12
political prisoners that made up the so-called Group of 75
journalists and rights activists who were jailed during a 2003
crackdown. The Roman Catholic Church helped negotiate the
release, and  Pope Benedict XVI  is scheduled to visit the once
anti-clerical island in March.  The 36-year-old Sanchez, a critic of Castro’s government on
a  blog  called Generation Y, referred to Rousseff’s persecution
by Brazil’s 1964-1985 dictatorship in her appeal for a visa to
attend a screening in Salvador of a documentary she appears in.
Sanchez has been blocked from traveling abroad for the past four
years.  “I saw a photo of young Dilma sitting in the dock, being
judged by men with their faces covered,” Sanchez  wrote  Jan. 24
on Twitter. “I feel that way right now.”  Rousseff said today that it wasn’t up to Brazil to allow
Sanchez to travel or not.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Havana at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Cris Valerio in  San Francisco  at 
 cvalerio2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  