-- Cequel Communications Sets Rate on $2.7 Billion in Loans
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-01-31T18:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/cequel-communications-sets-rate-on-2-7-billion-in-loans-1-.html
Cequel Communications LLC, the
cable-television and Internet-services provider that does
business as Suddenlink Communications, set the  interest rate  on
$2.7 billion in loans it’s seeking to refinance borrowings,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The new debt includes a $2.2 billion  term loan  B and a $500
million revolving line of credit, the company said today in a
statement.  The term loan is due in seven years and will pay 3.25
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
with a 1 percent minimum on the benchmark, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private. The
five-year  credit line  will pay 2.5 percentage points more than
Libor, according to the person.  Cequel, based in  St. Louis , is proposing to sell the term
loan at 99 cents on the dollar, the person said, reducing
proceeds for the borrower and boosting the yield for investors.  Credit Suisse AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Bank of America Corp. and Royal Bank of Canada are
arranging the financing and will meet with lenders tomorrow,
according to the person.  Proceeds will be used to refinance $2.53 billion in loans
and to pay a $370 million dividend to parent company Cequel
Communications Holdings I LLC in March and as much as $70
million more in May, according to the statement. As part of the
agreement, Cequel won’t make any further payouts before April 1,
2013.  Mary Meduski, chief financial officer, declined to comment
beyond the statement.  Ratings Affirmed  Moody’s Investors Service today assigned a Ba2 rating to
Cequel’s proposed debt, two levels below investment grade.  The ratings company affirmed Cequel’s B1 corporate credit
rating and stable outlook, citing an “adequate or better
liquidity profile” and expectation that “leverage will decline
to the mid-5 times debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization range driven by Ebitda growth over
the next 12 to 18 months.”  Cequel has a $2.33 billion term loan due in November 2013
and a $200 million revolving line of credit maturing in May
2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A term loan B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, bank loan mutual funds and
 hedge funds . In a revolving credit facility, money can be
borrowed again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 