-- CFTC Weighs Rules for High-Frequency Derivatives Trading Under Dodd-Frank
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/cftc-weighs-rules-for-high-frequency-derivatives-trading-under-dodd-frank.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission , which is working to complete Dodd-Frank Act rules
for derivatives markets, is weighing new rules and oversight of
companies that use automated and high-frequency trading systems.  CFTC members may vote to issue a so-called concept release
in the next few months to gather public comment on potential
regulations, according to CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  and
Commissioner  Bart Chilton , a fellow Democrat. The agency also
plans to set up an advisory panel to help define high-frequency
trading, according to Republican commissioner  Scott O’Malia .  “We could look at individuals in the pit and tell you what
they were doing, but we don’t have a good handle on what we’re
dealing with in the automated trading space,” O’Malia said in a
telephone interview yesterday. There is no consensus on how to
define high-frequency trading, he said.  The increased focus on automated trading comes as the CFTC
this year looks to complete rulemaking under Dodd-Frank, the
regulatory overhaul that expanded oversight over derivatives
markets after largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis.  The concept release would seek comment on how to test and
supervise high-frequency traders, Gensler said in a Jan. 27
 speech . The release could also seek comment on registration
systems and pre- and post-trade methods of ensuring transparency
in markets, Chilton said yesterday.  “To date, I don’t think U.S. regulators have been
aggressive in considering how this super-fast trading can impact
markets,” Chilton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  