-- McGraw-Hill Fourth-Quarter Profit Rises on Information Units
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-01-31T15:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/mcgraw-hill-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-on-media-business.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , the credit rating
and publishing company that’s splitting in two, said profit rose
39 percent, boosted by stock buybacks and increased revenue from
its information and financial services divisions.  Fourth-quarter net income increased to $214 million, or 73
cents a share, from $153.8 million, or 50 cents, a year earlier,
the New York-based company said today in a statement. Earnings
excluding some items were 63 cents a share, beating the 57-cent
average of seven analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  McGraw-Hill, the owner of  Standard & Poor’s , said Sept. 12
it will break into two companies, one focused on financial
information and the other on educational publishing, by the end
of this year. While McGraw-Hill is cutting costs and accelerated
the pace of its share repurchases last year, profit at the S&P
ratings unit fell as companies postponed bond sales amid the
European debt crisis.  “The global credit markets were down significantly in the
fourth quarter,” Chief Executive Officer Harold “Terry” McGraw III said today on a conference call with analysts. “We do
expect continued volatility in 2012.”  McGraw-Hill fell 1.5 percent to $45.63 at 10:29 a.m. in New
York trading. Through yesterday, the stock had climbed 15
percent since the company announced the planned split in
September.  2012 Outlook  Fourth-quarter sales rose 1.6 percent to $1.52 billion, the
company said. It forecast earnings per share for full-year 2012
of $3.25 to $3.35, higher than the $3.22 predicted by analysts.  Operating profit at S&P ratings fell 24 percent to $156
million in the fourth quarter, excluding the cost of firing 30
workers.  The breakup of the company is on schedule for the second
half of 2012, McGraw said.  “We’re going to do everything we can to accelerate this as
best we can,” McGraw said.  As part of a plan to cuts $100 million in costs, the
company eliminated 800 positions. McGraw-Hill also sold its
broadcast unit to E.W. Scripps Co. for $123 million in December.  Fourth-quarter profit was boosted by McGraw-Hill’s
commodities and commercial unit, formerly known as information
and media, which includes  Platts , a service that provides news
and data about the  energy industry . Platts’s revenue grew 24
percent.  “The Platts business has been phenomenal,” said  Peter Appert , an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co., who has an
“overweight” rating on McGraw-Hill shares. “That will be the
biggest profit generator within that segment.”  Operating profit from McGraw-Hill’s index and financial
information business increased 29 percent in the quarter.  McGraw-Hill began a strategic review in 2010 of the
company’s businesses. Last August, Jana Partners, a  New York- 
based hedge fund and investor in the company, proposed a plan to
break up McGraw-Hill after education revenue fell for three
straight quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  