-- Challenge to Obama’s Labor Board Recess Appointments ‘Futile,’ U.S. Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-01-31T14:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/challenge-to-obama-s-labor-board-recess-appointments-futile-u-s-says.html
The U.S. asked a judge to reject a
challenge to the Obama administration’s appointments to the
 National Labor Relations Board  while the Senate was out of town,
calling the effort “futile.”  Trade groups, including the National Association of
Manufacturers, the National Right to Work Legal Defense and
Education Foundation and the National Federation of Independent
Business last year sued to block a rule mandating that companies
notify workers of their rights to form a union.  After suing, some of the plaintiffs also challenged
President  Barack Obama ’s Jan. 4 appointment of three members to
the National Labor Relations Board, without Senate confirmation,
during a congressional break. The trade groups lack authority to
mount such a challenge and the dispute isn’t ready for
adjudication, the U.S. said in a court filing yesterday.  “The overwhelming majority of unfair labor practice cases
are finally resolved at the regional office level by withdrawal,
dismissal or settlement and never reach the board,” Eric
Moskowitz, an NLRB lawyer, told U.S. District Judge Amy Berman
Jackson in the filing in federal court in  Washington .  Moskowitz said the trade groups shouldn’t be able to revise
their complaint to question the board’s authority to enforce the
new rule, which is due to take effect at the end of April.  Republican lawmakers criticized Obama’s decision to name
three NLRB members and the first head of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau,  Richard Cordray , during the congressional
recess when the Senate was in so-called pro forma session.  The Constitution gives presidents the power to make
appointments when the Senate is in recess. Republicans won
bipartisan agreement to keep Congress in pro forma sessions
every three days through the holidays in an attempt to keep
Obama from filling vacancies.  The case is National Association of Manufacturers v.
National Labor Relations Board, 1:11-cv-01629, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 