-- Business Activity in U.S. Cooled in January as Orders Slowed
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-31T15:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/chicago-purchasing-managers-index-unexpectedly-declined-to-60-2-in-january.html
Business activity in the U.S. cooled
in January as orders and employment slowed, indicating last
quarter’s pickup in growth will not be sustained into 2012.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its  business barometer  declined to 60.2 from 62.2 in December.
Readings above 50 signal growth. Economists forecast the gauge
would rise to 63, according to the  median  of 57 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Three consecutive readings exceeding 60 are still the
strongest since early 2011, signaling manufacturing remains a
mainstay of the expansion even as the world’s largest economy
decelerates. Nonetheless, the risk of a recession in  Europe 
prompted by its debt crisis and slower growth in some  emerging
markets  pose a risk to export growth.  “We’re still getting off to a healthy start, benefiting
from moderate growth in U.S. demand,”  Richard DeKaser , deputy
chief economist at Parthenon Group in  Boston , said before the
report, who projected the index would drop to 59. “The urgency
to rebuild inventories has faded even as demand is still
solid.”  Economists’ projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
59 to 67.  Another report today showed residential real estate prices
fell more than forecast in November, showing distressed
properties are hampering improvement in the housing market.  Home Prices  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
declined 3.7 percent from November 2010 after decreasing 3.4
percent in the year ended in October, the group said today in
 New York . Economists projected a 3.3 percent drop, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Also today, the New York-based Conference Board said its
confidence index fell to 61.1 from a revised 64.8 reading in the
prior month. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a rise to 68. The figure was lower than the
most pessimistic projection.  Stocks trimmed earlier gains after the reports. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.1 percent 1,314.57 at
10:02 a.m. in New York.  The Chicago group’s employment measure fell to 54.7, the
lowest level since August, from 59.2 the prior month. The
production gauge decreased to 63.8 from 64.9, and the index of
new orders declined to 63.6 from 67.1.  Inflation Cools  The measure of prices paid dropped to 62.4 from 63.8 and a
gauge of inventories decreased to 51.6 from 52.  Manufacturing payrolls increased by 13,000 in January
following a 23,000 gain the prior month, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast the Labor Department will say Feb. 3 in its
monthly payroll report. Total payrolls rose 145,000, according
to the forecasts.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  The ISM’s national  factory index  rose in January to 54.6
from a revised 53.1 the prior month, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey ahead of the group’s report
tomorrow. Like the Chicago survey, a reading greater than 50
signals expansion.  New York-region factories expanded in January at the
fastest rate in nine months and manufacturing in the
Philadelphia area grew the most since October, figures from the
 Federal Reserve  showed.  More Orders  A Commerce Department report last week showed orders in
December for durable goods rose 3 percent after jumping 4.3
percent the prior month. Unfilled orders increased 1.5 percent,
the biggest jump since March 2008 and a sign assembly lines
would keep humming.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest construction and mining-
equipment maker, last week posted fourth-quarter earnings and
forecast full-year profit that topped analysts’ estimates as
demand rose for earth-moving machinery and trucks.  The Peoria, Illinois-based company will see more orders as
pent-up demand is released and customers replace older products,
Chief Financial Officer Ed Rapp said. With corporate balance
sheets now in “pretty good shape,” companies such as Caterpillar
are more willing to invest in product development, additional
capacity and acquisitions, he said.  “Some of those factors that are impacting our business,
our view of where things are, are going to play out in other
industries as well,” Rapp said in an interview, citing
automakers as an example.  The reviving auto industry, much of it located in the
Midwest, is also boosting the  U.S. economy . Industrywide, light-
 vehicle sales  ran at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate of
13.5 million in December after 13.6 million the prior month,
according to Autodata Corp. That’s the fastest two-month pace
since the period ended in June 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 