-- Chile Central Bank Nominee Urges Vigilance Over Slowdown
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-01-31T17:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/chile-central-bank-nominee-urges-vigilance-over-slowdown-1-.html
Chile ´s central bank and government
must remain vigilant to prevent the global slowdown from
undercutting the country’s economy, even as domestic demand
remains resilient, central bank board nominee Joaquin Vial said.  “Chile´s situation today effectively is very favorable,”
Vial said hours before his confirmation vote in the Senate in
Valparaiso. Yet, “times like those we´re seeing today that are
particularly good are when the government and central bank must
exercise maximum vigilance.”  The Senate will vote this afternoon on Vial´s nomination to
take the place on the board of former central bank President
Jose De Gregorio, who stepped down in December. De Gregorio was
replaced as bank president by board member Rodrigo Vergara.  If approved, Vial would be in place as the fifth board
member by the next interest-rate decision on Feb. 14.
Unemployment unexpectedly fell in the fourth quarter, while
retail sales rose more than expected in December, casting doubt
on whether authorities need to take steps to stimulate growth
this year, Deputy Finance Minister Julio Dittborn told reporters
in Valparaiso today.  “The country truly is showing great capacity to grow,”
Dittborn said before meeting with the Senate Finance Committee.
“It doesn´t seem we may need a contingency plan. Obviously,
things could change.”  Battery of Programs  The contingency plan would entail implementing “a
battery” of programs designed to boost investment and protect
jobs, Dittborn said.  Policy makers unexpectedly reduced borrowing costs this
month for the first time since 2009, even after inflation
reached 4.4 percent, breaching the central bank target of 2
percent to 4 percent.  “In the latest monetary policy report, we estimated that a
somewhat more expansive monetary policy may be needed to
accommodate and decrease the negative impact foreseen from the
external scenario,” Vergara told Senators today. “The 25 basis
point reduction in the monetary policy that we decided upon in
the last meeting is in line with that.”  Unemployment dropped to 6.6 percent in the fourth quarter,
while retail sales grew 10.1 percent in December from the
previous year, the National Statistics Institute said in
separate reports this week.  Vial has a doctorate in economics from the  University of
Pennsylvania  and was budget director in the government of
President Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle from 1997 to 2000. He was
later chairman of BBVA’s Chilean pension fund AFP Provida SA,
where he oversaw about $40 billion in assets.  “Joaquin Vial is a professional with an outstanding
background,” Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters
Jan. 19. “He is an independent professional with all the
characteristics needed to make an enormous contribution to the
central bank board.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 