-- Chile Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Falls, Complicating Outlook for Rate Cuts
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-01-31T13:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/chilean-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-falls-in-october-december-1-.html
Chile’s  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly declined in the three months through December,
adding to inflationary pressures and complicating the outlook
for further interest rate cuts.  The jobless rate dropped to 6.6 percent from 7.1 percent in
the month-earlier period as the retail, mining and construction
industries expanded, the National Statistics Institute said. The
median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
the unemployment rate to remain unchanged.  “The labor market is very tight and it should be a cause
of concern for the central bank,” said Juan Pablo Castro, an
economist at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago. “We would have
to see a very negative surprise in February inflation for the
bank to have room to keep cutting rates.”  The central bank unexpectedly reduced its benchmark
 interest rate  by a quarter point to 5 percent on Jan. 12, saying
a pick-up in inflation in December was likely to be transitory.
With retail sales leaping 10.1 percent in December from the year
earlier and unemployment at the lowest since before the
recession of 2009, that rate cut may prove to be the last for
various months.  “We expect the bank to hold in February,” Castro said.
“We could have a fairly prolonged pause.”  Six-month interest-rate swaps in pesos rose two basis
points, or 0.02 of a percentage point, to 4.67 percent as of
9:59 a.m. in Santiago. The two-year swap rate climbed three
basis points to 4.43 percent.  Market Outlook  Chile ’s labor market will continue to expand this year,
Labor Minister Evelyn Matthei said in a Jan. 26 statement. At
the same time, the government says it’s ready to take steps that
may include increased fiscal spending to protect jobs if the
global economic downturn impacts Chile further.  “There is a shortage of workers in some areas like
agriculture,” said Matthei, a former senator who studied
economics at the Pontifical  Catholic University  of Chile.
“We’ve seen a lot of women seeking work, with many of them
finding it.”  Chile’s economy probably expanded about 4 percent in
December from the previous year, matching gains in November and
beating October data, Cesar Guzman, deputy director of
macroeconomic studies at investment services company Inversiones
Security, wrote in a report yesterday.  The sustained economic growth helped push inflation to 4.4
percent in December, the fastest pace since April 2009 and up
from 3.9 percent in November.  “Activity continued moderating at the close of last year
and may continue to do so for much of this year,” Guzman wrote.
“At the same time, the data continued to show evidence of a
positive performance from sectors tied to internal demand
measured over 12 months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 