-- Chinese Cadmium Spill Won’t Halt Tap Water Supply, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-31T17:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/chinese-cadmium-spill-won-t-halt-tap-water-supply-xinhua-says.html
A toxic metal spill in the Guangxi
region that contaminated a tributary of the Pearl River won’t
cause cuts in tap water supplies to Liuzhou city or other
downstream areas, according to a local official.  Two weeks of cleanup have contained the spill, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported late yesterday, citing Feng
Zhennian, an official with the regional environmental protection
department. Guangxi started to overhaul the heavy-metal
industry, seeking to halt pollution discharges, it said.  Chinese workers have dumped chemicals to contain the
cadmium spill, detected Jan. 15 upstream of the city of Hechi,
which killed fish and prompted panic buying of bottled water.  Lead poisoning from battery makers, fluoride leaks from
solar panel plants and acid spills from mines have sparked
outrage in  China  as three decades  of growth  transformed the
nation into the world’s second-biggest economy and its largest
polluter.  The concentration of cadmium near the water plant in
Liuzhou, a city of 1.5 million people, was about twice the
official limit of 0.005 milligrams per liter yesterday, a sign
the spill is under control, Xinhua cited Feng as saying.
Concentrations in treated tap water were no higher than 0.00065
milligrams per liter, it said.  Cadmium, used in batteries and paint pigments, may cause
kidney dysfunction and cancer, according to the  U.S. Department
of Labor . The metal will have a lasting environmental impact on
fish and soil when it sinks to the riverbed, China National
Radio reported previously, citing Li Li, a researcher at Chinese
Research Academy of Environmental Sciences.  High Levels  Pollutants were first detected in Longjiang river, a
tributary upstream of the Liujiang river, on Jan. 15, with the
cadmium concentration near the Lalang reservoir 80 times higher
than the official limit, Xinhua said, citing Feng.  The cadmium concentration in the reservoir has returned to
normal, Feng said yesterday, according to Xinhua. The emergency
center that Feng runs estimated the total volume of contaminants
at 20 metric tons, Xinhua reported.  Seven chemical-plant executives have been detained on
suspicion of causing the industrial-waste discharges, Xinhua
said. The provincial industry overhaul will include heavy-metal
producers and makers of batteries, leather products and
chemicals, the official news service said.  The cadmium spill hasn’t affected the quality of the water
at the Dongjiang river system where  Hong Kong  gets its supply,
Gabriel Pang, a spokesman at the city’s Water Supplies
Department, said by phone yesterday. The contamination is at the
Xijiang river system, he said.  Several instances of chemical spills have threatened
Chinese cities’ drinking water in the past decade. A 2005
explosion at a unit of  PetroChina Co. (857)  in northern China caused
100 tons of toxins to be spilled into the Songhua river, forcing
authorities to shut off tap water for more than 3 million people
in the city of Harbin. That incident led to the resignation of
Xie Zhenhua as China’s top environmental protection official.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  