-- China Tightens Rules for Handling Ships Including Valemax
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-01-31T22:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/china-tightens-rules-for-handling-very-large-ore-ships-tankers.html
China , the world’s largest iron-ore
consumer, tightened rules for ports that handle very large ore
ships and oil tankers to ensure safety standards, restricting
 Vale SA (VALE5) ’s plans to serve its main customer with giant carriers.  Harbors will need to get permission from China’s ministry
of transport to handle vessels bigger than their designated
capacity, according to a  notice  on the department’s website
today. Ports and ship operators have generally dealt with such
cases individually, it said.  The ministry will take a more active role in enforcing
rules drawn up in 2006 because bigger ships present “hidden
dangers,” it said in today’s notice. China will increase checks
on large ships because of a history of safety problems at ports
around the country, according to the statement. Ports need to
draw up designated routes for larger ships and emergency plans,
according to earlier  rules .  Shipping lines and commodity companies are introducing
bigger vessels to help meet Chinese demand and to counter rising
fuel costs. Rio de Janeiro-based Vale, the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, is spending at least $8.1 billion buying 19 very
large ore carriers and leasing another 16 in long-term
contracts, as it seeks lower freight costs from  Brazil  to China.
Vale has said it may sell some of its large ships.  Vale’s plan has spurred opposition from Chinese shipowners
who say it will worsen overcapacity and cause industry wide
losses.  Reducing Freight Costs  Vale’s strategy of reducing freight cost volatility won’t
change if the company sells its giant ships, because it will
lease them back under long-term contracts, Barclays Plc analysts
led by Leonardo Correa in  Sao Paulo  said in a note today.  “Vale has been facing severe problems to dock its very
large ore carriers at Chinese ports,” the analysts wrote.  China, which buys about 45 percent of the iron ore sold by
the Brazilian company, is excluding the so-called Valemax
vessels, the world’s biggest carriers of dry-bulk commodities,
because they lack port-entry permits, Jose Carlos Martins,
Vale’s head of ferrous and strategy, said in December.  The five Valemax ships, which are able to carry about
400,000 metric tons of  iron ore , haven’t reached Chinese ports
since they began operating in May. The Berge Everest, another
large vessel used by Vale with capacity to carry 388,000 metric
tons, called at the Chinese port of Dalian Dec. 28. Vale is
setting up plans to bypass the exclusion by establishing a so-
called transshipment vessel in the  Philippines .  A Vale official in Rio de Janeiro, who declined to be named
citing corporate policy, said the company wouldn’t comment.  Vale  rose  2.6 percent to 42.69 reais in Sao Paulo today,
its highest closing since Sept. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  