-- China Detains Seven People Over Cadmium Spill, Xinhua Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2012-01-31T05:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/china-detains-seven-people-over-toxic-metal-spill-xinhua-says.html
China  detained seven people in
connection with a toxic metal spill in Guangxi province that
contaminated a tributary of the Pearl River and threatened water
for 1.5 million people, according to a local official.  All seven were executives at chemical plants, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported late yesterday, citing Feng Zhennian,
an official with the regional environmental protection
department. Feng didn’t identify the executives, Xinhua said.  Chinese workers have dumped chemicals to contain the
cadmium spill, detected Jan. 15 upstream of the city of Hechi,
which killed fish and prompted panic buying of bottled water.
Lead poisoning from battery makers, fluoride leaks from solar
panel plants and acid spills from mines have sparked outrage in
China, as three decades  of growth  transformed the nation into
the world’s second-biggest economy and its largest polluter.  Pollutants were still flowing downstream, and were close to
a major drinking water source for Liujiang, a city with 1.5
million people, Xinhua cited Feng as saying. The city’s water
company has stepped up surveillance, he said.  Cadmium, used in batteries and paint pigments, may cause
kidney dysfunction and cancer, according to the  U.S. Department
of Labor . The metal will have a lasting environmental impact on
local fish and soil when it sinks to the riverbed, China
National Radio reported, citing Li Li, a researcher at Chinese
Research Academy of Environmental Sciences.  High Levels  Pollutants were first detected in Longjiang river, a
tributary upstream of the Liujiang river, on Jan. 15, with the
cadmium concentration near the Lalang reservoir 80 times higher
than the official limit, Xinhua said, citing Feng.  The pollutants were now near the Luodong hydropower station,
and the concentration levels have dropped to 25 times higher
than the official limit, Feng said, according to Xinhua.  The cadmium spill hasn’t affected the quality of the water
at the Dongjiang river system where  Hong Kong  gets its supply,
Gabriel Pang, a spokesman at the city’s Water Supplies
Department, said by phone today. The contamination is at the
Xijiang river system, he said.  Several instances of chemical spills have threatened
Chinese cities’ drinking water in the past decade. A 2005
explosion at a unit of PetroChina Co. in northern China caused
100 tons of toxins to be spilled into the Songhua river, forcing
authorities to shut off tap water for more than 3 million people
in the city of Harbin. That incident led to the resignation of
Xie Zhenhua as China’s top environmental protection official.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  