-- China-Based Hackers Target Law Firms to Get Secret Deal Data
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A .   R i l e y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-31T21:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/china-based-hackers-target-law-firms.html
China-based hackers looking to
derail the $40 billion acquisition of the world’s largest potash
producer by an Australian mining giant zeroed in on offices on
Toronto’s Bay Street, home of the Canadian law firms handling
the deal.  Over a few months beginning in September 2010, the hackers
rifled one secure computer network after the next, eventually
hitting seven different law firms as well as  Canada ’s Finance
Ministry and the  Treasury Board , according to Daniel Tobok,
president of Toronto-based  Digital Wyzdom . His cyber security
company was hired by the law firms to assist in the probe.  The investigation linked the intrusions to a Chinese effort
to scuttle the takeover of Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. by
BHP Billiton Ltd. as part of the global competition for natural
resources, Tobok said. Such stolen data can be worth tens of
millions of dollars and give the party who possesses it an
unfair advantage in deal negotiations, he said.  Though the deal eventually fell apart for unrelated
reasons, the incident illustrates the vulnerability of law
firms. They are increasingly threatened with a loss of client
business if they can’t show improved security as such attacks
continue to escalate.  Stephen Surdu, vice president of professional services at
Mandiant Corp., a cybersecurity firm that tracks industrial
espionage, compared the risk of hacking in the mergers and
acquisition arena to gambling.  “You’re playing poker, and there’s a mirror over the other
guy’s shoulder,” Surdu said.  Easier Quarry  “As financial institutions in  New York City  and the world
become stronger, a hacker can hit a law firm and it’s a much,
much easier quarry,” said Mary Galligan, head of the cyber
division in the New York City office of the U.S. Federal Bureau
of Investigation.  Galligan’s unit convened a meeting with the top 200 law
firms in New York City last November to deal with the rising
number of law firm intrusions. Over snacks in a large meeting
room, the FBI issued a warning to the lawyers: Hackers see
attorneys as a back door to the valuable data of their corporate
clients.  “We told them they need a diagram of their network; they
need to know how computer logs are kept,” Galligan said of the
meeting. “Some were really well prepared; others didn’t know
what we were talking about.”  The ability to keep client information confidential is a
key principle of how law firms function. The attacks have
created what Tony Cordeiro, chief information officer at  White &
Case LLP , termed a “healthy paranoia.”  80 Firms Hacked  Mandiant, which is based in Alexandria,  Virginia , said it
estimates that 80 major U.S. law firms were hacked last year.  More than a dozen law firms contacted about the New York
City meeting, including Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC and
Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP, didn’t return telephone calls
and e-mails seeking comment. Jennifer Becker, a spokeswoman for
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and Kevin Blasko, a
spokesman for Baker & McKenzie LLP, declined to comment.  Mark Hendrick, director of  information technology  for  Baker
Botts LLP , declined to comment beyond confirming the firm’s
attendance at the November forum.  “Given the sensitive nature of the topics discussed,
including possible threats to the safety of our IT network, I
can only state that at  Baker Botts  we work diligently every day
at maintaining the integrity of our systems,” Hendrick said in
an e-mailed statement.  ‘Up at Night’  Cordeiro said “protecting ourselves against threats keeps
me up at night.”  Hackers could gain access to a firm’s networks through
phishing or its use of cloud storage programs, which might allow
information to be compromised during a seemingly routine
transfer or sync, Cordeiro said.  “It’s a people door,” Cordeiro said. “It’s like having
the door and allowing someone to walk through without having a
key.”  To enhance New York-based  White & Case ’s data security, he
said he requires the use of encrypted connections and restricts
the use by attorneys of vulnerable file-hosting programs like
Drop Box, a cloud-based system that allows users to save files
including photos, documents and videos. White & Case is one of a
handful of firms to receive an accreditation for information
protection, which some law firms are now using as a selling
point to clients.  Dedicated Terminal  Edward Stroz, a partner in the data security firm Stroz
Friedberg LLC, said many more law firms have knocked on his door
within the last 12 months than previously. They are driven there
in many cases by clients, who are demanding greater protection
of their confidential information, he said.  In some sensitive cases, Stroz has required lawyers to
access highly sensitive client data directly in a secure
location, banning e-mail or the digital transfer of documents.  “They have to go on site at the client company, use a
dedicated terminal and review the data there so that the client
knows it never left the building,” Stroz said.  The level of skill and seriousness of the attacks differs
widely. Attackers include hackers looking for information they
can sell quickly. Law firms representing celebrities, for
example, are top targets, said Don Jackson, a researcher with
Atlanta-based Dell SecureWorks, a cybersecurity firm.  The Canada case involving Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  shows just how serious the threat can be.
The intruders were professionals potentially linked to the
interests of a nation-state, with all its resources, said Anup Ghosh, chief scientist at the Fairfax, Virginia-based cyber
security firm Invincea Inc.  New Spy Game  “This is the new way the spy game is played,” Ghosh said.  Chinese government officials have denied any involvement.
Calls to the Chinese embassy in Ottawa weren’t immediately
returned.  Bill Johnson , a spokesman for Potash Corp., and Ruban
Yogarajah, a spokesman for BHP, declined to comment.  At the time of the attacks,  China  was on the hunt for new
sources of agrochemicals. Potash is a common name for compounds
containing potassium used in the manufacture of fertilizer.  Sinochem Group , China’s formerly state-owned chemical
giant, hired Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Inc. in September
2010 to evaluate moves to disrupt BHP’s bid for Potash Corp., a
hostile tactic approved directly by the Chinese government,
according to a report at the time by the Financial Times.  Tobok said a law firm involved in the deal detected signs
of the intrusion the same month, including network disruptions.
Analyzing the attack, investigators found that the spyware
designed to capture confidential documents -- and sent via
spoofed e-mails -- was compiled on a Chinese-language keyboard
and China-based servers were involved in the attack, he said.  Aboriginal Ruse  Technical similarities connected those attacks with
counterfeit e-mails sent to  Finance Ministry  officials
supposedly from an aboriginal group opposed to the deal,
according to Tobok. The e-mails directed the officials to a
website which stealthily downloaded spyware through a
vulnerability in web browsers onto state-owned computers,
according to a Canadian government report cited by the Ottawa
Citizen in October.  “It sounds like something out of  Mission Impossible , but
this is the sophistication of the stuff out there,” Tobok said.  Successful Attacks  It’s not known how successful the attacks were or how any
data stolen was used by the intruders, investigators have said.
The government report said the attack on the federal ministries
was successful in stealing some data.  According to a person familiar with the case who asked not
to be identified because of the criminal investigation, the
hackers’ victims included Toronto-based law firms  Blake, Cassels
& Graydon LLP , which represented BHP, a company with primary
offices in  Melbourne ,  Australia ,  Singapore  and  London .  Also hit, the person said, was Stikeman Elliott LLP, which
represented Saskatoon, Canada-based Potash Corp.  The law firms would have had detailed knowledge of the
deal’s negotiations, including potential weak points, the person
said. Diana Lawrence, a spokeswoman for Stikeman Elliott, said
there was no evidence client information was compromised or that
the firm’s networks were breached. Robert Granatstein, managing
partner of Blake Cassels, said that the firm wasn’t aware that
any client data was compromised.  Takeover Stopped  The Canadian government later killed the BHP takeover using
federal powers to declare it wasn’t in the nation’s interest.  Similarities between the Canadian attack and other recent
intrusions at U.S. law firms suggest that cyberattacks on
attorneys are now part of the hacking playbook for gathering
sensitive information on corporate clients, according to Ghosh.  In one recent case, a corporation was negotiating to open a
major plant in China when the law firm helping with the deal was
hacked, Surdu said.  “They were looking for what the company was willing to pay
for that land, what were they willing to pay to bring roads to
the facility,” he said. “This was a major deal with lots of
zeros on the end.”  Other recent law firm hacks involved efforts to steal
secret details about a merger and documents relating to an
opponent’s strategy in a major litigation, Ghosh and Surdu said.  Galligan, the FBI agent, said that the culture of law firms
and the significant sway of partners often make them a soft
target.  ‘It’s Trendy’  “Everybody wants network administrator rights,” Galligan
said. “It’s trendy.” She said partners insist on mobility --
including the flexibility to review case documents at weekend
homes or on the road -- which means highly sensitive documents
are routinely transferred by e-mail.  At the November meeting, the FBI urged firms to review
their mobility policies, including the security of e-mail
linkups and mobile phones, Galligan said.  “If clients start thinking they can’t give private
information to their lawyers because it might get out, it’s a
huge problem for the profession,” said Richard Goldberg, a
former software programmer and lawyer in  Washington  involved in
the data security issue. “The whole system will start to
fail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael A. Riley in Washington
at   michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 