-- China Yuan Set for Worst Month in 18 Years as Policy Makers May Slow Gains
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-01-31T09:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/china-yuan-set-for-worst-month-in-18-years-as-policy-makers-may-slow-gains.html
The yuan gained the most this year
on optimism progress is being made on solving the European debt
crisis and speculation exporter demand for the currency rose
after the Lunar New Year holidays last week.  The yuan was poised for its worst monthly loss in 18 years
earlier before rallying after Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said progress had been made in talks with creditors.
China is scheduled to release a manufacturing  purchasing
managers’ index  for January tomorrow. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg estimate the gauge will be at 49.6, compared with 50.3
in December. Fifty is the dividing line between contraction and
expansion.  “The latest news from  Greece  provides a breather,” said
Patrick Cheng, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange analyst at
Haitong International Securities Co. “Exporters’ demand for the
yuan becomes stronger after the Lunar New Year Holidays.”  The yuan advanced 0.36 percent to close at 6.3085 per
dollar today in  Shanghai , paring this month’s decline to 0.23
percent, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It was the biggest daily gain since Dec. 30. The currency’s
monthly loss widened to as much as 0.6 percent earlier, the
worst performance since the start of 1994 when  China  unified the
official and market exchange rates.  The People’s Bank of China has lowered the  reference rate 
by 0.17 percent this year. The central bank weakened the fixing
by 0.09 percent to 6.3115 today. The yuan is allowed to trade as
much as 0.5 percent on either side of the rate.  Slowing Growth  Asia ’s largest economy will expand 8 percent in the first
quarter this year, the slowest growth since 2009, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Exports (CNFREXPY)  rose 13.4
percent in December from a year earlier, the least in two years,
data from the Beijing-based customs bureau showed this month.  Foreign-exchange reserves  fell last quarter for first time
in more than a decade as  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred an
emerging-market asset sell-off.  “Investors are worried about China’s export outlook as the
European debt crisis lingers,” said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-
based economist at CCB International Securities Ltd., a unit of
China’s second-largest bank. “Possible capital outflows also
add to the concern that economic growth will slow further.”  China kept the yuan at about 6.83 per dollar from July 2008
to June 2010 to help exporters weather a global recession. The
currency will strengthen the least since 2009 this year as
Europe’s debt crisis hurts exports, according to the most-
accurate forecasters.  Offshore Gains  Yuan assets in offshore markets increased in January as the
 Federal Reserve  signaled U.S. interest rates will stay near zero
through 2014. Last month, China granted 21 local financial
companies yuan qualified foreign institutional investor licenses,
allowing them to invest about 20 billion yuan raised offshore in
China’s domestic markets. The companies started selling these
so-called yuan QFII funds this month.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan advanced 0.17
percent to 6.3025, extending this month’s gain to 0.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards rose 1.6 percent to 6.2835 in January, the
most since August. The contracts, which were little changed
today, are at a 0.4 percent premium to the onshore spot rate.  China plans to “substantially” increase quotas for the
yuan QFII program, China Business News reported today, citing an
unidentified person close to regulators. The government may more
than double the combined quota for the dollar-denominated QFII
quota from $30 billion, the Chinese-language paper reported on
Jan. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  