-- China’s Premier Wen Says Property Curbs to Stay, Reiterates Fine-Tuning
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-31T08:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/china-s-premier-wen-says-property-curbs-to-stay-reiterates-fine-tuning.html
China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao 
reiterated that the government will maintain curbs on the
 property market  to bring prices down to a reasonable level and
economic policies will be “fine-tuned” to support growth.  Wen also repeated his call to strengthen credit support to
the “real economy” and small and medium-sized companies. His
comments, posted on the central government’s  website , were made
at a meeting of the State Council today to discuss its work
report to the National People’s Congress in March.  China’s growth is moderating as  Europe ’s debt crisis and
weak U.S. expansion hurt exports and the government’s campaign
to rein in inflation and property prices damps output. The
nation’s first official data for 2012 due tomorrow may show
 manufacturing  contracted in January, adding to pressure on the
government to step up policy easing.  “We must maintain keen observation and make accurate
judgments about the domestic and external economic situations
and be on high alert for any signs or trends in the economy,”
Wen said at the meeting, according to the statement. The
government will “properly manage the strength, pace and focus
of macro-controls, and fine-tune policies at the appropriate
time and with appropriate intensity,” he said.  The central bank held off on a reduction in bank reserve
requirements that some economists had predicted would come
before a weeklong holiday that ended on Jan. 28, suggesting
officials are cautious on more monetary loosening. The People’s
Bank of  China  has added cash into the financial system through
reverse-repurchase operations to support lending.  Curb Speculation  The government will ensure funding for key projects under
construction and maintain steady growth in  investment , he said.  “We will consolidate the results of property controls,
continue to strictly implement and gradually improve policy
measures aimed at curbing speculative demand and push prices to
return to reasonable levels,” he said.  Wen said in October the government will “fine-tune”
economic policies as needed amid a deteriorating global outlook
and reiterated the pledge on Jan. 3, describing business
conditions this quarter as “relatively difficult.”  A manufacturing purchasing managers’ index probably dropped
below a reading of 50 that divides expansion from contraction
for the second time in three months, according to the median
estimate of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The data
will be released in Beijing tomorrow by the statistics bureau
and logistics federation.  Wen also pledged the government will work to “effectively
solve prominent problems affecting people’s well-being” and
make sure that welfare payments such as the minimum living
guarantee and unemployment insurance are linked to inflation.  --Li Yanping. With assistance from  Alfred Cang , Jing Jin and
Huiwen Yang in  Shanghai . Editors: Nerys Avery, Shamim Adam  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  