-- China Practices Threaten 1.6 Million Auto Jobs, Reports Say
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-01-31T15:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/china-practices-threaten-1-6-million-auto-jobs-reports-say.html
About 1.6 million U.S. jobs in the
auto-parts industry are threatened by  China ’s illegal trade
practices and federal action is needed to protect the recovery
for carmakers, the Alliance for American Manufacturing said.  China’s violations of World Trade Organization rules have
already cost more than 400,000 jobs since 2000, according to a
report released today by the group. China  imported  $62 billion
in auto parts since 2001, increasing an auto-parts deficit with
China by 850 percent, according to the group.  “It’s essential that federal action be taken to challenge
these abuses before they completely undermine the job recovery
underway in the U.S. auto industry,”  Scott Paul ,  executive
director  for the Alliance, said in a statement.  China will invest $1.5 trillion in “new energy” vehicles
and parts in a drive for global leadership by 2030, according to
research by law firm Stewart and Stewart cited by the alliance.
China’s manufacturers are targeting batteries, electric motors,
electronic cooling systems and fuel cells, according to the
report.  The alliance, which includes manufacturers and the  United
Steelworkers , is challenging China’s policies a day after U.S.
companies said jobs would be threatened by additional tariffs on
Chinese solar-equipment imports. More than 60,000 U.S. jobs
could be lost if tariffs are imposed, as sought by American
companies, according to a study released yesterday.  U.S. manufacturers are stepping up their push for action
against the Chinese prior to the Feb. 14 visit of Xi Jinping,
China’s vice president, to Washington for meetings with
President  Barack Obama  on bilateral and regional issues.  Obama Complaints  Obama has brought trade complaints against China at a
faster rate than his predecessor, the  U.S. Senate  has voted to
punish China for maintaining an undervalued currency and
Republican presidential candidates have pledged to label China a
currency manipulator.  U.S. auto-parts companies make tires, engines, electrical
and electronic equipment. Obama has imposed duties on Chinese-
made tires, which he said has created 1,000 U.S. jobs.  Midwest U.S. states are most at risk of losing auto-parts
jobs to China’s imports, including 250,000 in Michigan and
189,000 in Ohio, according to the alliance. Lawmakers including
Democratic Senators  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio and  Debbie Stabenow  of
Michigan were join the alliance event in Washington, according
to a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  