-- Christie Finds Himself on Losing Side of History After Civil Rights Remark
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-01T01:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/christie-finds-himself-on-losing-side-of-history-after-civil-rights-remark.html
Representative  John Lewis , a veteran
of the U.S. civil-rights movement, joined New Jersey Democrats
criticizing Governor  Chris Christie  after he said blacks in the
1960s would have preferred referendums on desegregation -- a
move he has backed for same-sex marriage. A day later, Christie
apologized.  Lewis, a Georgia Democrat, stopped in the New Jersey
capital yesterday to step up pressure on Christie, a first-term
Republican. The governor has faced opposition from Democrats in
the Legislature, including the state’s two openly gay lawmakers,
after saying a week ago that early civil-rights activists
“would have been happy to have a referendum.”  The governor, 49, has said he’ll veto any legislation
allowing two people of the same gender to wed, and has called
for a ballot question in November. Christie said that unlike the
South in the 1960s, where prejudice made support for civil
rights impossible, advocates of same-sex marriage claim a
majority of  New Jersey  residents supports such legislation now.  “I’ve said over the years that I fought too long and too
hard against discrimination based on race and color not to stand
up and speak out against discrimination based on sexual
orientation,” Lewis, 71, said at a press conference in Trenton,
the  Associated Press  reported.  “If anybody was offended by what I said, and if they’re
listening out there, I apologize,” Christie said late today in
his monthly ‘Ask the Governor’ appearance on WKXW-FM radio in
Ewing.  Rights Denied  Blacks and their supporters waged an often bloody struggle
to end a system of laws known as Jim Crow, which created
separate facilities for blacks and whites. Advocates for gay
marriage claim the current system of civil unions in New Jersey
often denies rights to same-sex couples.  Christie turned down requests from Republican donors and
party leaders last year to make a run for the White house in
November. He said as governor he has no role in a constitutional
amendment other than the ability to use the bully pulpit to
advocate against it. He said he’d urge Republicans in the
Legislature to vote to put the issue on the ballot to create a
“broader process.”  “It’s all in the eyes of the beholder,” he told reporters
in Trenton, referring to the dispute. “Those people who
advocate for it consider it to be a civil right. I do not
believe that marriage between two people of the same gender is
something that should exist in this state, so my view on it is
that we have an honest difference of opinion on this issue.”  Referendum Option  Christie told reporters yesterday that a referendum for
civil rights in the 1960s would have been impossible.  “They didn’t have that option because public sentiment
wasn’t to where it was a realistic option for them; that’s what
I said and what I meant,” Christie said. “They’ve equated it
to civil rights, not me,” he said of lawmakers backing same-sex
marriage.  “I wasn’t clear enough, I just wasn’t,” Christie said
later on WKXW radio. “I left it open to misinterperatation.”  Democratic leaders in the state have rejected the option of
a referendum on gay marriage. The Senate Judiciary Committee
advanced a same-sex marriage bill on Jan. 24, setting it up for
a floor vote in the full Senate. An Assembly panel is scheduled
to begin debate on the measure on Feb. 2.  No ‘Pass’  “We are elected by the people of New Jersey to protect
civil rights,” Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver said in a
statement on Jan. 24. “We do not pass on such tough
decisions.”  Christie last week said in addition to vetoing any
legislation allowing two people of the same gender to wed, he
would also vote against any referendum. He said he wouldn’t
attempt to overturn the results of a public vote and said a
ballot question would give backers a realistic shot at seeing
same-sex marriage become law.  If the issue is put to voters and it passes, New Jersey
would be the first U.S. state where gays win the right to marry
directly from the public. Court rulings or legislation led to
the change in the six states and the  District of Columbia  where
it’s already legal. Voters have rejected legalization in all 31
referendums on the issue, according to Freedom to Marry, a New
York-based national advocacy organization.  Other States  At least four other states are tackling the issue this
year. Lawmakers in  Washington  and Maryland plan to push bills to
make same-sex marriage legal, while voters in  North Carolina  and
 Minnesota  will be asked to bar the practice through
constitutional amendments.  Popular support for rewriting New Jersey’s law to allow
same-sex weddings reached a high of 52 percent in a Jan. 19 poll
from  Quinnipiac University .  A slim majority doesn’t guarantee a victory at the ballot
box, said  M.V. Lee Badgett , research director for the Williams
Institute for Sexual Orientation Law and Public Policy at the
 University of California, Los Angeles .  “It’s very difficult; in U.S. history, civil rights
referenda have usually been turned down by voters,” Badgett
said in a telephone interview. “The only ones you hear talking
about holding them in this context are the people who are
looking to keep gay couples from marrying.”  Uninformed, Critics Say  Christie’s opponents said he lacks knowledge about the
civil-rights movement if he believed blacks and minorities would
have achieved equality through a ballot question.  “The governor apparently doesn’t even understand that
minorities likely would have been blocked from voting on a civil
rights referendum in the South in the 1960s,” Assemblyman
Gordon Johnson, a black Democrat who represents Teaneck, said in
a statement last week. “You know why? Because they didn’t have
civil rights!”  Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , a backer of gay marriage who has
allied with the governor on efforts to overhaul urban education
and increase charter schools, joined critics of Christie.  “I shudder to think what would have happened if the civil
rights gains, heroically established by courageous lawmakers in
the 1960s, were instead conveniently left up to popular votes in
our 50 states,” Booker said in a statement.  “Equal protection under the law -- for race, religion,
gender or sexual orientation -- should not be subject to the
most popular sentiments of the day,” he said.  Not Meant Literally  Christie compared the furor over his civil-rights
statements to comments he made last April during a dispute with
Senator Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from Teaneck. Christie told
reporters they should “take a bat” to Weinberg, 76, for
collecting both a public pension and a paycheck as a legislator
while knocking others for similar practices.  Neither comment should be taken literally, Christie said
yesterday. The governor also has called critics, including
Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, a gay Democrat who represents
Trenton, “numbnuts” for comparing him to segregationists
because of comments he made about civil rights.  “Come on guys -- you’ve got to be able to call B.S. on
those kinds of releases,” Christie said to reporters in
Trenton, the state capital.  On the radio show, Christie said while he apologizes for
his civil-rights remark, he won’t for referring to Guscoria as a
numbnuts. He said his mother used to call him by that term.  ‘Sense of Humor’  “I don’t know when people lost their sense of humor,”
Christie said on the show. “I thought that was a pretty light
slap at a guy who compared me to George Wallace and Lester Maddox,” the governor said.  “I’m not a scripted politician, so sometimes I’m going to
use adjectives that people don’t like,” he said.  The governor “reverted to name-calling” because he
couldn’t take on the issue on its merits, Gusciora said in a
statement.  “The governor’s opposition to the civil right of marriage
equality is comparable to others who opposed other civil
rights,” Gusciora said. “If he doesn’t like the comparison,
then he should change his position on marriage equality and sign
the bill into law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  