-- Citigroup Joins MSRB to Oppose Applying Dodd-Frank Law to Muni-Bond Market
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-01-31T18:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/citigroup-joins-msrb-to-oppose-applying-dodd-frank-law-to-muni-bond-market.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the second-largest
U.S. municipal-bond underwriter last year, says applying the
Dodd-Frank law regulating  Wall Street  to the market for state
and local debt would raise costs for borrowers.  Municipal securities dealers such as Citigroup make it
easier for investors to trade in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market, cutting state and local borrowing costs, Citigroup’s
Howard Marsh, a managing director, said in the Jan. 27 filing
with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The agency is writing
rules to implement the 2010 law. While an exemption to limits on
banks trading for their own accounts under the so-called Volcker
Rule would apply to some types of municipal bonds, such as
general-obligation debt, it wouldn’t apply to others.  The proposed application “would arbitrarily, unfairly and
unnecessarily harm state and local governments and their
constituents by raising costs in a significant segment of the
municipal market,” Marsh wrote. “Without the liquidity
provided by municipal securities dealers, municipal issuers
would undoubtedly experience an increase in their financing
costs.”  Citigroup asked that all types of municipal securities,
including tender-option bond programs, be exempt from Dodd-Frank
restrictions under the Volcker rule. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, declined to comment on
the filing, which was also sent to other regulatory agencies.  Barring Proprietary Trading  Under the rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , federally insured banks would be barred from
proprietary trading. The measure may be applied to purchases of
bonds from customers that are held by the institution until a
buyer is found.  Applying the rule to that type of activity has raised
concern among banks and some government officials that it may
hurt the municipal-debt market by curbing banks’ ability to
trade so-called revenue bonds, which are backed by fees or other
assets, rather than a general credit pledge. Such agency debt
hasn’t been exempted.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, an industry
self-regulating organization that governs the muni market, asked
regulators to exempt all such debt from the Volcker proposal on
proprietary trading, the board said in a statement. Expanding
the exemption will help prevent a “bifurcation” of the market,
the board said in a letter sent to the U.S. Comptroller of the
Currency, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Fed and
the FDIC.  Citigroup followed only New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
in terms of the value of municipal debt it underwrote last year,
according to data compiled by Thomson Reuters Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  