-- Claremont McKenna Says Official Inflated SAT Scores
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-01-31T13:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/claremont-mckenna-says-official-inflated-sats.html
Claremont McKenna College , a liberal
arts school near  Los Angeles , said an admissions official had
reported inaccurate statistics for the SAT college entrance exam
since 2005.  The SAT scores on the critical reading and/or math sections
were generally inflated by an average of 10 to 20 points each
year, according to a letter to the college community by
Claremont McKenna President Pamela B. Gann. The school belongs
to the group of seven schools known as the  Claremont Colleges .  Scores on entrance exams are used in college rankings by
publishers such as U.S. News & World Report, which are
influential with students and parents. An admissions
administrator, who wasn’t named in the memo, has taken full
responsibility and resigned from the college, according to the
letter, which was obtained by Bloomberg News. She said she
doesn’t believe any individual student scores were altered and
the college hired law firm  O’Melveny & Myers LLP  to conduct an
independent review.  “As an institution of higher education with a deep and
consistent commitment to the integrity of all our academic
activities, and particularly our reporting of institutional
data, we take this situation very seriously,” Gann wrote.  For the current sophomore class, the college had reported a
combined median SAT score of 1,410 when the actual one should
have been 1,400, as well as a 75th percentile score of 1,510
when the actual should have been 1,480, Gann said.  The SAT is owned by the New York-based  College Board . An e-
mail sent before regular business hours to Kathleen Steinberg, a
spokeswoman for the College Board, wasn’t immediately answered.  About 1,200 students attend the school in Claremont,
 California , according to its website. Gann became the fourth
president in 1999 after serving as dean of Duke University’s
School of Law.  Alumni include  Henry Kravis , chairman of private equity
firm KKR & Co., and  Peter Weinberg , co-founder of New York
investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  