-- Coal-Carrier Rates Seen Dropping to Decade-Low on Capacity Glut: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-01-31T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/coal-carrier-rates-seen-dropping-to-decade-low-on-capacity-glut-freight.html
The greatest number of coal cargoes
in history still won’t be enough to eliminate a glut of Panamax
vessels, driving charter rates to the lowest in a decade.  Shipments will rise 3.6 percent to 956 million metric tons
this year, according to London-based Clarkson Plc, the world’s
biggest shipbroker. Rates for Panamaxes, each about 750-feet
long, will average $12,744 a day in 2012, the lowest since 2002,
the median of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.
While that implies losses for ship owners, investors may profit
by buying forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and used
to bet on future costs, which anticipate $10,107.  Panamax charter costs already tumbled 53 percent since Jan.
1, the worst start to a year since at least 1999, as the fleet
expanded for a 35th consecutive month. The slump is masking
growth in economic activity, with Clarkson predicting record
cargoes of everything from iron ore to oil to manufactured
goods. The  International Monetary Fund  expects a third
consecutive annual gain in world trade as economies recover from
the worst global recession since World War II.  “Demand looks good, but it’s just going to be massively
outweighed by new vessels,” said Will Fray, a senior analyst at
Maritime Strategies International Ltd., a London-based research
company. “There’s unlikely to be enough mining output to soak
up the enormous new capacity.”  Rates averaged $14,000 a day last year, down from $25,041
in 2010, according to the  Baltic Exchange , the London-based
publisher of freight costs along more than 50 maritime routes.
Panamaxes, the largest ships able to navigate the Panama Canal,
need about $13,000 to break even, Morgan Stanley estimates.  Five Predictions  Eight of the 14 companies in the Bloomberg  Pure Play (BPG4DBS)  Dry
Bulk Shipping Index will report lower profit or losses in 2012,
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Excel Maritime Carriers Ltd. (EXM) , the Athens-based owner of 35
ships in the Panamax size range, will report a loss of $116.6
million this year, widening from an estimated $64.3 million in
2011, according to the median of five predictions. Its shares
fell 69 percent in New York trading in the past 12 months. Excel
Maritime has the highest proportion of Panamaxes in its fleet of
the five largest publicly listed shipping companies to own the
vessels, according to data from Clarkson.  Nikolas Arachovas, Excel’s vice president of finance,
declined to comment by phone.  The index slumped 35 percent in the past year, compared
with a 5.8 percent decline in the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) 
of equities. Treasuries returned 9.8 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  Four Decades  Outstanding Panamax orders are greater than for any other
commodity carrier, Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay
estimates. The contracts are equal to 41 percent of existing
capacity, against 26 percent for capesizes, which hold about
twice as much cargo. Some ships were ordered in 2008 when daily
rates reached $91,710. The Panamax fleet will grow 14 percent
this year, adding the most new capacity in at least four
decades, Clarkson says. That may spur owners to scrap vessels or
cancel orders.  Panamaxes also carry commodities such as wheat, soybeans
and  iron ore , with coal making up about 90 percent of single-
voyage charters in the past year, Morgan Stanley estimates.
Indonesia, the biggest exporter of the fuel, will ship about 3.6
percent more this year and second-ranking  Australia  will deliver
8.2 percent more, Clarkson estimates.  Rates may exceed predictions should China, the biggest coal
user, import more. While the nation relies on domestic supply
for about 90 percent of its needs, rising extraction costs and
the distance between mines and consumers may spur buyers to
favor seaborne supply, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a Jan. 17
report. Prices at the Australian port of Newcastle fell 8.8
percent to $118.80 a ton since March, McCloskey Group data show.  Fourth Quarter  China  imported an average of 19.7 million tons of coal a
month in the fourth quarter, the most since at least 2004,
customs data show. Charter costs jumped as much as 22 percent in
the period. The nation will probably buy 25 percent more this
year, Credit Suisse estimates. Its economy will expand 8.5
percent this year, almost four times faster than the global
pace, economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  The plunge in charter rates has been mirrored by a drop in
asset values, with the cost of a five-year-old Panamax tumbling
to $26.25 million from $88.5 million in July 2008, according to
Simpson, Spence & Young Ltd., the world’s second-largest
shipbroker. The difference between the price of a 20-year-old
Panamax and its scrap value was $3.6 million in December, the
narrowest gap since September 2002, Clarkson data show. Eighteen
percent of the fleet is at least 20 years old.  Monetary Fund  Owners may also seek to boost earnings by slowing down
ships to save fuel, their largest expense. Vessel speeds
averaged 8.9 knots in December, compared with 11.1 knots two
years earlier, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The price of fuel rose 6.9 percent this year to $703 a ton,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports.  Demand may also fall short of expectations. The Washington-
based International Monetary Fund said Jan. 24 it expects global
trade in goods and services to expand 3.8 percent this year,
compared with a September forecast of 5.8 percent. About 90
percent of world trade moves by sea, according to the Round
Table of Shipping Associations.  Exporters may restrain sales to ensure domestic supply.
 Indonesia ’s government told coal producers in September they
would need to set aside 82.1 million tons for the local market
this year, up from 79 million tons in 2011. Others may struggle
to expand exports quickly enough because of limited rail and
port capacity. Ships are waiting 12 to 18 days to load at the
Koorangang Coal Terminal in Newcastle, according to G-Ports
Ltd., a Truro, England-based research company.  “We don’t have a problem with demand,” said Philippe van den Abeele, the managing director of Castalia Fund Management
(U.K.) Ltd., a London-based adviser to a hedge fund trading
shipping derivatives. “Supply is what is putting a huge lid on
the potential for freight to rise in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  