-- Coinstar’s Redbox to Get Warner DVDs Elsewhere as Deal Ends
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-31T21:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/coinstar-s-redbox-to-get-warner-dvds-for-its-kiosks-elsewhere-as-deal-ends.html
Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , owner of the Redbox
movie-rental kiosks, ended its agreement to buy Warner Bros.
titles directly from the studio, rejecting a demand to delay
access to DVD and Blu-ray discs for two months.  The accord with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s home-video unit expiring
today won’t be renewed, Coinstar said in a statement. The
Bellevue, Washington-based company, which operates more than
34,000 rental kiosks, said it will get videos from third-party
suppliers and make them available as soon as they go on sale.  Coinstar is the second DVD-rental service to reject
Warner’s effort to make consumers wait 56 days for the latest
releases, following  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s Blockbuster. Getting
DVDs sooner from other suppliers may attract more customers,
making up for the higher per-unit prices Coinstar will pay,  Eric
Wold , a B. Riley & Co. analyst, said in an interview.  “They’ve indicated that they’ve developed a long-term
replacement strategy,” said Wold, who recommends buying
Coinstar shares. “They’ve either got retailers or wholesale
distributors who will supply them new releases in bulk.”  The waiting period is needed to ensure a “healthy film
business,” Warner Bros. said in a statement.  “We hope to continue discussions with Redbox and reach a
mutually agreed-upon solution to this situation, but we fully
intend to do what is best for our business, consumers and the
industry,” the studio said.  Redbox waited 28 days to get videos from Warner under the
previous deal. The unit still waits 28 days for DVDs from
Comcast Corp.’s Universal Pictures and News Corp.’s Fox.  ‘New Releases’  Blockbuster previously refused to accept the delay, a
person with knowledge of the matter said on Jan. 10.  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX)  agreed to it for its mail-order business. Those Netflix
customers tend to focus more on older titles, making it easier
for the company to wait longer for new films, said Wold, who is
based in  San Francisco .  “Redbox is all about new releases,” he said. “Waiting
two months would definitely hurt their value proposition to
consumers.”  The company still waits 28 days for DVDs from Comcast
Corp.’s Universal Pictures and News Corp.’s 20th Century Fox.
The Universal agreement expires in April of this year. The Fox
accord ends in April 2013, Wold said.  Other studios, including Walt Disney Co., Viacom Inc.’s
Paramount and Sony Corp., make their DVDs available for rental
on the day of release.  Coinstar also said it renewed an agreement with  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  to have kiosks at more than 3,700 of the retailer’s
locations.  Coinstar fell 0.3 percent to $49.73 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have gained 9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  