-- Bank Default Swaps Heading for Biggest Monthly Rally on ECB Cash
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-01-31T15:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Credit-default swaps insuring bank
bonds are heading for their biggest-ever monthly rally after the
 European Central Bank ’s injection of 489 billion euros ($646
billion) of cash.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps linked to senior
debt of 25 European banks and insurers fell six basis points
today to 220, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 3 p.m. in
London. The gauge, which started in 2004 and declines as
investor confidence improves, dropped 57 basis points so far
this month.  The ECB is planning a second longer-term refinancing
operation at the end of February and the Financial Times
reported today that lenders could request as much as 1 trillion
euros of new three-year 1 percent loans. Banks have used the
money to buy  government bonds  yielding more than 2.5 percentage
points extra.  “This kind of monetary stimulus is certainly a positive
for riskier assets,” said  Orlando Green , an analyst at Credit
Agricole SA in London. “One of the key drivers is that there’s
going to be a huge amount of demand” for ECB loans, he said.  Corporate bonds are providing the best back-to-back monthly
gains in more than two years as the surge in central bank
lending keeps credit flowing and buoys investor confidence the
region’s debt crisis can be contained.  Bond Returns  Debt worldwide returned 4.03 percent from the end of
November through Jan. 27, compared with a 4.86 percent gain in
all of 2011, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Broad Market & High Yield Index. Yields have dropped to a
more than five-month low.  Investment-grade company bonds in  Europe  returned 4.8
percent in the two months through Jan. 27, while junk-rated debt
gained 9.5 percent in the same period, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Speculative-grade bonds in
Europe returned 6.4 percent in January while high-grade debt
gained 2.3 percent, data show.  The cost of insuring corporate debt fell today with the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropping 13.5
basis points to 621, according to JPMorgan. The gauge is heading
for its best month since October. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index
of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings was down 3.5
basis points at 143.75.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments fell one basis point to 334
basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  