-- Corzine’s Penthouse $2.9 Million Listing Marks 11% Below Purchase Price
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-01-31T19:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/corzine-s-penthouse-2-9-million-listing-marks-11-below-purchase-price.html
A Hoboken,  New Jersey , penthouse
belonging to Jon Corzine, the former chairman of bankrupt  MF
Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) ., is on the market with a $2.9 million
asking price, 11 percent less than Corzine paid in 2008.  MF Global, a New York-based futures broker, filed for
bankruptcy on Oct. 31 with almost $40 billion in debt after
making bets on European sovereign debt and getting margin calls.
Corzine, a former governor of New Jersey and co-chairman of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , testified before Congress in December
about MF Global’s failure.  The two-bedroom penthouse is 2,400 square feet (223 square
meters) “with no expense spared,” according to the  listing . It
has floor-to-ceiling windows with a view of the  Hudson River  and
the Manhattan skyline, Viking kitchen appliances and a Jacuzzi
spa in the master bathroom. The owner also gets one indoor
parking space. The apartment has a $1,700 monthly maintenance
fee and $38,003 of property taxes, according to the listing.  “This immaculate home is elegant and sophisticated,”
according to the listing. “The living room, dining room, media
room with built-in entertainment system, and adjacent bar
serving area make for an entertainer’s dream.”  Corzine bought the apartment in November 2008 for $3.26
million, according to property records. It’s in the Maxwell
Place project, developed by  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , on a 24-acre
waterfront site formerly owned by the Maxwell House Coffee Co.  Corzine’s spokesman, Steven Goldberg, declined to comment
on the listing. The listing agent, Jessica O’Connor-Williams
with Halliburton Homes Real Estate Services, didn’t respond to a
telephone message and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  