-- Credit Suisse Plans to Eliminate 109 Jobs in New York Site
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-31T23:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/credit-suisse-plans-to-eliminate-109-n-y-jobs.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, told New York state
regulators it plans to eliminate 109 jobs in Manhattan beginning
in March.  The cuts were disclosed by the Zurich-based company in a
 filing  dated yesterday with the state Department of Labor. The
document cited economic reasons and listed Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC offices at 1 Madison Avenue and 11 Madison
Avenue. Dismissals will start March 8 and extend through May 1,
according to the filing.  Victoria Harmon, a Credit Suisse spokeswoman, said the
figures are part of  dismissals  announced last year and declined
to comment further. The bank said in November it would eliminate
1,500 jobs in addition to the 2,000 cuts announced in July as
profit declined.  Securities firms came under pressure as dealmaking and
trading slowed on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may deepen.
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a Jan. 27 statement that brokers and
investment bankers “are likely to face a prolonged period of
low profitability and possibly other financial pressures because
of ongoing weakness” in global markets.  The New York State Workers Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, or WARN Act, requires private employers with
50 or more people in New York state to provide 90 days’ notice
of a plant closing, mass layoff, relocation or reduction in work
hours.  Credit Suisse may cut its 2011 bonus pool by 25 percent as
its securities unit reports a loss for a second consecutive
quarter, Morgan Stanley analysts estimated in a research note
today, saying they expect 2011 profit to drop by almost half to
2.64 billion Swiss francs ($2.87 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  