-- CSN Buys Alfonso Gallardo’s German Assets for $632 Million
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-01-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/csn-pays-631-million-for-alfonso-gallardo-s-german-assets-1-.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) ,
Brazil’s third-largest steelmaker, said it concluded “in a
satisfactory manner” an accord to purchase a pair of German
steel units from Spain’s Grupo Alfonso Gallardo for 482.5
million euros ($632 million).  CSN, as the Sao Paulo-based company is known, bought units
Stahlwerk Thüringen GmbH, or SWT, and Gallardo Sections SLU,
without assuming any debt, the company said in a regulatory
filing late yesterday. SWT, a long-steel manufacturer based in
Unterwellenborn,  Germany , has the capacity to produce 1.1
million metric tons per year, CSN said.  “The conclusion of this acquisition will contribute to
strengthen CSN’s position in the long-steel segment,” the
Brazilian steelmaker said in the statement.  CSN on Sept. 16 said it canceled an agreement to buy steel
and cement assets from Alfonso Gallardo because the Spanish
company didn’t meet some terms of the contract. CSN agreed in
May to buy the assets, including the German units as well as
steel and cement assets in  Spain  for 543 million euros, in
addition to assuming 403 million euros of debt and other
obligations.  Today’s agreement concludes “in a satisfactory manner”
the discussions between CSN and Alfonso Gallardo regarding
different interpretations of their accord, the Brazilian company
said in the statement, without elaborating.  The acquisition was announced after the close of regular
trading in South American markets. CSN  rose  1.2 percent to 18.25
reais in  Sao Paulo  yesterday, the most in more than a week. The
stock has gained 22 percent this year, double the 11 percent
increase in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  Gerdau SA, based in  Porto Alegre , Brazil, is Latin
America’s largest steelmaker. Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA is  Brazil ’s second-largest steelmaker by output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  