-- Cuomo Aims to Speed Tappan Zee Construction With One ‘Design-Build’ Entity
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-01-31T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/cuomo-aims-to-speed-tappan-zee-construction-with-design-build-.html
A  New York (STONY1)  law approved last month
may speed infrastructure projects such as a new $5.2 billion
Tappan Zee Bridge, a priority of Governor  Andrew Cuomo , by
giving control of design and construction to one consortium.  The  Infrastructure Investment Act , passed by the
Legislature in a special session with little fanfare, allows the
departments of Transportation and Environmental Conservation as
well as the Thruway Authority to contract with a single entity
to design and build bridges, roads and dams. Previously, with
limited exceptions, New York could use only a process whereby
state engineers would design a project and then put it out for
bids by construction companies.  “Accelerating projects is the linchpin of everything you
have heard from the governor,” Deputy Secretary of
Transportation Karen Rae said at  a Dec. 14 presentation  to about
175 designers and contractors from companies including  Skanska
AB (SKAB) , Bechtel Group Inc. and  URS Corp. (URS)   New York may announce as soon as today a list of companies
qualified to compete to build the bridge, according to a
Transportation Department and Thruway Authority  schedule  issued
Nov. 21.  In his budget address this month, Cuomo proposed speeding
infrastructure projects by using the so-called design-build
process and a $15 billion infrastructure fund. Consisting of
state, federal and private money, the fund would be used to
repair 2,000 miles (3,217 kilometers) of roads, 90 municipal
water systems and 100 bridges.  Erie Canal  The project to replace the 56-year-old Tappan Zee will be
funded only with public money, not private equity or through a
public-private partnership, according to the minutes of the
meeting where Rae spoke in  White Plains , New York.  The three-mile bridge carries 138,000 vehicles per day
across the  Hudson River  between Rockland and Westchester
counties, connecting the lower Hudson Valley with  New York City .
Replacing it is the centerpiece of Cuomo’s job-creation
strategy. The 54-year-old Democrat has compared the project to
the 19th century construction of the Erie Canal.  The Thruway Authority spent $389 million from 2007 through
2011 to maintain and improve the Tappan Zee, said Betsy Feldstein, a spokeswoman for the agency. The  Federal Highway
Administration  estimates it will cost from $5.2 to $16 billion
to replace the span, depending on whether it has bus lanes and
tracks for rail.  Fast Track  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has listed the
Tappan Zee among 14 projects that will travel an expedited
federal approval process. New York is moving quickly and plans
to start work this summer, Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said Jan. 26 in a telephone interview.  With design-build, state engineers, often with help from a
private consulting firm, set the parameters for the project and
then ask companies or a group of designers and contractors to
compete to win a single contract.  Advocates say the process saves money and time because
construction can begin without a bidding phase. Also, better
coordination allows problems to be solved faster, they say.
Governments benefit from contracting with a single entity
responsible for guaranteeing price and schedule.  ‘More Efficient’  “We manage all of the construction, all of the engineering
and all procurement,” said Richard Aquino, vice president of
business development in the U.S. for Stockholm-based Skanska,
the Nordic region’s biggest builder.  “It’s a much more efficient way to do a project from
start to finish,” he said in a Jan. 26 telephone interview.  Skanska’s team includes Kiewit Infrastructure Group, Weeks
Marine Inc. and  Parsons Brinckerhoff .  Some union critics say design-build won’t save the state
money and that quality may suffer because officials may focus on
cost and scheduling, rather than quality.  “A contract engineer costs the state $84 an hour; it’s $49
an hour for a state engineer, and that’s including the benefit
package,” said Tom Comanzo, vice president of the Public
Employees Federation, New York’s second-biggest public union.
“By using private contractors for every step of the process,
we’re increasing the state’s dependency on them, we’re expanding
our use of no-bid contracts and it ends up costing more.”  Design-build projects are completed more quickly than
others, according to a 2006  study  prepared by the Highway
Administration. The study said the impact on project cost was
more difficult to establish.  ‘Cost Effective’  “It has the potential to produce a more cost-effective
project in less time than a process that contractually insulates
the project participants while leaving the contracting agency
with most of the project risk,” the report said.  New York  is late to the game in using design-build, said
Mike Elmendorf, president of the Albany-based Associated General
Contractors of New York State LLC, which represents 1,000
companies.  Every state has some form of authorization for design-
build, said  Richard Thomas , vice president for advocacy and
external affairs for the Washington-based  Design-Build Institute
of America , an organization that teaches and promotes the
method. The federal government has used the process since the
early 1990s, according to the group.  The Cuomo administration lent a receptive ear to design-
build advocates, who began pushing for the method as soon as he
took office last year, Thomas said. Organized labor didn’t
mobilize because design-build offered a way to get people on the
job six to nine months earlier than a traditional construction
schedule, he said.  “Cuomo was open to change,” Thomas said. “He had the
political gravitas that he could go in a different direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  