-- Cybersecurity Disaster Seen in U.S. Survey Citing Spending Gaps
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-01-31T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/cybersecurity-disaster-seen-in-u-s-survey-citing-spending-gaps.html
Companies including utilities, banks
and phone carriers would have to spend almost nine times more on
cybersecurity to prevent a digital Pearl Harbor from plunging 
millions into darkness, paralyzing the financial system or
cutting communications, a Bloomberg Government study found.  Spies, criminals and hacker-activists are stepping up
assaults on U.S. government and corporate systems, spurring
efforts by Congress and President  Barack Obama  to shield
infrastructure essential to U.S. national and economic security,
such as power grids and water-treatment plants.  Hardening those systems would require a significant
investment given the increasing stealth and sophistication of
hackers, according to Lawrence Ponemon, chairman of the Ponemon
Institute LLC, a research firm that collaborated with Bloomberg
on the study released today in  Washington .  “The consequences of a successful attack against critical
infrastructure makes these cost increases look like chump
change,” Ponemon said in an interview. “It would put people
into the Dark Ages.”  The study, described by Ponemon as the first to place a
price tag on cybersecurity, is based on interviews with
technology managers from 172 U.S. organizations in six
industries and the government. Survey respondents were granted
anonymity owing to the sensitivity of discussing cybersecurity
weaknesses.  To achieve security capable of stopping 95 percent of
attacks -- considered by the Traverse City, Michigan-based
 Ponemon Institute  to be the highest attainable level -- those
surveyed said they would have to boost spending to a group total
of $46.6 billion from the current $5.3 billion.  High-Profile Assaults  The findings add to debate in Washington over how to compel
operators of vital infrastructure to bolster their network
defenses. House and Senate lawmakers are considering a series of
measures aimed at thwarting hackers, spurred by high-profile
assaults at companies including  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Citigroup Inc.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has
said he plans to bring a comprehensive cybersecurity bill to the
floor of the chamber for debate by Feb. 17.  The bill, which may be introduced as soon as this week,
will mirror elements of an Obama administration proposal in May
that calls for the Homeland Security Department to identify
critical infrastructure and set cybersecurity standards for
operators of such systems.  Obama cited the need for far-reaching legislation “to stay
one step ahead of our adversaries” in his Jan. 24 State of the
Union speech to Congress.  House Measure  In the House, Republicans including Dan Lungren of
 California  are pursuing several narrower bills rather than a
single comprehensive measure. They favor incentives to spur
companies to share cyber-threat information and better protect
their networks.  The Obama administration’s cybersecurity coordinator,
 Howard Schmidt , said legislation that takes a limited approach
to cybersecurity and is only based on incentives will “continue
to expose our country to serious risk.”  “Now is the time to pass legislation that ensures the
companies we rely on to power our hospitals, supply our water,
support our troops and drive the economic engine of our country
are adequately addressing cybersecurity risks,” Schmidt said in
a Jan. 26 White House  blog post .  Power Grid Vulnerability  In an event that hints at the damage of a successful cyber
attack on the electrical grid, a blackout in August 2003 left an
estimated 50 million people in  North America  without power for
as long as four days and cost as much as $10 billion, according
to a study by the U.S. and Canadian governments.  To achieve an ideal level of security in which 95 percent
of attacks are thwarted, utilities and energy companies surveyed
in the Bloomberg study would have to increase average annual
spending more than seven-fold to $344.6 million per company from
the current level of $45.8 million.  “If you interview power companies and say, ‘Is your
control system connected to the Internet,’ they’ll say, ‘Of
course not,’”  James Lewis , technology program director at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington,
said in an interview. “It turns out in almost every case a
control system is connected to the Internet and it’s vulnerable
to being hacked.”  The Stuxnet computer worm, which infected industrial
computer systems around the world, has raised concerns that
networks running nuclear power plants and chemical facilities
may be vulnerable to sabotage. Stuxnet may have been created to
disrupt  Iran’s nuclear program , according to a study by  Symantec
Corp. , the biggest maker of security software.  ‘New Era’  “We have entered into a new era of combat,” Michael Hayden, former Central Intelligence Agency and National Security
Agency director, said in an interview.  “The evidence of the damage that’s been done has been
accumulating and changing in scale and scope,” said Hayden, a
principal with the Chertoff Group, a Washington-based security-
consulting firm founded by former Homeland Security Department
Secretary Michael Chertoff.  A U.S. government report in November named China and  Russia 
as the leading perpetrators of cyber espionage and said the pace
of digital spying is accelerating. U.S. companies aren’t doing
enough to shield their networks from attempts to steal national
secrets and intellectual property, according to the report by
the National Counterintelligence Executive, an advisory panel of
senior U.S. intelligence officials.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest
business-lobbying group, said last month that four of its
employees were targeted by China-based hackers in a 2010
security breach.  ‘Pearl Harbor’  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  unveiled a strategic
plan Jan. 26 that highlighted the increasing importance of cyber
operations while calling for a smaller, leaner military. The
Pentagon would shrink the Army and Marine Corps by about 100,000
people under the plan offered by Panetta, who told lawmakers at
his June confirmation hearing that the “next  Pearl Harbor  that
we confront could very well be a cyber attack.”  Fears of a catastrophic cyber attack may be overblown,
while repeated corporate hackings may erode public trust in Web-
based transactions, Dale Meyerrose, former chief information
officer for the U.S. Director of National Intelligence, said in
an interview.  “The biggest scare in cyberspace will be more emotional
and psychological than it will be actual,” said Meyerrose, a
vice president at  Harris Corp. , a Melbourne, Florida-based
communications and information-technology provider. “People
will lose trust in their ability to do banking online and their
ability to buy things online and their ability to use an ATM.”  Financial Services  Of all the industries surveyed by in the Bloomberg study,
financial services would face the steepest increase in spending
to reach an ideal state of protection. Financial companies’
annual security costs would jump almost 13-fold on average to
$292.4 million per company to fend off 95 percent of attacks,
from the current $22.9 million, according to the study.  “The current state is woefully inadequate, and basically
we need to think as a nation of how do we fix these problems
before they hurt us,” Ponemon said. “Improving security
requires real dollars. It’s not just simple tune-ups.”  Even an incremental improvement in computer defenses would
require a significant investment, according to all of the
organizations surveyed by Ponemon. To be able to thwart 84
percent of attacks, up from the current 69 percent, respondents
said they would have to almost double their average expenditures
on equipment and practices such as user verification systems,
encryption and workforce training.  Safety Belts  That increase would bring the group’s combined spending on
security to $10.2 billion from the current $5.3 billion,
according to the study. The survey polled technology managers at
124 companies, along with 48 federal, state and municipal
agencies.  The cybersecurity debate echoes earlier tussles over car
safety, when Congress mandated seat belts over auto-industry
objections that the move would hurt their competitiveness, said
Lewis of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.  “We didn’t tell the car makers to give the seat belts
away,” he said. “We let them put it on the bill, the total
cost of the car. We’ll need to do the same thing here.”  To limit the economic burden, policy makers should
concentrate on four key areas -- energy and electrical,
telecommunications, financial services and government -- needed
to keep the country running, Lewis said.  Building support for cybersecurity measures is difficult
because “we’re guarding against a potential,” he said.  “The pattern in the U.S. is not to do anything until
there’s a disaster,” he said. “The way we’re going to find out
if someone has the capability is we’ll wake up one day and the
lights won’t work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  