-- Czechs Stick to Budget-Deficit Cuts as Euro Debt Woes May Cause Recession
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-02-01T15:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/czechs-stick-to-deficit-cuts-as-euro-debt-crisis-worsens-economic-outlook.html
The Czech government will stick to
its budget-deficit reduction goal after the  Finance Ministry  cut
the 2012 economic forecast to near-zero growth and didn’t rule
out a recession because of the euro-area debt crisis.  Gross domestic product will  expand  0.2 percent this year,
according to the new forecasts published yesterday, less than
the previous estimate of a 1 percent expansion. The new outlook
carries “marked downward risks” because of uncertainty about
developments in the euro area, which buys about 70 percent of
Czech exports, the ministry said.  Lower growth will prompt spending cuts to meet the
Cabinet’s  deficit  target, which has helped shield government
bonds from the effects of the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.
The budget adjustments will come from the government’s
operational expenses and won’t require an amendment to the
budget law, Kalousek said in an interview yesterday after the
forecasts were released.  “Meeting the deficit targets remains a priority, even if
the economic development is worse than the forecast and requires
more measures,” Kalousek said. “Even though the new forecast
has downside risks, it’s better than I had anticipated and the
government will be able to carry out the corrections alone
without the need to amend the budget.”  Bond Premium  The premium investors demand for holding the Czech 10-year
government bond over a similar German security was 127 basis
points, or 1.27 percentage points as of 4:40 p.m. in  Prague ,
compared with 370 points for  Poland , the largest eastern economy
in the European Union, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
spread for euro-area member Slovakia was 268 basis points.  The cost of insuring against a Czech default is the second
lowest in emerging Europe after euro-region member Estonia at
143 basis points, compared with 240 points for Poland, CMA’s
data on credit-default swaps show. The Czech koruna gained 0.6
percent to 25.174 per euro today, according to Bloomberg data.  The public-finance deficit, the fiscal yardstick for
assessing a EU member’s readiness to adopt the euro, would
account for as much as 3.8 percent of GDP this year if
“measures” are not taken, compared with the target of 3.5
percent of GDP as set in the budget law, the Finance Ministry
said.  Prime Minister Petr Necas’s plan to trim the budget gap to
less than the EU’s limit of 3 percent of economic outlook by
2013 kept the Czech funding costs at the lowest level in
emerging  Europe  while the koruna outperformed the Polish zloty
and the Hungarian forint last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Spending Cuts  The 18-month-old government has cut state subsidies,
reduced public wages, raised the value-added tax and increased
the  retirement age  to overhaul public finances and slow down an
increase in government debt, which, at 38 percent in 2010, was
the smallest among the largest three post-communist economies in
the EU.  The Finance Ministry estimates the total value of fiscal
measures at 34 billion koruna ($1.76 billion) in 2012 and 59
billion koruna in 2013, with the biggest impact coming from the
higher  sales tax . The additional spending cuts may be between 20
billion koruna and 26 billion koruna this year, Kalousek said.  While the austerity measures will curtail GDP growth,
economic developments will depend mainly on how Europe tackles
the euro area’s debt crisis, the Finance Ministry said.  ‘Openness of Economy’  “Given the large openness of the economy, eventual
negative external shocks are very likely to have a fundamental
impact,” it said. “Therefore, it’s not possible in the current
situation to rule out a repetition of the recession similar to
the one from the turn of 2008 and 2009.”  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 24 raised the  Czech Republic ’s
long-term foreign-currency debt rating two steps to AA-, the
fourth-highest grade and on a par with  Japan . The upgrade
reflected a change in rating criteria that highlighted the Czech
government’s low indebtedness and the “prudently managed and
balanced economy,” S&P said.  Economic Forecast  The economy will expand 1.6 percent next year, less than
the previous forecast of a 2 percent expansion, the ministry
said. It sees average inflation at 3.2 percent this year and 1.5
percent in 2013. Government-sector debt in 2012 will probably
rise to 43.1 percent of GDP from an estimated 40.7 percent last
year.  “It’s not a result we should rejoice over, but it doesn’t
represent any disaster either,”  Pavel Sobisek , a Prague-based
analyst at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in a report. “Overall we regard
the Finance Ministry’s forecast as realistic and adequately
conservative.”  The economy will expand 2.7 percent and 3.6 percent in 2014
and 2015, respectively, according to the forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  