-- Daiwa Joins Mizuho in Cutting Costs as Firms Trim at Least 500 More Jobs
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-02-01T02:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/daiwa-joins-mizuho-in-deepening-cost-reductions-by-trimming-jobs.html
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  and
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. will deepen job cuts by trimming an
additional 500 positions, reversing an expansion aimed at
challenging Wall Street firms as Europe’s debt crisis persists.  Daiwa said yesterday it will trim 200 positions overseas
after posting a fourth straight quarterly loss, while Mizuho
plans to eliminate 300 more jobs at its brokerage arm following
an 80 percent decline in the bank’s third-quarter profit.
 Samsung Securities Co. (016360)  also plans to cut staff at its 100-person
Hong Kong unit by more than half, it said today.  Asian financial firms are trimming costs as the contagion
from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, which has forced global
rivals to announce more than 230,000 job cuts in the past year,
spreads to the region.  Japan ’s biggest banks are also seeking
ways to offset declining  loan  profitability as an export slump
and stronger yen threaten an economic rebound at home.  “It’s wrong timing for the Asian firms,” Sandy Mehta,
chief executive officer for Hong Kong-based Value Investment
Principals Ltd., said by telephone. “I think you’ll see more
scaling back by the brokerage firms basically because of poor
 investment banking  business, share trading and IPO business.
Everyone here is scaling back.”  Daiwa shares fell 1.1 percent to 271 yen at the 11 a.m.
break in Tokyo Stock Exchange trading. Mizuho rose 0.9 percent
to 116 yen. Japan’s benchmark Topix index rose 0.6 percent.
Samsung Securities,  South Korea ’s largest brokerage by market
value, climbed 2.6 percent to 62,900 won in  Seoul .  Cut-Throat Competition  Samsung Securities will suspend brokerage services for  Hong
Kong  shares as of today and reduce the unit’s research and sales
workforce, according to an e-mailed statement. The office is the
firm’s largest outside  Korea .  “It may be a smart move for Samsung to retreat from Hong
Kong’s cut-throat competition,” said Sohn Mi Ji, a Seoul-based
analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. “It needs to trim losses
from the unit, which hasn’t been covering expenses.”  The firm may resume its Hong Kong operations when market
conditions change, it said.  Daiwa’s net loss totaled 21.6 billion yen ($283 million)
for the three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a profit of
1.2 billion yen a year earlier, the Tokyo-based brokerage said
in a statement. The average estimate of seven analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a loss of 14.2 billion yen.  Chief Executive Officer Takashi Hibino, who took the post
in April, is cutting jobs in  Europe  and  Asia  and trimming
executive pay to cope with losses in those regions.  ’Right Direction’  The brokerage in October said it would cut 100 positions in
Asia outside of Japan and 200 jobs in Europe to save 40 billion
yen a year. It also said Hibino and other top Daiwa  executives 
will take pay cuts of as much as 40 percent until the end of
March.  “While we’re not sure the cost cuts are enough, it’s still
significant and moving in the right direction,” said Shiro Yoshioka, an analyst at  Japaninvest Group Plc (3827)  in Tokyo. “It’s
uncertain at this point whether Daiwa can boost its top line
under these market conditions.”  Revenue slid 21 percent to 92.9 billion yen for the three
months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, led by a drop in
 trading income  and brokerage commissions.  Trading profit plunged to 8.6 billion yen from 31.6 billion
yen, the brokerage said. Commissions fell to 8.2 billion yen
last quarter from 12.5 billion yen a year earlier. Equity and
bond underwriting fees rose to 8.1 billion yen from 7.5 billion
yen.  Worldwide Reductions  Daiwa’s  headcount  fell to 15,214 from 15,592 three months
earlier, according to the statement. Job cuts abroad now total
500 and will help save the company about 60 billion yen a year.
Daiwa said it plans to complete the reductions by the end of
March.  Financial firms are cutting expenses as revenue from
investment banking declines amid stricter regulations and
Europe’s debt woes.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest  U.S. bank 
by assets, last month announced 1,200 job reductions to save
$600 million this year at its securities and banking division.  The latest announcement takes job cuts at Mizuho’s
securities unit to 1,000 for the year ending in March. The bank
yesterday said that it will also close 10 domestic branches for
the division by May to cope with a “protracted severe
management environment.”  Mizuho Securities Co. posted a loss of 36.7 billion yen for
the three months ended Dec. 31, the unit’s biggest quarterly
loss in at least five.  Japan Challenge  The positions being cut at Mizuho Securities are separate
from the parent company’s plans, announced in November, to
eliminate 3,000 positions by March 2016 through the merger of
its corporate and retail lending units, said  Masako Shiono , a
Tokyo-based spokeswoman for the banking group.  “There’s a risk that Japan’s loan market will resume a
downward trend depending on the nation’s economic growth,
forcing the megabanks to increase lending overseas,” Natsumu Tsujino, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo , wrote in a
note on Jan. 27. “Mizuho may have the best chance among the
three banks to improve profitability given the substantial cost
reduction expected from” the merger, Tsujino said.  Mizuho Financial Group’s net income dropped to 16.3 billion
yen in the quarter ended Dec. 31 from 80.3 billion yen a year
earlier. Quarterly earnings were calculated by subtracting
first-half profit from nine-month figures reported in a
statement yesterday.  The bank’s loan income dropped 5.4 percent last quarter
from a year earlier to 254.5 billion yen. Fees and commissions
fell 1.5 percent to 103.9 billion yen, while profit from sales
of bonds and other securities more than doubled to 81.2 billion
yen from 31 billion yen.  For the nine month period, net income fell 36 percent from
a year earlier to 271 billion yen, led by declines in lending
profit, Mizuho said in the statement. The bank kept its full-
year profit forecast at 460 billion yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  