-- Danish Risk Rekindled as Yield Hunt Stokes Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-02-01T08:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/danish-risk-is-rekindled-as-yield-hunt-stokes-demand-for-mortgage-bonds.html
Investors are rediscovering yield in
Denmark as mortgage bond issuance crowds out the government’s
plan for an early surge in debt sales.  Bond investors are searching for ways to boost returns
after demand for the AAA nation’s bonds sent government debt
yields to lowest in at least 20 years. At the same time, the
trade that also drove Danish 10-year borrowing costs to below
Germany’s is reversing as European leaders reached an agreement
on a deficit pact and the  European Central Bank  in December
stepped in with unlimited three-year loans.  “Government bonds are very, very expensive,” said Mikkel Hoegh, a senior economist at mortgage lender BRFKredit.
“Denmark has been a safe haven, so many investors bought the
bonds, but they’re more expensive now compared with mortgage
bonds, so they’re making a switch.”  Nykredit Group and other Danish mortgage banks are finding
ample demand as they step up supply and prepare for about a
170 billion-krone ($30 billion) debt auction in March. Lenders
have been issuing a new 3.5 percent 30-year bond at the same
time as the central bank is front-loading debt sales after
borrowing costs plunged. The issuance has helped push yields on
Danish 10-year bonds back to parity this week with German debt,
after the spread went negative in November.  ‘More Pressure’  The yield on the new 3.5 percent mortgage bond maturing in
2044 has increased four basis points to 3.82 percent since being
issued on Jan. 13.  Denmark ’s 10-year government yield has jumped
11 basis points to 1.75 percent over the same time.  The Danish government pays five basis points less than
Germany to borrow for 10 years, today’s prices show, compared
with a discount of as much as 27 basis points on Dec. 1.  If mortgage bond sales “continues to be significant, we
could see more pressure” on government bonds, said Jens Peter Soerensen, chief analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) .  Demand is holding up even as Denmark struggles with a
property bubble that burst in 2007.  House prices  plunged an
annual 8.5 percent in November as the gap between bid and ask
prices widened, official data showed yesterday. Bad real estate
loans led to three  bank failures  last year, two of which pushed
losses on to senior creditors and exacerbated a funding squeeze.  U.S. Mortgages  Unlike the wave of losses in the U.S. mortgage market, no
Danish mortgage bond has defaulted since the market was created
in 1797, when debt was first sold to finance the rebuilding of
Copenhagen after a fire in 1795 burned down 900 buildings. Most
bonds are AAA rated and sold through lending facilities that are
over-collateralized, giving them an extra buffer to withstand
defaults.  The Nykredit Mortgage Bond Index, which includes the
largest, most-traded of the securities, is trading about 0.2
percent below a Jan. 2 record high.  The 3.14 trillion-krone mortgage bond market, the third
largest after the U.S. and  Germany , also offers more liquidity
than the government bond market. Some 22 billion kroner traded
on average each day last year, compared with 3.57 billion kroner
a day in the 670 billion-krone government bond market, according
to data from the Nasdaq OMX Nordic exchange.  The Nordic country had seen an influx of capital as
investors rewarded governments with low debt burdens and top
ratings. Its public debt will reach 44.6 percent of the economy
this year, compared with an average of 90.4 percent in the 17-
member euro area, the European Commission estimated on Nov. 10.  Nordic Havens  Similar spread moves have also occurred in Norway and
Sweden, which are also outside the euro. Norway’s 10-year note
yields 56 basis points more than German debt, after that
difference narrowed to as little as five basis points on Jan.
16.  Sweden ’s 10-year note yields eight basis points less than
the German equivalent, down from an advantage of 64 basis points
at the end of November.  By contrast,  Italy ’s and  Spain ’s 10-year yield spreads to
Germany have this year narrowed 53 basis points to 417 basis
points and 25 basis points to 319 basis points, respectively.  Bargaining with  Greece  over a debt writedown and its
economic management is continuing as European Union leaders this
week signed off on key planks to end the debt crisis. They
agreed to accelerate the setup of a full-time 500 billion-euro
($659 billion) rescue fund and endorsed a deficit-control
treaty. The ECB last month offered banks unlimited three-year
loans, easing concern and sapping a capital flight to non-euro
countries such as Denmark.  According to Rune Brinch Kristensen, chief analyst Nykredit
Markets, a “higher-than-normal issuance” of three-year and
five-year bonds from the mortgage lenders before a refinancing
deadline has also weighed on the market.  “We recommend investors take advantage of the last days
with higher issuance before the market is expected to come to a
standstill until the auctions in March,” he said in an e-mailed
reply to questions. “The lower issuance of medium-term Danish
covered bonds might underpin the  government bonds  as well, but
the relatively positive outcome from the EU summit is expected
to be more positive for Germany than it is for Denmark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  