-- Dassault Aviation’s Rafale Is Lowest Bidder in India Jet Fighter Contract
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-02-01T02:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/dassault-rafale-is-lowest-bidder-in-india-combat-jet-contest-2-.html
Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , seeking its
first export order for Rafale fighters, will begin exclusive
negotiations to supply 126 jets to India after being selected as
the lowest bidder.  The French company and India’s defense ministry will begin
talks within 15 days, an Indian government official told
reporters in New Delhi yesterday. Negotiations will probably
extend beyond the March 31 end of India’s fiscal year.  Dassault surged the most in 22 years in Paris  trading 
yesterday as it nears a deal valued at $11 billion. A lack of
exports had led French Defense Minister Gerard Longuet to
suggest the government could stop funding the Rafale, which has
been used by the nation’s military for more than a decade.  “It’s great news for Dassault, it really firms things up
for them,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Paris-based Oddo
Securities. “It would be their first export contract, and a
very significant one at that, and it would likely have a booster
effect on other negotiations now under way.”  India shortlisted the Rafale and Eurofighter Typhoon in
April, when it rejected bids from U.S. manufacturers  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) , as well as  Saab AB (SAABB)  and OAO United
Aircraft Corp. The country is buying the fighters to replace an
aging fleet of Russian MiG-21s and Dassault Mirage 2000s.  “The Rafale was selected thanks to its cost effectiveness
over the lifetime of the plane,” French President Nicolas Sarkozy said in an e-mailed statement. “The announcement comes
after a very high-level, equitable and transparent
competition.”  Dassault Jumps  Dassault, based in Paris, jumped 18 percent to 725 euros. A
majority of the stock is  held  by the Dassault family, while
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., a co-producer of the
competing Typhoon, owns 46 percent.  Safran SA (SAF) , which supplies
the Rafale’s engines, rose 3.6 percent.  Indian law requires the government to negotiate a contract
with the lowest bidder. The only way it can reconsider the
tender is if Dassault says it can’t fulfill the contract, said
Mrinal Suman, an arms-procurement adviser for the Confederation
of  India  Industry.  Europe  and U.S. defense contractors have stepped up their
focus on Asia and emerging markets where military spending is
rising because of economic growth. India tripled its military
budget in a decade to $32 billion in the year ended March 31,
2011 to compete with a near-quadrupling of spending by neighbor
 China . In December,  Japan  awarded a contract to Lockheed Martin
to supply 42 F-35 fighter jets.  By contrast, governments in Europe and the U.S. are paring
defense spending as they tackle deficits. That has, for
instance, caused Eurofighter to slow production of the Typhoon
as it awaits new orders.  Rising Cost  The Indian contract was valued at 420 billion rupees ($8.5
billion) in a 2007 tender. The cost may have risen to as much as
$11 billion, partly because of delays in picking a winner, Suman
said. India’s state-owned  Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HNAL)  will
probably be the production partner for the planes, according to
Craig Caffrey, a London-based analyst at IHS Jane’s DS Forecast,
which advises defense suppliers.  “Dassault Aviation and its partners reiterate their
commitment to meet the operational requirements of the  Indian
Air Force  and underline their pride in contributing to India’s
defense for over half a century,” the French planemaker said in
an e-mailed statement.  France Paying  France so far had been left to pay the full production
costs for the Rafale after the fighter was rejected by countries
including Singapore,  South Korea , Morocco and Switzerland.
Longuet told LCP television in a December interview that the
Rafale was more expensive than U.S. models and that “the
production line will be stopped” without exports. He didn’t
give a timeframe. French Prime Minister Francois Fillon said
later the same month that production will continue.  Dassault , which has delivered at least 100 of 180 fighters
ordered by  France , had lost a contest to Saab’s Gripen in
Switzerland. It has since sought to get back into the
competition with a new offer that includes fewer and modified
Rafale jets. The company was also close to winning orders from
Brazil and the United Arab Emirates before both governments
began fresh negotiations. It remains in these contests.  “We’ve seen other deals advance to this stage with Rafale
only to get broken, like Brazil and U.A.E.,” said  Richard
Aboulafia , vice president at the Teal Group, a Fairfax,
Virginia-based consulting company. “I’m not sure I’d take this
to the bank until we see a firm contract.”  Eurofighter said it was “disappointed” by the choice and
respects the decision. The group includes  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  EADS (EAD) ,
and Italy’s  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   Dassault’s relations with India date back 60 years. India
was the very first export customer for Dassault, ordering 71
Ouragans in June 1953, and India has purchased most Dassault
models sold since. India replaced the Ouragans with Dassault’s
Mystere IV A in 1957, procuring 104 in 1957 and using them in
1961 for air strikes against the Portuguese colony of Daman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  