-- Date With Drachma Nears as Less Is More in Europe: The Ticker
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2012-01-31T15:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/date-with-drachma-nears-as-less-is-more-in-europe-the-ticker.html
Integration is becoming a dirty word in the European Union. Just when bond
markets are looking for signs of cooperation in the 27-member region so they can
call off their war on indebted countries, European governments have abandoned
the guise of cohesion as they try to hammer out an accord that would commit
participating EU countries to tougher fiscal rules. The Poles and Czechs are sniping at the French (over signing of the fiscal
compact); Austria and Luxembourg are squabbling with the Germans and Swedes
(over appointing a commissioner to take charge of  Greece 's budget); the British
won't recognize  Europe 's new budgetary rules;   and the Greeks are bickering
with everyone.  Soaring yields on the bonds of  Portugal  -- which may be the next
euro trouble spot -- show that markets believe there is no movement toward
integration. One thing is for sure: ``Fiscal union'' won't mean the surrender of budget
sovereignty for any country other than the ones applying for bailout money and
even they may be spared that embarrassment. If an EU Finance Ministry were to be
created, it would have only enforcement powers, not the right to make policy for
member states. This week's reaction to the German proposal made that only too
clear. ``Surveillance of Greece's progress is normal, but there was never any
question of putting Greece under tutelage,'' said French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy . Even the junior partner in the double act known as ``Merkozy'' is
breaking ranks on the issue of sovereignty, it seems. Austrian Chancellor Werner
Faymann said the proposal to give the EU control over Greece's budget ``doesn't
achieve anything and it goes in the wrong direction,'' while a Greek minister
summed up his nation's take on the matter as ``the product of a sick
imagination.'' More Europe suddenly became less Europe when it comes to giving
up national powers. Only the Germans seem to think it's a good idea and even they may see the
surrender of Greek budget control to a commissioner in Brussels as a way to get
Greece to jump before it is pushed. Yesterday, the supervisory board chairman of
Commerzbank AG, Klaus-Peter Mueller, added weight to calls for a Greek exit and
said banks might as well write off all Greek debt. There's little incentive for
German creditors to maintain solidarity with their Hellenic debtors anymore,
Mueller's words seemed to indicate. Even the  European Central Bank  is now entertaining the thought of a Greek
exit publicly. Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said he ``can't be sure''
that Greece will be able to carry out the necessary measures to remain in the
currency union. Hardly words of encouragement from the one institution that has
held steady in its defense of euro-zone membership. Greece's date with the drachma is drawing nearer by the day. It no longer
seems like a question of if, but when and how.      