-- Davos Choked by Audis as Ski Resort Draws Lincoln Tunnel Traffic
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-01-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/davos-choked-by-audis-as-ski-resort-draws-lincoln-tunnel-traffic.html
Chauffeured black Audis, armored
limousines and a fleet of shuttle vans crunched to a halt in the
streets of Davos as a record number of financiers, corporate
bosses and politicians struggled to navigate through five feet
of Swiss Alpine snow last week, the second-most in 66 years.  More than 2,600 participants of the 42nd  World Economic
Forum , 1,000 journalists and 13,000 residents forged their way
through narrow roads that resembled St. Moritz’s natural-ice
bobsled run. The traffic looked more like that in the Lincoln
Tunnel, which links  New York  and  New Jersey .  Congestion was so heavy a taxi took almost 40 minutes the
night of Jan. 26 to get from the conference’s Congress Centre to
the Morosani Posthotel, where  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  was holding a
reception, a distance of 1.3 kilometers (0.8 miles) or about an
18-minute walk. A ride from the Sunstar Park Hotel to the
Waldhotel, 2.3 kilometers away, which should have taken no more
than 8 minutes, according to  Google Maps , lasted 25 minutes and
cost 41 Swiss francs ($45).  “Road conditions were pretty bad, and poor snow removal
made tough conditions even worse,” said  Nariman Behravesh ,
chief economist at Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc., who
attended the forum for the third time. “There’s always a crush,
but the snow made driving conditions even worse.”  ‘Gets Worse’  Davos, known for its 307 kilometers of ski slopes, doesn’t
have the infrastructure for the thousands of people invading the
town during the annual conference, said Martin Stiffler, who
works for Express Taxi, one of three local cab companies.  This year the firm had fewer cars on duty because of the
snow. As participants tried to hail one of the company’s 12 cabs
on the 4 kilometer-long Promenade, Davos’s main street, five
drivers were dispatched to shovel snow, another service the
company offers.  At about 8 p.m. on Jan. 25, a diner at Da Damiano
restaurant, across from the Congress Centre, was told a taxi
wouldn’t be available for at least 90 minutes.  “It gets worse every year,” said Tom Umiker, manager of
Hotel Edelweiss, who offered to take guests to the train
station. “You can call them and call them, and they don’t even
pick up.”  Belvedere Hotel  The Steigenberger Grandhotel Belvedere, where four to six
parties were held every evening, spent about 9,000 Swiss francs
on snow removal during the conference, three times as much as
last year, said Robert Attenberger, the resident manager.  “We like the snow, but this year it has been quite a
challenge,” he said. “Every once in a while, people got stuck
on our ramp because they didn’t have their snow chains on.”  Luck ran out for Express Taxi driver Bruno Kreienbuehl on
Jan. 29, when he navigated down a winding slope on his way to
the conference’s registration center. His white taxi made a
hairpin turn and crashed into a military truck taking soldiers
to their temporary base on the mountainside.  The conditions were “challenging,” said Markus
Unterfinger, spokesman for the Davos tourist association. “Less
for the participants than for the street cleaners.”  Thousands of tons of snow were dumped on frozen Lake Davos
to clear roads for limousines transporting participants from
hotels to the conference center, Unterfinger said.  Four-Inch Heels  Audi AG, exclusive partner for the forum since 1987,
provided 86 A8L cars and 13 armored limousines this year, one
more than in 2010. Meanwhile, 75 shuttle vans crawled along
three designated loops to get attendees to their appointments.  “The huge amount of traffic was a real problem for us,”
said Norbert Gruber, who oversees 40 vehicles and a staff of
street cleaners dubbed “gnomes in orange” by the local
newspaper, referring to their colored overalls. “We had to
start plowing snow at 2 a.m. and work through the night and
morning hours.”  Road conditions weren’t “that bad” given the heavy
snowfall before the conference, Gruber said. Total accumulation
as of Jan. 24, the day before the forum began, was a record for
the winter and drifts reached almost as high as last year,
according to the Institute for Snow and Avalanche Research in
Davos, which began compiling data 66 years ago.  Conditions were hazardous for pedestrians as well. Norway’s
Crown Princess Mette-Marit slipped in front of the Belvedere at
about 8 p.m. on Jan. 26 and was caught by a bodyguard as she
tried to make her way through the snow in four-inch heels. Other
participants resorted to the shoe grips distributed to encourage
walking between the different venues.  “In  Boston , this would be illegal,”  Peter Diamond , the
Nobel laureate economist from the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , said as he walked along the Promenade, whose
sidewalks were covered with as much as 6 inches of ice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Davos, Switzerland at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  