-- Danish Bank Crisis Worsening, More Failures Loom, FSA Warns
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-01-31T15:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/denmark-s-bank-crisis-is-worsening-as-more-failures-loom-fsa-head-warns.html
Denmark ’s banking crisis is getting
worse, threatening to trigger more failures, as loans to farms
and small businesses sour and the  property market  fails to
recover, the head of the Financial Supervisory Authority said.  “We have a small group of institutions where we think
there might be a risk that within the next 12 to 18 months they
will run into solvency problems,” Ulrik Noedgaard, director
general of the Copenhagen-based FSA, said in an interview
yesterday. “Any notion that the group of troubled banks might
get smaller than we thought has probably been taken off the
table for a while.”  Denmark has yet to recover from a property bubble that
burst in 2007, hurting businesses as consumers cut spending and
leaving farmers struggling to repay loans after the economy fell
into a recession.  House prices  plunged an annual 8.5 percent in
November as the gap between bid and ask prices widened, official
data showed today. Bad real estate loans led to three  bank
failures  last year, two of which pushed losses on to senior
creditors and exacerbated a funding squeeze.  Banks at risk of being declared insolvent represent about 3
percent of Denmark’s financial industry, Noedgaard said.  An index of Danish financial stocks reversed gains to slip
as much as 0.2 percent, after having traded 1 percent higher
earlier in the day. The 43-member Bloomberg index of European
financials rose 1 percent.  Regional lenders Amagerbanken A/S and Fjordbank Mors A/S
failed last year after loans to farming and real estate went
bad.  Vestjysk Bank A/S (VJBA) , which the FSA told to double its
writedowns in December, merged with Aarhus Lokalbank A/S last
week, allowing the two to extend state guarantees on their debt.  Farm Loans  Denmark’s biggest lender,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , probably
returned to profit in the fourth quarter after reporting its
first loss since 2009 in the previous period, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks in the worst-performing Nordic economy face more
losses on farming loans as that industry struggles to pay down
its obligations, Noedgaard said. Agricultural debt swelled 2.6
percent to 359 billion kroner ($63 billion) in 2010, the Danish
Agriculture and Food Council estimates. Commercial farms have
lost as much as half their value in some parts of Denmark,
leaving 6 percent of the industry technically insolvent,
according to the council.  “We have an agricultural sector that is somewhat
challenged by very high levels of debt and a poor performance
currently,” Noedgaard said.  ‘Not Looking Good’  Loans to farming, construction and real estate made up 26
percent of total lending at the end of 2010 at banks with less
than 50 billion kroner in working capital, according to a May
report by the central bank. For the biggest banks, the
corresponding figure was 16 percent.  At the end of 2011, loans to farms made up 11 percent of
banks’ corporate lending and 23 percent of commercial mortgage
lending, the Danish Bankers Association estimates.  Danish banks also face growing losses on loans to small-and
medium-sized enterprises, which are struggling to survive the
fallout of a faltering domestic economy, Noedgaard said.  “The domestically oriented small firms, retail businesses,
different kinds of construction-related services, are struggling
and the figures coming out of the annual accounts are not
looking good,” Noedgaard said.  The $300 billion economy contracted 0.5 percent in the
third quarter led by a decline in household spending, the
statistics office said on Dec. 22. Output probably stagnated in
the final three months of the year, said Klaus Rasmussen, chief
economist at the Confederation of Danish Industries.  ‘No Growth’  “There will be no growth,” Rasmussen said by phone.
“It’s hitting firms of all sizes. The smaller firms may be a
little harder hit because you have at the same time something of
a credit crunch, which is stronger for the smaller firms than
for the bigger ones.”  The government has tried to prop up the banks through four
rescue packages since 2008. Lawmakers are in talks to broaden
the latest bill, which targets consolidation in the industry,
according to Brian Mikkelsen, a member of the parliament
business committee that oversees banks.  “It will take some time before banks are able to do
without some kind of public presence,” Noedgaard said. “It
will take at least five years.”  The number of banks in Denmark fell to 121 in the middle of
last year from 147 at the beginning of 2008, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and development estimates. The Paris-
based group warned Jan. 26 that Denmark needs to do more to fix
“financial sector vulnerabilities” if the country is to avoid
another housing bubble.  No Improvement  Standard & Poor’s  on Nov. 9 lowered Denmark to group 3 from
group 2 under its banking industry country risk assessment, or
BICRA, ranking the country lower than its Scandinavian peers
Norway, Finland and  Sweden . Denmark shares its BICRA grade with
 Italy , which is also ranked 3.  House prices will have plunged 25 percent by next year
since the beginning of the crisis in 2007, the government-backed
Economic Council said in November. At the same time, survey
 unemployment  will rise to 7.4 percent this year, versus 3.2
percent in 2008, according to OECD calculations.  Today’s housing data show the market “remains in a
crisis,” said  Steen Bocian , chief economist at Danske Bank.
“There’s not much to suggest that things will improve any time
soon.”  According to Noedgaard, “with the current economic
outlook, we have to prepare ourselves for further writedowns in
the coming year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  