-- Deutsche Bank Said to Prepare $1 Billion CMBS Deal as Firms Resume Sales
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-01-31T17:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/deutsche-bank-said-to-prepare-1-billion-cmbs-deal-as-firms-resume-sales.html
Deutsche Bank (DB)  AG is planning a
commercial-mortgage bond deal for February of about $1 billion
as  Wall Street  seeks to reignite sales after the European debt
crisis roiled markets and damped lending.  The offering will be the second deal of its kind in 2012,
according to people familiar with the transaction, who declined
to be identified because the issue hasn’t been announced. The
Frankfurt-based lender last sold similar debt in a $1.65 billion
offering in August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of securities tied to everything from shopping malls
to mobile-home parks fell to $2.87 billion in the fourth quarter
of 2011 from $8.26 billion in the previous three months,
Bloomberg data show. It takes several months to pool loans to
package for sales, and banks are wary of holding the debt on
their books when volatility surges.  Amanda Williams , a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank in  New
York , declined to comment.  Originations have picked up since the slowdown, with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. teaming up to sell
$1.15 billion in commercial-mortgage backed securities last
week. Banks are arranging as much as $11 billion in new sales
through April, according to Commercial Mortgage Alert, an
industry newsletter.  While banks have stepped up originating new loans for sale
as bonds, Wall Street remains unable to compete with the low
rates offered on the best properties by insurance companies and
other lenders, according to a Jan. 29 report from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  ‘Build a Pipeline’  “Lenders will have to originate many more, smaller loans
to build a pipeline large enough to securitize,” wrote  Alan Todd , a New York-based analyst at the firm.  Bank forecasts for commercial-mortgage bond sales in 2012
range from  Wells Fargo & Co .’s prediction of $25 billion to UBS
AG’s and Credit Suisse Group AG’s estimates of as much as
$45 billion.  Wall Street banks arranged about $28 billion of the debt
last year, compared with $11.5 billion in 2010, Bloomberg data
show. Issuance peaked at $232 billion in 2007, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  