-- Device Makers Said to Double FDA Fees to Produce Faster Reviews
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-01T16:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/device-makers-said-to-double-fda-fees-to-get-quicker-product-reviews.html
Medical device makers will double the
fees they pay U.S. regulators to get products reviewed over the
next five years, to $595 million, in a deal designed to secure
faster and more predictable evaluations, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said today.  The pact, which must be authorized by Congress, replaces
one that cost  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ,  Johnson & Johnson  and other device
makers $287 million over the last five years and expires on
Sept. 30. The agreement, which is still being finalized, would
allow the FDA to hire 200 full-time employees by the end of the
five-year program, the agency said in a  statement .  The agreement requires FDA evaluators to meet midway
through reviews with device applicants to give the companies
time to address concerns and sets goals for the agency to reduce
review times, according to a statement from the  Advanced Medical
Technology Association , the device industry’s Washington lobby.  “If this is tied to faster, better visibility, more
efficiency, it’s worth its weight in gold,” Thomas Gunderson, a
Piper Jaffray & Co. analyst based in  Minneapolis , said in a
telephone interview, of the fee deal.  One of the biggest barriers to medical device investment
has been the FDA’s slow approval times, particularly in the last
three years, Gunderson said.  The industry has been seeking more meetings with FDA staff
during reviews to head off 11th-hour requests for safety data
that companies said were delaying approvals, even with the fee
system. The sides had traded proposals for how much such a
system would cost.  Industry Comment  “The improvements in the agreement provide FDA and medical
technology companies the tools needed to improve the efficiency
and consistency of the review process,” said Stephen Ubl,
AdvaMed president and chief executive officer, in the statement.  Drugmakers including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest, and
Merck & Co. also pay user fees. The House Energy and Commerce
health subcommittee is conducting a hearing today to examine the
agreement the FDA reached with the pharmaceutical industry and
made public in September.  The medicine companies will pay more than $700 million in
fiscal 2013 in fees under its agreement, Representative Joe Pitts, Republican of  Pennsylvania , said at the hearing. The
drugmaker fees pay about 60 percent of the cost of agency
reviews of proposed new medicines.  User fees are “critical for the health of the
pharmaceutical industry and the ability to bring new drugs to
patients,” Geno Germano, New York-based Pfizer’s president and
general manager of specialty care and oncology, said in an
interview.  Starting Point  Device manufacturers and the FDA have been negotiating the
new agreement for more than a year. The FDA said it will use any
added money to increase evaluation staff.  The agency had sought as much as $805 million in fees,
according to minutes of a Nov. 29 meeting posted on the agency’s
website. The medical-device industry countered with a $447
million offer, minutes for a Dec. 6 meeting showed.  The $595 million agreement will support about 35 percent of
the FDA’s review activities,  Karen Riley , a spokeswoman said in
an e-mail. Current fees cover 20 percent, she said.  The FDA took 73 days on average in 2010 to complete less-
stringent reviews of devices that pose a low- to moderate-risk
to patients, compared with 80 days before companies paid fees in
2001, according to a Bloomberg Government study. More than 90
percent of devices are reviewed under the less-stringent
process, known as 510(k).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  