-- Dixons Slides as CEO Browett Leaves for Apple Post: London Mover
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-31T10:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/dixons-slides-as-ceo-browett-leaves-for-apple-post-london-mover.html
Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , the largest U.K.
consumer-electronics retailer, fell the most in more than seven
months in  London  trading after the company said Chief Executive
Officer John Browett is leaving to join  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The stock declined as much as 13 percent to 13.25 pence,
the steepest drop since June 9, snapping a six-day rally.  The surprise departure of 48-year-old Browett is “a blow
to Dixons,” according to Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at
Execution Noble Ltd. The CEO has overseen a shift toward more
service-oriented, online retailing since joining from Tesco Plc
about four years ago. Dixons this month reported improved
profitability in the U.K. over the Christmas period.  Browett will be succeeded next month by group operations
director Sebastian James, the owner of the PC World and Currys
chains said today. Also gaining promotion to the board is Katie Bickerstaffe, who has worked alongside James since 2008 and will
become head of operations in the U.K. and Ireland.  “It sounds like it will be business as usual,” said
Gulliver, who has a “neutral” recommendation on Dixons.  Dixons said today that business is “in line” with the
patterns reported in its sales update on Jan. 17.  The  shares  were down 4.5 percent at 14.55 pence as of 9:36
a.m., trimming the gain this year to 48 percent.  “Short-term, it’s not good news,” said  David Jeary , an
analyst at Investec Securities with a “hold” recommendation on
Dixons stock. Browett “was the architect of the renewal plan
and the figurehead mouthpiece,” though the appointment of James
“provides very strong continuity.”  CEO Pay  James, 45, will be promoted to the  Dixons board  and succeed
Browett as CEO on Feb. 20, the company said. He joined in April
2008 from Synergy Insurance Services Ltd. and his previous roles
include strategy director at U.K. retailer Mothercare Plc.  In his new role, James will earn 600,000 pounds ($945,540)
a year, plus annual bonus and benefits, Dixons said. Last year,
Browett received basic salary and fees of 676,000 pounds and was
paid 1.03 million pounds overall including pension contributions
and a 122,000-pound cash bonus in the 12 months through April.  Browett “has done a good job of turning Dixons around in
the face of an extremely difficult macro-environment and seen
off a competitive threat from Best Buy,” Gulliver said.  Best Buy Inc. decided to exit the U.K. in November after
opening 11 stores, while rival Comet, owned by  Kesa Electricals
Plc (KESA) , has been sold to private equity firm OpCapita LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  