-- Apple Names Dixons CEO Browett as Retail Head in Cook’s First Outside Pick
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-31T14:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/dixons-says-chief-executive-browett-to-leave-for-role-at-apple.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  named the chief executive
officer of the largest U.K. consumer-electronics retailer to run
its stores, ending more than seven months of searching for an
executive to oversee international expansion.  John Browett, 48, will start at Apple in April as senior
vice president, the Cupertino, California-based company said in
a statement today. The hiring marks the first outside  senior-
executive  appointment by CEO  Tim Cook . Browett replaces
Ron Johnson, who left the world’s most valuable technology
company last year to run JC Penney Co.  Browett, who had been CEO of  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  since 2007,
will lead Apple’s 361-store business as it builds more sites
outside the U.S. Of the company’s 40 new locations this year, 30
will be abroad. Apple is using the stores to fuel an expansion
in  China , where outlets in Shanghai, Beijing and  Hong Kong  are
among the company’s most trafficked locations. The company had
36,000 retail employees at the end of its last fiscal year.  “Retail is very important to Apple as a large proportion
of their shipments, especially the iPad, is going through their
own retail stores,” said  Tim Coulling , an analyst at U.K.
researcher Canalys. Browett has the necessary experience with
Apple products as Dixons Retail is a “critical reseller of
Apple equipment,” he said.  Booming Retail Sales  The U.K. retailer said in a separate statement that Browett
would be replaced by Sebastian James, who has been with the
company since 2008, most recently as group operations director.  Apple rose 0.6 percent to $455.53 at 9:30 a.m. in  New York 
trading. Dixons fell 7.6 percent to 14.08 pence at 2:30 p.m. in
London, after earlier declining as much as 13 percent for the
steepest drop since June 9.  Apple, which opened its first retail outlets more than a
decade ago, now generates more sales per square foot than luxury
chains such as Tiffany & Co. The stores had $6.1 billion in
sales in the quarter ended Dec. 31, up 59 percent from the year-
earlier period.  “Our retail stores are all about  customer service , and
John shares that commitment like no one else we’ve met,” Cook,
who succeeded Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  as CEO in August, said
in the statement.  Retail Career  Browett joined DSG International Plc, which later became
Dixons, in 2007 from the U.K.’s biggest supermarket chain Tesco
Plc where he was operations development director. The Cambridge
graduate, who previously also worked for The  Boston Consulting
Group , had been touted as a possible Tesco CEO, analysts at
Teather & Greenwood said at the time.  Browett, who had been at Tesco since 1998, boosted the
supermarket’s online operations and helped it expand into new
markets such as  South Korea  with groceries, consumer
electronics, books and CDs.  “He was well regarded at Tesco,” Nomura food analyst Nick Coulter said, adding that Browett was perceived to be a “rising
star.”  At Dixons, Browett expanded the company’s Internet business
and installed in-store electronic touch screens to offer
customers information about new products. He started Dixons’ so-
called KnowHow service desks that provide technical after-sales
support and help with computer-software installation and laptop
repairs.  Troubleshooting  Apple’s so-called Genius Bar, which Johnson created, gives
customers free troubleshooting help when their gadgets fail. The
service is one reason Apple is consistently rated among the top
companies in customer satisfaction. Apple’s retail division has
helped fuel sales of iPhones, iPads, Macs and iPods, with
customers lining up for hours to buy the newest devices.  Dixons shares have dropped 81 percent since Browett became
CEO, including a 57 percent drop in 2011. Apple has more than
 doubled  in that period. Still, Dixons had gained 55 percent this
year until yesterday, after the retailer said profitability
improved as it sold more products at full price over the
Christmas period.  During Browett’s tenure at Dixons, the company secured an
exclusive agreement to sell Apple’s first iPad for several weeks
before rival U.K. retailers offered the tablet, spokesman Mark Webb said. The U.K.’s largest electronics chain, which runs the
PC World and Currys stores, is probably the biggest seller of
Apple products in the U.K. outside of Apple, he said.  “It’s not surprising that they found someone from outside
the U.S., given that they’re going for quite significant growth
in Europe and Asia-Pacific,” said James Cordwell, an analyst at
Atlantic Equities Service in  London .  Fifth Avenue, Louvre  Since Johnson announced he would be joining JC Penney in
June, Apple has relied on his main  deputies , including Jerry
McDougal, the vice president of retail; Steve Cano, global head
of store personnel; and Bob Bridger, who is in charge of
choosing store locations.  In addition to its existing team, Apple has connections to
the retail industry.  Mickey Drexler , the chairman and CEO of J.
Crew Group Inc., serves on Apple’s board.  Part of Apple’s strategy in expanding outside the U.S. will
be to keep putting stores in heavily trafficked areas, even if
it means paying the highest real-estate prices. Its stores on
Fifth Avenue in New York, near the Louvre in Paris and on Regent
Street in London attract hundreds of people who line up for
introductions of new iPads or iPhones.  Record Sales  Store traffic reached 110 million visitors in the holiday
period -- almost equivalent to the population of  Mexico .  The success can have its drawbacks. Apple faced angry
crowds at one of its Beijing locations after shoppers grew
restless waiting for the new iPhone 4S to go on sale. Some
people threw eggs at the store when it didn’t open.  Apple reported  quarterly profit  last week that more than
doubled to $13.1 billion, boosted by record holiday sales of the
iPhone, iPad and Mac. The results helped push the stock to a
record.  In other management moves, Cook promoted Eddy Cue to senior
vice president last year. The executive oversees iTunes and the
 App Store . The company also hired Todd Teresi to lead its iAd
mobile-advertising network and report to Cue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  