-- Dixons Shares Slide on CEO Browett’s Surprise Move to Apple: London Mover
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-31T08:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/dixons-shares-slide-on-ceo-browett-s-surprise-move-to-apple-london-mover.html
Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , the largest U.K.
consumer-electronics retailer, fell the most in more than seven
months in London trading after the company said Chief Executive
Officer John Browett is leaving to join  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The stock declined as much as 13 percent to 13.25 pence,
the steepest drop since June 9, snapping a six-day rally.  Browett, a former head of Tesco.com, has overseen a shift
toward more service-oriented, online retailing at Dixons, which
this month reported improved profitability over the peak
Christmas period. He will be succeeded next month by group
operations director Sebastian James, Dixons said today.  “Short-term, it’s not good news,” said  David Jeary , an
analyst at Investec Securities with a “hold” recommendation on
Dixons stock. Browett “was the architect of the renewal plan
and the figurehead mouthpiece,” though the appointment of James
“provides very strong continuity.”  James, 45, will be promoted to the Dixons board and succeed
Browett as CEO on Feb. 20, the company said. He joined in April
2008 from Synergy Insurance Services Ltd. and his previous roles
include strategy director at U.K. retailer Mothercare Plc.  Also gaining promotion to the board is Katie Bickerstaffe,
who will become head of the company’s operations in the U.K. and
Ireland. Bickerstaffe has worked alongside James on the
retailer’s U.K. turnaround plan since joining in June 2008.  Dixons said today that business is “in line” with the
patterns reported in its sales update on Jan. 17.  The  shares  were down 8 percent at 14.02 pence as of 8:27
a.m., trimming the gain this year to 43 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  