-- Euro Falls to Lowest in 5 Days Versus Dollar
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-31T22:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/dollar-weakens-versus-major-currency-counterparts-as-commodities-gain.html
The euro fell to its weakest level
in almost a week versus the dollar as investors speculated
European policy makers won’t be able to reach an agreement
regarding Greece’s debt obligations.  Canada ’s dollar fell from a three-month high against its
U.S. counterpart after the nation’s economy unexpectedly
contracted in the fourth quarter. The dollar and yen pared
earlier losses as stocks fell after  consumer confidence  and
business activity in the U.S. was weaker than forecast in
January. The euro declined against the majority of its most-
traded peers as  Standard & Poor’s  increased the number of
Portuguese banks on “creditwatch negative.”  “I think the data in the U.S. was a bit lackluster,” said
Daniel Brehon, a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank in New
York. “We had a strong equity market rally this month and we
expected to see better.”  The euro closed down 0.5 percent to $1.3084 at 5 p.m.  New
York  time, after touching $1.3042, the lowest level since Jan.
25. The dollar fell 0.1 percent to 76.27 yen after touching
76.16 yen, the weakest level since Oct. 31. The European shared
currency fell 0.6 percent to 99.78 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar and South African rand rallied as
investors sought higher-yielding assets.  Consumer Confidence  The dollar gained against half its major counterparts after
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today its
 business barometer  decreased to 60.2 from 62.2 in December.
 Consumer confidence  unexpectedly dropped in January as gas
prices picked up and more Americans said jobs are hard to get.
Tomorrow the Institute of Supply Management will report its
January manufacturing figure, and private sector employment for
the past month will also be reported.  Greece  pledged a last-ditch effort to prevent the collapse
of a second rescue package from creditors, aiming to complete
talks this week on a financial lifeline that’s been in the works
for six months.  Greek Premier  Lucas Papademos  said he wants to bring the
negotiations “to a successful conclusion by the end of the
week” for a debt-swap agreement with Greece’s creditors.
Representatives of the European Commission, the  European Central
Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  want more fiscal
tightening and wage cuts from Greece, the prime minister told
reporters after the European Union meeting.  “There is still no news on the Greek private-sector
involvement, and it will now drag out until Feb. 13, so that has
weighed on sentiment,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA. A formal offer for a debt
swap must be made by Feb. 13, Greek Finance Minister Evangelos
Venizelos told reporters in  Athens  today.  Portuguese Banks  S&P took action on Portuguese banks following the downgrade
of the nation’s sovereign credit on Jan. 13. Banco Espirito
Santo SA and its core subsidiaries were placed on watch, while
multiple banks already on negative watch had statuses affirmed.
Yields on Portuguese two-year securities reached a record today
of 21.82 percent.  China and the  euro zone  will release tomorrow their
Purchasing Managers Index figures for January. Both are expected
at a value below 50, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, which implies contraction in the manufacturing
sector.  “PMI globally has been stabilizing or heading up for three
or four months, so to break that trend would be interesting for
the markets,” Brehon said. “If  China  is below 50, you’ll start
to hear the talk about a slowdown in China.”  Risk-Reversal Rates  The cost to protect against a drop in the euro versus the
dollar fell from a three-week high. Risk-reversal rates for
three-month options on the euro versus the dollar rose to
negative 1.91 percent today, the most since Jan. 9. The measure
reached negative 4.4 percent in November.  Japan  refrained from selling yen in the foreign-exchange
market this month, the Ministry of Finance said today on its
website. The nation sold the currency on Oct. 31 when it climbed
to a postwar record of 75.35 per dollar.  Japan’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said his ministry is
prepared to take “decisive” measures to curb the yen’s
appreciation as it approached a post-World War II high.  Canada’s dollar was little changed at C$1.0027 after  gross
domestic product  posted an unanticipated decline in November,
shrinking for the first time in six months on maintenance
shutdowns by crude oil producers and lower natural gas
extraction. The currency had earlier gained as much as 0.5
percent to 99.65 cents per  U.S. dollar , the strongest level
since Oct. 31.  Implied Volatility  Implied  volatility  of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies dropped to 10.60 percent from as high as 10.61
percent yesterday, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility
Index . A decrease makes investments in currencies with higher
benchmark lending rates more attractive as the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  The dollar and yen, whose countries’  interest rates  are
near zero, weakened as investors sold the currencies to fund
investments in higher-yielding counterparts. The  New Zealand 
dollar advanced 0.9 percent to 82.68 U.S. cents,  Australia ’s
currency climbed 0.2 percent to $1.0621 and South Africa’s rand
gained 0.4 percent to 7.8108 per dollar.  New Zealand’s dollar is the best performer year-to-date
among the 10 developed nation currencies measured by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, with a 4.7 percent gain.
The dollar is the worst performer, falling 2.1 percent. The euro
has declined 1.1 percent and the yen has weakened 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  