-- S&P’s Ogawa Says Japan Doubling Sales Tax Not Enough to Conquer Debt Woes
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-01-31T01:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/doubling-sales-tax-won-t-help-japan-enough-s-p.html
Doubling  Japan ’s sales tax by 2015
won’t be enough to contain the nation’s growing debt load and
the government needs to outline how it will pay for swelling
social-welfare expenses, a  Standard & Poor’s  analyst said.  “There’s no way that would be enough,”  Takahira Ogawa ,
director of sovereign ratings at S&P in  Singapore , said in a
phone interview yesterday, referring to the plan to raise the
levy by 5 percentage points. “No matter how high the sales tax
is raised, there’s no point unless the government does something
with the social-welfare system.”  Japan’s government said last week that it will probably
miss its goal of balancing the budget by fiscal 2020 even with
the  sales tax  increase, yet to be approved by opposition
lawmakers. Social-security expenses have more than doubled over
the past two decades and will account for 52 percent of general
spending in the year starting April, Finance Ministry data show.  “Since expenditure has expanded to this extent, it’ll be
almost impossible to achieve the primary balance goal unless the
revenue will be increased more than initially forecast or
planned,” Ogawa said.  He didn’t say how high the sales tax should go. Vice
Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said in November the country
may need to eventually raise the levy to 17 percent.  S&P has had Japan on a negative outlook since April after
lowering it to AA- in January, 2011. Ogawa declined to comment
on whether the company will cut the rating.  An aging population and two decades of low growth after an
asset bubble burst in the early 1990s have left Japan with debt
that the government forecasts will exceed 1 quadrillion yen ($13
trillion) next year. Forty percent of the population will be
aged at least 65 years by 2060, according to a report by the
National Institute of Population and Social Security Research.  Japan’s fiscal conditions “are getting worse, which has
been generally expected,” Ogawa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  