-- DP World Sees Gross Profit ‘In Line With Expectations’ as Volumes Rise 10%
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-01-31T06:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/dp-world-sees-gross-profit-in-line-with-expectations-as-volumes-rise-10-.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW) , the Dubai World-
controlled ports operator, forecast full-year gross profit to be
“in line with expectations” after a 10 percent rise in
container volumes last year.  The company  handled 54.7 million twenty-foot equivalent
container units at its ports last year compared with 49.6
million TEUs a year earlier, it said in a  statement  to Nasdaq
Dubai today. Terminals the company consolidates for accounting
purposes handled 27.5 million TEUs, while like-for-like growth
for that period was 8 percent.  DP World, which operates more than 60 terminals across six
continents, is expanding operations in  China ,  India  and the
 Middle East  as it seeks to boost capacity to 100 million TEU by
2020,  according to its website . The company said in December it
will invest $850 million in the next three years to expand
capacity at its Jebel Ali port in Dubai.  “Whilst uncertainty continues to affect the global
economy, our business is still performing well,” said Chief
Executive Officer Mohammed Sharaf. “We made good progress
through the fourth quarter of 2011 and we will achieve 2011
full-year EBITDA in line with expectations. Lower-than-expected
net financing charges will benefit reported profit before tax.”  ‘Uncertainty Remains’  The company, the world’s fourth-largest port operator, in
August posted a better-than-expected jump in first-half profit
as volume increased and the company booked a gain from selling
its Australian unit. DP World, rated the second-highest non-
investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s , has $7.2 billion of debt
and interest payments outstanding, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  While “uncertainty remains as we enter 2012, we continue
to concentrate on delivering an improved operational and
financial performance over 2011,” Sharaf said.  DP World agreed a 20-year financing with a group of
international banks to fund its London Gateway deep-sea port, it
said on Oct. 6. The company, which said it will invest an
additional $1 billion in the project over the next three years,
will use an equal mix of debt and equity to finance it and plans
to draw down on the debt by mid-2012 after completing equity
investments, it said.  DP World shares  dropped 1.9 percent to $10.76 at 10:38 a.m
in Dubai. The stock has gained 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  