-- Draghi Stuck as Trichet’s Bond Plan Proves Not So Temporary: Euro Credit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-01-31T09:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/draghi-stuck-with-trichet-s-temporary-bond-plan-euro-credit.html
The  European Central Bank ’s bond
program, dubbed “temporary” by  Jean-Claude Trichet , shows no
signs of ending even after 219 billion euros ($289 billion) of
purchases augmented by twice as much in three-year loans.  The ECB, led by  Mario Draghi  since he replaced Trichet on
Nov. 1, has  bought bonds  for its Securities Market Program every
week since August. Even after handing banks 489 billion euros
that they don’t have to repay until the end of 2014, the central
bank will need to spend as much as 15 billion euros per month to
cap yields, said Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou, European head of
global  asset allocation  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London.  “The ECB will not stop the SMP program,” Panigirtzoglou
said. “It is a valuable and flexible tool.”  Italy ’s 10-year bond yield fell 10 basis points today to
5.99 percent, down from a euro-era high of 7.48 percent reached
Nov. 9. Three-year yields were at 4.37 percent, compared with
more than 7.9 percent 10 weeks ago.  The central bank revealed the so-called SMP initiative in
May 2010 to “ensure depth and liquidity in those market
segments, which are dysfunctional.” A month later, Trichet said
purchases would be temporary, without providing further
information. A five-month pause in 2011 ended when  transactions 
jumped to 22 billion euros in the week to Aug. 12 as surging
borrowing costs in Italy and Spain spurred ECB buying.  Maturity Mismatch  While two-year yields for  Spain  and Italy have dropped by
more than 2 percentage points since the ECB said Dec. 8 it would
offer unlimited three-year cash, rates on bonds repayable after
the period covered by the loans have stayed high. The  yield gap 
between two-year and 10-year Spanish debt is about 239 basis
points, up from as low as 61 basis points on Nov. 25. The spread
in Italy’s bond market is 239, after two-year notes briefly
yielded more than 10-year debt in November.  Italy failed yesterday to sell its maximum target of 8
billion euros of bonds due between 2016 and 2022. Non-European
investors may invest the proceeds of maturing euro-denominated
debt elsewhere, according to Laurent Fransolet, head of fixed-
income strategy at  Barclays Capital  in London.  “I think they continue, if that is the more convenient
solution as a backstop,” Fransolet said in an e-mailed response
to questions about the central bank purchases. The ECB has
probably made a profit on Italian and Spanish debt, and both
nations are delivering reforms to cut their budget deficits, so
it “must be willing to continue,” he said.  Portuguese Yields Climb  The ECB bought Portuguese bonds yesterday as 10-year
borrowing costs climbed to a euro-era record, said three people
with knowledge of the transactions, who declined to be
identified because the trades are private. Portuguese bonds
repayable in April 2021 snapped a four-day decline today,
leaving yields at 17.01 percent. The rate has climbed from about
13.4 percent at the start of the year.  Greek debt has continued to decline even as the ECB has
invested in the securities, driving two-year notes to less than
21 percent of face value from more than 90 percent in May 2010.  Draghi’s stance on ECB bond purchases will be scrutinized
after the policy contributed to the resignations of former
Bundesbank president Axel Weber and Executive Board member
 Juergen Stark . Weber, who was seen as a leading contender to
replace Trichet at the central bank, said the program posed
“stability risks” and there was no evidence it worked.  Remaining Responsible  Bond purchases aren’t eternal or infinite, Draghi said on
Jan. 19. The ECB is seeking alternatives to buying bonds,
Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said, according to a Jan.
17 Wall Street Journal report. An ECB spokesman in  Frankfurt 
declined to comment on the bond-buying arrangements.  The central bank said yesterday it settled 63 million euros
of bond purchases in the week through Jan. 27, the lowest amount
in a month and down from 2.2 billion euros the previous week.  The scope for ECB policy makers to cede responsibility to
the European Financial Stability Facility bailout fund is fading,
according to Achilleas Georgolopoulos, a fixed-income strategist
at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in  London .  “They don’t really like the SMP, but they know it’s
necessary,” he said. “All the extra measures they announced
for the EFSF are still not in place. It cannot intervene, and if
it cannot intervene, then the ECB will remain active.”  Resorting to the EFSF for aid would probably carry a
“stigma” that Spain and Italy are keen to avoid, said
 Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income analyst at Investec Capital
Markets in London.  “The ECB has a less formal agreement with countries,” she
said. “It would undoubtedly like to stop if it felt there was
no further need for its interventions. We are still some way
away from that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  