-- EasyJet’s Stelios Spat Intensifies Before Shareholder Meeting
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-01-31T19:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/easyjet-s-stelios-spat-intensifies-before-shareholder-meeting.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ’s public spat with
founder Stelios Haji Ioannou intensified after Chairman Michael Rake rejected claims that too much is being spent on planes and
the investor labelled the carrier’s cost calculations “phoney.”  Stelios, who goes by his first name, overstated the value
of an order for Airbus SAS A320-series jets and made assertions
about the size of bonus payments for executives that were also
incorrect, Rake said at a capital markets day in London held in
advance of EasyJet’s annual shareholder meeting on Feb. 17.  “It is repeatedly said that these aircraft committed the
company to $1.5 billion of expenditure,” Rake said, according to
a copy of his speech supplied by EasyJet. “The actual amount
involved is substantially less than a half of this figure.”  Stelios, who controls about 38 percent of outstanding stock
at Luton, England-based EasyJet, has been in dispute with the
management of  Europe ’s second-biggest discount airline for more
than three years after calling for slower growth in November
2008 and refusing to sign off on annual accounts.  “I have more years of experience than anyone else on that
board in buying aircraft, and I can tell a bad deal when I see
one,” Stelios said in a statement e-mailed after Rake’s speech.
“My interests are aligned with shareholders, unlike his.”  Calculations used to determine EasyJet’s return on capital
employed, used as a basis for 8 million pounds ($12.6 million)
in bonuses, create a “moral hazard” and are confusing for
investors, while comparisons with the ROCE at  Air France-KLM
Group (AF) ,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and British Airways are unwelcome
since their returns are poor the entrepreneur said.  “This company used to have a ROCE several times higher than
now, and it is depressed now because of the expensive airbuses
that produce no profit,” Stelios said.  Rake said in his address that EasyJet has already capped
the winter fleet at 204 planes to focus on improving yields, or
fares, and working to improve returns on existing routes. He
added that the success of that plan has been evident in recent
quarters, with increased business bookings boosting sales.  EasyJet  closed  little changed at 446.4 pence in London and
is up 14 percent this year after falling 11 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  