-- Dish Loses Appeal of Sanctions for E-Mail Destruction
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-09T08:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/echostar-sanctions-over-e-mail-destruction-affirmed-in-cablevision-lawsuit.html
(Corrects parent company in headline and beginning in first
paragraph of story published Jan. 31.)  A  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  unit lost its
appeal challenging sanctions imposed on the company for
destroying e-mail evidence in a  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) 
contract lawsuit.  A New York state appeals court in  Manhattan  today upheld a
decision by the trial judge, Richard Lowe. The judge found in
November 2010 that EchoStar Satellite LLC “systematically
destroyed evidence in direct violation of the law.” He said he
will tell jurors about the erased e-mails in a trial over claims
by Cablevision’s defunct Voom unit that the  Dish Network  unit
breached a contract. Jurors may assume the evidence would have
been helpful to Cablevision, Lowe said.  The sanction was “appropriate and proportionate,” Justice
Sallie Manzanet-Daniels wrote in a unanimous appeals court
 opinion .  “Although Voom may have other evidence to point to, the
missing evidence is from a crucial time period during which
EchoStar appears to have been searching for a way out of its
contract,” Manzanet-Daniels wrote for the five-judge panel.
“Evidence from this vital time period is not entirely
duplicative of other evidence.”  Distribution Agreement  Voom sued in 2008, accusing EchoStar Satellite of breaching
a distribution agreement that called for Voom to provide 21
high-definition television channels to the company, which at the
time operated the Dish satellite-television network. The suit
seeks more than $2.5 billion in damages.  “Today’s ruling confirms that EchoStar destroyed evidence
in blatant violation of the law and will now be held accountable
for its misconduct,”  Orin Snyder , an attorney representing
Cablevision, said of the Dish Network unit in an e-mail. “We
look forward to trial.”  In 2008, EchoStar Communications Corp. changed its name to
Dish Network Corp., focusing on satellite television, and spun
off  EchoStar Corp. (SATS)  Both are based in Englewood,  Colorado .
EchoStar Satellite is now known as Dish Network LLC.  Cablevision announced plans to close Voom in December 2008,
citing the lawsuit against EchoStar Satellite. Voom operated as
part of Bethpage, New York-based Cablevision’s Rainbow segment,
which was reorganized and spun off as  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX)  last
year.  ‘Clear Negative’  Today’s ruling “is a clear negative for Dish Network, and
significantly strengthens the hands of AMC and Cablevision,
either in court or in any potential settlement,” Craig E. Moffett, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in a
note to investors.  In February 2011, the appeals court put a trial on hold
while the challenge to the sanctions was pending.  Roy Reardon, an attorney representing the Dish Network
unit, didn’t immediately return a phone message left at his
office seeking comment on whether the decision will be appealed
to the state’s highest court.  The lower-court case is Voom HD Holdings LLC v. EchoStar
Satellite LLC, 600292/2008,  New York  State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 