-- Egyptian Stocks Go to First From Worst as ING Sees Bear Rally
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n ,   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-02-01T12:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/egyptian-stocks-go-to-first-from-worst-as-ing-sees-bear-rally.html
Egypt ’s benchmark stock index, the
worst performer in emerging markets last year, is leading gains
in 2012 after the nation formed its first parliament since the
ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  and started talks with the  International
Monetary Fund .  The  EGX 30 Index  jumped 28 percent in January, the best
monthly gain in seven years and the biggest among 72 world stock
gauges tracked by Bloomberg.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , the
Cairo-based mobile-phone company that split into two units last
month, led the rally with a 110 percent surge.  Egypt’s parliament convened on Jan. 23 for the first time
since the end of Mubarak’s 30-year rule as the government
negotiated a $3.2 billion IMF loan. While stock  analysts  tracked
by Bloomberg predict the EGX 30 will rise another 18 percent in
the next year, ING Investment Management says shares may resume
declines as policy makers haven’t produced plans to revive the
economy. The EGX 30 is valued at 16 times earnings, a 37 percent
premium over the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   “I don’t think we are out of the woods yet,” Fadi al Said, the head of equities at ING Investment Management (Dubai)
Ltd., whose parent company oversees about $434 billion
worldwide, said in a Jan. 30 e-mail. “My guess is this rally is
a bear-market rally.”  10-Year Low  The EGX 30 tumbled 49 percent last year after the uprising
was followed by protests against the country’s ruling military
council, which took control of the most-populous Arab nation.
Economic growth slowed to 1.8 percent in the year ended June 30,
the weakest pace in at least 10 years. The  tourism industry 
contracted 10.4 percent in the three months through September,
while investment plunged 18 percent, government data show.  The Egyptian equity gauge rallied from a 34-month low on
Dec. 28 as the country completed parliamentary elections, the
government said Jan. 16 that an agreement with the IMF may come
within weeks and lawmakers took their oaths in Cairo. Better-
than-estimated economic data in the U.S and new measures from
the  European Central Bank  to bolster the region’s lenders also
boosted investor sentiment.  The EGX 30 gained 0.9 percent at the 2:30 p.m. close in
Cairo. The MSCI emerging-market index rose 0.5 percent, after
gaining 11 percent in January.  “The global backdrop is constructive,” Ibrahim Masood,
who helps manage about $400 million at Mashreqbank PSC in Dubai,
said by e-mail Jan. 30.  Currency Concern  Egypt’s currency and domestic government-debt markets have
failed to rally this year. The Egyptian pound is little changed
since the end of December at 6.0269 versus the dollar, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards for the currency were at 7 per dollar today, reflecting
bets the pound will drop about 14 percent over that period.  Average yields on  one-year government bills  rose to 15.9
percent in January, the highest since Bloomberg began tracking
the data in 2006. The government expects the  budget deficit  to
reach 8.7 percent of gross domestic product this year.  The loan from the IMF isn’t enough to cover Egypt’s
external financing gap, according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. Egypt’s  foreign-exchange reserves  dropped to $18.1
billion in December from $36 billion a year earlier.  The government needs to bolster its financial strength “to
alleviate pressure on the currency, a major concern for foreign
investors,”  Ali Khan , the London-based head of  Middle East  and
North Africa equities sales at RBS, said by e-mail Jan. 30.  Bullish Analysts  Equity analysts have bullish outlooks for EGX 30 companies.
The index will climb to 5,538.48 in the next 12 months, the
highest since June, according to the average of about 200 share-
price estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Orascom Telecom (EGX30) , which
split to facilitate a merger between its parent Wind Telecom SpA
and  Russia ’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , may climb 24 percent to 4.67
pounds, according to the average four analyst price estimates.  An agreement with the IMF may boost investor confidence and
spur further gains in equities, according to Rami Sidani, the
Dubai-based head of Middle East and North Africa investments at
Schroder Investment Management.  “We expect a lot of volatility whenever approaching
important milestones,” Sidani said in a phone interview Jan.
31. “Every time things go well around one of these important
events, we’ll see confidence restored and more buying in the
market.”  Trading (VOLEGYPT)  on the Egyptian Stock Exchange increased to a daily
average of about 84 million shares in January, up from 53
million in the final three months of 2011. Last month’s rally
boosted the price-to-earnings ratio on the EGX 30 to 16 from 12
at the beginning of the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The Egyptian gauge’s 37 percent premium over the MSCI emerging-
markets index compares with an average gap of 7 percent during
the past five years.  “For the long term, Egypt offers a story with great
potential,” said ING’s al Said. “For the short- to medium-
term, it will continue to be a headline and event-driven
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  