-- Melco Crown Calls Jump to Eight-Month High on Project
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-31T19:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/melco-crown-calls-jump-to-eight-month-high-on-project-correct-.html
(Corrects story published on Jan. 23 to show venture is
between Lawrence Ho and  James Packer )  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) 
options traders pushed bullish bets to  the highest  level since
May in the U.S. after shares rose on speculation the Macau
casino operator is getting a loan to fund a new project.  Almost 27,000 calls to buy Melco’s American depositary
receipts changed hands on U.S. options exchanges on Jan. 20, or
11 times the four-week average and 28 times the number of puts
to sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Melco’s  shares 
rose 1.2 percent to a two-month high of $11.31 in New York,
extending this year’s gains to 18 percent.  Melco Crown, a venture between billionaires Lawrence Ho and
James Packer, approached banks to finance the company’s Studio
City project in Macau, the world’s largest gambling hub, four
people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the details are private, said last week. The loan may be
about $1.25 billion, two of them said. The week-long Chinese New
Year holiday, one of Macau’s busiest periods, begins today.  “Expectations for stronger gambling revenue numbers this
month would be good news for the company and could be partly the
reason,” for the jump in the calls contract, Frederic Ruffy,
senior options strategist at Whatstrading Co., a New York-based
provider of options-market analytics, said by phone on Jan. 20.  Melco’s  most-active  contracts were April $14 calls,
accounting for more than half of the call volume after a single
trade of 12,623 contracts that will pay should the shares rally
25 percent in three months. Before Jan. 20, the April $14 calls
had an open interest of 749 outstanding contracts.  Casino Revenue  The April calls jumped because they are the only contracts
that expire after Melco releases earnings on Feb. 22, Ruffy
said.  Melco’s fourth-quarter sales probably rose 26 percent from
a year ago to $972 million, according to the average estimate of
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Net income  more than
tripled to $56.9 million, analysts predicted.  Casino revenue in Macau, the only place in  China  where
public gambling is allowed, rose 25 percent in December to 23.6
billion patacas ($2.95 billion), according to data from Macau’s
Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau.  Gambling revenue more than tripled in the past four years
as Chinese tourists flocked to the enclave and spent more money.  Cameron McKnight, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co .
reiterated an “outperform”  recommendation  on Melco Crown stock
on Jan. 20. The average 12-month price target for the company’s
American depositary receipts is $14.31, according to the median
estimate of 18 analyst predictions compiled by Bloomberg.  Market ‘Cannibalization’  Macau’s gaming operators may face “more serious
cannibalization” of their markets in the next two years as more
casinos open, according to a Jan. 22 report by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  Studio City will be an integrated resort with a “theme and
demographic focus” aimed at differentiating it from the
company’s existing portfolio of assets, according to Melco
Crown’s  website . Melco is about three to four weeks away from
hiring banks, the people said.  Options are contracts that give the right though not the
obligation to buy or sell a security at a set price and date.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, to speculate on share-price
moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or
fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  