-- Eli Lilly Profit Slumps on Schizophrenia Drug
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-01-31T21:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/eli-lilly-net-drops-27-after-schizophrenia-drug-loses-patent-protection.html
Eli Lilly & Co . reported fourth-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as higher sales of
its depression and diabetes medicines helped to counter a 44
percent plunge in revenue from the schizophrenia drug Zyprexa.  Net income fell 27 percent to $858.2 million, or 77 cents a
share, the Indianapolis-based company said today in a statement.
Profit excluding one-time items beat by 6 cents the average of
17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue from the antidepressant Cymbalta rose 20 percent
and the diabetes treatment Humalog 21 percent, helping offset
sales of Zyprexa that the drugmaker said on Jan. 5 was declining
faster than expected in the face of generic competition. Lilly
has treatments for diabetes, cancer and  Alzheimer’s disease  in
final-stage trials.  The depression and diabetes drugs “all hung in there pretty
well,” said  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann, by
telephone. While margins were just “a little better” than
expected, “they basically beat relative to expectations.”  Lilly rose 1.3 percent to $39.74 at the close of New York
trading.  Revenue fell 2 percent to $6.05 billion, higher than the
$5.88 billion that analysts had projected, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Zyprexa sales declined 44
percent to $749.6 million, while revenue for the antidepressant
Cymbalta rose to $1.18 billion and Humalog for diabetes grew to
$662 million.  Reaffirmed Forecast  Research and development expenses declined 6 percent. The
company reaffirmed its 2012 forecast of $3.10 to $3.20 a share.  Lilly said a data-monitoring committee recommended that two
final-stage trials of the company’s Alzheimer’s drug solanezumab
would continue as planned. Lilly expects to get the results from
the trials later this year.  “The Alzheimer’s data is going to be the biggest thing
they are going to report this year,” said Damien Conover, an
analyst at Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , in a phone interview
before the results were announced.  The decision to continue the trials means at least one of
the main efficacy measures in one of the studies had a greater
than 30 percent chance of turning out positive, Jan Lundberg,
Lilly’s executive vice president for science and technology,
said on a conference call with analysts.  There are two main efficacy goals in each trial, one
focusing on cognitive function and another assessing patients’
ability to perform daily activities, he said on the call.  “The most important thing for Lilly is that the
solanezumab trial wasn’t stopped,” Fernandez said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 