-- Emerging-Market Stocks Extend Best Start of Year Since 2001 on Greek Hope
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-01-31T22:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/emerging-market-stocks-extend-best-start-of-year-since-2001-on-greek-hope.html
Emerging-market stocks posted their
best start to a year since 2001 after European countries agreed
to tighter budget controls and as policy makers from  Brazil  to
the  Philippines  cut borrowing costs to spur growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1.3 percent to
1,019.39. The index has risen 11 percent this month, the
strongest January in 11 years, following a 20 percent drop in
all of 2011. Brazil’s Bovespa index climbed 11 percent in its
best January since 2006. Benchmarks in Argentina, Hungary and
 Peru  have climbed more than 11 percent this month.  European Union leaders, meeting in Brussels yesterday,
completed a fiscal-discipline treaty allowing for sanctions on
high-deficit states and requiring members to enact laws limiting
budget shortfalls. Asian central banks from the Philippines to
 Thailand  cut interest rates this month, joining emerging nations
like Brazil and  Chile  as slower inflation allows policy makers
to ease monetary policy and insulate their economies.  “The end of the emerging markets’ underperformance is not
far from here,”  Bob Doll , chief equity strategist at Blackrock
Inc., which oversees $3.51 trillion, said in an interview on
Bloomberg TV. Lower interest-rates in  developing countries 
“will set the stage for bottoming out of growth, the resumption
of growth and equity market outperformance,” said Doll, adding
that he is looking to raise emerging-market stocks to
“overweight” from “neutral.”  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  rose 1.5 percent today, bringing its
advance in 2011 to 6.3 percent. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
climbed 2 percent today and was up 11 percent.  Beating S&P  The gains in the MSCI Emerging Markets benchmark outpaced
the 4.4 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in
January. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  trades at 10.2 times
analysts’ earnings estimate for member companies, compared with
12.5 for the U.S. measure.  The Bovespa had its best start to a year since 2006, with
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the nation’s largest oil producer, up 14
percent in the month. Brazil’s central bank has lowered the
target Selic rate by two percentage points to 10.5 percent since
August as a way to bolster economic growth.  In  Russia , the Micex Index added 1.2 percent today,
extending its advance to 8 percent in January.  OAO Mechel (MTLR) ,
Russia’s biggest producer of steelmaking coal, climbed 24
percent in Moscow this month, while oil company  OAO
Surgutneftegas (SNGS)  advanced 12 percent following a rally in
commodity prices.  State Bank of India  rose 3.8 percent today after the lender
approved selling stock to the government to bolster capital by
79 billion rupees ($1.6 billion). The shares have surged 27
percent this month.  Fund Purchases  In  Taiwan , global funds bought $1.7 billion more stocks
than they sold in January, the most in three months, exchange
data showed. Foxconn Technology Co. jumped 6.9 percent to the
highest level since Aug. 5 on speculation Apple Inc. may use
metal casings for its next generation iPhone, benefiting
companies including Foxconn. Cheng-Kuang Liu, a Taipei-based
Foxconn spokesman, declined to comment.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 411 basis points, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. ’s EMBI Global Index. The so-called spread has
narrowed 14 basis points this month.  Hungary’s forint led a rally in emerging-market currencies
this month on speculation the indebted nation is moving closer
to obtaining a bailout from the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union. Hungary will probably reach agreement on
financial aid by the end of April,  Renaissance Capital  said in a
report today. The forint strengthened 7.8 percent in January.  India’s rupee gained 7.3 percent, completing a record
monthly gain, while Mexico’s peso rose 6.8 percent as foreign
investors seek alternatives to near zero  interest-rates  in the
U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  