-- Emerging Stocks Set for Biggest Monthly Gain in Three on Greece Optimism
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-01-31T07:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/emerging-stocks-set-for-biggest-monthly-gain-in-three-on-greece-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the benchmark index set for its largest monthly gain since
October, after Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said major
progress has been made in debt-swap talks.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 1 percent to
1,015.90 as of 3:21 p.m. Hong Kong time. The index has risen 11
percent this month after falling 20 percent in 2011. Taiwan’s
Taiex index advanced 1.5 percent as data showed global funds
bought more of the island’s stocks in January. The  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, climbed 1.2 percent.  Papademos told reporters in Brussels today after a European
Union summit he’s “strongly committed” to reaching a debt-swap
accord with bondholders that is crucial to lowering Greece’s
debt burden and freeing up another round of aid before the
country faces a 14.5 billion-euro ($19 billion) bond payment on
March 20. The European Union is India’s largest trading partner
and the largest market for Chinese exports.  “I don’t think we should underestimate that what the
markets want is a solution with the short-term financing
problem,”  Geoff Lewis , head of investment services at JPMorgan
Asset Management, said in a Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong
today. “Markets are not stupid. They know that there are long-
term problems but that’s something to solve in the long term.
What they need is liquidity.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s gain this year has
outpaced a 5 percent increase by the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
developed nations. The emerging-markets gauge is valued at 10.2
times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple
of 12.1 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sensex Advance  “For emerging markets, maybe the first quarter is going to
be about the best of the year,”  Sean Darby , chief global equity
strategist at Jefferies Group Inc., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Hong Kong today. “Those types of
rebounds are very rare and probably are not sustainable. More
likely we will get profit-taking in the end over the next six to
nine months.”  India’s Sensex has climbed 11 percent in January after
slumping 25 percent last year.  State Bank of India  rose 3.3
percent after it approved selling stock to the government to
bolster capital by 79 billion rupees ($1.6 billion).  ICICI Bank
Ltd. (ICICIBC)  gained 3.2 percent before reporting earnings.  India’s stock market “fell a lot more than others and
therefore the bounce back is much faster,” Prabhat Awasthi,
head of India research at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a
Bloomberg UTV interview today. “Earnings by and large have not
disappointed.”  Foxconn, Huaneng  In Taiwan, global funds bought $1.7 billion more stocks
than they sold in January, the most in three months, exchange
data showed.  Foxconn Technology Co. (2354)  jumped 6.9 percent to the
highest level since Aug. 5, on speculation Apple Inc. may use
metal casings for its next generation iPhone, benefiting
companies including Foxconn. Cheng-Kuang Liu, a Taipei-based
Foxconn spokesman, declined to comment on the speculation.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) , the listed unit of
China’s largest electricity producer, rose 2.4 percent in
Shanghai on speculation a cap on coal prices and a government
decision to raise electricity prices will bolster earnings.  SAIC
Motor Corp. (600104) , China’s largest domestic carmaker, fell 2.5
percent, the biggest drop since Jan. 13, after saying profit
growth declined last year.  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index climbed 0.8 percent, the most
since Jan. 20.  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. , the
world’s third-largest shipyard, gained 6.5 percent after winning
the world’s first order to build a supertanker in about nine
months. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the biggest shipyard,
advanced 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  