-- Emerging Stocks to Perform ‘Very Well,’ JPMorgan’s Mowat Says
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n :
-- 2012-01-31T08:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/emerging-stocks-to-perform-very-well-jpmorgan-s-mowat-says.html
Adrian Mowat ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
Hong Kong-based chief Asian and emerging-market strategist,
comments on the outlook for markets. Mowat was speaking at a
press briefing in Manila today:  On emerging markets :  “Emerging markets will perform very well this year. The
reason I believe that is inflation was a problem for the major
emerging markets in 2011. It is no longer the problem. We are
seeing growth slowing down, but the upside of that is we are
seeing inflation coming off. We are beginning to see quite a
number of central banks reducing  interest rates . This is the
time that you buy emerging markets, which is when they are at
the end of their rising inflation cycle. Our target for the
emerging-markets index is 1,150.  Mowat said he is ‘‘overweight’’ Philippines, Thailand,
Indonesia and South America, ‘‘which is experiencing a big
reduction in interest rates and we forecast that to continue. We
are overweight  Russia , where we see it as a big beneficiary in
the reduction of the global risk premium. He’s ‘‘underweight’’
Turkey and  South Africa , and ‘‘neutral’’ on  China (SHCOMP)  and  India .  On  China , India and defensive, cyclical stocks:  ‘‘We are quite bearish on the Chinese economy. Its equities
markets have done poorly and that tells you a lot of the
slowdown in the economy. There is recognition that China faces
issues with non-performing loans, that it needs to cross-
subsidize a shortage in capital at the local government level.  ‘‘This year you are going to see much weaker construction
starts in China. One of the big themes we are playing this year
is ‘underweight’ commodities because it’s quite possible that
Chinese steel and cement production will be less this year.
Within China, we have zero exposure to property and building
materials.  ‘‘The Indian market was one the poorest-performing markets
last year. We are beginning to see inflation coming down and we
have had an easing move by the central bank. I like Indian
financials and industrials. I am not ‘overweight’ the market
because there’s a lot of Indian defensive stocks that did well
last year.  ‘‘This year you may want to be selling your defensives and
go long on cyclicals whether those be industrials, technology or
consumer discretionary.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  