-- Memory-Chip Stocks Are Top Losers After Tepco
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-01-31T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/memory-chip-stocks-are-top-losers-after-tepco.html
Only  Japan ’s nuclear crisis prevented
Taiwan’s two largest memory-chip makers from being the worst-
performing stocks last year in the FTSE World Asia Pacific Index.
Powerchip Technology Co. and  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)  may struggle
further as chips get even cheaper.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows Nanya and Powerchip shares both
dropped more than 85 percent last year, exceeded only by Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s 91 percent plunge in the 983-company FTSE
Asia gauge. The lower panel tracks Samsung Electronics Co.,
which has the biggest weighting in the index, and Gree Inc., a
Tokyo-based provider of social-networking games, which was the
top gainer.  “These chip companies are like walking wounded trapped in
a vicious cycle,” said  Mark Newman , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong  who has an “underperform” rating
on Nanya. “The nuclear issue was a one-off, whereas the DRAM
companies are facing an ongoing onslaught.”  Prices of dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM, the most-
common semiconductor used in computers, fell 55 percent last
year as a slowing PC market prolonged oversupply and prompted
Nanya to post its eighth straight quarter of losses. Shares of
Powerchip, based in Hsinchu, and Nanya, based in Taoyuan, will
slump further, according to a consensus of analyst
recommendations compiled by Bloomberg. “Sell” ratings
outnumber “buy” on both Powerchip and Nanya, the data show.  Tepco, owner of the Fukushima nuclear power station that
suffered a meltdown after an earthquake in March, has seen many
brokerages suspend their coverage and ratings. Mizuho Securities
Co. this week affirmed its “neutral” rating and its target
price of 235 yen. Tepco closed at 209 yen yesterday.  Samsung, the world’s largest maker of DRAM, benefited from
diversifying into profitable  flash memory  as well as mobile
phones, helping shares of the Seoul-based company climb 11
percent. Gree rose 157 percent last year while the regional
benchmark index declined 16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lee Miller at   lmiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 