-- Energy Future Planning $400 Million Bond Sale to Repay Intercompany Debt
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-31T20:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/energy-future-to-sell-400-million-of-second-lien-notes-to-repay-tceh-unit.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp. (TXU) , the
 Texas  power company taken private in 2007 in the largest  buyout 
in history, plans to sell $400 million of notes to partially
repay intercompany debt that hedge fund Aurelius Capital
Management LP has said violates the company’s credit agreement.  The Dallas-based  company  will sell the second-lien, senior
secured notes due in 2022 in a private offering through units
Energy Future Intermediate Holding Co. and EFIH Finance Inc.,
according to a statement today. Proceeds will be used to pay
back so-called demand notes owed to its Texas Competitive
Electric Holdings subsidiary, the company said in the statement.
The company had $1.6 billion of such notes outstanding as of
Dec. 31, the company said in a regulatory filing today.  Aurelius Capital, one of Texas Competitive’s creditors,
said in a February 2011 letter to loan administrator Citigroup
Inc. that the intercompany loans violated Energy Finance’s debt
agreements, two people with knowledge of the matter said at the
time, declining to be identified because the letter wasn’t made
public.  Allan Koenig, a spokesman for Energy Future, declined to
comment beyond the public filing. Energy Future General Counsel
 Robert Walters  said in February that Aurelius’s allegations were
“utterly meritless.”  Stephen Sigmund , a spokesman for
Aurelius, declined to comment.  ‘Fraudulent Transfers’  Energy Future may be required to repay a portion or all of
demand notes it owes Texas Competitive if the debt is found by a
court to be improper, according to the filing. A lender the
company didn’t name has claimed as recently as the fourth
quarter of 2011 that the intercompany notes “are fraudulent
transfers,” the company said.  A committee of credit-default swaps dealers and investors
in September rejected a claim by Aurelius that Texas Competitive
was insolvent and should have triggered payouts on swaps
protecting against a default by the company. The company asked
lenders on April 1 to change the terms of its loan agreements
and extend maturities on more than $17.8 billion of loans.  Credit swaps protecting against a default by Energy Future
declined 0.9 percentage point to 52.7 percent upfront at 2 p.m.
in  New York , according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a
year, meaning it would cost $5.27 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of the company’s debt.  Net Loss  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Energy Future’s 2011 net loss narrowed to $1.91 billion
from $2.81 billion a year earlier, the company said today in a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing. The company
didn’t break out quarterly profits.  The company’s units include Oncor, a regulated power-line
business; TXU Energy, a retail electricity seller with more than
2 million customers; and Luminant, which owns more than 15,400
megawatts of generation capacity in Texas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  