-- England’s National Health Service Faces Damage From Reforms, Editors Say
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-01-31T09:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/england-s-health-service-faces-damage-from-reforms-editors-say.html
Britain’s  National Health Service 
will need another overhaul in five years if “damaging” changes
being implemented by the government are allowed to continue, the
editors of three U.K. health-care publications said.  The  Health and Social Care Bill , proposed by the
Conservative-led coalition government, calls for “reforms
designed and implemented so badly that another major NHS reform
program is guaranteed within five years,” the leaders of the
British Medical Journal, the Health Service Journal and Nursing
Times wrote in an editorial simultaneously published in all
three publications.  The bill, which applies only to  England , would be the
biggest shakeup in the history of the 64-year-old National
Health Service. The legislation includes proposals aimed at
expanding the number of private companies that offer health-care
services to NHS patients. It would also create an unspecified
number of groups to commission services and create a national
agency to take on duties now performed by regional trusts.  “Let us try to salvage some good from this damaging
upheaval and resolve never to repeat it,” the editors wrote.  ‘Drop the Bill’  Stopping the bill would save about 360 million pounds
($567 million) by eliminating the need to set up new groups to
manage the NHS and a regulator to oversee the changes, according
to a second editorial in the BMJ. It would also save about
650 million pounds a year needed to run the organizations,
Kieran Walshe, a professor of health policy and management at
the  Manchester Business School , wrote in the editorial.  “The government could argue that, in the special economic
circumstances of the day, it makes sense to drop the bill,”
Walshe wrote. “They would also neutralize an issue which has
become increasingly politically toxic.”  The legislation would save 4.5 billion pounds through the
next national election and 1.5 billion pounds each year after
that, the  Department of Health  said today in an e-mail.  “It’s completely untrue to suggest that dropping the bill
would save the NHS money,” the department said. “Our reforms
are based on what NHS staff themselves have consistently said:
They want more freedom from day-to-day bureaucracy and political
interference so they can get on with the job of caring for
patients. This is exactly what this bill achieves.”  House of Lords  The legislation is going through the House of Lords, and
any amendments made there would have to be approved by the House
of Commons before the bill is submitted for royal assent.  “We repeat our offer today to work with the government on
introducing general practitioner-led commissioning on condition
that it drops this unnecessary bill,”  Andy Burnham , the Labour
Party lawmaker who acts as spokesman on health policy, said in a
 statement . “We can support giving clinicians a bigger role in
shaping NHS services, but it could be delivered more quickly,
with less disruption and at much lower cost without this bill.”  Parts of the government’s plan, including increased
competition, greater choice for patients and more involvement by
general practitioners in commissioning treatment, could be
accomplished under existing rules, Walshe wrote.  The BMJ is run by the British Medical Association. The
Nursing Times and Health Service Journal are published by Emap
Inform, which is owned by private-equity firm Apax Partners and
Guardian Media Group Plc, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  