-- EU Commission Balks at Spain Halt to Renewable Energy Subsidies
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-01-31T18:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/eu-commission-balks-at-spain-halt-to-renewable-energy-subsidies.html
Spain ’s decision to temporarily halt
subsidies for new renewable energy projects will hurt
investments in the industry, the European Commission’s energy
spokeswoman said.  “The suspension of all new renewable energy projects will
have a disturbing impact on investment in this sector,” the
EC’s Marlene Holzner said today by e-mail. “Reforms should be
undertaken with the market players and not with such sudden
stop-start approaches.”  Spain’s new conservative government halted subsidies for
renewable energy projects on Jan. 27 to help curb its  budget
deficit  and rein in power-system borrowings backed by the state
that reached 24 billion euros ($31 billion) last year. It passed
a decree stopping subsidies for new wind, solar, co-generation
or waste plants not approved by that date.  The renewable plan may “help Spain toward its 1.5 billion-
euro tariff deficit target for 2012” while reducing the risk
that power companies suffer from a more damaging retroactive
cut,  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement.  “This action on its own, however, will not eliminate the
annual tariff deficit,” Fitch said. “Eliminating the annual
deficit would be likely to require further rate increases to
consumers.”  The country is Europe’s second-largest renewables market by
installed capacity with 27,500 megawatts in wind and solar
projects in operation. It got 20 percent of power demand last
year from these plants, data from the grid operator shows.  ‘Minimize Disruption’  The industry also provides about 110,000 local jobs,
according to the Renewable Energy Producers Association.  The suspensions in a member-state facing major fiscal
constraints may be temporary yet to reach 2020 renewable energy
targets, reforms must be “managed carefully.” Holzner said.  “The commission would rather hope that reforms are
undertaken following best practice across  Europe  and strive to
minimize disruption and confusion to the investors and market
players who are creating the jobs and growth Europe needs so
much,” the EC spokeswoman said.  The Brussels-based organization used similar language when
the previous Spanish government passed cuts to operating solar
plants a year ago. Then, the commissioners for climate and
energy sent an open letter to the government urging it to
maintain a stable and predictable energy policy. No second
letter is planned now, according to the spokeswoman.  ‘Drastic Decision’  “The commission is right to point out that the halt is
quite a drastic decision,” Ivan San Felix, analyst for Renta 4
Banco SA in  Madrid , said by phone. Yet it’s “one of the many
fast and clear measures that will be needed to reduce the
deficit as much as Brussels asks us to.”  “Countries that can currently afford the tariffs will
probably continue granting them,” he said.  The country’s three main industry associations also
criticized the government’s decision and its effect on jobs amid
record unemployment.  About 3,850 megawatts in renewable energy projects have
permits to be built in the near-future with current subsidies,
or 14 percent of current capacity, data from the lobby groups
shows. Of this, photovoltaic installations amount to 427
megawatts, solar thermal  power plants  about 1,425 megawatts and
wind projects 2,000 megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  