-- EU’s Barnier to Seek Debate on Planned Veto of Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Merger
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-01-31T11:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/eu-s-barnier-to-seek-debate-on-deutsche-boerse-nyse-veto-plan.html
Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services chief, will seek a debate on  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1) ’s takeover of  NYSE Euronext (NRX)  ahead of any decision to block
the combination, an EU official said.  Barnier considers the ruling too important to Europe’s
financial-services industry to be approved without a discussion
among fellow commissioners, said the official, who couldn’t be
identified because the talks are private.  The European Commission will decide tomorrow whether to
back a recommendation from  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition
commissioner, to veto the deal because it would monopolize
derivatives trading in the region. The commission is run by a
27-member college that must approve EU rulings.  NYSE and  Deutsche Boerse  appealed directly to commission
President  Jose Barroso  earlier this month to try and salvage
their merger, arguing that an EU ban would harm European
exchanges and drive business to other parts of the world.
Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire its New York rival in a deal
valued at $9.5 billion when it was announced last February.
Since then, the value has plummeted to about $7.3 billion.  Under commission rules, a veto could be approved without
debate if no one objects. The exchanges lack support from other
commissioners to overturn the ban, people familiar with the
decision said earlier this month.  Allowing the deal to go ahead would cause “serious”
concerns, Almunia said last week.  “Some problems of competition will not be solved by this
merger but will be aggravated,” he said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Davos,  Switzerland .  A merger prohibition would be the EU’s fourth since 2004,
when it overhauled its rules for reviewing deals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 