-- EU Would Benefit From Australia’s Flexible Carbon-Permit Cap, Group Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-02-01T17:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/eu-would-benefit-from-australia-s-flexible-carbon-permit-cap-lobby-says.html
The European Union carbon market,
where prices have plunged by half in the past year, should
consider installing a more flexible cap such as that proposed in
 Australia , said the Carbon Market Institute.  Prices in the EU program, the world’s biggest greenhouse
gas market by traded volume, dropped as the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis exacerbated an oversupply through this year and
beyond. The cap for 2020 was set in 2008. In the Australian
market, annual supply of permits will be set five years in
advance.  Stagnant economic production and demand have prompted
criticism that the EU’s cap is not protecting the climate as
much as it should, said Mike Tournier, executive director of the
Carbon Market Institute, a Melbourne-based industry  group  that
promotes  emissions trading . “There are obviously market and
environmental benefits of having a mechanism to review the cap
and lower that over a period of time,” Tournier said Jan. 30 in
a  London  interview.  The European market will probably be 1.1 billion metric
tons oversupplied in the five years through this year, including
expected use of United Nations offsets, according to an estimate
by Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst in London for Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. That’s almost half the expected emissions this
year from the factories, utilities and airlines in the system.  In Australia, the government fixed the price for the first
three years of the program starting in July at A$23 ($24.50) a
metric ton. The cap for each of the five years through 2019 will
be set by May 31, 2014, according to the  published plan.  The
2020 cap will be set by June 30, 2016 and total supply will
continue to be set annually from then, five years ahead.  U.S. Regional Program  In the U.S. Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, the carbon
market in the northeast of the nation, seven states including
 New York  and Massachusetts said they intended to retire unsold
allowances from the three years through 2011, according to a
 statement  on the market administrator’s website. That
cancellation will curb oversupply in the program.  The Australian market learned from challenges faced by the
EU, Tournier told emission-reduction project executives, traders
and investment bankers at a London briefing Jan 30. The
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission, the antitrust
regulator, can issue fines of A$1.1 million to companies making
false claims about the impact of carbon permits on the price of
products and services, he said.  Proving Theft  Australia has designated carbon allowances as personal
property, making it easier to prove theft and fraud, Tournier
said. In the EU, computer hackers stole allowances and
fraudsters made off with money meant for value-added tax bills.  EU carbon permits for December rose 5.1 percent to 8.45
euros ($11.16) a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London as of 5:03 p.m. today. They reached a record low 6.38
euros on Jan. 4.  The price of carbon permits is “too low,”  Connie Hedegaard , the bloc’s climate commissioner, told reporters in
Brussels yesterday.  A potential move by the bloc to a stricter 2020 emissions-
reduction goal is conditional on efforts by non-EU nations to
cut  greenhouse gases , a Polish government official said today.
Any decision to change the rules of the EU ETS would require the
approval of  member states .  The costs of tightening the EU’s carbon-reduction target
are less than previously estimated, an analysis by the European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, showed Jan. 30. A 30
percent goal would involve cutting greenhouse gases by 25
percent in the bloc, and using imported emissions-reduction
credits to account for the remaining 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  