-- European Stocks Climb, Posting Best Start to a Year Since 1998
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-01-31T16:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/european-stock-index-futures-advance-as-most-nations-support-fiscal-treaty.html
European stocks  rose, posting their
best monthly start to a year since 1998, as most countries in
the region agreed to tighter budget controls, outweighing worse-
than-estimated U.S. economic data.  BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc tracked gains in crude
prices.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  added 2.7 percent after selling its
stainless steel unit to Outokumpu Oyj.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  jumped 2
percent after fourth-quarter revenue topped estimates. European
Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. climbed after UBS AG advised
buying the shares.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.8 percent to 254.41 at
the close in  London , rebounding from two days of declines. The
benchmark gauge rallied 4 percent this month, the biggest
January gain since 1998.  “Markets are in a risk-on mood and may just continue
rising when events, such as the summit, reveal no new risks,”
said Alexander Kraemer, a cross-asset strategist at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt. “European leaders may have learned they have
to address problems and cannot put their head in the sand and
hope problems go away.”  European Union leaders, meeting in Brussels yesterday,
agreed on a fiscal-discipline treaty that allows for sanctions
on high-deficit states and requires members to enact laws to
limit budget shortfalls. Britain and the the  Czech Republic 
refused to sign the pact.  The policy makers also decided to bring the region’s
permanent bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, into
operation on July 1, a year before schedule.  U.S. Consumer Confidence  A report showed confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly dropped in January. The Conference Board’s
confidence  index  fell to 61.1 from a revised 64.8 reading in the
prior month, figures from the New York-based private research
group showed today. The median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a rise to 68.  U.S.  business activity  expanded less than forecast in
January. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.
business barometer decreased to 60.2 from 62.2 in December.
Readings above 50 signal growth. Economists forecast the gauge
would rise to 63, according to the median of 57 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Projections ranged from 59 to 67.  The Stoxx 600 rallied 20 percent from its most-recent low
on Sept. 22 through Jan. 26, entering a  bull market  as per the
common definition by analysts, as the  U.S. economy  maintained
its recovery and speculation grew that the euro area will
contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 climbed 0.2 percent,
Germany’s DAX advanced 0.2 percent, and France’s CAC 40 gained 1
percent.  Greek Debt Talks  Greece aims to complete debt-swap talks with bondholders
this week. Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told reporters after
summit that he is “strongly committed” to reaching a deal.  German unemployment dropped more than economists forecast
to a two-decade low in January. The number of people  out of work 
fell a seasonally adjusted 34,000 to 2.85 million, the Federal
Labor Agency said. That’s the biggest drop since March.
Economists had forecast a decline of 10,000, the median of 32
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The adjusted jobless rate
slipped to 6.7 percent from 6.8 percent.  Portugal’s Debt  Portuguese borrowing costs declined from a euro-era high
after Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said his country’s debt
has been judged “perfectly sustainable” by the EU and
International Monetary Fund and that there is no risk of
writedowns on the bonds.  BP,  Europe ’s second-largest  oil producer , gained 2.7
percent to 470.85 pence. Shell and Total SA gained 0.5 percent
to 2,240.5 pence and 1.5 percent to 40.41 euros, respectively.  Oil gained after the December industrial output rose more
than forecast in  Japan , the third-biggest crude consumer.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s largest steelmaker, rose 2.7
percent to 21.67 euros in Frankfurt after agreeing to sell its
Inoxum stainless steel unit to  Outokumpu Oyj. (OUT1V)  The deal valued
the German company’s unit at about 2.7 billion euros.  ThyssenKrupp will retain a 29.9 percent stake in the
business, receive 1 billion euros in cash, and transfer
liabilities of 422 million euros for Inoxum to Outokumpu.  Outokumpu fell 15 percent to 6.27 euros in Helsinki.  ARM Holdings, EADS  ARM Holdings  jumped 2 percent to 609.5 pence. The maker of
processors for Apple Inc.’s iPads and iPhones said fourth-
quarter revenue climbed 21 percent as the company increased the
number of licenses sold for smartphones and tablet computers.  EADS, which makes Airbus and eurofighter jets, advanced 1.2
percent to 25.68 euros after UBS raised its recommendation on
the shares to “buy” from “neutral.”  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  gained 3.7 percent to
690 pence after first-half operating profit rose 16 percent,
topping analysts’ estimates, as the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV
broadcaster sold more broadband products to its subscribers.  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , the biggest  oil company  in Spain, fell 2.4
percent to 21 euros in Madrid after Pagina/12 newspaper said
Argentine officials had discussed a takeover of its YPF unit,
the South American country’s biggest oil producer, without
saying where it obtained the information.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s biggest maker of  wind
turbines , climbed 3.5 percent to 64.10 kroner after winning its
first order in  China  for a turbine that operates at low wind
speeds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  