-- European Soccer Ruling Body Asks U.K. to Probe Funding of Porto Purchases
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-31T10:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/european-soccer-ruling-body-asks-u-k-to-probe-funding-of-porto-purchases.html
European soccer ruling body  UEFA  is
asking U.K. authorities to investigate two so-called letterbox
companies that helped  Porto (FCP)  fund a player transfer.  For Gool Co. and Pearl Design Holding Ltd. provided finance
for the two-time European champion to sign Brazilian striker
 Walter da Silva  for 6.2 million euros ($8.1 million) in 2010,
according to Porto’s latest quarterly statement.  As banks ratchet up lending requirements, soccer clubs are
seeking alternative ways to raise funds, often in return for a
share of a player’s future transfer fee, said Sandalio Gomez,
who teaches sports management at IESE business school in Madrid.
UEFA officials said this increases the risk of  money laundering 
because it’s unclear who owns the letterbox companies, which
have mailing addresses in the U.K. and seemingly nothing else.  “We are urging state authorities to look into it,”  UEFA 
Secretary General Gianni Infantino said. “Because we are a
private company, an association, we cannot go to a company when
it is a letter box saying ‘please tell us who you are and what
you’re doing.’ They will tell us: ‘Who are you to ask me?’”  Rochdale-based For Gool provided a 2 million-euro loan for
Porto to sign  Da Silva  from Uruguay’s Club Atletico Rentistas
and London-based Pearl Design bought 25 percent of the 22-year-
old’s future transfer rights for 2.1 million euros, according to
the Porto statement. Porto spokesman Rui Cerqueira didn’t return
two e-mails and two telephone calls seeking comment.  Mark Quirk, a co-owner of For Gool’s parent company
Kirkdelta Ltd., didn’t respond to letters sent to three business
addresses on Jan. 11. Mario Queiroz, the only listed shareholder
of Pearl Design, didn’t respond to an e-mail.  ‘Completely Hide’  U.K. law allows small businesses to “completely hide”
from view what they’re doing, said  Richard Murphy , director of
Norfolk, England-based  Tax Research LLP  and co-author of 2009
book “Tax Havens: How Globalization Really Works,” which
describes how some companies conceal financial transactions.  “You can form a company to do a deal, say one football
transfer, and then get rid of it almost straight away and never
put any information on public record,” Murphy said. “If this
was taking place offshore, it would probably be condemned.”  England’s Premier League and France Ligue 1 have outlawed
shared ownership of players’ transfer rights over concerns clubs
won’t have total control, allowing agents and other third
parties to influence when a trade is made.  A company can set up a letterbox company in less than 10
minutes with a single director, Murphy said. It can file
abbreviated accounts, assuming it has annual sales of less than
6.5 million pounds ($10.2 million) and fewer than 50 staff.  74 Companies  Quirk is a director of 21 U.K.-based companies and has
resigned from 74 since 2005, records at London-based  Companies
House  show. Queiroz is director of 45 companies in the U.K. and
35 in  Spain , including Spanish Fiscal Representation SL,
according to  Companies House  and Madrid-based Registro
Mercantil.  Nominee directors, while not approved by British
regulators, would be subject to the same laws as all company
directors, the U.K.’s Department for Business, Innovation and
Skills said in an e-mail. All companies registered in the
country are subject to the same regulatory regime, the
department said.  Another U.K. company, Robi Plus Ltd., owns 10 percent of
the transfer rights of two Porto players, Eliaquim Mangala and
Steven Defour, the team said in a Dec. 27 statement.  Robi Plus is a so-called bearer share company whose
director is Maurizio Delmenico, according to Companies House
filings. The holder of the share certificate of a bearer-share
company is the recognized owner. It’s a way of shielding the
ownership structure, Murphy said.  ‘Several Tools’  Delmenico, a player agent and tax adviser, said by
telephone from his office in Lugano,  Switzerland , that the
company is his own and he set it up in the U.K. because some of
its affairs, including brokering player trades, are based there.  U.K. authorities have “several tools” for identifying the
owners of bearer-share companies that they regulate, the
government said in an e-mail.  Stock market-listed Porto reported a profit in each of the
past five fiscal years, partly by trading players it developed
to bigger clubs. It had net income of 534,000 euros on sales of
89.8 million euros in the year ended June 30, according to a
financial statement.  In the last two years, Porto sold part of the transfer
rights for midfielder Joao Moutinho and striker James Rodriguez
to Amsterdam-based Mamers BV and Luxembourg-based Gol Football
Luxembourg SARL, respectively, according to a team statement for
fiscal 2011.  ‘Out of Control’  Such funding deals are being sought by clubs that “need
something in their coffers,” according to IESE professor Gomez,
who co-wrote a 2009 study about  Argentina ’s River Plate selling
player transfer rights to investors. “In principle this works,
but you need to regulate it well or it could get out of
control,” Gomez said.  Porto had bank loans of 24 million euros on June 30, the
team statement said. The  interest rate  it paid for the loans
increased to an average 7.1 percent from 6.5 percent in the six
months to Sept. 30.  Letterbox companies raise the possibility of a conflict of
interest, according to Andrea Traverso, UEFA’s head of club
licensing. Traverso oversees so-called financial fair play rules
that UEFA is introducing to stop clubs from overspending and
also to increase transfer-market transparency.  “Who is actually controlling these players?” Traverso
said. “Is it the club or the companies? It would be very
interesting to know.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  