-- Euro Holds Decline on Greek Debt-Swap Talks, Before Portuguese Auctions
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-02-01T02:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/euro-holds-decline-on-greek-debt-swap-talks-before-portuguese-auctions.html
The euro maintained a two-day decline
as  Greece  struggles to conclude debt-swap talks with creditors
by the end of this week.  The 17-nation currency was 0.1 percent from a one-week low
versus the yen before  Portugal  sells bills today amid concern
the nation will follow Greece in needing more aid to avoid
default. Australia’s dollar erased an earlier drop after a
report showed  China ’s manufacturing industry unexpectedly
expanded last month.  “The euro is still going to suffer for the first half of
this year,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency
sales in Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest
brokerage. “There’s some negativity while we await the outcome
of the Greek swap deal.”  The euro dipped 0.1 percent to $1.3077 as of 11:05 a.m. in
 Tokyo  from the close in  New York  yesterday when it slid 0.5
percent. The common currency fell 0.1 percent to 99.64 yen after
sliding as low as 99.43, the weakest since Jan. 23. The dollar
declined 0.1 percent to 76.19 yen and earlier touched 76.15 yen,
the lowest since Oct. 31.  Greece’s Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said yesterday he
wants to bring the negotiations on a debt-swap agreement with
his country’s creditors “to a successful conclusion by the end
of the week.” He said he would try to meet German-led demands
for a bigger debt writedown by investors and deeper budget cuts
by his government.  Portugal will sell 105-day and 168-day bills today.
 Standard & Poor’s  increased the number of Portuguese banks on
“creditwatch negative” after it cut the sovereign rating of
the country.  Yields (GSPT2YR)  on Portugal’s two-year notes soared to a
record 21.82 percent yesterday.  China Manufacturing  A manufacturing industry purchasing managers’ index in
China climbed to 50.5 in January, according to a report from the
country’s statistics bureau and logistics federation. That was
above the 50 level that separates expansion from contraction and
compares with a median estimate of 49.6 in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  The Australian dollar rose 0.1 percent to $1.0635 after
falling as much as 0.3 percent before the Chinese data was
released.  The yen has gained 6.9 percent over the past six months,
the best performance after the dollar among the 10 currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  reiterated his stance
today that he will take “bold” steps to curb the currency’s
appreciation if necessary.  Prospect of Intervention  Japan  refrained from selling yen in the foreign-exchange
market last month, the Ministry of Finance said yesterday on its
website. The government sold the currency on Oct. 31 when it
climbed to a postwar record of 75.35 per dollar.  The implied  volatility  of three-month options of Group of
Seven currencies was at 10.55 percent yesterday after touching
10.06 percent on Jan. 23, the lowest since March, according to
the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . A decrease makes investments
in currencies with higher benchmark lending rates more
attractive because the risk in such trades is that market moves
will erase profits.  “The yen will continue to be bought,” said Nomura’s
Magnus. The lack of volatility means there isn’t any urgency for
Japan to intervene in the  currency market , he said.  The country may act if the yen approaches a new record
against the dollar in Asian trading hours, according to Naohiko Baba, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief economist in Tokyo. Japan
could attempt large-scale intervention and continue so-called
stealth operations for several days, he wrote in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 