-- Hewlett-Packard Wins Dismissal of Oracle Fraud Claim Over Hurd
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/hewlett-packard-wins-fraud-ruling-against-oracle-over-intel-s-itanium-chip.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  won dismissal of
Oracle Corp.’s claim that it was duped into settling a dispute
over its hiring of HP’s former chief executive officer, Mark Hurd,.  Oracle alleged that HP fraudulently hid that it was
planning to hire Leo Apotheker as CEO and board chairman Ray Lane, who were “toxic” to any partnership with Oracle, when it
forged a settlement with Oracle over its hiring of Hurd. Oracle
also claimed that HP concealed that it was secretly paying  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  $88 million a year to “artificially continue” the
Itanium chip’s lifespan.  A state judge in  San Jose , California, said in a ruling
yesterday day that HP’s alleged misrepresentations “did not
prevent Oracle from participating in the negotiations” over the
Hurd settlement  “or deprive Oracle of the opportunity to
negotiate.”  Judge James Kleinberg also rejected bids by both companies
to seal documents in the case that they argued contain sensitive
business information that that might harm them or their
customers.  In June, HP, based in Palo Alto,  California , sued Oracle
over its decision, announced in March, to no longer support
database software on HP computer servers that use the Itanium
chip. The suit escalated tensions between the companies that
flared after Oracle hired Hurd as a co-president.  ‘Another Attempt’  HP said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that the fraud
claim dismissed by the court “was another attempt by Oracle to
get out of the contract it entered into with HP, wherein it
continued to offer its product suite on HP’s server platform.”  Oracle said in an e-mailed statement that it’s pleased with
the judge’s refusal to seal HP documents.  The court “has rejected HP’s attempt to hide the truth
about Itanium’s certain end of life from its customers, partners
and own employees,” Oracle said.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, declined to comment on the dismissal of
the fraud claim.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , 11-
cv-203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 