-- Ex-FrontPoint Manager Skowron Calls Morgan Stanley No Victim of His Crimes
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-31T18:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/ex-frontpoint-s-skowron-says-morgan-stanley-is-not-a-victim.html
Former FrontPoint Partners LLC fund
manager Joseph F. “Chip” Skowron, sentenced to five years in
prison for an insider-trading scheme, says that  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
isn’t a victim of his crimes and doesn’t deserve restitution.  Skowron, 42, who began serving his term at the Federal
Correctional Institution Schuylkill in  Pennsylvania  earlier this
month, said that Morgan Stanley shouldn’t collect any funds
under the Mandatory Victims Restitution Act.  He pleaded guilty to getting illegal tips from a former
adviser for  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  that trials of the
company’s hepatitis C drug were being halted. FrontPoint sold
its stock before the announcement was made public, avoiding
$30 million in losses, the U.S. said.  Morgan Stanley, which acquired FrontPoint in 2006 and spun
it off in February, has submitted the largest restitution
request to the court, saying it should be paid $37.4 million
after sustaining “very substantial damages” as a result of
Skowron’s conduct.  Morgan Stanley said he collected his salary while “acting
as the classic faithless servant, engaging in and concealing his
crime.” The funds sought include at least $32 million the New
York-based bank holding company paid Skowron during the four-
years he committed his crimes, it said.  Skowron’s lawyer, Joshua Epstein, disputed Morgan Stanley’s
assertion yesterday in a court filing.  ‘Not a Victim’  “Morgan Stanley is not a victim,” he said, “because its
purported losses were not directly and proximately caused by the
conduct underlying the offense of conviction.”  “Neither Dr. Skowron’s employment by FrontPoint nor his
receipt of compensation was an ‘integral part of the single
scheme’ that he ‘devised’ in contrast to the facts giving rise
to the restitution orders” in other federal criminal cases,
Epstein said.  Skowron’s “offense was not a fraud against Morgan Stanley
and the object of that offense of conviction was not to
wrongfully obtain compensation from Morgan Stanley,” he said.  U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in  New York , presiding
over a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission suit against
Skowron, ordered him to pay $38.2 million, which includes
disgorgement, interest and civil penalties. She signed the order
on Nov. 16, the SEC said.  Another federal judge in  Manhattan ,  Denise Cote , who is
presiding over the criminal case, said in November that she
would rule later on how much restitution Skowron must pay his
victims.  Galleon Connection  Galleon Group LLC, the defunct hedge fund at the center of
the biggest insider-trading scheme in U.S. history, was among
Skowron’s five investor victims that won court approval for
restitution in November.  Cote ruled that four other investors who purchased HGSI
stock in block trades, including Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s
biggest lender, were victims of Skowron’s crimes and entitled to
collect restitution.  FrontPoint notified the court in November that it assigned
restitution claims against Skowron to Morgan Stanley.  Matt Burkhard, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on the filing. Peter White, a lawyer for FrontPoint,
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-cr-699, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  --Charles Carter, John Pickering  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 