-- Exxon, Valero Receive Union Strike Notices for Refineries
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-01-31T21:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/exxon-says-steelworkers-union-may-strike-billings-refinery.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  received notices from the United Steelworkers union of its
intent to strike at refineries in Montana and Texas if a
national labor contract expires tonight without an agreement.  The 24-hour notices were for Exxon’s Billings, Montana,
plant and Valero’s Port Arthur, Texas, refinery, according to
the companies.  USW negotiators and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , bargaining in
Austin, Texas, on behalf of the companies, have failed to reach
agreement on a new three-year contract after 14 days of talks.
The national contract expires at midnight Houston time.  Valero will continue to operate its Port Arthur refinery in
the event of a work stoppage, while closing its Memphis
refinery, Chief Executive Officer Bill Kleese said today on a
conference call with analysts and investors. He confirmed the
Port Arthur notice today at the same time.  Rachel Moore, an Exxon spokeswoman in Fairfax,  Virginia ,
confirmed the strike notice for Billings in an e-mail. Exxon’s
labor agreements with the USW also expire tonight at its
refineries in Beaumont, Texas; Torrance,  California ; and
Chalmette, Louisiana.  Deadline Nears  As the deadline nears for contracts covering 30,000 workers
at 69 refineries, companies are deciding whether to shut
refineries or operate them with nonunion workers if the union
should declare a general strike. During negotiations three years
ago, both sides agreed to three, 24-hour rolling extensions of
the contract before a deal was finally worked out.  LyondellBasell NV (LYB)  will continue to run its Houston refinery
if there’s a strike,  David Harpole , a spokesman for the company
in Houston, said in an e-mail.  “We remain optimistic that a mutually satisfactory
agreement can be reached,” he said. “Trained personnel will be
in place at the refinery and ready to assume operations if
necessary.”  BP Plc (BP/)  said in a statement that it would cut output at its
Whiting, Indiana, plant to “a level that maintains safe winter
operations.” The company said it wouldn’t hire replacement
workers because “that would disrupt the progress BP has made
with the USW in continuing to improve safety and operational
performance.”  The USW is seeking higher wages, stronger protections for
health and safety and a safety officer assigned to each
facility. Shell has offered wage increases, changes to contract
language related to health and safety practices, while not
agreeing to have a safety process person at each plant, union
sources familiar with the negotiations have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  