-- Exxon Drops After Fourth-Quarter Sales Are Lower Than Analysts Estimated
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-01-31T21:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/exxon-reports-fourth-quarter-profit-rose-as-crude-prices-soar.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
largest energy company by market value, declined after fourth-
quarter sales fell short of analysts’ estimates and oil
production slumped on five continents.  Revenue rose 16 percent to $121.6 billion during the
quarter, less than the $124.4 billion average of five  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Exxon fell 2.1 percent to
$83.74 at the close in  New York  after earlier declining as much
as 2.4 percent, the biggest intraday drop since Dec. 12.  Oil and natural-gas  production  declined 8.8 percent during
the final three months of 2011 to the equivalent of 4.53 million
barrels of crude a day, the Irving, Texas-based company said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Paul Cheng , a Barclays Capital Plc
analyst, had forecast daily output of 4.719 million barrels in a
Jan. 27 note to clients.  “It’s a slight negative,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said today in a telephone
interview. “The company continues to be challenged to grow
production.”  Net income increased to $9.4 billion, or $1.97 a share,
from $9.25 billion, or $1.85, a year earlier, Exxon said. The
per-share result matched the average of eight analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Asset sales added $810 million to fourth-quarter results,
the company said. Without those proceeds, profit would have
declined from a year earlier, Youngberg said.  Africa, Europe  Earnings from Exxon’s  refining and marketing  unit fell 63
percent to $425 million for the quarter, down from $1.15 billion
a year earlier. Chemical profit tumbled 49 percent to $543
million.  Crude output from Exxon’s wells declined 11 percent,
shrinking in every region where the company conducts operations
except  Asia , where production was unchanged, according to
today’s statement.  In  Africa , oil production declined 24 percent. The
company’s European crude output dropped by 23 percent. Combined,
the two regions account for about one-third of Exxon’s oil.  Gas production fell 6.7 percent worldwide to 13.7 billion
cubic feet a day, the company said.  No XTO Benefit  The production declines indicate Exxon has yet to glean any
tangible benefit from its $34.9 billion purchase of XTO Energy
in June 2010, Youngberg said. The transaction was the largest of
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson ’s tenure and
was intended to harness the Fort Worth, Texas-based gas
prospector’s expertise in penetrating gas- and oil-soaked shale
rock.  “Production continues to decline and it just shows that
the XTO deal is still not providing any growth,” Youngberg
said.  Unlike rivals such as Chesapeake Energy Corp. and
ConocoPhillips, Exxon, the largest U.S. gas producer, isn’t
cutting back on gas production in response to tumbling prices,
 David Rosenthal , Exxon’s vice president of investor relations,
said today during a conference call with investors and analysts.  Some rigs that had been focusing on finding gas in shale
and other unconventional formations have been shifted to
prospects laced with so-called natural-gas liquids, such as
propane and butane, Rosenthal said. Gas liquids are 10 to 15
times more valuable than the methane alone.  Rich in Liquids  The company is targeting liquids-rich prospects in  Oklahoma 
and West Texas this year, he said. In the Bakken shale formation
that lies beneath North Dakota and  Montana , Exxon boosted
fourth-quarter oil production by 41 percent from a year earlier,
Rosenthal said.  Two wells drilled in  Poland  to test the possibility of
harvesting gas from shale in  Europe  were failures, Rosenthal
said. The gas discovered in both wells failed to flow, he said,
without providing details.  Shale and similarly dense geologic formations have flooded
 North America  with gas, pushing prices to a decade-low earlier
this month, thanks to advances in horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing that allowed the formerly impervious rocks
to be cracked.  Rosneft Venture  Tillerson plans to spend as much as $37 billion this year
to drill for crude, construct gas-export terminals and expand
chemical plants. Exxon will present details next month of a $3.2
billion Arctic exploration venture with  Russia ’s state-
controlled OAO Rosneft, according to Eduard Khudainatov, CEO of
the Moscow-based oil producer.  Exxon agreed to sell most of its interest in a Japanese
refining business to TonenGeneral Sekiyu KK for $3.9 billion,
the Tokyo-based company said on Jan. 29. International energy
companies including Exxon, Chevron Corp. and ConocoPhillips have
been reducing their exposure to refined fuels as slipping demand
in some of the world’s largest economies curbed profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  