-- Exxon Shale Failure in Poland May Lengthen Gazprom’s Shadow
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-02-01T21:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/exxon-says-two-polish-shale-wells-were-not-commercially-viable.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s failed shale-gas
wells in Poland may hobble the nation’s effort to become one of
the world’s major energy sources and dismantle Russian dominance
of Eastern European natural-gas markets.  Exxon, the world’s largest energy company by market value,
said two exploratory wells drilled in a Polish shale formation
last year weren’t commercially viable. The gas discovered in the
wells, Exxon’s first in Poland, failed to flow in sufficient
quantities to justify bringing them into production,  David Rosenthal , vice president for  investor relations , said during a
conference call yesterday.  International energy prospectors, including  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , are probing
Poland’s shale deposits to see if drilling techniques that
revolutionized U.S. gas production can unleash  reserves  big
enough to supply Polish demand for more than three centuries.
Exxon’s setbacks suggest  Poland ’s shale poses unique challenges
that may increase costs and delay output, said  Gianna Bern ,
founder of Brookshire Advisory & Research in Chicago.  “Shale exploration is a very high-cost and high-risk
business and the Polish shale market is still in its infancy,”
Bern, who advises major oil companies on risk management and
strategy, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s early
in the game for Poland, and they have significant potential
reserves over there.”  Reduce Imports  Poland’s shale formations hold 187 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable gas, according to an April 2011 assessment by the
U.S. Energy Department. Those resources are 32 times larger than
the country’s conventional gas reserves and enough to supply
domestic consumption for 322 years.  For Poland, successfully unlocking gas from shale would be
a boon to domestic manufacturers and power producers by
diminishing the need for Russian imports that now supply two-
thirds of demand, said Benjamin Schlesinger, president of
Benjamin Schlesinger and Associates Inc., a Bethesda, Maryland-
based adviser to gas producers, utilities, regulators and
financial-services firms.  Poland’s dominant gas company,  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo , pays Russia’s state gas company  Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  $500
for 1,000 cubic meters ($14.16 per million British thermal
units) of gas. That’s six times the benchmark U.S. price for the
fuel.  Poor Wells  “Poland’s shale resources are enormous,” said
Schlesinger, a Stanford University-trained engineer who helped
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange design its gas futures
contract. “Poland should be able to capture a good deal of
those resources and reduce reliance on the Russian Federation.”  Gazprom’s  depositary receipts  rose 2.5 percent to $12.40,
the highest closing price since Oct. 28. The London-listed
receipts each are worth two ordinary shares in the Moscow-based
company.  Exxon’s failures followed disappointing results at Polish
wells drilled last year by  3Legs Resources Plc  and  BNK Petroleum
Inc. (BKX)  London-based 3Legs’s Lebien well and BNK’s Lebork well
flowed at lower rates than similar prospects in the Barnett and
Fayetteville shale regions in the U.S., Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. said in a Nov. 10 note to clients.  “Poland is cited among  Europe ’s best shale prospects, but
Exxon’s result supports our caution on achieving material near-
term volumes,”  Oswald Clint , a London-based analyst at
Bernstein, said in a note today.  Even so, it may be too early to draw any firm conclusions
from Exxon’s drilling failure, said Pawel Poprawa, who
specializes in shale at the Polish Geological Institute in
Warsaw.  ‘Technological Problem’  “If we look at the experience from the U.S. or Canada, no
single well can provide the answer if the basin has potential or
not,” he said. “Low flows seem to be a technological
problem.”  Marathon Oil said today that it’s evaluating data after
finishing its first well in a Polish shale formation. The
Houston-based company said in a statement that it intends to
drill three more wells during the next few months and withdraw
rock samples for testing. Marathon plans a total of six to seven
Polish shale wells this year, according to the release.  The Polish shale results come after Exxon encountered a dry
hole in Hungary in late 2009 drilled in a tight-sand deposit
similar to shale. Exxon walked away from the $75 million project
after striking more water than gas.  Exxon and other major North American energy producers have
been lured to explore shale prospects from  Germany  to Argentina
after largely missing out on the boom in shale extraction in the
U.S. that began in the middle of the last decade.  Smaller Explorers  Smaller explorers such as  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) ,  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  came to dominate the U.S.
shale industry by default as the biggest international companies
focused on locating billion-barrel offshore crude fields in
places like the  Gulf of Mexico  and West Africa.  Shale formations were ignored by much of the energy
industry for most of the past century because the rocks were
considered too hard to crack using traditional drilling
techniques. That began to change in the late 1990s with the
development of new horizontal drilling practices and more-
intensive hydraulic fracturing that succeeded in unlocking gas
and crude from shale and similarly dense geologic deposits.  ‘Attractive Fiscal Terms’  Exxon sought to jump-start its shale program in June 2010
with the $34.9 billion acquisition of XTO Energy, a Fort Worth,
Texas-based pioneer of shale development. In addition to shale
wells and undrilled prospects that stretch from the Mexican
border to Canada, Exxon wanted to transfer XTO’s in-house
expertise to foreign shale fields.  Exxon hasn’t disclosed its plans for further drilling in
Poland. The shares  rose  0.3 percent to $83.97 at the close in
New York.  Poland has led European shale exploration by virtue of its
tempting geology and by offering “attractive fiscal terms” to
prospectors, the Energy Department in  Washington  said in a
September report.  Still, a “likely aggressive tax burden” to be imposed on
shale-gas producers may damp investor enthusiasm, analysts at
Bank Zachodni WBK SA, based in Wroclaw, Poland, said yesterday
in a note to clients.  Polish drilling also has been hindered by a scarcity of
rigs, water and specialized equipment needed for shale wells,
Bern said.  “Getting the things you need to drill these wells is much
more difficult in Poland than in the United States, where the
shale industry is very well-developed,” Bern said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  