-- MF Global Lowered European Risk in August, Stockman Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-02-01T00:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/mf-global-began-cutting-european-risk-in-august-stockman-says.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) ., the broker
that filed for bankruptcy last year and saw as much as $1.2
billion in client funds go missing, began limiting its positions
in European debt three months before collapsing, according to
Michael G. Stockman, the company’s former chief risk officer.  Stockman said in testimony prepared for a U.S. House
hearing on Feb. 2 that he warned the broker’s board of risks to
the company’s bets on European sovereign debt. He told the
company’s senior management in July and the board in August of
higher default and liquidity risks to the trades.  “To the best of my recollection, following my presentation
at the August 2011 board meeting, the board and senior
management made an informed business judgment to cease adding to
the company’s long position in European sovereign debt,”
Stockman  said in the testimony .  The hearing also will include the testimony of Michael Roseman, the firm’s former chief risk officer. It will be the
first time Stockman and Roseman have testified to Congress in
connection with the bankruptcy.  Stockman said he doesn’t know what happened to the missing
$1.2 billion. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
Securities and Exchange Commission,  Justice Department  and
bankruptcy trustee overseeing the liquidation of the firm are
investigating the Oct. 31 collapse of the New York-based broker.  Risk Management  U.S. lawmakers who have been probing the bankruptcy are
turning their attention to the risk-management practices of the
firm, which was led by former New Jersey governor and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman Jon S. Corzine, as well as the role
credit-rating firms played in the lead-up to the bankruptcy.
Corzine, who resigned last year, testified to Congress three
times in December.  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican and
chairman of the Financial Services investigations subcommittee
holding the hearing, said in a statement yesterday that the
hearing would provide “visibility into the risk-management
practices at MF Global in the lead-up to its bankruptcy.”  Stockman, who said he was offered the position of chief
risk officer in January 2011, used his testimony to defend the
$6.3 billion bet on European sovereign debt, noting that “none
of the European sovereign debt securities” in the transaction
have defaulted or been restructured and all of the securities in
the portfolio “that reached maturity have been paid in full.”  Roseman, who also served as MF Global’s chief risk officer,
preceded Stockman in the job.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  