-- Morgan Stanley Facebook Role May Cement IPO Lead for Third Year Running
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-02-02T18:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/facebook-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-to-lead-social-networking-site-s-ipo.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  may cement its status
as the top underwriter for U.S. initial public offerings for a
third year running with its lead role on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s planned
$5 billion sale.  Getting picked for the IPO, which Facebook disclosed in a
regulatory filing yesterday, is a coup for Morgan Stanley and
Michael Grimes, 45, a banker at the firm since 1995 who has
longstanding ties to Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , 42.  Grimes, the global co-head of the bank’s technology
investment banking unit, and his Morgan Stanley colleagues won
the biggest share of business underwriting U.S. IPOs by Internet
companies last year, helping propel them to the top ranking in
all U.S. IPOs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Facebook ’s sale would be the biggest Internet IPO on record.  “This means a huge windfall for them,” said  Jack Ablin ,
who helps oversee $55 billion as chief investment officer for
Chicago-based Harris  Private Bank . “The fact that they have led
so many high-profile social media deals in the last year is
proof positive that Morgan Stanley is most likely to be able to
get this deal done.”  Morgan Stanley worked on IPOs by  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and  LinkedIn
Corp. (LNKD) , among the biggest Internet debuts in the U.S. last year,
helped by Grimes’s connections with venture capital firms.
Grimes, a Los Angeles native, meets regularly with investors in
search of promising startups, has close ties to firms such as
 Sequoia Capital  and is an early adopter of his clients’
products.  Networking  Grimes met Sandberg in 2001, at a party in Silicon Valley
where she was job hunting after having worked at the U.S.
Treasury Department during the Clinton administration, according
to a 2008 interview with Grimes. Sandberg at that same party
also met  Eric Schmidt , then chief executive officer of  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , who subsequently hired her, according to Grimes.  Morgan Stanley led Google’s 2004 IPO, by which time
Sandberg was a senior executive there. Grimes, an early user of
Facebook, has described Sandberg as a consummate networker and a
decisive leader who is highly persuasive.  Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , 27, hired
Sandberg in 2008 from Google to gain expertise in online
advertising sales. Sandberg received $30.9 million in total
compensation in 2011, making her the best-paid senior executive
at Facebook, according to the filing, while Zuckerberg received
$1.49 million. Sandberg isn’t on Facebook’s board.  Erskine Bowles  Another Morgan Stanley connection is  Erskine Bowles , who
sits on the bank’s board and joined Facebook’s board in
September as the social-networking website prepared for its IPO.
Bowles started his career in corporate finance at Morgan
Stanley, according to Facebook’s prospectus, and is president
emeritus of the University of  North Carolina , where he served
from 2006 to 2010. Bowles’s professional experience includes
founding venture capital firm Kitty Hawk Capital and serving as
White House chief of staff from 1996 to 1998.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Allen & Co. also will help with
the IPO, Facebook said in the filing. Morgan Stanley, listed
first in the filing, stands to earn a larger share of the fees
collected by securities firms for arranging the share sale.
Facebook has a $2.5 billion revolving credit facility with
affiliates of Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs, Bank of
America and Barclays, the filing shows.  JPMorgan Relationship  JPMorgan’s CEO,  Jamie Dimon , has a long-time friendship
with Sandberg and spoke with her about the IPO at various times,
two people familiar with the matter said. That relationship
helped JPMorgan edge out Goldman for a top spot in the IPO, they
said. Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan found out last week they would
be the lead names on the filing, said one of the people.  A spokeswoman for JPMorgan and Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman
for Facebook, declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs, whose equity capital markets revenue slid to
No. 4 among U.S. rivals in 2011, failed to win the lead role in
Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering after scuttling a
private sale of the Internet company’s stock to U.S. investors.  The banks handling Facebook’s IPO may collect fees of as
little as 1 percent to 1.5 percent of the total amount raised in
the sale, said two people with knowledge of the matter. Facebook
hasn’t set a final fee, said the people.  With such a large IPO, banks can often afford to take a
smaller percentage fee, and a high-profile offering can lead to
future business. At 1 percent, Facebook would be paying one-
fifth the average rate banks collected for managing the biggest
U.S. Internet IPOs last year. Those IPOs, by Yandex NV, Zynga,
 Renren Inc. (RENN)  and Groupon Inc., raised only a fraction of the $5
billion that Facebook is seeking.  Record Size  The amount of Facebook’s offering may change. The company
had been discussing raising as much as $10 billion, a person
with knowledge of the matter said late last year. At that size,
Facebook’s IPO would be the biggest ever by an Internet or
technology company, data compiled by Bloomberg show, trumping
the combined U.S. and German debut from  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) 
totaling about $5.85 billion in 2000.  On underwriting league tables, Morgan Stanley took 20
percent market share for IPOs by Internet companies on U.S.
exchanges in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Morgan Stanley also led all U.S. IPOs last year with a 13
percent share, selling an estimated $4.6 billion of shares and
generating an estimated $262 million in fees, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  