-- Facebook’s Sandberg Friends Gaga to Obama En Route to IPO: Tech
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-01-31T05:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/facebook-s-sandberg-friends-gaga-to-obama-as-social-media-ipo-nears-tech.html
Facebook Inc.’s Sheryl Sandberg
recently threw a fundraiser for President Obama, dining with
Lady Gaga and the president himself. Last week, she was a highly
visible co-chair of the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland .  As Facebook prepares to raise $10 billion in the largest-
ever technology initial public offering, Sandberg, the company’s
chief operating officer, is about to be thrust even further into
the limelight.  Since joining in 2008, she’s become the public face of the 
Menlo Park, California-based social media company, forging ties
with advertisers, policymakers and partners. With the IPO, 
likely to be heralded by a regulatory filing this week,
Sandberg will be taking on a larger function helping senior
management represent the company to a broadening investor base
and to Wall Street analysts.  “She’s going to play a crucial role in everything that
happens over the next few months,” said Matt Cohler, a special
adviser to Facebook and  general partner  at Benchmark Capital in
Menlo Park. “She is very deeply connected” in political and
business circles, said Cohler, who served as a Facebook vice
president from 2005 to 2008.  At 42, Sandberg serves as the outgoing and more seasoned
foil to Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , a 27-year-old
coder who sets the company’s strategy even as he shuns
publicity. During a  career  that has spanned  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
McKinsey & Co. and the U.S. Treasury Department, Sandberg has
honed what friends, colleagues and former employees say is a
penchant for brokering alliances, fostering loyalty and setting
priorities.  ‘Credibility, Experience’  “She brings an enormous amount of credibility and
experience,” said Anupam Palit,  research head  at GreenCrest
Capital LLC in  New York . “She knows how a public technology
company works, she knows what investors are looking for with
these types of companies, and, more importantly, she knows how
to successfully deliver against those expectations.”  Sandberg declined to comment for this story.  Her role as Facebook’s ambassador-in-chief was in full
display last week at Davos, where she served as one of six co-
chairs of the forum. She participated in such panels as “Women
as the Way Forward” and collected business cards from attendees
who stood in long lines for a moment of her time.  As Zuckerberg focuses on the technology that has helped
Facebook amass more than 800 million users, Sandberg has trained
her attention on the advertisers whose aim to reach social-media
consumers propelled sales to an estimated $4 billion in 2011.  Saturday With Sandberg  She traveled to  Bentonville ,  Arkansas , on two occasions
last year to persuade  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to devote more of its
ad budget to social media. Thousands of employees showed up on a
Saturday to hear Sandberg talk about interacting with customers
through the social network.  “She was wise to commit as much as she did to that because
it helped me internally to get people on board with a lot of the
programs we are doing with Facebook,” Wal-Mart  Chief Marketing
Officer  Stephen Quinn said in an interview. “Our best partners
have made the trek to Bentonville. It is unusual to do it
several times a year.”  Sandberg, who has played a key role in boosting Facebook’s
staff to more than 3,000 employees, also spends much of her time
grooming top deputies, according to people who work with her.
The list includes advertising head David Fischer;  human
resources head  Lori Goler; vice president of partnerships Dan
Rose; and Elliot Schrage, vice president of global
communications, marketing and public policy.  Lessons From Google  “What makes her unique, even in her peer group, is that
she is deeply committed to investing in people,” said  Bryan
Schreier , a venture capitalist at Menlo Park-based Sequoia
Capital who previously worked under Sandberg at Google. “When
she’s investing in you, it feels like she only has time to do
that for one person, but she can actually do that for dozens.”  After growing up in a middle-class Miami suburb, Sandberg
studied economics at  Harvard University . There she met  Larry
Summers , with whom she later worked at the  World Bank  and the
Treasury Department.  Sandberg spent seven years at Google, where she eventually
ran global ad sales. Her experience with Google’s stock-market
debut, in 2004, will help prepare for the offering at Facebook,
said  Lise Buyer , an IPO consultant who worked on the Google
deal.  Obama’s Council  “Having observed what Google did right about educating
employees on the wide variety of topics associated with an IPO
would certainly be really helpful,” said Buyer, who now runs
the Portola Valley, California-based Class V Group. “Equally,
having observed some of the nuanced errors where Google did not
get it right will also be very helpful.”  Sandberg’s ties to  Washington  would benefit Facebook as it
attempts to press a political agenda while contending with
regulatory scrutiny, said  Steve Case , the former CEO of AOL Inc.
who now runs Revolution LLC, a venture capital firm.  Since being appointed to the President’s Council on Jobs
and Competitiveness in February 2011, Sandberg has been vocal in
meetings with Obama on issues of immigration and the growing
skills gap among U.S. workers. During one session in Pittsburgh
in October, Sandberg relayed the plight of a foreign Facebook
engineer who was unable to get a visa to stay and work in the
U.S., said Case, a fellow council member.  ‘Non-Goal’ Setting  “Bringing the issue of highly-skilled immigration to life
by putting a face on it was useful,” Case said.  As she prepares for the IPO, Sandberg has done some
priority setting of her own. Starbucks Corp. said in December
that she decided not to stand for re-election to the board.  The Facebook COO also leads an annual ritual that
challenges the company to set “non-goals,” Sandberg said in an
interview with Bloomberg Businessweek last year.  “Non-goals are things that are really good ideas” but
that the company chooses not to pursue right away because it has
to “ruthlessly prioritize,” Sandberg said in May.  While Sandberg is said to maintain a strong relationship
with Zuckerberg, the two have disagreed over such issues as
whether to expand the business into  China , people told Bloomberg
Businessweek last year. Sandberg is wary about the compromises
Facebook would have to make to do business there, the people
said.  As Sandberg’s importance grows within Facebook, so does
concern that the company will some day have to operate without
her.  Moving to Menlo  A highly sought-after executive whose wealth will skyrocket
after Facebook’s offering, Sandberg could choose to run another
company or return to politics, said Ray Valdes, a  research
director  at Gartner Inc.  “She’s still relatively young, and it’s likely that
Facebook is not going to be her final career point,” said
Valdes. “It’s possible that she may go down the path that  Meg
Whitman  did of moving into a wider arena,” he said, referring
to the former EBay Inc. CEO who ran for California governor in
2010 and went on to become CEO of Hewlett-Packard Co.  Even with a strong bench of potential successors, people
close to Sandberg expect her to remain at the company well after
it goes public. One sign of her commitment: Sandberg and her
husband,  Dave Goldberg , recently purchased a new home in  Menlo
Park .  If serving the public is her chief interest, Sandberg
couldn’t easily find a better job, said Michael Lazerow, CEO of
Buddy Media Inc., a developer of advertising software for
Facebook.  “The change which she can bring to the world is much more
powerful as the head business person at Facebook than anything
else she can do today,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  