-- Facebook Legal Fees Demand Is ‘Stratospheric,’ Ceglia Claims
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/facebook-lawyers-want-stratospheric-fee-says-man-suing-for-ownership.html
Paul Ceglia , who was fined for
failing to turn over evidence in his ownership suit against
Facebook Inc., said he shouldn’t also have to reimburse the
company for legal fees of as much as $716 an hour that he called
“stratospheric.”  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio on Jan. 10 fined
Ceglia $5,000 after ruling the New York man had ignored a court
order requiring him to give Facebook access to his e-mail
accounts. The judge also ordered Ceglia to reimburse the company
for the legal fees it incurred in pursuing the issue.  Ceglia’s lawyer, Dean Boland of Lakewood,  Ohio , objected to
the size of the fees in court papers filed Jan. 30 in federal
court in Buffalo,  New York , saying they’re not justified by the
“garden-variety” issues presented by the case.  In the suit, Ceglia claims he has a 2003 contract signed by
Facebook co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  that gave him half-ownership
of the company, now worth an estimated $74.3 billion, according
to Sharespost.com, which tracks nonpublic companies. Facebook,
based in  Menlo Park ,  California , operates the most popular
social-networking site in the world.  Boland also argued that Facebook’s lawyers, from Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, shouldn’t charge New York City prices for
Buffalo work.  ‘Many Firms’  “Defendants make no showing that a firm in the Western
District could not handle this case,” Boland wrote, referring
to the federal judicial district that includes Buffalo. “Within
this district, there are many firms that routinely handle large
contract dispute cases.”  Among the Buffalo firms named by Boland was Connors &
Villardo LP, which represented Ceglia in the case before
quitting in April. Ceglia then switched to a team led by DLA
Piper LLP, one of the biggest law firms in the world, with 4,200
attorneys in 30 countries. DLA Piper quit less than three months
later. Ceglia was then represented by a San Diego lawyer who was
replaced by Boland in October.  Orin Snyder, the lead Gibson Dunn partner on the case, had
a billing rate of $955 an hour in 2011, according to papers
filed by Facebook. Two other Gibson Dunn partners cost their
clients $850 and $825 an hour. They were assisted by two
associates, at $670 and $450 an hour.  Facebook asked Foschio to order Ceglia to pay 75 percent of
those rates. The five lawyers said they had spent a combined 177
hours on work related to the e-mail issue.  Snyder declined to comment on the firm’s fee request.  Gibson Dunn was named in January as “Litigation Department
of the Year” by The American Lawyer, a trade magazine, for the
second time in a row. American Lawyer based the distinction in
part on Gibson Dunn’s work in the Ceglia case.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 