-- Farmers Making $100 Billion Don’t Need Subsidies to Grow: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-31T00:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/farmers-making-100-billion-don-t-need-new-federal-subsidies-to-grow-view.html
Imagine an industry on a roll. Its
income surpassed the  $100 billion  mark last year for the first
time. On top of these riches, those in the business got an
additional $25 billion or so in federal handouts.  The 1 percenters of  Wall Street ? Not even close. The
beneficiaries are America’s farmers, or to be more accurate, the
wealthy owners of very big farms.  Considering how flush the farming industry is these days,
thanks to surging commodity prices, Congress should have no
qualms about eliminating the most egregious agriculture policies
and using the savings to chip away at the  budget deficit .  Every five years, Congress writes a new farm bill -- the
next one must be adopted in 2013 -- which means that Congress
might start drafting new legislation soon.  A lot of the political horse-trading in this cycle involves
the worst of the giveaways -- the roughly $5 billion in direct
payments -- that go to a small slice of the largest
agribusinesses, most of which produce a handful of commodity
crops such as corn, wheat and soybeans. The owners receive these
subsidies regardless of need or the health of the farming
industry.  Promised Savings  What’s notable now is that the farming industry has given
up on preserving this particular subsidy bonanza. Earlier this
month, the  American Farm Bureau Federation  said it would drop
its opposition to direct payments. But in exchange, the
agriculture lobby and its defenders in Congress are angling for
a broadening of subsidized crop insurance instead of the more
limited coverage offered now. The danger is that the promised
savings from the end of the direct-payments program will be
diverted into yet another revenue stream for well-off farmers.  Direct payments were themselves “reforms” adopted in 1996
in an effort to wean farmers from traditional price supports
that dated to 1930s-era New Deal programs. The payments were
supposed to decline and be phased out over a five-year period.
But subsidies in  Washington  are like well-tended crops: With the
benefit of lobbying from farming interests, they persisted and
grew.  President  Barack Obama  last year proposed ending direct
payments, arguing that more than half the benefits go to
recipients with annual incomes of more than $100,000. (The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  reported that 20 percent of all direct
payments went to just 1 percent of farming businesses.)
The proposal was included in a package of $23 billion in
agricultural program cuts that Congress’s so-called
supercommittee was considering as part of its mandate to reduce
the federal budget deficit. Although the committee disbanded in
November without reaching an agreement, the push to end direct
payments has bipartisan support: Republican Senator  Tom Coburn 
of  Oklahoma  sponsored legislation that would have made rich
farmers ineligible for the program.  With direct payments at risk, the agriculture industry last
year began pressing for more federal support for crop insurance.
It’s already one of the fastest-growing benefits for the
agriculture industry, with subsidies for insurance premiums
rising to more than  $7 billion  in 2011 from a little more than a
$1 billion in 2000.  Crop insurance normally pays a claim if a farmer’s revenue
falls to between 75 percent and 85 percent of a historical
average, whether as a result of weather, floods or falling
prices. Facing the loss of direct payments, the industry wanted
to bump this up by an additional 10 to 15 percentage points.
This would mean a payout to farmers even in years when revenue
fell only modestly.  Misguided Incentives  The result would have set up incentives more perverse than
those already in place: Farmers, understandably, would try to
raise their historical average by planting more crops. In turn,
they would need more insurance and still bigger government
subsidies. In other words, as crop prices went up, insurance
costs would rise and so would the cost to taxpayers. And since
crop prices are so high today, farmers could collect huge
payoffs if prices were to return to levels seen before the
financial crisis touched off the commodities boom.  To blunt criticism, the farming industry has floated a
different plan it says would only provide insurance payouts in
case of larger losses. The most troubling aspect of this
proposal? Farmers might bear even less of the cost, which can
only mean that the government would pay more. Congress should
resist these proposals.  Direct payments and crop insurance aren’t the only farm
handouts that should be eliminated or scaled back. A $7 billion
 loan program , in effect, ensures minimum prices for crops.
Farmers borrow from the government, pledging their crops as
collateral. If prices are high, a farmer can repay the loan with
cash left over from selling the crop. If prices are low, a
farmer can repay the loan at the lower value and keep the crop
to sell later when prices are higher. The heads-we-win, tails-
you-lose structure of this program has to end.  The loan program is paired with a $4 billion  counter-
cyclical payment  system adopted in 2002 that rewards farmers
based on historical production. If prices fall, a farmer can get
a payment, even if there is no financial need. It is all too
reminiscent of the old price-support regimen that direct
payments were supposed to replace.  Eliminating agricultural subsidies altogether isn’t
realistic, given how much sway the industry has in Washington.
Spending on research and development is crucial, as are programs
to encourage people to take up farming. But whatever Congress
decides in the next farm bill, it should resist swapping one
farming gravy train for another.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  