-- FCC Trims Subsidy That Powers TracFone Amid Fraud Concern
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-01-31T18:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/fcc-trims-free-phones-fund-powering-tracfone-amid-fraud-concern.html
U.S. regulators trimmed a telephone
subsidy that powered growth for TracFone Wireless Inc. and
provoked concerns of waste and fraud as wireless companies
distribute free handsets.  The Federal Communications Commission voted 3-0 today to
set up a database to prevent individuals from collecting
subsidized phones from two companies, and told carriers to trim
customer rolls to eliminate those who don’t use free wireless
service for 60 days. One person per household may get subsidized
phones, the agency said in its order.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said today’s changes may
save as much as $2 billion in the next three years from the
Lifeline program, which was enacted in the 1980s with
traditional wired phones.  “We will not tolerate waste or misuse of program funds,”
Genachowski said today in Washington.  Lifeline climbed to $1.6 billion in 2011 from $772 million
in 2008, according to figures from the Universal Service
Administrative Co. The Washington-based nonprofit works with
states to oversee the subsidies, which are funded by fees on
phone customers’ bills.  In recent years, pre-paid wireless providers have begun
“fiercely competing for the business of low-income consumers by
marketing ‘free’ phones,” the FCC said last year as it proposed
the rules it considered today. The program provides carriers
with as much as $10 a month for each customer enrolled,
depending on the state,  according to  the FCC.  ‘Demands Scrutiny’  Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, has said she
may seek a congressional investigation of the program, which
subsidizes service for people with incomes no more than 35
percent above the poverty line or who qualify for assistance
programs such as  food stamps .  “I am troubled by the expansive potential for the program
to be abused,” McCaskill said in a Dec. 9 letter to
Genachowski. Customers often don’t need to produce documentation
showing their eligibility, and may sell their phones, she wrote.  “The Lifeline program demands scrutiny, along with intense
controls, in order to prevent waste, fraud and abuse,”
McCaskill wrote.  In a study of 3.6 million Lifeline records, about 269,000,
or 7 percent, were for subscribers who had received subsidized
service from more than one carrier, according to a Jan. 10
filing with the FCC by Karen Majcher, a Universal Service
Administrative Co. vice president  About 12.5 million people have phones under the Lifeline
program, compared with 7.1 million in 2008, according to figures
from the Universal Service Administrative Co.  Prepaid Wireless  The program’s growth has been propelled by the addition of
prepaid wireless service from  America Movil  SAB’s TracFone,
according to an October 2010 report from the  Government
Accountability Office , the investigative arm of Congress.  America Movil of Mexico City, the largest mobile-phone
carrier in the Americas, is controlled by  Carlos Slim , who last
year was named the world’s richest person for the second year in
a row in March by Forbes magazine.  TracFone, based in Miami, began marketing its subsidized
phones in 2008 under the SafeLink brand. It serves 3.8 million
customers, the company said in a Nov. 21 filing.  Another subsidized wireless participant,  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) ’s Assurance service, has expanded to 31 states after
beginning in four states in 2009, said  John Taylor , a spokesman.  TracFone endorses reforms including a database, the company
said in a Jan. 24 filing. TracFone annually verifies whether its
customers remain eligible for the program, and removes those who
don’t respond or who say they don’t qualify, according to the
filing. It also removes customers who don’t use the service for
60 days, according to the filing.  “We’ve created a very sound system,” Jose Fuentes, a
TracFone spokesman, said in an interview before the FCC vote.
“We’ve had a lot of fly-by-night companies come in.”  More than 1,700 wireless companies take part in the
program, he estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  