-- Vertex Wins Approval for Drug to Treat Mutation Linked to Cystic Fibrosis
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-31T21:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/fda-approves-vertex-s-kalydeco-for-cystic-fibrosis.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  won
approval of the first drug to treat the underlying cause of
cystic fibrosis.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Kalydeco for a
rare form of cystic fibrosis in patients ages 6 and older who
have a specific gene mutation, the agency said today in a
 statement . Cystic fibrosis is the most-common fatal genetic
disease in the Caucasian population, the FDA said.  Cystic fibrosis, which creates a thick mucus in the lungs
and digestive tract, affects about 30,000 in the U.S. and about
4 percent, or 1,200, have the mutation, the agency said. The FDA
approved the drug three months ahead of the expected deadline.  “Kalydeco is an excellent example of the promise of
personalized medicine -- targeted drugs that treat patients with
a specific genetic makeup,” FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg 
said in the statement.  Vertex rose 6.4 percent to $36.95 at 4 p.m. New York time.  The twice-daily pill also is designated as an orphan drug
because it treats few people and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Vertex will be able to sell the medicine seven additional years
without competition from generics.  $294,000 Cost  Kalydeco will cost $294,000 a year per patient, Nancy Wysenski, executive vice president and chief commercial officer
at Vertex, said on a conference call today with analysts and
media.  She said about 200 of the 1,200 cystic fibrosis patients
with the mutation are younger than 6. The company plans to study
the drug in the younger patients beginning the middle of this
year. Vertex also is studying Kalydeco in combination with
another drug candidate for a more common cystic fibrosis
mutation and expects initial data in the middle of this year.  Cystic fibrosis  is life-threatening and has no cure,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . Kalydeco thins
the mucus to keep airways from getting clogged and infected.
Genetic testing should be done before the medicine is taken.  Francis Collins , now director of the National Institutes of
Health, and a team of researchers, discovered the gene involved
with cystic fibrosis in 1989,  Janet Woodcock , director of the
FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in a  blog
post . Vertex worked 13 years to target the underlying cause of
the disease, Jeffrey Leiden, Vertex’s incoming president and
chief executive officer said in a statement.  Vertex joined with the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation to
develop the drug through “venture philanthropy,” Woodcock
said.  The foundation put up $75 million for the research,
according to a statement from the patient group. It will receive
tiered royalties the company didn’t disclose.  The most-common side effects of Kalydeco include upper
respiratory tract infection, headache, stomach ache, rash,
diarrhea and dizziness, the FDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 