-- Fed Bank Presidents Reveal Assets From Ranchland to Inflation-Linked Bonds
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/fed-s-regional-bank-presidents-disclose-personal-financial-holdings.html
Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents revealed unprecedented details about their personal
wealth, disclosing  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shares bought by accident and
ownership of a Missouri farm and  Texas  ranchland.  The regional bank chiefs, who manage Fed operations across
the country ranging from bank supervision to emergency lending,
disclosed the documents yesterday in response to requests from
Bloomberg News under the Freedom of Information Act. The Fed
banks said they weren’t subject to the terms of the act, even as
they responded to the requests.  The 12 regional banks and their presidents aren’t held to
the same level of public scrutiny as the Washington-based
Federal Reserve Board and its governors. While Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and Fed governors disclose information about their
finances and are subject to the FOIA, the regional banks don’t
routinely make personal financial information public.  “When it comes to financial disclosures for Federal
Reserve bank presidents, this is a step in the right
direction,” said Sung Won Sohn, former chief economist at Wells
Fargo & Co. who is now a professor at California State
University-Channel Islands in Camarillo. “Transparency is very
important,” he said. “Policy makers will bend over backwards
now to not have even the appearance of impropriety.”  The Fed’s regional presidents vote on monetary policy on a
rotating basis, represent their districts at meetings of the
 Federal Open Market Committee  and play a front-line role in
tasks such as circulating currency and maintaining the U.S.
payments system.  ‘Media Interest’  When filing internal reports on their assets, regional bank
presidents aren’t required to list their personal residences or
stakes in employee benefit plans.  The asset values listed by the officials for 2010 vary
widely. While St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  had no
holdings that required disclosure, New York’s William C. Dudley
held assets in excess of $9.5 million and  Richard Fisher  of
 Dallas  listed holdings exceeding $20 million.  Fisher’s financial report showed millions of dollars in
municipal bonds and 7,113 acres of land in states including
Iowa, Missouri and Texas.  The Government Accountability Office last year said that
the Fed needed to strengthen its conflict of interest policies,
citing Dudley’s receipt of a waiver in 2008 to keep his personal
holdings in  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  after the insurer
was rescued by the central bank. The GAO said in a July report
that the example “highlights the potential for appearance
concerns,” even if the stake was a small percentage of the
person’s total holdings.  AIG Stock  Dudley, who was the New York Fed’s markets-group chief when
he received the waiver, owned $1,200 of AIG stock in September
2008, according to waiver forms released yesterday. He hadn’t
been required to sell the shares under the central bank’s code
of conduct because the insurer wasn’t supervised by the Fed.  After the central bank invoked its emergency-lending powers
to rescue AIG in 2008, Dudley said in a September interview with
Bloomberg News that he brought the fact that he owned the shares
to the central bank’s attention.  “I basically identified that I had the holdings and said,
‘I will do whatever you want me to do,’” said Dudley, who
worked on the $85 billion loan to the insurer.  Then New York-Fed President  Timothy F. Geithner  directed
him to keep the AIG shares until a later, predetermined date
because selling them at that time would also pose a conflict
since he had access to inside information about the company’s
dire state, the GAO said. Dudley has since sold the shares as
directed by the bank.  GE Shares  The New York Fed chief had to seek approval to own $106,830
of General Electric Co. stock in 2008. Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE accessed a Fed emergency program for commercial paper.
The waiver for the GE stock was also disclosed last year by the
GAO, though not the value.  Dudley also received a waiver to own Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities because Fed officials “who participate in
interest rate decisions” must get approval to own interest-rate
sensitive government securities, the  New York  Fed said in a
statement yesterday. Dudley bought the TIPS before he joined the
Fed and agreed to hold the securities until their maturity,
according to the New York Fed.  The New York Fed’s website says that “annual financial
disclosures and related documents for the New York Fed
President, beginning in 2008, are available upon request.”  Lockhart Reports  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  disclosed a series of
irregularities in reports from 2007 to 2009, when managers of
investment funds that he didn’t directly control traded in bank
and bank holding-company shares. Lockhart inadvertently held
bank stocks in 2008 and traded during a “blackout period”
after independent managers working for him ignored his
instructions, Lockhart said in a memo in May 2009.  Merrill Lynch’s private banking group in  Chicago  made the
trades in banks, Lockhart said. The group traded in numerous
stocks and acted in ways similar to a mutual fund, he said. Fed
policy forbids ownership of shares in banks that it regulates.  “It is not an excuse, but the fact is I did not monitor
the trading activity of these accounts during 2008 and was
unaware of the prohibited trades. I relied on Merrill Lynch,”
and in 2009 switched to another manager to increase control, he
said.  A review by the ethics officer for the Atlanta Fed,
consulting with the board of governors, concluded Lockhart had
not violated federal ethics laws and that his “remedial steps
were appropriate.”  Lockhart’s stock holdings in 2008 included U.S. Bancorp,
 Wells Fargo & Co .,  Bank of America Corp . and Citigroup.  Code of Conduct  The Fed Board’s code of conduct for the regional banks bars
conflicts of interest through gifts, investments and outside
activities such as other employment. Employees must “avoid
action that might result or create the appearance of using a
position for private gain, giving preferential treatment or
losing independence,” according to the code.  In addition, the code prohibits “ownership of debt or
equity interests of a depository institution, a primary
government securities dealer or their affiliates.” The 12 banks
set their own codes of conduct.  During the financial crisis, the regional banks helped
implement the emergency lending programs that peaked at $1.2
trillion on Dec. 5, 2008.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  sold most of his stock
during the first full week of February 2008.  In 2007, Evans owned 11 stocks that included International
Business Machines Corp., Duke Energy Corp., and drugmaker Wyeth,
now owned by Pfizer Inc., valued at a total of between $11,011
and $551,001.  Holdings Sold  In February 2008, Evans sold all of his holdings in nine of
the stocks and kept two, then each valued at less than $1,000.
By 2010, he had moved most of his holdings into mutual funds and
certificates of deposit.  The bank presidents are responsible for supervising state
member banks and bank holding companies. At the end of 2010,
such oversight encompassed 5,464 U.S. bank-holding companies
controlling 5,443 commercial banks with approximately 99 percent
of all insured commercial bank assets in the U.S., according to
the Fed’s annual report released in June.  -- With assistance from Caroline Salas in New York,
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta, and Vivien Lou Chen and Aki Ito in
 San Francisco . Editors: James Tyson, Christopher Wellisz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  