-- Broker’s Fiduciary Standards Should Match Reality of Market, Pitt Says
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-01-31T18:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/fiduciary-standard-should-match-reality-of-marketplace-pitt-says.html
The law governing how brokers serve
their clients has done a poor job of keeping up with the
realities of the marketplace,  Harvey Pitt , a former chairman of
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said today.  “We ought to make the reality comport with what people
think they’re getting,” Pitt said in  New York  at The John C.
Bogle Legacy Forum hosted by  Bloomberg Link .  The SEC recommended in a staff  report  to Congress Jan. 21,
2011, called for by the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, that
brokers and registered investment advisers who give personalized
investment advice follow a uniform fiduciary standard.  Broker-dealers currently are held to a suitability standard
that calls for advice that meets their clients’ needs when a
product is sold, instead of the fiduciary duty followed by
registered investment advisers to put their clients’ best
interests first.  “The goal really is to say if I’m doing something more
than just being an order taker, I am supposed to put the
interest of my clients first,” Pitt said. “That seems to be
the place where everyone ought to be able to agree. I don’t
think you have to fuss with a separate definition and separate
conduct.”  When writing rules for the fiduciary standard, the SEC has
to take into account the services being provided and the
legitimate expectations customers have, said Pitt, who was SEC
chairman from 2001 to 2003, and now is chief executive officer
of Kalorama Partners LLC, a Washington, D.C.-based
consulting firm.  More Complicated  “It’s more complicated than the way it’s been teed up in
Dodd-Frank,” he said.  Most investors “start with the
presumption that the professional who is working with them and
to whom they entrust their capital are looking out for their
best interests,” Pitt said.  The common standard is needed because many retail investors
are confused by the roles played by investment advisers and
broker-dealers, the SEC’s January study said. The agency’s
effort to impose a fiduciary standard on brokers has been
delayed for additional cost-benefit analysis, according to a
Jan. 10 letter from Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to Representative
 Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, who is chairman of the
House Financial Services subcommittee that oversees the SEC.  “We’ve embraced a fiduciary standard for the industry,”
as long as it’s nuanced and business-model neutral, said  Timothy Ryan , president and CEO of the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, a lobbying group for banks and brokerages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 