-- Florida’s 680-Mile Campaign Trail Diverted by Angst Over Housing
-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2012-01-31T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/florida-s-680-mile-campaign-trail-diverted-by-angst-over-housing-distress.html
There isn’t only one presidential
primary election in  Florida (STOFL1)  today. There are five.  In a state straddling two time zones, Republicans retired
around the military bases of the western Panhandle and Southern
Baptist church-goers serving sweet iced tea with fried catfish
find little culturally in common with Cuban-Americans in Miami’s
Little Havana offering spiced pork and plantains 680 miles away.  The precincts around the insurance and banking headquarters
of Jacksonville are 320 miles from the American Midwestern
retirees sitting on underwater mortgages in Southwest  Florida .  Still more Republican voters inhabit a swath of Central
Florida suburbs reaching from Tampa on the Gulf Coast to  Daytona
Beach  on the Atlantic Ocean than those living in any of
Florida’s other states within a state. And in this swing-voting
region -- as in all five Floridas -- the housing bubble’s burst
has left financial pain that’s a driving force for voters today.  “The suburban areas are going to be critical again,” said
 Susan MacManus , a political science professor at the University
of South Florida in Tampa. “They have been on the roller
coaster of the economy. They were with the boom, and they’ve
been at the bottom.”  Housing Pain  Twenty-three percent of mortgaged homes in Florida, the
fourth-most populous state, are delinquent or foreclosed upon,
more than in any other state, according to Jacksonville-based
Lender Processing Services. Florida ranks third in the portion
of homeowners with underwater mortgages -- with 44 percent of
properties valued at less than the loans -- according to  Santa
Ana , California-based  CoreLogic  data from the third quarter.  In a state that helped elect President  Barack Obama  in
2008,  home prices  declined 22.5 percent from the first quarter
of 2009, when he was inaugurated, through the third quarter of
2011, according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States
index.  Most of the votes in today’s primary will be cast by
Republicans 55 and older, according to Brett Doster, a senior
campaign adviser for  Mitt Romney  in Florida.  “The two issues that move voters more than anything else
are spending and their concern about the economy,” Doster said
of his campaign’s strategy. “We’ve been talking about Romney’s
ability to lead in both areas.”  ‘I-4 Corridor’  Newt Gingrich  has attempted to contrast himself as a
devoted conservative and Romney as a wavering moderate, to
attract voters along the Interstate-4 corridor of  Central
Florida  and elsewhere, according to Bill McCollum, a former
congressman from Orlando and state attorney general who is
chairman of Gingrich’s bid in Florida.  “In the I-4 corridor, which is the most important part of
the state, it certainly plays,” said McCollum, pointing to the
guest on Gingrich’s election-eve tour, Michael Reagan,  Ronald Reagan ’s son. “This is a fight for the heart and soul of the
 Republican Party .”  With Florida opinion polls showing Romney, 64, a former
Massachusetts governor, increasing his lead over Gingrich, 68, a
onetime U.S. House speaker from Georgia, Romney’s campaign
advisers are counting on sweeping all five Floridas today.  They have played the regions piece by piece.  Senator John McCain of  Arizona  carried most of Central
Florida in the  2008 Republican presidential primary , beating
Romney by 5 percentage points in the state. Romney returned for
this year’s campaign courting people, including McCain, to help
with constituencies in each corner of the Sunshine State.  ‘The American Dream’  Romney campaigned last week with Puerto Rican Governor Luis Fortuno at the warehouse of Lanco Paint Co. in  Orlando , a
business that began in  Puerto Rico . “They are an example of the
American dream,” Romney told a large gathering. “Puerto Rican
jobs are American jobs.”  Hispanic voters account for 11 percent of Florida’s
registered Republicans. Around Orlando that includes a growing
community of Puerto Ricans divided in loyalties to the major
political parties. Statewide, the Pew Hispanic Center reports,
 Hispanic voters  have become more Democratic than Republican in
recent years. Immigrants from Central America also have arrived,
presenting a challenge for Republicans campaigning against
illegal immigration.  “In Florida, you have to appeal to the broader Hispanic
community, with the whole blend of nationalities that is
reflected in many parts of the state,” said Mel Martinez, a
former Republican U.S. senator from Orlando who served as
secretary of Housing and Urban Development for President  George W. Bush  and chairman of Orlando’s Orange County.  Watch the Tone  Martinez, who arrived in Central Florida at age 15 in the
Catholic Charities’ “Pedro Pan” airlift of children fleeing
Fidel Castro’s Cuba, is chairman of both Romney’s national
campaign advisory council and of  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in
Florida,  Mexico , Central America and the Caribbean.  In a contest pitting Romney against Gingrich in a debate
over returning illegal immigrants to their home nations, leaders
such as former Florida Governor Jeb Bush have cautioned the
candidates about the tone of their rhetoric.  “The important thing is that Romney not come across as
someone who is anti-immigrant or anti-Hispanic,” Martinez said,
“and I think he’s managed that.”  Romney held a 24-percentage-point advantage over Gingrich
among Florida’s Hispanic voters, according to a Jan. 24-26 poll
by  Mason-Dixon Polling & Research  sponsored by the Tampa Bay
Times, Miami Herald and other Florida media. The survey, with a
margin of error of 3.5 points, showed a 42 percent to 31 percent
advantage for Romney among statewide voters.  Little Havana  In Miami’s Little  Havana , redolent with the sugar-saturated
Cuban coffee sold at sidewalk cafe windows, Romney claims the
support of U.S. Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a 23-year
member of Congress from Miami who was born in Havana.  Ros-Lehtinen campaigned for Romney outside the Casa Marin
Restaurant in nearby Hialeah, switching from Spanish to English
repeatedly and praising a candidate who “knows the difference
between our allies and our enemies -- just like all of you.”  Later, she accompanied Romney inside as guitar players
dressed in white and wearing Panama hats serenaded the candidate
with “Guantanamera.” He was handed a knife and tongs to serve
up lechon, a traditional Cuban whole-roasted suckling pig.  The Mason-Dixon survey has found a 26-point advantage for
Romney in South Florida.  New Arrivals  While Cuban-Americans have dominated the Republican vote in
Miami-Dade County for four decades, new arrivals from other
Latin American nations and younger voters replacing an aging
population in Broward and Palm Beach County condominiums have
made campaigning more complex, MacManus says.  “There has been this sort of replacement of the old
establishment leaders with younger voices,” she said, and that
includes younger Cuban-Americans who voted for Obama.  Romney started this year’s campaign with a  base in the
Southwest  corner of Florida’s  Gulf Coast , where retirees from
Midwestern states have settled in beachfront condos and suburban
housing that mushroomed in a  near-doubling  of Florida’s
population since 1980; he carried Lee and Collier counties with
6- and 8-point margins in 2008.  Still, Gingrich has found more support there “than people
anticipated,” MacManus said. “Of all the places of the
housing-bubble burst, it was worst down there,” she said. “The
anger level against  Washington  is very high, and they see
Gingrich as the anti-establishment candidate.”  North Florida Vote  Romney also  carried Jacksonville  and four counties
surrounding it in 2008. With a downtown network of insurance
companies and banks and Mayport Naval Air Station on the coast,
Jacksonville is more akin to the older cities of Gingrich’s
Georgia than metro centers of South and Central Florida.  “A lot of people are positing Jacksonville as pro-
Gingrich,” MacManus said. “But you have a lot of big companies
up there, you have a military presence. And I think they tend to
favor Romney.”  That military presence is potent in the Panhandle, with air
bases near Panama City, Fort Walton Beach and Pensacola --
including the Pensacola Naval Air Station where a young McCain
learned to fly. McCain carried the three biggest counties in
2008, and has returned this year to rally for Romney.  McCain introduced Romney on Jan. 28 under a cloudless sky
at Pensacola’s Fish House, overlooking the  Gulf of Mexico  where
voters crowded on sea-faded patios and terraces for what was
billed as a veterans’ rally. Wearing a blue blazer and Navy cap,
McCain regaled military families and veterans with jokes about
his wild days there.  Helping Local Economy  “When I was a young Navy pilot, I did my best to help the
economy here,” said McCain, who wrote in a 1999 memoir of
spending “much of my off-duty time” at a legendary Pensacola
bar, Trader John’s. “My entire paycheck was always donated to
cultural institutions.”  McCain said Romney would “restore this nation’s strength
and prestige around the world,” adding that “the Panhandle
will probably have a big effect on how this election turns
out.”  With 4 million Republicans registered statewide, fewer than
1.5 million are likely to vote this year, Doster said; more than
500,000 already have voted early or absentee. He bases the
estimate on a 20 percent turnout in Florida’s 2000 primary and
more than 50 percent in 2008, when a property tax amendment on
the ballot drove voters to the polls.  The three Panhandle counties have fewer than 300,000
Republicans. Yet MacManus said the communities of retired
military and Christian voters tend to vote at high rates. With
Florida’s two time zones, winning projections also will wait
until the Panhandle reports an hour later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  