-- Florida Primary First Republican-Only ‘Winner-Take-All’ Contest
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/florida-primary-first-republican-only-winner-take-all-contest.html
Mitt Romney  is favored to defeat
 Newt Gingrich  in today’s presidential primary in Florida, home
to the largest and most diverse Republican electorate and the
biggest bloc of convention delegates to date.  Surveys of Florida Republicans show that Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor, leads Gingrich, a former U.S. House
speaker, by more than 10 percentage points in a contest that
will award all of its delegates to the statewide winner. Romney
would get a boost in a state he lost four years ago to Arizona
Senator  John McCain , who won the Republican nomination.  Former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  and
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas trail Romney and Gingrich.
Gingrich has overshadowed Santorum in courting the votes of
conservatives. Paul is eschewing an active campaign in  Florida 
to concentrate on caucus states early next month that give him
better opportunities to accumulate delegates.  Here’s a closer look at the Florida primary and mechanics:  Who may participate in the Republican primary?  The Florida election is open only to the 4.06 million
voters who were  registered  Republican as of Jan. 3. Polling
places will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. local time. Most of
Florida is in the Eastern time zone, and part of the state is in
the Central time zone.  Florida has different participation requirements than other
states. The Jan. 21 South Carolina primary was open to all
registered voters. The Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary allowed
registered independents to vote in the Republican race. The Jan.
3  Iowa  caucuses were open to registered Republicans only, though
voters could shift registration from Democratic or independent
or register as a Republican on caucus night.  How many voters will show up?  Daniel A. Smith, a political scientist at the University of
Florida in Gainesville, said Jan. 24 he didn’t expect turnout to
match the 1.95 million voters who  participated  in the 2008
primary, or 51 percent of the 3.83 million registered Republican
voters at the time. A similar turnout rate to 2008 would draw
2.07 million voters in this year’s primary.  “I don’t see the excitement topping 2008,” Smith said.  About 603,000 Republicans had voted as of Jan. 29 by
absentee ballot or in an early-voting process, according to
Brian Hughes, a spokesman for the  Republican Party  of Florida.
Historic trends indicate the total vote “will likely end up
between 1.5 and 2 million Republicans,” he said yesterday.  How are Republican voters spread throughout the state?  Just over half of the 2008 vote came from 10 of Florida’s
67 counties, led by Miami-Dade in the southeastern corner of the
state, Pinellas in and around  St. Petersburg  on the Gulf coast,
 Palm Beach  in and around  Boca Raton  in the southeast, and
Hillsborough in the Tampa area. Broward County, situated between
Miami-Dade and Palm Beach in southeastern Florida, and Duval
County, which takes in Jacksonville in the northeastern corner
of the state, round out the top six.  Orange County, which includes  Orlando  and cast the seventh-
most votes in 2008, backed McCain over Romney by one-half of one
percentage point, the closest margin of victory among the top 10
counties. Brevard County, which takes in most of the state’s
“Space Coast” and cast the eighth-most votes in the 2008
primary, gave McCain 36 percent and Romney 31 percent of the
vote, matching their statewide percentages.  Florida has a more diverse Republican electorate than Iowa,
New Hampshire or  South Carolina . About one in 10 Florida
Republican voters is Hispanic. According to a 2008 exit poll, 39
percent of Florida Republicans described themselves as born-
again or evangelical Christians, compared to 65 percent in South
Carolina and 57 percent in Iowa this year.  How many delegates are at stake?  There are 50 national convention delegates at stake, the
most of any state to date. Florida’s delegation was reduced from
99 delegates because it is violating Republican National
Committee rules by holding a binding nomination contest before
March and a “winner-take-all” contest before April 1. The
national party’s rules panel assessed additional penalties on
Florida Republicans earlier this month, giving them poorer
housing and seating assignments and eliminating their guest and
VIP convention passes.  How are the delegates allocated among the candidates?  Florida is the first state to award all of its delegates to
the statewide winner. Gingrich won 23 of the 25 delegates in
South Carolina, with Romney winning the other two.  New Hampshire 
awarded its delegates in rough proportion to the statewide vote.
The Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses didn’t award any delegates to
candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  