-- Ford Awarded Investment-Grade Yields on $1 Billion of Debt
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-01-31T20:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/ford-plans-bonds-after-company-reiterates-investment-grade-goal.html
The  bond market  is awarding
investment-grade borrowing costs to  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s finance arm
on $1 billion of debt today after the No. 2 U.S. automaker
reiterated its goal of shedding its junk rankings.  Ford Motor Credit Co. plans to offer five-year senior notes
that may yield 4.25 percent, said a person with knowledge of the
offering, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. That compares with the average yield of 4.24 percent on BBB
graded securities, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data, and is lower than the coupon on investment-grade
five-year notes issued by SLM Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Entergy
Corp. earlier this month, Bloomberg data show.  Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , is ranked on the cusp of
investment-grade, with a Ba1  rating  and positive outlook at
Moody’s, and a BB+ grade and stable outlook from  Standard &
Poor’s . The auto company had CCC grades as recently as 2009.
Controller Bob Shanks reiterated on Jan. 27 in a conference call
to discuss earnings that Ford has “a strategy to get back to an
investment-grade balance sheet, which entails among other things
an increase in our unsecured debt versus” asset-backed
securities.  “Improved operating results and cash-flow generation along
with continued debt reductions should lead to stronger credit
ratios over the intermediate term,” Evan Mann, an analyst at
New York-based credit research firm Gimme Credit LLC, said in a
note on Jan. 27. “The company continues to reiterate its goal
of restoring its investment grade rating.”  Ford Offerings  The Ford credit unit on Jan. 4 sold 3.875 percent notes due
in January 2015 and 5 percent debt maturing in May 2018,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ford reported last week fourth-quarter profit that fell
short of analysts’ estimates as overseas operations dragged down
results while a one-time tax gain resulted in the company’s
biggest annual profit since 1998.  The company had its 11th consecutive profitable quarter,
with net income of $13.6 billion, or $3.40 a share, compared
with $190 million, or 5 cents, a year earlier. Excluding
one-time items, the profit was 20 cents a share, trailing the
25-cent average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
General Motors Co. is the biggest U.S. automaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  