-- Foreclosures Draw Private Equity as U.S. Sells Homes
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-01-31T16:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/foreclosures-draw-private-equity-as-u-s-selling-200-000-homes-mortgages.html
Private equity firms are jumping
into distressed  housing  as the U.S. government plans to market
200,000  foreclosed  homes as rentals to speed up the economic
recovery.  GTIS Partners will spend $1 billion by 2016 acquiring
single-family homes to manage as rentals, Thomas Shapiro, the
fund’s founder said. That followed announcements this month that
GI Partners, a Menlo Park private equity fund, expects to invest
$1 billion, and Los Angeles-based Oaktree Capital Management LP
will spend $450 million on similar housing.  “It’s a massive market,” Shapiro said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “We’re starting to see this as a
billion dollar opportunity to buy rental housing.”  Creating more single-family rental properties is one of a
series of programs introduced by President Barack Obama’s
administration aimed at reviving the housing market. An
S&P/Case-Shiller  index (SPX)  of property values in 20 cities has
dropped 33 percent from its peak in July 2006 and 12 percent of
homeowners with a mortgage are either  delinquent  or in
foreclosure. Last week, the administration revised its Home
Affordable Modification Program, offering government incentives
for mortgage investors Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  when they
forgive debt on homes that lost value as a way of preventing
delinquent borrowers from losing their houses.  Increasing Rentals  Increasing rentals may reduce lenders’ losses on foreclosed
and surrendered properties and curb declines in  home prices ,
according to a Federal Reserve study Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
sent to Congress on Jan. 4. Private equity funds began focusing
on these investments in September, after the administration
asked for proposals to sell the government’s inventory of
foreclosed homes -- about half of all houses seized from
delinquent borrowers.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
declined 3.7 percent from November 2010 after falling 3.4
percent in the year ended in October, according to data released
today. Economists projected a 3.3 percent drop, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Even as prices dropped, the “seeds to a recovery are being
planted,”  Karl Case , co-creator of the measure, said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance ,”
with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene . “Efforts are underway to deal
with a backlog of foreclosed properties,” he said.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac , plans to complete initial transactions in
the first quarter of this year, offering some of the 180,000
foreclosed homes in their inventory to private operators as
rental properties, Corinne Russell, a spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview.  Public-Private Partnerships  The Federal Housing Administration, which also will
participate in the rental program, had 32,170 real-estate owned
homes seized from borrowers, also known as REOs, as of Dec. 31,
according to spokesman Lemar Wooley.  Possible aspects of the program include public-private
partnerships to share the risk and profits, “seller financing”
guaranteed by the government and rent-to-own opportunities for
tenants, according to a November  memo .  “It marks the first time that institutional investors are
really getting involved, and in the process providing a higher
quality product to a tightening rental market,” Oliver Chang, a
Morgan Stanley analyst based in  San Francisco , said in an e-mail
last week.  $1 Trillion Liquidations  About 7.5 million homes with a current market value of $1
trillion will be liquidated through foreclosures or other
distressed sales by 2016, according to an Oct. 27 report by
Chang. That will add to the estimated 20 million single-family
homes already operated as rentals, which have yielded annual
returns averaging 8.1 percent since 1990, Chang’s report said.  Rentals can produce cash flows, known as a capitalization
rate or cap rate, that reduce losses more than reselling
foreclosed homes at a time of weak demand, the Federal Reserve
report said.  “Preliminary estimates suggest that about two-fifths of
 Fannie Mae ’s REO inventory would have a cap rate above 8 percent
-- sufficiently high to indicate renting the property might
deliver a better loss recovery than selling the property,” the
Fed paper said.  While there may be opportunities, investors should be
cautious about borrowing to invest in markets such as  Las Vegas (SPCSLV) ,
where a transient population and economy dependent on a single
industry like gaming, make it hard to see an exit strategy,
Kenneth Hackel, managing director heading securitized products
strategy for CRT Capital LLC, said in a telephone interview from
Stamford, Connecticut yesterday.  Track Record  “For the kind of properties I looked at, and in most
cases,  capital markets  aren’t excited to finance the REO-to-
Rental marketplace at this stage,” said Hackel, who toured  Las
Vegas (SPCSLV)  homes on the market this month. “Once you establish a
track record and have some positive cash flow in place, then
perhaps you can get some interest in having leverage. But I
think as a first step, investors are best served by looking at
this on an unlevered basis.”  The U.S. homeownership  rate  fell to 66 percent for the
quarter ending Dec. 31, as low as 1998 levels and down from a
peak of 69.2 percent in December 2004, according to a U.S.
Census Bureau report comes out today.  “New households have a much higher propensity to be
renters,” Thomas Lawler, a former economist with Fannie Mae
who’s now an independent housing consultant in Leesburg,
Virginia. “And a lot of folks who are losing their homes to
foreclosure are now renters.”  Rental Demand  Demand for rental housing helped boost shares of the 12-
member Bloomberg Apartment Real Estate Investment Trust  index  13
percent over the past 12 months compared with a 2.1 percent gain
for the S&P 500 Index. It’s also attracting private equity funds
to single-family homes, which historically have been an
investment for small investors.  Cerberus Capital Management LP, Deutsche Bank AG,  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG) , Starwood Capital Group LLC, TCW Group Inc.
and UBS AG are among the financial firms that submitted
responses to the federal request for information in September,
according to a list obtained by Bloomberg through a Freedom of
Information Act filing.  “We believe we’ll easily be able to raise $1 billion this
year in total,” said  Rick Sharga , executive vice president of
Carrington Mortgage Holdings LLC in Santa Ana,  California , which
will manage the homes bought with Oaktree Capital’s money. “The
ultimate fund could be several times that.”  Carrington Manages  Carrington currently manages more than 3,000 rental homes
for Fannie Mae, mostly in California, Arizona, Nevada and
 Florida , Sharga said.  Single-family home rentals can yield cash flows that are
300 basis points, or 3 percentage points, higher than
apartments, said Gregor Watson, principal of McKinley Capital
Partners LLC of Oakland, California, which has invested $100
million in the past two years, buying more than 400 foreclosed
homes in the San Francisco Bay Area and other western U.S.
cities. McKinley’s largest financial backer is  Och-Ziff Capital (OZM) 
Management Group, a New York-based investment fund with $28.9
billion under management as of Nov. 1, Watson said. Jonathan Gasthalter, an outside spokesman for Och-Ziff declined to
comment.  “This will be a new institutional asset class in the next
24 months,” Watson said.  Forming a REIT  GTIS, which has $2 billion of assets, expects to hold its
homes about five years, waiting for housing prices to recover
before selling, Shapiro said. If  housing prices  don’t rebound,
GTIS can exit by forming a real estate investment trust with
shares sold to investors attracted by the rental income, similar
to REITS for multifamily, industrial or office properties, he
said.  “Single family dwarfs any of those asset classes,”
Shapiro said. “When you think about the number of homes that
are going to be rented and institutionally owned, they’re going
to become its own asset class.”  GTIS, which has invested $225 million in partnerships with
homebuilders such as  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  since 2010, will
hire in-house staff to manage the rental properties in each
area, Shapiro said. He declined to disclose his expectations for
returns on investment.  “We think the important thing is on the operations and
management side as opposed to playing a numbers game, like I’m
buying for 30 cents on the dollar to a 12 percent yield,” he
said.  Buying in Bulk  GTIS expects to buy homes in bulk from banks, Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, Shapiro said. Properties will also be bought
individually at courthouse auctions and through short sales,
when lenders agree to sell for less than the balance of the
mortgage, he said.  GTIS will start buying in cities in Nevada, Arizona and
California -- the states with the three highest  foreclosure 
rates, according to RealtyTrac Inc. -- and Florida, which
RealtyTrac ranked seventh in December, Shapiro said.  “The key is being able to efficiently manage these
homes,” he said. “That’s why we’re targeting select markets.
Our intention is to rent them, to hold them for long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 