-- French Socialist Candidate Hollande Pledges to Renegotiate Fiscal Treaty
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-01-31T13:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/french-socialist-candidate-hollande-pledges-to-renegotiate-fiscal-treaty.html
Francois Hollande , the front-runner
in the French presidential election, will call for the
renegotiation of the European treaty on fiscal discipline if he
wins, his campaign chief said.  “We cannot enter a spiral of austerity with a pact geared
only toward austerity,”  Pierre Moscovici  told a  news conference 
today in Paris. “Budgetary discipline isn’t enough, there is a
need for growth.”  Measures would include an increased role for the  European
Central Bank  “to put it to the service of real economy,” the
creation of euro bonds and the use of receipts from a European
financial-transaction tax to erect a stronger firewall to
prevent debt-crisis contagion in the euro area. Moscovici also
mentioned the creation of European “project bonds” to fund big
industrial projects. Hollande is the Socialist candidate
opposing President Nicolas Sarkozy in the vote.  Efforts to hold the 17-nation euro area together with
bolstered fiscal rules and a stronger firewall are colliding
with stalled progress in  Greece , where the crisis began in 2009.
Twenty-five of the 27 EU members signed off on the treaty
Hollande would renegotiate when leaders met in Brussels
yesterday for their first summit of 2012.  Sarkozy said in Brussels yesterday he would not ratify the
treaty before the two rounds of the presidential election in
April and May.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will meet with investors in
China later this week in a bid to win confidence in Europe’s
ability to solve the debt crisis. Moscovici said today Hollande
would favor European investors in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  