-- French Drugmakers Say Pricing Policy May Hamper Industry
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-01-31T17:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/french-drugmakers-say-state-pricing-policy-may-hamper-industry.html
France’s  drugmakers  are concerned
the country’s government may cut pharmaceutical prices further
this year, the leader of a national industry trade group said.  “It’s hard to be optimistic for 2012, given the  budget
deficit , a financial crisis that continues and public debt that
keeps on rising,” Christian Lajoux, head of  Les Enterprises du
Medicament  industry association, said in an interview in Paris.
“The financial crisis has a direct impact on the way the
governments handle reimbursement for medicines.”  Sanofi (SAN) , where Lajoux runs French operations, and other
drugmakers in  Europe  are being hurt by austerity measures as
governments rein in health-care spending in an effort to cut
deficits. French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  has said the
government of President  Nicolas Sarkozy  won’t back down from a
policy of containing medical spending.  The government’s target for a balanced budget in 2016 is
“untouchable,” Baroin said in a Jan. 25 speech. Prime Minister
Francois Fillon yesterday cut France’s growth forecast for 2012
to 0.5 percent from 1 percent previously, saying the slowdown
will reduce tax receipts by 5 billion euros ($6.55 billion).  French policy has “already hit a bit too hard on
drugmakers with price cuts last year,” Lajoux said during the
interview. “If we cut prices further, there will be damage in
the industry,” and some small or medium-sized health-care
companies may be forced to shut down plants or fire employees.  Cost of Cuts  Drug-price cuts announced in 2011 will cost drugmakers in
 France  about 1 billion euros, double the average of previous
years, Lajoux said during the interview. Pharmaceutical
companies also have been hurt by an increase in taxes, he said.  “This will have an impact on jobs,” Lajoux said. Some
companies already have been “weakened” by last year’s
measures, he added, declining to identify the manufacturers.  Les Enterprises du Medicament , which represents more than
270 drug manufacturers operating in France, will work to “keep
the dialogue open” with government officials on the “strategic
importance” of the industry, Lajoux said.  “There is just as much technology in an anti-cancer drug
as there is in an Airbus,” said Lajoux, in reference to
airplanes made by a unit of  European Aeronautic, Defence and
Space Co.   The results of the French presidential elections planned
for later this year are unlikely to change the outlook for drug
prices, Lajoux also said.  The Socialist Party is considering further lowering the
price of medicines should its own presidential candidate,
 Francois Hollande , win elections in May, said Lajoux, who last
week met two Socialist Party representatives to discuss the
health-care aspects of Hollande’s program. Hollande has been
leading Sarkozy in opinion polls for months.  “Further price cuts would be unacceptable,” Lajoux said
today during a press conference in Paris. “They would be
opportunistic and we condemn opportunistic measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  