-- Full Tilt Units, 10 Executives Win Dismissal of Civil Racketeering Claim
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-31T18:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/full-tilt-units-10-executives-win-dismissal-of-civil-racketeering-claim.html
Units of Full Tilt Poker and 10
executives won dismissal of civil claims filed under the federal
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.  The lawsuit was filed in June by Full Tilt poker players
seeking to recoup, as a group, about $150 million they claim
they lost when the Ireland-based Internet poker site and others
like it were shut by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  New York .
Federal prosecutors accused the sites in criminal cases of
violating laws barring online gambling.  The shutdown date, April 15, 2011, came to be known in the
online gambling world as “Black Friday,” U.S. District Judge
Leonard B. Sand said in his ruling yesterday rejecting the
players’ racketeering claims as “too attenuated” to proceed.  “It remains unclear whether the direct cause of the
plaintiffs’ injuries was the decision by the U.S. Attorney’s
office to temporarily shut down the Full Tilt poker website and
seize the conmpany’s assets,” Sand said, “or was instead as
plaintiffs’ conversion allegations suggest, the subsequent
decision by one or more of the defendants to halt player
withdrawals.”  Full Tilt, which was named as a defendant in the case, was
not among the five affiliates, which included Full Tilt’s
software developer and its site operator, that asked for
dismissal of the racketeering claim.  Sand allowed the players’ conversion claim to move forward
against three of the five Full Tilt units seeking dismissal and
said the players could amend their claims against the other two
entities.  The case is Segal v. Bitar, 11-cv-4521, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  