-- Futures Rise as Putin Vows to Cut State Role: Russia Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-01-31T03:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/futures-climb-as-putin-vows-to-cut-state-role-in-economy-russia-overnight.html
Russian  equity futures  rose as Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  pledged to reduce government involvement
in the economy and stocks traded at the cheapest level among
 emerging markets  for the first time in two months.  Futures expiring in March on Moscow’s dollar-denominated
 RTS index (RTSI$)  added 0.9 percent to 155,660 in U.S. trading yesterday
and an index measuring volatility in futures trading slid to the
lowest level since August.  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PLZLY) 
slipped the most since Jan. 17 after reporting that 2011
earnings trailed analysts’ forecasts.  Putin, who is running for president in March, vowed to sell
state assets and reduce the reliance of the world’s biggest
energy exporting economy on commodity sales, according to an
article he wrote in yesterday’s Vedomosti newspaper. Russia’s
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 0.8 percent, leaving it to trade at 5.7 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies, the least of
the 21 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg and the cheapest
 compared  to Egypt’s  EGX30 Index (EGX30)  since Nov. 24.  “The more Putin talks the reform case, the more investors
will become interested,”  Kingsmill Bond , chief strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said by phone from Frankfurt
yesterday. “Russian equities, like many risk assets, remain
cheap but  Europe  is still the key factor in determining market
levels, and that’s really outside of Russia’s control.”  The  Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index  of Russian companies
traded in New York fell 1.2 percent to 103.15 yesterday as
concern that a second rescue package for  Greece  is yet to be
finalized pushed crude for March delivery down 0.8 percent to
settle at $98.78 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Falling Volatility  The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings in
the index futures, dropped for a second day, falling 1.5 percent
to 32.03 points, the lowest level in almost six months. The
 Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that holds Russian
shares, declined for the first time in six trading sessions,
dropping 1.5 percent to $30.09.  The European Commission,  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund  tangled yesterday with Greek
officials over the terms of a 130 billion euro package ($170.7
billion) pledged in October. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas
Papademos  said after the summit that he’s “strongly committed”
to reaching a debt-swap accord with bondholders. The ECB’s 489
billion euros of three-year loans made in December helped to
stabilize sentiment among euro zone bondholders, warding off a
funding squeeze.  ‘Headline Risk’  “Even though the ECB has been active doesn’t change some
of the underlying structural concerns about Europe’s debt
situation,” Vlad Milev, a Los Angeles-based analyst at Metzler
Payden, which manages $750 million, said in a phone interview.
“A short term resolution to Europe’s concerns is going to lend
support for Russian equities but heading into February and the
March elections, there is still room for headline risk.”  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 1.9 percent to HK$5.85 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:22
a.m. local time. Aluminum futures in  London  lost as much as 0.5
percent in electronic trading.  Egypt’s EGX30, which trades at 6.5 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for member companies, widened its premium over the
Micex to the most since Nov. 24 yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Russian and Egyptian stocks have been the cheapest among
developing countries for more than four months. Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV) 
Index trades at 10 times estimated earnings, compared with 9.4
times for the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  and the  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX) ’s ratio of 14.8.  Missed Estimates  Brent oil for March settlement slipped 0.6 percent to
$110.75 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
while Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, fell 0.1 percent
to $110.63.  Polyus Gold fell the most in two weeks in U.S. trading
after earnings came in lower than analysts estimated as higher
labor, electricity and currency costs eroded profit, even as
gold prices rose 10 percent last year. Polyus’ ADRs retreated
3.6 percent to $3.19. One ADR equals one ordinary share.  Polyus’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization rose to about $1.04 billion to $1.06 billion last
year from $717 million in 2010, the company said yesterday in a
statement. That missed the $1.15 billion average  estimate  of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mobile-phone companies  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and  OAO Mobile
TeleSystems (MBT)  rose in New York, following U.S. cell phone
operators  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  higher,
according to Marco Casas, an analyst in New York at Otkritie
Financial Corp. VimpelCom gained 1.6 percent to $10.52, and
Mobile TeleSystems’ ADRs added 0.3 percent to $16.74.  Severstal Output  The  RTS Index (RTSI$)  declined 1.2 percent, the most since Jan. 5,
to 1,551.61, and the 30-stock Micex lost 0.8 percent to
1,496.30. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
and the Russian Direct Investment Fund agreed to acquire 6.29
percent and 1.25 percent stakes in Russia’s MICEX-RTS stock
exchange, they said in a statement yesterday.  OAO Severstal (CHMF) , the steelmaker controlled by billionaire
Alexey Mordashov, is scheduled to publish production data for
the fourth quarter today. Severstal also produces gold. Ros Agro
Plc, the Russian grain and sugar producer, also known as
Rusagro, reports production results for 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  