-- Garlock Sealing Allowed to Add $16 Million to Pension Fund
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-01-31T21:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/garlock-sealing-allowed-to-add-16-million-to-pension-fund-1-.html
Garlock Sealing Technologies LLC , a
gasket maker that sought bankruptcy protection to deal with
asbestos claims, won a judge’s permission to add $16 million to
its union  pension plan .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  George Hodges  in  Charlotte , North
Carolina, ruled that Garlock officials could add the money to a
pension plan covering members of the International Association
of Machinists and Aerospace Workers to help the manufacturer
negotiate a new contract.  The addition was in “the best interest” of Palmyra, New
York-based Garlock, its creditors and its workers, Hodges said
in a two-page ruling yesterday.  Garlock, a unit of Charlotte-based  EnPro Industries Inc .,
has produced gaskets, hydraulic components and seals for more
than 100 years. Don  Washington , an EnPro spokesman, said in a
telephone interview today the company was pleased with the
approval of the addition, “which fully funds the pension
plan.”  The company filed for Chapter 11 protection in June 2010 to
deal with 100,000 asbestos claims filed over its products. Some
of Garlock’s gaskets contained asbestos, making the company the
target of more than 900,000 asbestos claims, according to court
papers.  $1.4 Billion  So far, Garlock has paid more than $1.4 billion in
settlements and judgments and more than $400 million in legal
costs connected to the cases, the company said in a June 2010
filing in its bankruptcy case.  To deal with the remaining 100,000 asbestos cases, Garlock
filed the bankruptcy case to have all the claims grouped
together for disposition, company officials said in the 2010
filing. The company has filed a Chapter 11  exit plan  that
promises to pay approved asbestos claims, according to a
November court filing.  Garlock’s contract with unionized machinists is set to
expire next month and workers are demanding an increase in
pension benefits, company officials said in a Jan. 5 court
filing.  “The increase in funding in the Garlock Union Pension Plan
is a critical component in negotiations,” executives said in
the filing.  The contribution also would mean funding levels for the
plan, which now stand at 65 percent, would jump to 100 percent,
officials said in the Jan. 5 filing. Garlock, which has
$100 million in cash and cash equivalents, funded the increase
from its own coffers, the officials said.  The case is In Re Garlock Sealing Technologies LLC,
10-31607, U.S. District Court, Western District of  North
Carolina  (Charlotte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  