-- Garofalo Shrieks in Sex-Trade Dramedy ‘Russian Transport’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-01-31T11:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/garofolo-shrieks-in-sex-trade-dramedy-russian-transport-jeremy-gerard.html
As Diana, the put-upon wife of a
Brooklyn car service owner struggling to make ends meet, Janeane Garofalo mostly keeps the volume dial at 10.  She’s brutal to their teenage daughter Mira and even
tougher on their son, Alex, who must turn over all of his
earnings from working for Dad. (He still manages to slink around
their depressing Brighton Beach home in designer jeans).  When Diana’s hunky brother Boris arrives from  Russia , she
leaps into his arms like a schoolgirl.  Boris, who has no visible means of support beyond the gun
always close at hand, quickly assesses the situation. He gets
Alex working for him, sets Mira’s hormones racing and treats
Misha, Diana’s poor slob of a husband, like a loser.  All this intrigue has the makings of a savage play about
this oceanfront Russian enclave of  New York City .  Newcomer Erika Sheffer may someday even write it. But the
 New Group  and its artistic director Scott Elliott (who staged
this) are usually more reliable at developing work until it’s
ready for primetime.  Head-Scratching  “Russian Transport” runs out of gas long before an
incomprehensible ending that involves Alex, his cab and a fresh-
off-the-boat Russian girl about to disappear into the sex trade.  Secrets and betrayals are the stuff of family dramas, but
the tone of “Russian Transport” fluctuates as wildly as the
volume, leaving only head-scratching in the end.  There’s one big however, here: Sarah Steele is a young
actress who’s gone from strength to strength in “Speech &
Debate,” “All-American” and now this, where she plays not
only the lovably insecure Mira but each of the girls Alex picks
up at the airport for destinations unknown. She’s one to watch.  Through March 10 at the Acorn Theatre, 410 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  or
 http://www.theatrerow.org/theacorn.htm . Rating: *  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 