-- Georgian Measures Destroy Corruption Myth, World Bank Says
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-01-31T22:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/georgian-graft-measures-destroy-corruption-myth-world-bank-says.html
Georgia ’s “unique success” in
tackling graft “destroys the myth” that corruption is
cultural, the  World Bank  said, urging the Black Sea nation to
bolster institutions such as the courts and the media.  Georgia’s ranking in the bank’s global Doing Business
survey has jumped to 16th in 2012 from 112th in 2005, an
improvement that may help lure foreign investment. The
government is striving to recapture the 10 percent or more
economic growth rates it achieved before losing a five-day war
with  Russia  in 2008.  “Since 2003, Georgia has had unique success in fighting
corruption in public services,” the World Bank said in a  report 
published today. The country “has proven that success can be
achieved in a relatively short period of time given strong
political will and concerted action by the government.”  Among the government’s achievements, the Washington-based
lender cited steps to create a new police force, improve tax
collection and the customs service, cut regulation and increase
the reliability of the power supply, adding that “much remains
to be done.”  Reported crime fell more than half between 2006 and 2010,
while trust was restored in the police and corruption in the
education system was rooted out, the bank said.  Economy Expanded  Georgia’s $11.6 billion economy expanded 8.7 percent last
year, the statistics office said last month, citing preliminary
data.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its  credit rating  one level last
month to BB-, three short of investment grade, citing
“improving public finances.” Fitch followed suit Dec. 15.  Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili told reporters in
Washington on Jan. 31 that he expects faster growth this year
“provided that the world economy doesn’t collapse.”  Saakashvili, who spoke at the World Bank a day after
meeting President  Barack Obama , said the two men discussed
Georgia’s self-defense capacity. Georgia will soon have 1,800
troops serving with coalition forces fighting in  Afghanistan , he
said, almost double the current number.  Asked about his political future after he completes his
second and final term in 2013, Saakashvili, declined to answer.  “These next two years we are moving to another political
system,” he told reporters, adding that he didn’t want to
“turn myself into a lame duck by speculating about my own
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net 
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editors responsible for thi
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  