-- German Stocks Rise; Benchmark DAX Index Completes Best January on Record
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-01-31T17:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/german-stocks-rise-benchmark-dax-index-completes-best-january-on-record.html
German stocks rebounded from two
days of losses, completing the best January on record for the
benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index, after most European Union nations agreed to
abide by a fiscal-discipline treaty.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the country’s largest steelmaker, climbed
2.7 percent after agreeing to sell its Inoxum stainless-steel
unit to Outokumpu Oyj.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  advanced as
CA Cheuvreux recommended buying the shares.  The DAX rose 0.2 percent to 6,458.91 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt . The gauge rallied 9.5 percent in January,
the biggest jump in the first month of a year since its start in
1988, amid speculation the global economy will withstand the
impact of the euro-area debt crisis and as central banks acted
to fuel growth. The gauge dropped 15 percent in 2011.  “Developed markets certainly present risks, but to a large
extent they may already be discounted,” Ray Mills, manager for
international core equity strategy at T. Rowe Price in
Baltimore, said in an e-mailed report.  Europe  “continues to
host a large number of high-quality companies with demonstrated
business models and structural drivers that should be able to
sustainably grow earnings and cash flows despite the more
challenging environment.”  The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  climbed 0.4 percent today, for a 9.6
percent gain in January.  Greek Debt Talks  The DAX dropped 1 percent yesterday as  Greece  failed to
reach an agreement with bondholders to restructure its debt. EU
leaders yesterday completed a fiscal-discipline treaty that
speeds sanctions on high-deficit states.  German unemployment dropped more than economists forecast
to a two-decade low in January. The number of people out of work
fell a seasonally adjusted 34,000 to 2.85 million, the Federal
Labor Agency said. That’s the biggest decline since March.
Economists had forecast a slide of 10,000, the median of 32
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The adjusted jobless rate
slipped to 6.7 percent from 6.8 percent.  Stocks pared gains after a report showed confidence among
U.S. consumers unexpectedly dropped in January.  The Conference Board’s confidence  index  fell to 61.1 from a
revised 64.8 reading in the prior month, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed today. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
rise to 68. The figure was lower than the most pessimistic
projection.  ThyssenKrupp, BMW  ThyssenKrupp advanced 2.7 percent to 21.67 euros. The
transaction with Outokumpu values Inoxum at approximately 2.7
billion euros ($3.6 billion), ThyssenKrupp said. The German
steelmaker will maintain a minority stake in the new company.  BMW (BMW)  rose 1.3 percent to 65.39 euros. The world’s largest
maker of luxury cars was raised to “outperform” from
“underperform” at Cheuvreux.  “BMW’s highly profitable, cash-generative business will
likely trigger a strong increase in shareholder returns post
crisis,” the French broker wrote in a report yesterday. “A
uniquely positioned and growing model portfolio but also huge
savings with new model launches form the backbone.”  MAN SE (MAN) , the truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen AG, gained
1.3 percent to 80.36 euros. Paccar Inc., the U.S. maker of
Kenworth and Peterbilt trucks, reported fourth-quarter profit
and sales that topped analysts’ estimates, boosted by sales in
 North America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  