-- Giants Relishing Underdog Role in Patriots’ Rematch, Tisch Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-31T14:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/giants-relishing-underdog-role-in-patriots-super-bowl-rematch-tisch-says.html
The  New York Giants  are Super Bowl
underdogs against the  New England Patriots  again and loving it,
according to team co-owner Steve Tisch.  The Giants have extra motivation as long-shots, reminiscent
of a similar  National Football League  run four years ago that
ended in an upset against the same opponent for the
championship, Tisch, 62, said today in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene .  New York is a 2 1/2-point underdog heading into the Feb. 5
game in Indianapolis against two-time Most Valuable Player Tom Brady and the Patriots, after defying the sports books’ odds in
road victories against the National Football Conference’s top
two teams, the  Green Bay Packers  and  San Francisco 49ers .  “It unites the players much more in the locker room and
when they’re on the field,” Tisch said. “It gives them just a
little extra push to play for each other, to play for the
fans.”  The last time these two teams met in a Super Bowl,
following the 2007 season, the Giants stunned the undefeated
Patriots 17-14 on an Eli Manning touchdown pass to Plaxico
Burress with 35 seconds remaining. During those playoffs, New
York won three road games and entered the Super Bowl as a 12-
point underdog.  Tisch, the team’s chairman since 2005, is the only person
to win a Super Bowl ring and an Academy Award, which he received
in 1995 as producer of the film “Forrest Gump.” He said if he
could keep one, it would be the Super Bowl title, because  New
York ’s upset over the Patriots in February 2008 had all the
qualities of a great movie -- drama, heroes, underdogs, suspense
and an unpredictable ending.  “It’s everything a great movie is, but it was unscripted,
unrehearsed,” he said. “Nobody knew how it was going to end.”  This year’s game, a showdown between coaches and
quarterbacks that have won previous Super Bowl titles, may be
just as exciting, he said.  “It could be another really classic, great Giants-Patriots
Super Bowl,” Tisch said. “What could be better for the fans of
NFL football and Giants fans?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  