-- Giants’ Eli Manning Has No Super Bowl-Week Plans to See Brother Peyton
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-31T05:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/giants-eli-manning-has-no-super-bowl-week-plans-to-see-brother-peyton.html
Eli Manning said there probably
won’t be time for a sibling get-together this week in
Indianapolis, where the New York Giants quarterback is seeking
his second  Super Bowl  title in the city his older brother,
Peyton, has called home for the past 14 years.  “I don’t have any plans, right now, to see Peyton,”
Manning said after the Giants arrived yesterday. “I know I
won’t be going over to his house any time this week.”  The Giants meet the New England Patriots on Feb. 5 in the
 National Football League ’s championship game at Lucas Oil
Stadium. It’s the home of the Colts and  Peyton Manning , who was
drafted first overall by the franchise in 1998 and has won four
NFL Most Valuable Player awards and a Super Bowl title while
becoming the city’s most celebrated sports figure.  Eli Manning, who at 31 is four years younger than Peyton,
now has a chance to win a second Super Bowl title before his big
brother does. Manning and the Giants four years ago beat the
Patriots 17-14 in the Super Bowl in Glendale,  Arizona .  “The last Super Bowl I played in, he was in Arizona
starting on Wednesday or Thursday and I never saw him then,”
Eli said of Peyton. “I’ll talk to him throughout the week, like
I always do. Besides that, I am going to keep my normal routine
and probably will not see a whole lot of family throughout the
week.”  Six of the 13 questions Eli was asked by reporters at the
team’s hotel yesterday involved Peyton.  The Giants arrived in Indianapolis about 24 hours after the
Patriots did because it was the same schedule they had in
Arizona during their championship season four years ago.  Same Schedule  “I thought it was very good for us the last time we did
it,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said at a news conference. “We
tinkered with it a little bit here and there, but for the most
part, the schedule remains the same.”  Eli Manning passed for a career-high 4,933 yards during the
regular season and 15 of his 29 touchdowns came in the fourth
quarter, helping him break Peyton’s single-season NFL record.
He’s helped the Giants to five straight wins, including three in
the playoffs, to reach the Super Bowl.  The Colts lost the Super Bowl two years ago. Their chances
of becoming the first NFL team to play the game in their home
stadium were dashed when Peyton Manning missed the 2011 season
following neck surgery.  Indianapolis went 2-14 without the quarterback and missed
the playoffs for the second time in 13 years.  Instead, it’s the Patriots representing the American
Football Conference in the Super Bowl for the fifth time in 11
years. And while a Manning may end up winning the Super Bowl in
Indianapolis, it would be Eli instead of Peyton.  “I really have not thought much about playing in
Indianapolis,” Eli said. “It’s not really a time to reflect
right now on that. It’s just a matter of trying to get ready for
the Patriots. We’ll look back on playing the Super Bowl in the
town where he plays for the Colts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  