-- Glaxo, Lilly, Pfizer Said to Eye Stake in Turkey’s MN Pharma
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-01-31T15:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/glaxo-lilly-pfizer-said-to-be-interested-in-turkey-s-mn-pharma.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. 
and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  are among about half a dozen companies
interested in buying a stake in Mustafa Nevzat Ilac Sanayii AS
in a deal that may value the Turkish drugmaker at $1 billion,
three people with knowledge of the situation said.  The owners of Mustafa Nevzat, or MN Pharmaceuticals as the
Istanbul-based generic drugmaker is known, have hired Bank of
America Merrill Lynch to advise on the stake sale, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the plans are
confidential.  Mylan Inc (MYL) . and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  are also among the
companies interested in bidding, they said. Merrill Lynch has
sent so-called teasers to potential bidders and non-binding bids
have begun to arrive, one of the people said, adding that the
process started late last year. Preliminary bidding may be
completed within two months, one of the people said.  Two other Turkish pharmaceutical companies --  Abdi Ibrahim
Ilac Sanayi & Ticaret , the country’s largest, and  Biofarma
Pharmaceutical Industry Co.  -- have failed in efforts to sell
stakes over the past two years. While Glaxo is seeking deals in
 emerging markets , it’s becoming harder to find acquisitions that
make “financial sense,” Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty 
said last year.  MN’s owners, the children and grandchildren of the founder
Mustafa Nevzat Pisak, have yet to decide whether to sell a
minority or majority stake in the closely held company, two of
the people said. The owners are seeking a price that values the
company at 15 to 20 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, one of the people
said.  Targeting Turkey  Turkey has been a popular target for deals in recent years,
with companies seeking to tap its $735 billion economy, which
grew 8.2 percent in the third quarter of 2011, the fastest rate
among the Group of 20 countries after  China .  Zentiva NV (ZEN) , a Czech
drugmaker bought by Sanofi in 2009, bought 75 percent of the
generic-drug unit of Turkey’s Eczacibasi in 2007 for 460 million
euros ($613 million), and later purchased the remaining 25
percent stake.  Cengiz Sezen, MN’s chairman, and Chief Executive Officer
Levent Selamoglu didn’t respond to e-mailed questions about
possible talks or return phone calls seeking comment.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, is interested in
acquiring a pharmaceutical company in Turkey as it struggles to
become profitable in the country, the newspaper Hurriyet said
Jan. 29, citing Abbas Hussain, the drugmaker’s emerging markets
president. Sarah Spencer, a Glaxo spokeswoman, declined to
comment on whether MN is a potential target. Spokesmen for
Abbott,  Eli Lilly , Mylan and Pfizer also declined to comment.  FDA License  MN was the first Turkish pharmaceutical company to win a
license from the Food and Drug Administration to sell products
in the U.S., according to the company’s website. International
companies sought to do business with Mustafa Nevzat since it
acquired the FDA license in 2006, Selamoglu said in an interview
Sept. 28.  The company’s products are largely injectable medications,
Selamoglu said. They range from antidepressants to diabetic
treatments and antipsychotic agents, according to its website.  Eli Lilly and MN were in negotiations that had reached an
“advanced stage” to sell drugs in 26 countries in  South
America ,  Asia ,  Europe  and  Africa , Selamoglu said at the time.  MN generates annual revenue of about $250 million by
selling about 100 million boxes of its products in  Turkey ,
Selamoglu said. The country’s drug market was $9.2 billion in
2010, according to the website of the Istanbul-based
 Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Turkey.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  