-- Goldman Sachs Runners Step Up for Empire State Building’s 86-Floor Climb
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-31T17:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/goldman-sachs-runners-step-up-for-empire-state-building-s-86-floor-climb.html
Brian Kuritzky of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  is among a group of Wall Street executives seeking to
raise more than $300,000 for  cancer research  by racing up 1,576
steps in New York City’s Empire State Building.  The 35th annual  Empire State Building Run-Up  is scheduled
for 8 p.m. on Feb. 8. For the second straight year, the  Multiple
Myeloma Research Foundation , or MMRF, is the title sponsor and
benefiting charity. Approximately 5,000 people in the race’s
history have reached the finish line on the 86th floor
observation deck, organizers said.  The event was invitation-only before last year, with
participants selected by its organizer, the  New York Road
Runners . The Empire State Building Run-Up now features a wave of
100 charity runners for competitors who have committed to raise
a minimum of $2,500 for the MMRF.  Kuritzky, a 25-year-old securities analyst at Goldman
Sachs, was the fastest of last year’s MMRF PowerTeam members.
His time of 13 minutes, 38 seconds earned the former Cornell
University soccer player a place in this year’s Invitational
Wave, where he’ll compete against runners from around the world.  “The competition will be fierce, but I know that, with
every person I pass, I’m raising more money to help the MMRF
fight cancer,” Kuritzky, who is collecting pledges from
colleagues to raise $10,000 for every runner he passes, said in
a statement. “That’s all the motivation I need.”  Mother’s Cancer  Kuritzky, whose mother died of  breast cancer  when he was
15, has run the New York City marathon and an 140.6-mile iron-
distance triathlon to raise funds for cancer research. He’s part
of a three-member Goldman Sachs team taking part in the MMRF
Run-Up Challenge, which presents two trophies to corporate
teams. Goldman Sachs last year won both the NYC Triumph Cup for
the fastest team and the Spirit of Giving Cup for the most funds
raised for charity.  Other companies in the competition include  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co .,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Royal Bank of Canada  and  Wells
Fargo & Co .  Christine Kenney, a 33-year-old assistant vice president in
 equity capital markets  for Citigroup, is defending her title
after finishing first among women in the charity division last
year with a time of 16:04. Kenney, the top-finishing female
amateur at the 2011 Cozumel Ironman triathlon, said her team has
raised more than $15,000 in donations over the past four days.  “Many of the people who have donated so far have told me
their personal stories and how MM has affected their loved
ones,” Kenney said in an e-mail. “I’m running in their honor.
Last year being top female was very much a surprise since I had
not done any stair training. I had no idea what to expect and
it’s definitely a challenge.”  The course record of 9:33 was set by Paul Crake in 2003,
according to the  NYRR , which also organizes the  New York City 
Marathon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  