-- Goldwind Signs $5.5 Billion China Development Bank Wind Pact
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-31T14:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/goldwind-signs-5-5-billion-china-development-bank-pact-for-wind.html
Xinjiang Goldwind Science Technology
& Co. (2208) ,  China ’s second-largest wind-turbine maker, signed a
financial agreement with  China Development Bank  Corp. for wind
power projects worth 35 billion yuan ($5.5 billion).  The accord signed through its unit  Beijing Tianrun New
Energy Investment Corp . also covers asset acquisition, Goldwind
said today in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange. The
agreement runs to 2013, according to Urumqi-based Goldwind.  Goldwind’s latest agreement comes after it received a 10
billion-yuan credit facility from Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. in November. China’s state-controlled banks are
signing billions of dollars of credit lines with wind and solar
manufacturers including  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)  and Suntech Power
Holdings Co. Ltd. to fund capacity expansion and overseas
business, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “The Chinese Development Bank is helping domestic
companies fund overseas expansion and asset purchases as their
home market slows,” Lawrence Brader, a Hong Kong-based trader
at Parry International Trading Ltd., said today by e-mail.  “China’s wind market nearly doubled every year from 2006
to 2010, and domestic turbine makers kept expanding capacity
when growth stalled in 2011,” Charles Yonts, an analyst at CLSA
in  Hong Kong , said by e-mail. “They will be working off the
excesses for a couple years and pushing exports, especially to
 emerging markets .”  Unfair Trade Practices?  The export push occurs as U.S. President  Barack Obama  said
last week he was creating a new trade enforcement group to
combat trade practices in nations including China that
manufacturers say reap unfair advantages from heavy subsidies.  China Development Bank, which offered a $6 billion credit
facility to Goldwind in 2010 for international expansion, loaned
about 93.8 billion yuan to clean energy and a group of energy-
saving projects that year, according to London-based New Energy
Finance.  Goldwind and domestic rivals are seeking orders overseas to
overcome slowing sales growth in the second-largest economy
after the government tightened criteria for approving new
projects. Goldwind bought two 10-megawatt wind farms in  Montana 
this month and has orders in seven other U.S. states. Sinovel
said yesterday it expects 2011 earnings to fall by more than 50
percent as competition at home and abroad dragged down prices.  Renewable energy is one of seven “strategic” industries
receiving government support as the China attempts to diversify
away from coal, which fuels 70 percent of the economy. Goldwind
will work with the bank on mid- to long-term development
planning, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  