-- Goldman Sachs Is Said to Be in Talks to Hire Former Geithner Aide Siewert
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-01T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/goldman-said-to-be-in-talks-to-hire-siewert.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may hire
Richard “Jake” Siewert Jr., a former counselor to U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, to manage the bank’s
communications department, according to three people familiar
with the situation.  Siewert, who turns 48 today, is in talks about a role
similar to the one held by Lucas van Praag, 62, who has worked
at Goldman Sachs for 12 years, said the people, who asked for
anonymity because the talks aren’t public and an agreement
hasn’t been reached. Siewert worked as a press secretary for
President  Bill Clinton  and managed corporate development and
public strategy at  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  before joining Treasury in 2009.  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history before converting to a bank in 2008, has been
criticized by regulators and politicians for activities leading
up to 2008’s financial crisis. Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, settled a Securities and Exchange Commission
lawsuit against the firm in 2010, reviewed the company’s
business standards and rolled out an advertising campaign.  Hiring Siewert may help bolster Goldman Sachs’s links with
the  Democratic Party  in the U.S., which controls the Senate and
the White House under President  Barack Obama . Obama will face a
Republican challenger in an election in November. Former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, 64, is locked in a primary
contest with former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , 68, and two
other candidates for that party’s nomination.  Donations to Romney  Goldman Sachs employees have donated at least $367,200 to
Romney’s campaign in the 2012 election cycle  so far , more than
workers at any other company, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics’s donation-tracking website,
opensecrets.org. Obama, who has called for higher taxes on the
wealthy and stricter regulation of the financial industry, got
$50,124 from Goldman Sachs workers during the same period, the
 data  show.  Four years ago, employees of New York-based Goldman Sachs
gave $1.01 million to Obama’s presidential campaign, according
to the  website .  Goldman Sachs set aside enough money to pay each of its
33,300 employees an average of $367,057 in salary, bonuses and
benefits for 2011, according to the company’s 2011 financial
statement published on Jan. 18. A decline in trading revenue
helped drive down the average payout per worker from $430,700 in
2010.  Van Praag , Goldman Sachs’s global head of corporate
communications, has become  known  for his disparaging rebuttals
to negative stories about the firm, favoring phrases like
“nonsense” and “extraordinarily ill-informed.” He was
elected in 2006 to become a partner, the highest rank of
employee at the Goldman Sachs. He paid $7.85 million in August
2008 for a townhouse on  New York ’s Upper West Side, the Real
Deal  reported  at the time, citing public records.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 