-- Greek Bondholders Are Said Set to Get GDP-Revival Sweetener in Debt Swap
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-02-01T12:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/greek-bondholders-are-said-set-to-get-gdp-revival-sweetener-in-debt-swap.html
Bondholders negotiating a debt swap
with Greece may get a sweetener tied to a revival in economic
growth that would ease the impact of accepting a lower  interest
rate  on the new bonds, people with knowledge of the talks said.  In discussions late last week in  Athens , creditors lowered
their demands for an average coupon on the new 30-year
securities they would receive to as little as 3.6 percent from
4.25 percent after European officials demanded they take steeper
losses, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  While the lower coupon would lead to an estimated loss of
70 percent or more for investors, adding a so-called gross
domestic product warrant -- which would pay bondholders more if
the Greek economy rebounds -- would trim the loss in net present
value terms by an estimated 0.5 to 3 percentage points, said two
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
confidential.  “It’s like a concession from the Greek government, so it’s
something that presumably smoothed negotiations,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, a London-based bank analyst at Collins Stewart
Hawkpoint Plc. “When you are in the middle of turmoil you’re
going to be conservative, and bank investors are unlikely to
attribute any value to these warrants, even if they could prove
valuable in the future.”  ‘One Step’ Away  Greece  and private creditors are near an accord that would
in principle include the warrants, the people said. As an
additional inducement for creditors, the debt would probably be
governed under U.K. rather than Greek law, providing more
bondholder protection, people familiar with the situation said.  These matters may still change, and questions over whether
Greece can fulfill conditions for a second aid package from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  have put the
accord on hold for the moment, they said.  The Greek government is “one step from closing” a debt-
swap deal with its private bondholders, Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos told reporters in Athens yesterday. The
sides are close to completing a voluntary exchange within a
framework outlined by Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the Washington-based  Institute of International
Finance , which is negotiating on behalf of creditors, said last
week.  Talks with EU and IMF officials on a new financing package
for Greece must be completed by Feb. 5, Venizelos also said at a
Parliament hearing. A private-creditor debt swap, for which a
public offer must be made by Feb. 13, can only proceed after a
deal on the loan package is sealed, he said.  Debt Exchange  EU leaders on Jan. 30 held their 16th summit in the two
years since the Greek debt emergency provoked a Europe-wide
crisis, leading to aid packages for Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal . Greece pledged a last-ditch effort to prevent the
collapse of its second rescue package from creditors, aiming to
complete talks this week on a financial lifeline that’s been in
the works for six months.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said in Brussels he would
try to meet German-led demands for a bigger debt writedown by
investors and deeper budget cuts by his government.  Greece and its creditors are seeking to seal a debt-swap
deal three months after private bondholders agreed to a 50
percent cut in the face value of more than 200 billion euros
($262 billion) of debt by voluntarily exchanging bonds for new
securities.  The aim is to reduce Greece’s debt burden to 120 percent of
GDP in 2020 -- an objective complicated by a deepening economic
 contraction . An accord is tied to the second bailout for the
country, which faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment March 20.  After two years of wage cuts and tax increases, the  Greek
economy  was expected to shrink about 6 percent last year,
according to the latest IMF estimates, compared with a forecast
of 3.8 percent made in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 