-- Greece Fights for Second Bailout
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-01-31T16:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/greece-fights-for-second-bailout-as-eu-leaders-seal-common-fiscal-accord.html
Greece  pledged a last-ditch effort
to prevent the collapse of a second rescue package from
creditors, aiming to complete talks this week on a financial
lifeline that’s been in the works for six months.  Greek Premier  Lucas Papademos  said he would try to meet
German-led demands for a bigger debt writedown by investors and
deeper budget cuts by his government. Stocks rose after European
Union leaders endorsed key planks of a strategy to fight the
financial crisis, agreeing to accelerate the setup this year of
a full-time 500 billion-euro ($659 billion) rescue fund and
backing a deficit-control treaty.  EU and International Monetary Fund officials are in Athens
thrashing out budget measures that would unlock the aid needed
to keep the government functioning. Leaders left a Brussels
summit late yesterday with no accord over how to plug Greece’s
widening budget hole -- and no announcement of how deep the need
is. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  voiced frustration with 
Greece’s failure to carry out an economic makeover.  “Greece’s debt sustainability is especially bad,” Merkel
told reporters. “You have to find a way through more action by
the Greek government, more contributions by private creditors,
for example, in order to close this gap.”  The summit was the 16th in the two years since the Greek
debt emergency provoked a Europe-wide drama, leading to
unprecedented aid packages for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  and
shattering European faith that the common currency was
indestructible.  After the gathering of leaders, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  convened a smaller group, including Papademos and
European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen, to
weigh the next steps on Greece.  ‘On Track’  Van Rompuy  spoke of the need “to put the current program
back on track” and said finance ministers will try to hammer
out the follow-up plan -- introduced in July -- in coming days.
Greece is counting on aid to meet a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20 to escape default.  “The timeline is tight, but we are absolutely focused on
the target of bringing the negotiations to a successful
conclusion by the end of the week,” Papademos told reporters at
1:30 a.m. today.  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index advanced 0.6 percent and the euro
reversed initial gains, losing 0.3 percent to $1.3102 at 5:05
p.m. in Brussels.  Papademos said “some difficulties” beset the debt-swap
talks and hinted that donor governments may have to put up more
money. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said today in
 Athens  that a formal debt-swap offer must be made by Feb. 13.  Greek Needs  Merkel’s comments indicated that governments are loath to
boost an October offer of 130 billion euros of loans in a second
package, forcing investors to absorb net-present-value losses on
Greek bonds that go beyond the 69 percent now on the table.
Greece’s initial rescue of 110 billion euros in 2010 was fully
taxpayer-funded.  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds, said a person familiar
with the talks, who declined to be identified because a final
deal hasn’t been struck yet. As recently as Jan. 23, creditors
wanted an average coupon of about 4.25 percent, two people
familiar with the talks said then. That offer equated to a loss
of about 69 percent on the net present value of Greek debt.  Political Feuds  In turn, Greece’s feuding political parties face pressure
to deliver more savings and to verify in writing that the
austerity program will be carried out, no matter who wins
elections to replace Papademos’s interim Cabinet.  Venizelos said Greece’s political factions must put
national interests first to take difficult decisions.  Germany’s proposal for an EU-appointed overseer of the
Greek budget prompted consternation in Athens and led to a
rejection by other European governments that warned against
stigmatizing Greece.  “Greece is a sovereign nation and must enact the promises
it’s made,” said French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .
“Surveillance of Greece’s progress is normal, but there was
never any question of putting Greece under guardianship.”  Leaders completed the fiscal-discipline treaty, which
speeds sanctions on high-deficit states and requires euro
countries to anchor balanced-budget rules in national law. Eight
countries outside the euro backed the pact, which was shunned by
Britain and the  Czech Republic .  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the fiscal compact
“certainly will strengthen confidence in the euro area,”
calling it “the first step toward the fiscal union.”  French Doubts  One potential hiccup emerged when Sarkozy said that
ratification of the fiscal treaty in  France  will likely be
delayed until after elections in April and May that polls
suggest he will lose. The front-runner, Socialist Francois Hollande, has vowed to renegotiate the treaty, saying it is
biased toward austerity.  With an eye toward Ireland,  Germany  pushed through
provisions that only countries ratifying the fiscal compact will
be eligible for aid from the permanent bailout fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, now set to go into operation on
July 1, a year ahead of schedule.  The permanent fund requires governments to put collective-
action clauses into new bond issues as of January 2013, five
months later than previously planned. The clauses are common in
U.S. and U.K. law, enabling a debt restructuring to go ahead by
a vote of a supermajority of bondholders, denying a veto right
to solitary investors.  Collective Action  “Collective action clauses shall be included, as of Jan.
1, 2013, in all new euro-area  government securities , with
maturity above one year, in a way which ensures that their legal
impact is identical,” according to the text.  While the clauses leave the door open for restructurings,
the fund’s statutes deem write-offs “exceptional” and subject
to IMF standards, the text says. It tones down language on
“private-sector involvement” -- code for forcing bondholders
to take losses on governments that fall too deeply into debt.  Leaders sidestepped mounting pressure to raise the ceiling
on rescue lending from 500 billion euros once the permanent fund
goes on line, sticking with plans to handle that question at the
next summit on March 1-2.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ,  Europe ’s
longest-serving leader and the head of the panel of euro finance
ministers, summed up two years of crisis-fighting: “If I wasn’t
optimistic you could have reported about my suicide months
ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  