-- IBM Buying Worklight to Enhance Mobile-Application Software
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-01-31T15:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/ibm-to-buy-worklight-for-software-allowing-apps-to-run-on-multiple-devices.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s biggest computer-services provider, is
acquiring Worklight Inc., a closely held maker of software for
smartphones and tablets to enhance its mobile-service offerings.  Worklight’s software accelerates the delivery of employee
and consumer mobile applications to multiple devices and enables
secure connections to a company’s information-technology
systems, Armonk, New York-based IBM said today in a statement.
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  Using the software, an organization can write single mobile
applications to operate across any device including Apple Inc.’s
iPhone,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s BlackBerry and devices using
Google Inc.’s Android operating system. That saves time and
money while better managing employee access and creating more
consistent consumer applications, said Bob Sutor, vice president
of IBM Mobile Platform in telephone interview.  IBM has said it plans to spend about $20 billion on
 acquisitions  from 2011 to 2015, and has bought more than 100
companies since 2003. IBM last year acquired companies including
Tririga Inc., i2, Algorithmics, Q1 Labs, and Curam Software,
extending “Smarter Commerce” efforts, as it expands offerings
to business customers.  Linking to Employees  “The big difference here is the link between businesses to
employees, so they can increase their productivity and transform
the way they work,” said Marie Wieck, general manager of IBM
application and infrastructure middleware, who spoke in the same
interview. It also helps companies “reach their partners and
their customers, who are increasingly using this for their own
productivity as well.”  Founded in 2006 by Chief Executive Officer Shahar Kaminitz,
Worklight is headquartered in  New York , with research and
development in  Israel , according to its  Website .  IBM today also introduced new software it calls Endpoint
Manager for Mobile Devices, which helps companies manage and
secure devices used by employees, including their personal
phones or tablets.  The offering allows employers to remotely set policies,
identify potential data compromises and wipe data from lost or
stolen devices, and configure and enforce password and
encryption policies, IBM said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  