-- India Bonds Complete Best Month Since May 2010 on Cash Measures
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-01-31T12:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/india-bonds-complete-best-month-since-may-2010-on-cash-measures.html
India ’s 10-year bonds completed the
best month since May 2010 as  Reserve Bank  of India Deputy
Governor  Subir Gokarn  signaled the central bank will take more
steps to ease a cash squeeze.  Yields dropped after Gokarn said another cut in lenders’
cash reserve  ratio , following last week’s 50 basis point
reduction, is “always on the table.” The monetary authority
has bought 719 billion rupees ($14.6 billion) of securities
since November to ease a money-market squeeze, according to
central bank data.  Lenders borrowed an  average  1.1 trillion rupees a day from
the central bank to meet shortages in the past three months, up
from 515 billion rupees in the prior period, official data show.  “The central bank will have to infuse liquidity as the
situation is beyond its comfort level,” said Phani Shankar,
head of financial markets at ING Vysya Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.
“Investors are expecting more open market purchases to ease the
tightness.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent notes due November 2021 fell
30 basis points, or 0.30 percentage points, this month to 8.27
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate fell two basis points today.  The reduction in  cash reserve ratio  to 5.5 percent on Jan.
24 was the first since 2009. That added about 320 billion rupees
to the banking system, according to the monetary authority.
Banks borrowed 1.4 trillion rupees from the  Reserve Bank of
India ’s overnight repurchase window today, according to central
bank data.  ‘Assessing Tightness’  “At this point, open-market operation is still an approach
that we are following in response to assessment of the liquidity
tightness,” Gokarn told reporters. “We will consider the cash
reserve ratio cut, if it does happen, only in the mid-quarter
review.”  The next review is scheduled on March 15.  The Reserve Bank of India, which has boosted the repurchase
 rate  13 times in the past two years to 8.5 percent, will cut it
by 50 basis points to 8 percent by June 30, according to six of
eight strategists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The RBI may cut the repurchase rate and reserve
requirements in March,” said J. Moses Harding, a Mumbai-based
executive vice president at IndusInd Bank Ltd. “Open-market
buying of bonds is also on the cards to ease the liquidity
crunch.”  Harding predicts the Reserve Bank will decrease the cash-
reserve ratio by 50 basis points and the repurchase rate by 25
basis points in March, pushing 10-year bond yields toward 8
percent.  At last week’s policy review, the RBI reduced India’s 
growth  forecast to 7 percent for the year through March, from a
7.6 percent prediction in October.  The cost of one-year, interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs,
rose 41 basis points this month to 8.16 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It rose 4 basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  