-- Intesa Sells First Italian Unsecured Bank Bond Since July
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-01-31T17:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/intesa-sells-italy-s-first-unsecured-senior-bank-bond-since-july.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-
biggest bank, sold senior, unsecured bonds in the first
benchmark offering of the debt from one of the country’s lenders
since July.  The 1.5 billion euros of 18-month bonds were priced to
yield 295 basis points, or 2.95 percentage points, more than the
swap rate, down from initial guidance of 300, according to a
banker involved in the deal.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  was the last Italian lender to sell benchmark
senior, unsecured debt when it raised 1 billion euros from
floating-rate notes due 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Banks from the euro region’s peripheral countries
including Italy, Spain and  Portugal  have been largely shut out
of unsecured bond markets since July as the region’s debt crisis
drove up funding costs.  “Intesa is the most robust name in  Italy , it’s
unsurprising that it’s the first Italian bank to come back to
the market,” said Alberto Gallo, a credit strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  Intesa Sanpaolo’s communications department didn’t respond
to a phone call and e-mail for comment.  Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Societe
Generale SA managed the sale with Banca IMI SpA, Intesa
Sanpaolo’s investment banking unit. The notes will be issued by
Intesa Sanpaolo Bank Ireland Plc.  The yield on Intesa Sanpaolo’s 800 million euros of 3.5
percent senior, unsecured bonds due 2013 is 264 basis points
relative to the benchmark swap rate, Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices show. The spread has narrowed from as much as 658 basis
points in November.  “It’s definitely a good sign that they feel able to tap
the market and doubly so in unsecured format,” said Roger Francis, a credit analyst at Mizuho International Plc in  London .
“By sticking to the short end where there’s plenty of demand
they are clearly taking the path of least resistance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  