-- Lira, Turkish Bonds Surge as Central Bank Says Won’t Stop Currency Gaining
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-31T15:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/lira-turkish-bonds-surge-as-central-bank-says-won-t-stop-currency-gaining.html
The lira climbed to its strongest
level in almost three months after central bank governor Erdem
Basci said he foresaw no need to intervene and arrest the
currency’s advance this year. Bonds gained for a fourth day.  The lira appreciated 0.8 percent to 1.7729 per dollar as of
5:03 p.m. in Istanbul, the highest since Nov. 8 on a closing
basis. It has risen 6.6 percent since Dec. 31, lagging six
emerging market currencies including the zloty, forint and real.  The lira will be allowed to strengthen until it begins to
threaten financial stability, Basci said at a news conference in
Istanbul today. The central bank won’t intervene in the short-
term and would like to see inflation slow at a faster pace than
estimated, he said.  “There is time before the bank starts buying dollars,”
Eren Yardimci, emerging market currency trader at UBS AG in
Zurich, said in e-mailed comments. “Basci says he wants
inflation to decline as the lira strengthens.”  The lira fell 18 percent against the dollar last year, the
biggest decline among global currencies, after the country’s
current-account deficit widened to a record as imports surged.
Yields on benchmark two-year debt jumped 390 basis points last
year in the biggest rise since 2006 as a widening trade gap
spurred capital outflows. Inflation accelerated to 10.5 percent
in December, more than double the central bank’s target and the
highest level since 2008.  ‘Further to Go’  The lira may fall toward 1.74 per dollar in the short-term,
Citigroup Inc. said in an e-mailed report today.  “After the Russian ruble, the lira has been the long
choice among fast money accounts and we believe it still has
further to go, toward the 1.74 to 1.75 levels, particularly if
the bearish dollar scenario persists,” said  Luis Costa , a
currency strategist at Citigroup in  London .  The Turkish currency also rose after the trade deficit
narrowed in December for a second straight month, beating
analysts’ expectations. The gap fell to $8.1 billion from $8.7
billion a year earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said.
The deficit was expected at $8.6 billion, according to the
median estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The better-than-expected  trade balance  is the push
factor” behind the lira’s appreciation, Sukru Haskan, a
currency trader at Barclays Bank Plc in London, said in e-mailed
comments. “The biggest fear of the foreigners that shunned
 Turkey  is the macroeconomic fundamentals and most of all the
trade deficit.”  Yields on two-year bonds fell three basis points to 9.44
percent, according to a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index.  Investors should buy the lira versus the Czech koruna and
shekel “at this point,” Societe Generale SA said. “In the
right environment, meaning risk-on, a dovish central bank is not
going to hurt the currency,”  Benoit Anne , chief emerging market
strategist at SocGen, said in an e-mail from London today. “I
like accomodative bias when appropriate. That means rally in
equities and local bonds, which ultimately will be good for the
lira.”  The lira may strengthen to 1.65 per dollar by the end of
the year, Anne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  