-- Iran More Willing to Attack in U.S., National Intelligence Director Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-01-31T19:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/iran-stepping-up-spying-support-for-terror.html
Iran  is stepping up its support for
international terrorism and its intelligence operations against
the U.S., the Director of National Intelligence told Congress.  “The 2011 plot to assassinate the Saudi ambassador to the
 United States  shows that some Iranian officials -- probably
including Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei -- have changed their
calculus and are now more willing to conduct an attack in the
United States in response to real or perceived actions that
threaten the regime,”  James Clapper  said in a statement today
to the Senate Intelligence Committee.  Iran’s willingness to sponsor attacks against the U.S. at
home or abroad “probably will be shaped by Tehran’s evaluation
of the costs it bears for the plot against the ambassador as
well as Iranian leaders’ perceptions of U.S. threats against the
regime,” he said in an opening statement to the committee’s
annual threat-assessment hearing.  While the core leadership of al-Qaeda in  Pakistan  has been
decimated, a more fragmented international jihadist movement
remains dangerous, the U.S. intelligence director said. The
group’s regional affiliates in Yemen, North Africa and Somalia,
Clapper said, will pose a greater threat to U.S. interests than
will “the remnants of core al-Qaeda in Pakistan.”  Cyber Threats ‘Critical’  Dangers posed by cyber espionage were also highlighted by
Clapper. “Cyber threats pose a critical national and economic
security concern due to the continued advances in -- and growing
dependency on -- the  information technology  (IT) that underpins
nearly all aspects of modern society,” he said.  Neither government nor business “has been successful at
fully implementing existing best practices,” he said.  Clapper told the Senate panel during his testimony that he
anticipated a situation “in which emerging technologies are
developed and implemented before security responses can be put
in place.”  Robert Mueller , director of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , told the committee he predicts cybersecurity
eventually will become the No. 1 threat against the U.S.  Chinese and Russian cyber spying “are of particular
concern,” and Iran’s intelligence operations, “including cyber
capabilities, have dramatically increased in recent years, in
depth and complexity,” according to Clapper in his statement.  Non-state actors such as the hacker groups Anonymous and
Lulz Security (LulzSec) “are also playing an increasing role in
international and domestic politics through the use of social
media technologies,” he said.  Iran’s Nuclear Capability  Familiar threats also persist. Iran has the technical,
industrial and scientific capability to produce a nuclear weapon
eventually, making “the central issue its political will to do
so,” Clapper said in the statement.  “They are certainly moving on that path, but we don’t
believe they’ve actually made the decision to go ahead with a
nuclear weapon,” he told the committee.  Iranian advancements, particularly in enriching uranium to
weapons-grade levels, reinforce the intelligence community’s
prevailing view that Tehran is “technically capable of
producing enough highly enriched uranium for a weapon if it so
chooses,” he said.  “We assess that Iran is keeping its options open to
develop nuclear weapons, in part by developing various nuclear
capabilities that better position it to produce such weapons,
should it choose to do so,” Clapper said, in wording similar to
last year’s testimony assessing global threats to the U.S.  “We do not know, however, if Iran will eventually decide
to build nuclear weapons,” Clapper said. If Iran did so,
intelligence agencies believe Tehran would be likely to choose a
ballistic missile for its “preferred” delivery, he said.  Strait of Hormuz  The U.S. and European Union are imposing new sanctions to
pressure Iran into abandoning any effort to develop nuclear
weapons. The 27-nation EU agreed Jan. 23 to bar the purchase
transport, financing and insurance of Iranian oil exports.  Iranian officials threatened in December and again after
the EU action to close the  Strait of Hormuz , through which about
20 percent of the world’s daily oil is shipped.  “According to most timelines I’ve heard, 2012 will be a
critical year” in averting Iran’s development of a nuclear
weapon, Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat who
heads the Intelligence Committee, said.  Iran’s Ballistic Missiles  Iran is “expanding the scale, reach and sophistication of
its ballistic missile forces, many of which are inherently
capable of carrying a nuclear payload,” Clapper said, in
testimony that represents the intelligence community’s latest
collective assessment of Iran’s nuclear intentions.  Combined U.S. and and European sanctions will “weigh
down” the Iranian economy, yet these difficulties “probably
will not jeopardize the regime, absent a sudden and sustained
fall in  oil prices  or a sudden domestic crisis that disrupts oil
prices,” Clapper said.  Iran’s biggest regional concern is  Syria , not the U.S.,
“because regime change would be a major strategic loss for
Iran,” he said.  In  Afghanistan , the Taliban-led insurgency “has lost
ground in some areas,” Clapper said.  Feinstein said she was
concerned about a “disparity” between Clapper’s assessment
today and a more “dire” classified intelligence report.  “Frankly, I don’t see a viable strategy for continuing the
level of security and stability that we are building after
2014,” when the U.S. intends to complete a transition to full
Afghan security control, Feinstein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  