-- Iran’s Oil, Tanker Firms Targeted for Sanctions
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-01-31T20:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/iran-s-oil-tanker-companies-targeted-for-sanctions-by-lawmakers.html
Iran ’s national oil company and its
oil-tanker fleet are the focus of sanctions measures that two
U.S. lawmakers intend to submit to Congress aimed at blocking
Iran’s ability to sell its crude internationally.  Representative Howard Berman, a California Democrat, and
Senator Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, plan to file
similar proposals today to compel the U.S. Treasury Department
to investigate whether the National Iranian Oil Co. and the
National Iranian Tanker Co. are owned or controlled by the
Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, according to congressional
aides.  Such a determination by the Treasury would permit the U.S.
to impose sanctions on foreign financial institutions that
facilitate transactions for NIOC or NITC anywhere in the world,
by shutting down or imposing strict conditions on the foreign
institutions’ U.S. bank accounts, according to the aides who
spoke on condition of anonymity since the legislation hasn’t
been filed.  The proposed designation of Iran’s oil and tanker companies
would add to an array of new penalties imposed on Iran by the
U.S. and the European Union over the past three months.  The Revolutionary Guard Corps, an elite military unit that
the  U.S. Treasury  says has taken significant control of
important sectors of the Iranian economy, has been the target of
numerous international sanctions imposed by the U.S., the  United
Nations  and others for involvement in illicit nuclear and
missile activities and sponsorship of terrorism.  Cutting Iran’s Revenue  Menendez and Berman have been strong proponents of
sanctions to deprive Iran’s government of revenue needed to
finance any illicit nuclear activities and to force its leaders
to return to nuclear negotiations.  Berman, the senior minority member of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee, plans to submit his measure to target NIOC
and NITC as a bill, an aide said.  Menendez will introduce his proposal as an amendment to an
Iran sanctions bill circulated yesterday by Senate Banking
Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat, and
senior Republican  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama . Their bill would
require any companies traded on U.S. stock exchanges to reveal
Iran-related business to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Menendez, a member of the Senate Banking Committee and the
Foreign Relations Committee, was the chief sponsor, along with
Senator  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, of sanctions on the
Central Bank of Iran intended to complicate the purchase of oil
from Iran. The central bank sanctions passed Congress
overwhelmingly and were signed into law by President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31.  Extending Sanctions  The Johnson-Shelby draft legislation also would extend U.S.
sanctions to firms involved in joint ventures with Iran anywhere
in the world involving uranium mining or new energy projects. It
would penalize U.S. parent firms for certain Iran-related
activities of their foreign subsidiaries, expand sanctions on
Iran’s energy and petrochemical sectors and mandate sanctions on
those who supply Iran with weapons and other technology used to
commit human rights abuses.  Oil is Iran’s main source of income, supplying more than 50
percent of the national budget, according to International
Monetary Fund figures. Oil provided the Persian Gulf nation $56
billion in the first seven months of 2011, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  Oil for March delivery declined 30 cents, or 0.3 percent,
to $98.48 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  today,
the lowest settlement since Jan. 20.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , pumped
about 3.545 million barrels of oil a day in November, a
Bloomberg survey showed, and exported an average 2.58 million
barrels a day in 2010, according to OPEC statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  