-- Iraq Delays Energy Licensing to May After Amending Offers
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-01-31T15:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/iraq-delays-energy-licensing-to-may-after-amending-offers-1-.html
Iraq  postponed its next licensing
round for energy-exploration rights by more than a month to May
30, the head of the Oil Ministry’s licensing department said,
delaying bidding for the second time this year.  The two-day round had been scheduled for April 11, Abdul Mahdy al-Ameedi, the department’s director-general, said in a
telephone interview from Baghdad.  “There are amendments to the contract model, a matter
which requires more time for bidding companies to study it,” he
said today.  The ministry initially planned to auction rights on March
7. It delayed that round after bidders asked for more time to
study the contracts, al-Ameedi said on Jan. 4. Iraq has awarded
15 oil and natural-gas licenses to foreign companies since the
U.S.-led invasion that ousted President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003.
The Arab nation is the third-largest oil producer in OPEC and
seeks to develop natural gas to help generate electricity.  Iraq is auctioning 12 exploration areas, seven for oil and
five for gas, according to the ministry. They contain 29 billion
cubic meters of gas and 10 billion barrels of crude, Oil
Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said in March. Forty-six
companies have qualified for the bidding, including Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, BP Plc,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Total SA.  Iraq’s average crude oil exports currently exceed 2.165
million barrels a day and its production averages 2.75 million
barrels a day, Abdel Ilah Qassem Al Amir, adviser to Iraq’s
deputy prime minister for energy affairs, said in a telephone
interview from  Baghdad  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash through the Dubai newsroom at 
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  