-- Is Modern Finance Ruining Modern Art? (Part 2): Mark C. Taylor
-- B y   M a r k   C .   T a y l o r
-- 2012-01-31T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/is-modern-finance-ruining-modern-art-part-2-commentary-by-mark-taylor.html
In ways that are not immediately
obvious, today’s overheated art market can help us understand
the recent collapse of the overleveraged global economy. Though
few have made the connection, developments in the art market
have been following the changing investment strategies in
financial markets. The global growth in the art market parallels
the worldwide spread of finance capitalism. In recent years, the
value of art assets has often risen faster than the value of
real estate or financial assets.  This growth has, of course, been driven by the exponential
increase in wealth among those who benefit most from the new
financial system. Each week brings another account of a newly
rich hedge-fund manager buying art at a ridiculously inflated
price. This preoccupation with “celebrity” collectors, however,
obscures a more interesting and important development: The
titans of finance capitalism are also transforming the art
market through the financialization of art. They manage their
art collections in much the same way they manage their
portfolios.  Speculative History  Speculating in art is not, of course, new. In one of the
most intriguing investment schemes in recent history, Japanese
industrialist Ryoei Saito purchased van Gogh’s “Portrait of Dr.
Gachet” in 1990 for the then-record price of $82.5 million.
Immediately after taking possession of the painting, he secured
it in a climate-controlled vault where it remained for seven
years. By 1993, Saito’s financial empire had fallen apart. Since
his death in 1996, the location and ownership of the painting
have remained a mystery.  This investment strategy treats art like any other
commodity purchased for speculative purposes. The investment
game changes significantly when art is regarded as a financial
asset, rather than as a consumer good. Speculators in the art
market have recently established hedge funds and private equity
funds for the purchase and sale of art. These funds extend the
principles of finance capitalism to art. Take the example of
mortgages. As we have seen, since the early 1980s, mortgages
have been securitized as collateralized mortgage obligations
(CMOs) so that they could be bought and resold in secondary and
tertiary markets. While the value of these derivatives is
supposed to be determined by the value of the underlying asset
(the price of the real estate), in a rising market the value of
the derivative increases relative to the collateral on which it
is based.  With the growing volatility of financial markets, investors
attempt to hedge their bets by trading derivatives using
different variations of portfolio theory. When mortgages are
bundled and tranched, the evaluation of risk has nothing to do
with the value of a particular asset but is calculated using
mathematical formulae to determine the statistical probability
of defaults of the underlying mortgages. With this practice, the
derivative drifts farther and farther from its underlying asset
until the virtual and the real seem to be completely decoupled.  Some enterprising investors are applying this model to the
art market.  London  financier  Philip Hoffman , for example, has
established Fine Art Management Services Ltd., which speculates
in art rather than stocks. Bloomberg’s Deepak Gopinath  explains 
Hoffman’s strategy: “Melding art and finance, art funds aim to
trade Picassos and Rembrandts the way hedge funds trade U.S.
Treasuries or gold -- and collect hedge-fund-like fees in the
process. Hoffman’s Fine Art Fund, for example, charges an annual
management fee equal to 2 percent of its assets and takes a 20
percent cut of profits once the fund clears a minimum hurdle.”  Bundling Artworks  This strategy securitizes works of art in the same way that
CMOs securitize mortgages. Just as mortgages are bundled and
sold as bonds, so works of art are bundled and sold as shares of
a hedge fund. In other words, rather than owning an individual
work of art, or several works of art, an investor owns an
undivided interest in a group of art works. In these schemes,
what is important is not the real value of the company,
commodity or artwork; what matters is the statistical
probability of its price performance within a specified time
frame relative to other portfolio holdings. Furthermore, insofar
as investors hedge bets by using portfolio theory, the value of
any particular work of art is determined by its risk quotient
relative to other works of art held by the fund.  Like investors in CMOs, who know nothing about the actual
real-estate holdings whose mortgages they own, investors in art
hedge and private-equity funds know nothing about the actual
artworks in which they are investing. Investors in art funds
could conceivably sell their shares, thereby creating secondary
and tertiary markets. As trading accelerates, derivatives (fund
shares) and underlying assets (works of art) are once again
decoupled, creating a quasi-autonomous sphere of circulating
signs in which value constantly fluctuates.  This financialization of art is a genuinely new phenomenon
that even  Andy Warhol  could not have predicted. The most
prominent representative of the financialization of art is
 Damien Hirst , who is notable for his creation of works of art
specifically designed for new financial markets. A  newspaper
editorial  in 2007 observed that Hirst “has gone from being an
artist to being what you might call the manager of the hedge
fund of Damien Hirst’s art.” The most ostentatious example of
his strategy was the production and marketing of his $100
million diamond-studded skull ironically titled “For the Love of
God.”  The financial machinations surrounding the sale of this
work were as complex and mysterious as a high-stakes private-
equity deal. One year later, Hirst mounted his own sale at
Sotheby’s in London at the precise moment that global financial
markets were collapsing. Though the sale was an enormous
financial success, it is clear that this unlikely event marked
the end of a trajectory that had been unfolding since the end of
World War II.  Critical Edge  There are, predictably, some critics who argue that Hirst,
like  Jeff Koons , is, in fact, satirizing or criticizing the
market from which he nonetheless profits so handsomely. While
this argument is plausible in the case of Warhol, the art of
Koons and Hirst, like the critics who promote it, has lost its
critical edge.  If each era gets the art it deserves, then the age of
finance capitalism deserves the carcass of a rotting shark that
no amount of formaldehyde can preserve. “The Physical
Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living” harbors a
lesson worth noting: Reality might not be completely virtual
after all, and far from impossible, death is unavoidable.  The commodification, corporatization and financialization
of art represent the betrayal of principles and values that have
guided artists for more than two centuries. The notion of modern
art and related ideas of the avant-garde emerged in  Germany 
during the last decade of the 18th century. In the wake of the
failure of the French Revolution, idealistic philosophers and
romantic poets were forced to reconsider the interrelation of
religion, art and politics. When religion and politics failed to
realize what many imagined as the kingdom of God on Earth,
artists and philosophers fashioned new strategies, which more
than two centuries later continue to shape our world.  The commodification, corporatization and financialization
of art subvert the artistic mission that the 18th-century German
critic Friedrich Schiller memorably described as the desire to
transform the world into a work of art. When the artist becomes
a commodities trader, corporate executive or hedge-fund manager,
criticism gives way to complicity in an economy that absorbs
everything designed to resist it. With asset values rising at an
unprecedented rate, the market seems to be omnipotent,
omniscient and omnipresent. But just at this moment of apparent
triumph, the bubble bursts and everything must be re-evaluated.
Though profoundly unsettling, the collapse of finance capitalism
creates the opportunity for a reassessment of values that extend
far beyond money and art.  The crisis of confidence plaguing individuals and
institutions is a crisis of faith. We no longer know what to
believe or whom to trust. At such a moment, art might seem an
unlikely resource to guide reflection and shape action. If,
however, God and the imagination are -- as Wallace Stevens
insisted -- one, then perhaps art can create an opening that is
the space of hope. Perhaps, by refiguring the spiritual, art can
redeem the world.  (Mark C. Taylor is the chair of the Department of Religion
at  Columbia University . This is the second of two excerpts from
his new book “Refiguring the Spiritual: Beuys, Barney, Turrell,
Goldsworthy,” to be published March 20 by Columbia University
Press. The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 .)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark C. Taylor at  mct22@columbia.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  