-- Islanders-Devils to Be First NHL Game Played at Brooklyn’s Barclays Center
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-31T17:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/islanders-devils-to-be-first-nhl-game-played-at-brooklyn-s-barclays-center.html
The  New York Islanders  and the  New
Jersey Devils  will play in the first National Hockey League game
at the Barclays Center, the $1 billion arena due to open this
year in Brooklyn.  The Islanders will be the home team in the preseason game
on Oct. 2, according to a news release from the club. The
National Basketball Association’s New Jersey Nets are set to
move into the building, and become the Brooklyn Nets when the
arena opens this September.  Voters in  New York ’s Nassau County rejected a $400 million
bond plan to finance a new arena for the Islanders, who are
drawing an Eastern Conference-low 12,670 fans per game at Nassau
Veterans Memorial Coliseum this year. The team’s lease in the
Uniondale arena, about 25 miles east of Barclays Center, expires
in 2015.  Charles Wang , the Islanders’ owner, has said the team will
honor its lease.  “We’re not going to make any comments on any specific next
steps,” he said in August.  The Brooklyn arena, which will have 100 luxury suites, four
bars, three clubs and a restaurant, seats roughly 14,000 for
hockey. The Devils-Islanders contest will also be the first NHL
game held in Brooklyn, according to the release.  “We already have some of the most passionate fans in the
league supporting our young team, and we are looking forward to
expanding our base into Brooklyn,” Islanders General Manager
Garth Snow said in the release.  The Islanders (19-22-7) have 45 points this season and are
in last place in the five-team Atlantic division. They trail the
fourth-place Devils (26-19-3) by 10 points.  The Nets and the Devils both play their home games at the
Prudential Center in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  