-- Italy Ends Search Inside Stricken Ship as Fuel Removal Delayed
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-01-31T15:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/italy-ends-search-inside-stricken-costa-concordia-as-fuel-removal-delayed.html
Italy’s civil-protection agency
halted a search for 16 missing people in the submerged part of
 Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s Costa Concordia, whose owners are likely to
declare a “total loss.”  Rescuers will keep searching for bodies in the part of the
ship above water, the agency said in a statement on its website
today. The ship is unlikely to return to use and insurers will
probably “declare a total loss,” Pier Luigi Foschi, chairman
of Costa Crociere, the Italian unit of Miami-based Carnival,
said during a hearing in the Senate in Rome today.  Preliminary operations to prepare fuel removal are likely
to remain suspended tomorrow as strong winds are forecast, the
agency said. Royal Boskalis Westminster NV’s Smit Salvage unit
and its Italian partner Neri SpA haven’t started pumping 500,000
gallons of fuel out, more than two weeks after the accident.  The Costa Concordia hit rocks and capsized on Jan. 13 just
hours after leaving port near  Rome  with 4,200 passengers. Oil
removal may take at least 28 days, Coast Guard Admiral Ilarione
Dell’Anna said on Jan. 23. Italian search teams found a body on
Jan. 28, raising the death toll to 17. Removal of the stricken
ship from the area may take 10 months, civil-protection agency
head Franco Gabrielli said on Jan 29.  Carnival said yesterday that the Concordia wreck will hurt
2012 net income by as much as $175 million, including insurance
deductibles and loss of use. Foschi said today that his company
is “very solid in terms of capital,” which it has built up
over years without paying dividends.  ‘Worried’ About Image  “We aren’t worried about the insurance coverage, what we
are worried about is the damage to the image of the company,”
he said in the Italian Senate. “We have enough funds to cover
loss of ship as well as the claims and costs linked to the
accident.”  Carnival’s Italian unit reached a damage-settlement
agreement with consumer groups last week as the company was sued
in Miami and  Chicago . Insurance costs for the accident may reach
$1 billion once environmental damage and injuries are tallied,
Moody’s Investors Service said on Jan. 23. Most of the losses
will be incurred by reinsurers, Moody’s said.  Italian consumer-law group Codacons and New York law firm
Proner and Proner filed a suit against Carnival in Miami on Jan.
27. The plaintiffs are seeking $460 million in compensation,
Proner lawyer Mitchell Proner said during a webcast press
conference today. The complaint names six plaintiffs, he said.  Concordia’s Captain Francesco Schettino was placed under
house arrest on Jan. 17 for allegedly causing the wreck and
abandoning the ship. Bruno Leporatti, his lawyer, has said the
captain didn’t abandon the ship and wrote in a Jan. 16 statement
that his actions saved many lives. Prosecutors in Grosseto,
 Italy  are interrogating Roberto Ferrarini, head of Costa
Crociere’s marine operations department, as a witness today,
Foschi said.  Costa Crociere yesterday presented a plan to remove debris
and other waste, the civil-protection agency said. The ship may
be righted by using balloons, though that’s “extremely
difficult,” Foschi said on Jan. 16. He didn’t rule out carving
up the cruise liner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  