-- Italy’s Jobless Rate Climbed to Eight-Year Highest in December Amid Cuts
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-31T12:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/italy-s-jobless-rate-climbed-to-eight-year-highest-in-december-amid-cuts.html
Italy ’s jobless rate rose to the
highest in eight years in December as austerity measures meant
to fight the debt crisis helped push the region’s third-largest
economy toward a recession.  Unemployment (ITMUURS)  climbed to 8.9 percent, the highest since the
data series began in January 2004, from a revised 8.8 percent in
November, national statistics institute Istat said in a
preliminary report today in Rome. Economists had expected a rate
of 8.7 percent, according to the median of 9 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  last month pushed through 20
billion euros ($26 billion) in tax increases and spending cuts
that have further choked growth. The economy shrank 0.2 percent
in the third quarter and the government has forecast another
contraction in the final three months of last year, meaning
Italy may already be in its fourth  recession  since 2001.  “We are seeing all the predictable signs of Italy’s
deepening recession -- rising unemployment, non-performing loans
trending up, and credit standards getting tighter,” Vladimir Pillonca, an economist at Societe Generale SA in  London , said in
an e-mail. “We are barely at the initial phase of Italy’s
recession, and it will get much worse.”  Plunging Confidence  Italian business confidence fell in January to the lowest
in more than two years while  consumer confidence  held at a 16-
year low. Monti’s austerity measures included a cut in pension
spending, a crack down on  tax evasion  and higher levies on fuel,
leaving Italy with  Europe ’s highest gasoline prices.  Fiat SpA, Italy’s biggest manufacturer, shut down its
Termini Imerese factory at the end of last year as part of a
plan to reduce costs and improve productivity in Italy as sales
in the country slump. The Turin-based company agreed with unions
to pay about 21 million euros to support early retirement for
about 640 workers.  Italian growth has averaged about 0.2 percent annually in
the decade to 2010, compared with 1.1 percent in the euro area.
The International Monetary Fund forecasts Italy will shrink 2.2
percent this year, compared with the government’s prediction of
a 0.5 percent contraction.  Crisis Fallout  Monti pushed through a package to boost the economy this
month by opening up so-called closed professions such as
pharmacists and notaries. The premier says spurring the economy
will help Italy tame its  1.9 trillion-euro  ($2.5 trillion) debt
and withstand the fallout from the region’s sovereign crisis
that led  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek bailouts.  Italian 10-year borrowing costs, after soaring past the 7
percent level that led those three countries to seek rescues,
have fallen to around 6 percent since the  European Central Bank 
offered banks unlimited three-year loans last month. The ECB has
also continued to prop up debt markets by purchasing bonds of
countries such as Italy and  Spain .  Some Italians are defying Monti’s calls for shared
sacrifices now to spur future prosperity. A wildcat strike by
truck drivers last week clogged traffic on Italian highways,
forcing Fiat to halt car production and leaving some cities
short of gasoline and food.  “The best thing that authorities can do is to implement
growth-enhancing reforms so that when the effects of fiscal
tightening and uncertainty shocks taper out, Italy can gradually
return to positive growth,” Pillonca said. “In the absence
of substantive progress on this front, Italy will merely crawl
back toward another decade of stagnation.”  Labor Overhaul  Monti’s next initiative is aimed at overhauling Italy’s
rigid labor laws to encourage hiring of young people and women.
Joblessness among those between ages 15 and 24 dropped to 31
percent in December from a revised 31.2 percent in the previous
month, Istat said today.  Monti is seeking to create more incentives for companies to
hire, while also giving employers more freedom to cut staff when
the economy wavers. Labor Minister Elsa Fornero, who resumes
talks with unions and employers on Feb. 2, has said she hopes to
have an agreement on the changes within a month.  Istat had originally reported a jobless rate of 8.6 percent
in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  