-- J&J Shifts Management in Consumer Unit Hit by Recalls
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-31T23:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/j-j-shifts-management-again-in-consumer-unit-beset-by-recalls.html
(Corrects unit dismissing workers in fifth paragraph.)  Johnson & Johnson , the world’s
second biggest health-care company, announced its second round
of leadership changes in less than a year in a unit that’s
recalled dozens of brands of consumer medicines.  Patrick Mutchler, named in April as company group chairman
for over-the-counter products, will retire, to be replaced by
Roberto Marques, the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based drugmaker
said in an e-mail today. Pericles Stamatiades, chief strategist
for the consumer business, is also leaving after 28 years at
J&J, and his duties will be reassigned, the company said.  The Mutchler and Stamatiades appointments followed two
years in which J&J recalled hundreds of millions of packets of
Tylenol, Motrin, Benadryl and other products due to foul odors,
adulterated ingredients and bad labeling. While the company
resumed some sales last year, a shuttered plant in  Pennsylvania 
isn’t expected to reopen until next year, Chief Executive
Officer William C. Weldon said on a Jan. 24 call.  The over-the-counter business “will continue to be
operated as a separate, integrated business in order to maintain
its focus on quality and compliance, and on the successful
reintroduction of OTC medicines in the U.S. market,” Bonnie Jacobs, a spokeswoman for J&J’s McNeil consumer unit, said in an
e-mail. Denice Torres will continue to run day-to-day operations
for the U.S. business, she said.  Consumer Dismissals  J&J’s consumer division, which includes McNeil, is
dismissing an unspecified number of workers, the company said in
a separate e-mailed statement. “These changes will help us
better serve consumers’ needs and remain competitive in the face
of ongoing global economic challenges,” J&J said.  Jacobs declined to say how many positions were cut. The
Wall Street Journal, which first reported the management changes
yesterday, said about 100 employees were dismissed.  J&J rose less than one percent to $65.91 at 4:04 p.m. in
New York trading. The shares have gained 10.3 percent in the
past 12 months. Pfizer Inc., based in New York, is the biggest
seller of medical products.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  had $4.4 billion in over-the-counter
 sales  last year, a drop of more than 25 percent since 2008, the
year before the bulk of the recalls began. Jacobs declined to
say why the leadership changes were being made now. Mutchler is
leaving after 35 years at J&J, the company said.  “After a career of building successful businesses, it was
Pat we turned to when we needed an experienced hand to
strengthen McNeil, and again he has delivered,” said Jesse Wu,
the company’s worldwide consumer group chairman, in a statement.
Stamatiades is “a visionary whose legacy will continue to
deliver growth to our business for years to come,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  