-- Japanese Futures Slip After U.S. Confidence Unexpectedly Drops
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-01-31T23:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/japan-futures-australia-shares-fall-as-u-s-confidence-unexpectedly-drops.html
Japanese  stock   futures  and Australian
equities edged lower after U.S.  consumer confidence  trailed
economists’ projections and  home prices  fell more than expected,
dimming the earnings outlook for Asian exporters.  American depositary receipts of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker
that gets almost 30 percent of its sales from the Americas, slid
0.7 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of
 Honda Motor Co. (7267) , Japan’s second-largest carmaker by sales, sank
2.6 percent after cutting its profit forecast in the wake of
Thailand’s floods.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s top oil
producer, lost 0.2 percent in Sydney after  oil prices  declined.  “There’s less confidence that the  U.S. economy  gaining
momentum,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager in Tokyo at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. Europe’s debt crisis and the yen’s
continued strength against the Euro “is weighing on investor
sentiment”  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
March closed at 8,800 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 8,810
in Osaka,  Japan . They were bid in the pre-market at 8,800 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
slipped 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was little
changed in Wellington.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slid 0.1 percent
today. The gauge fell 0.1 percent in  New York  yesterday after
reports showed that consumer  confidence  unexpectedly dropped in
January and separate report showed  home prices  fell more than
forecast in November.  Chinese Stocks  Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid from a four-month high, led
by Aluminum Corp of China Ltd., on speculation policy makers are
reluctant to undertake monetary easing required to bolster the
economy and company earnings. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of
the most-traded Chinese equities in the U.S lost 1.5 percent to
102.61 in New York.  In Europe, a deal between Greece and its creditors
continued to be elusive. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
said he would try to meet German-led demands for a bigger debt
writedown by investors and deeper budget cuts by his government.  The euro weakened to as low as 99.55 yen today in  Tokyo ,
compared with 100.54 yen at the close of stock trading yesterday
after European leaders left a Brussels summit with no accord
over how to plug Greece’s widening budget hole. A weaker euro
cuts the value of income at Japanese companies that do business
in the region.  Oil, Metals  Crude oil for March delivery dropped 0.3 percent to settle
at $98.48 a barrel in New York yesterday, falling for a third
day. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial commodities including copper and aluminum declined
1.4 percent, the biggest drop since Jan. 4.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (TPX)  gained 8 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with increases of 4.4 percent by the
S&P 500 and 4 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Stocks in
the Asian benchmark are valued at 1.3 times book value. That
compares with 2.1 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in
the U.S. and 1.4 times for the Europe Stoxx 600 Index in Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  