-- Japan Production Rebound at Risk as Azumi Warns on Yen Strength: Economy
-- B y   E l e a n o r   W a r n o c k   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-01-31T02:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/japan-s-industrial-production-increases-more-than-estimated-led-by-autos.html
Japan ’s  industrial production  rose
more than forecast in December as automakers rebounded from
flooding in Thailand that disrupted their supply chains.  Sustained gains may be more challenging as an unresolved
Greek debt restructuring sends investors into the yen as a
haven, risking damage to Japan’s exporters. Production figures
from neighbor  South Korea  today underscored the damage from
 Europe ’s crisis, with output falling more than predicted.  “There is zero chance exports are going to rise in the
first half of 2012 because of the global slowdown, so Japan’s
economy will continue to stagnate,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama ,
chief economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo by telephone.
“December figures were influenced by the one-time recovery of
production by carmakers after the Thai floods.”  Japan’s factory output rose 4 percent from November, when
production slid because of disruptions from  Thailand ’s worst
flooding in seven decades, trade ministry figures showed in
Tokyo today. The median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 3 percent increase. Separate data
showed the nation’s  jobless rate  rose to 4.6 percent in December
from 4.5 percent the previous month.  South Korea’s  production  slid 0.9 percent from November, a
third straight decline, a deeper drop than all 11 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had anticipated.  Yen Appreciation  A three-day rally in the yen has brought it less than 2
percent from its postwar high of 75.35 against the dollar, with
the currency at 76.40 as of 9:33 a.m. in Tokyo.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters today that “we
are ready to act decisively against excessive and speculative
currency moves if needed.” Officials last year intervened with
record sales of yen to counter exchange-rate appreciation.  Industrial output for October-to-December declined 0.4
percent, underscoring concern the economy might have shrunk for
the third time in four quarters. For the full year, production
fell 3.5 percent, hurt by the record March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, power disruptions after the accident at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant and the Thai flooding as well as Europe’s crisis.  Euro leaders left a Brussels summit late yesterday with no
accord over how to plug  Greece ’s widening budget hole and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  voicing frustration with the Athens
government’s failure to carry out an economic makeover.  Europe Data  Data in Europe today may show that  Germany ’s economy has
withstood the crisis better than most, with retail sales
advancing 0.8 percent in December from the previous month and
unemployment falling by 10,000, according to the median
projections in Bloomberg surveys of economists. France may
report its  consumer spending  increased 0.2 percent. In the U.S.,
a private report may show  house prices  dropped in November.  In a sign the rebound in Japanese output hasn’t yet
improved conditions in the job market, payrolls fell by 30,000
in December, the first drop since August, and the number of
unemployed rose for a third month, according to today’s report.  Automakers said they expect demand to recover this year.
Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest seller of gasoline-
electric autos, revised sales up last week by 100,000 vehicles
from December, on demand for hybrids buoyed by government tax
breaks on fuel-efficient cars. Honda Motor Co. President
Takanobu Ito last week forecast the highest business results for
Japan’s third-largest carmaker in at least five years, led by
North American sales.  “It will be the year of the complete rebound,” Ito said
in an interview.  Production in the transport equipment industry increased
12.3 percent in December, the largest gain since June, according
to the trade ministry. Manufacturers plan to raise production
2.5 percent this month, and boost it 1.2 percent in February, a
government survey of companies in the report showed.  “Industrial production will be on the recovery path for
the coming months,” said  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Tokyo . “Global
industrial activities are picking up, but Japanese companies are
not necessarily benefiting from that because of the yen’s
strength.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleanor Warnock in Tokyo at 
 ewarnock@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  