-- JC Flowers Ex-U.K. Chief Executive Avoids Police Probe Over FSA Fraud Fine
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-02-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/jc-flowers-ex-u-k-chief-executive-avoids-police-probe-over-fsa-fraud-fine.html
London  police chose not to
investigate JC Flowers & Co.’s former chief executive after
regulators fined him for faking invoices to take money from a
company the private equity firm invested in.  City of London Police didn’t open a formal probe after JC
Flowers declined to assist an informal inquiry and told them
there was no actual victim in light of its reimbursement of the
company’s losses, according to two people familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak.  The U.K. finance regulator yesterday fined Ravi Shankar Sinha, JC Flowers’s former U.K. chief executive officer,
2.87 million pounds ($4.5 million) and banned him from working
in finance in the country. Sinha defrauded a company in which
New York-based JC Flowers invested of 1.37 million pounds by
submitting falsified invoices, lying to the company CEO and
saying the firm had authorized him to charge advisory fees, the
FSA said.  “The public will have difficulty understanding why it is a
checkout girl who steals 10,000 pounds from her employer who
should go to prison but a phenomenally wealthy individual who
steals millions should not,” said Sara George, a regulatory
lawyer at the London-based law firm Stephenson Harwood.  JC Flowers told the police that, given their reimbursement
of the unidentified company’s losses, there was no victim that
had suffered and there was no reason to prosecute when the
Financial Services Authority was handling the matter, the people
said. The private equity firm had reported the incident to the
FSA and cooperated with the civil investigation, the regulator
said.  “Had the police chosen to launch a criminal investigation,
then JC Flowers would have cooperated fully, and indeed would
today cooperate with any investigation should the police decide
to mount an inquiry,” Michael Harrison, an outside spokesman
for the firm at Brunswick Group, said in a telephone interview.  No Formal Probe  The  City of London  Police said in a statement that it
received details of the case from the FSA and, after discussions
with the affected company, decided not to prosecute Sinha.
Because the police never opened a formal probe, JC Flowers
didn’t obstruct an investigation, the people said.  FSA spokesman  Joseph Eyre  declined to comment.  Sinha committed the fraud because of his deteriorating
finances, the FSA said. Between May and July 2008, Sinha
borrowed around 9 million euros ($11.9 million) to invest in
companies in which JC Flowers funds had invested. The funds’
performance declined, and he was left unable to pay his debt,
the regulator said.  ‘Very Much Regret’  The FSA “has made it clear that it makes no criticism of
JC Flowers’ systems and controls,” the firm said in a
statement. The firm fired Sinha in 2009 after it discovered the
fake invoices.  “I very much regret misleading JC Flowers over this issue
and continue to offer my sincerest apologies,” Sinha said in an
e-mail. “While I disagree with some of the FSA’s findings and
actions and believe they are unjust, rather than continue a
prolonged debate, I believe that it is better to acknowledge my
mistakes and move on to try and rebuild my career and my
family’s life in the best way I can.”  JC Flowers, founded in 1998 by J.  Christopher Flowers , 54,
focuses on companies in the financial-services industry and has
invested more than $5 billion in  Europe . The U.K. division is an
 investment adviser  to the U.S. firm, which in turn advises its
private-equity funds, according to the regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at   lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 