-- Jefferies Allows Bonus Recipients to Swap Stock for Cash With 25% Discount
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-02-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/jefferies-allows-bonus-recipients-to-swap-stock-for-cash-with-25-discount.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , whose stock
dropped by almost half in 2011, gave employees a choice when
paying the stock-based portion of their annual bonuses: accept
the firm’s shares, or take cash at a 25 percent discount.  The offer to convert stock awards into payouts boosted
cash-compensation expense by $17.5 million, the New York-based
firm said in an annual financial report. It didn’t disclose how
many employees opted for cash, and Richard Khaleel, a company
spokesman, declined to elaborate.  Bank stocks slid last year amid concern that new
regulations, stagnating economic growth and  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis would prolong an earnings slump. Jefferies’s offer,
rare among rivals, gives workers a way to lock in payments amid
that uncertainty, said Joseph Sorrentino, a managing director at
Steven Hall & Partners, a compensation-consulting firm.  “It’s a cloudy future -- they’re not really sure which way
it’s going to go or how long before profits recover,”
Sorrentino said of the mood among Wall Street professionals.
“What they’re saying is, ‘I’ll take that guarantee at a 25
percent discount.’”  The decision by some employees to take reduced cash lowered
share-based compensation expense by $23.3 million in the last
fiscal year, Jefferies said in the filing. The cash awards were
fully expensed in 2011 and “will legally vest in future
periods,” the company said. Jefferies’s offer doesn’t affect
the cash-based portion of employees’ bonuses.  Senior Managers  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler  said in December
he’s among senior managers, including  Brian Friedman , 56,
chairman of the executive committee, who declined bonuses for
fiscal 2011 after the company’s shares plunged 48 percent.
Handler, 50, who receives a $1 million annual salary, didn’t say
how much money they turned down.  Handler, who became CEO in 2001, revealed details about his
company after MF Global Holdings Ltd. filed for bankruptcy on
Oct. 31, spurred by a $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of Europe’s
most indebted nations. He published a breakdown of Jefferies’s
sovereign bonds, and later sold about three-quarters of the
holdings to prove they were liquid. The disclosures helped
assure investors and halt the stock’s slide.  Handler also cut  total assets  to $35 billion in the fiscal
fourth quarter from $45.1 billion at Aug. 31. The firm ended
November with a $96.1 million net short position against debt
and derivatives tied to  Portugal , Ireland,  Italy ,  Greece  and
 Spain , including sovereign issuers, corporations and financial
institutions, the filing shows. Jefferies shares have climbed 51
percent since Nov. 22, when they hit a 32-month low.  Inadequately Diversified  Some Wall Street employees have inadequately diversified
portfolios, with much of their investments tied up in company
stock, said Paul Sorbera, president of executive search firm
Alliance Consulting. By giving employees a choice, Jefferies
helps staff who are risk-averse as well as those who want to
continue accumulating stock, he said.  “It probably is a very good step at relieving the concerns
some employees may have of risk,” Sorbera said. “It does offer
a solution to lack of diversification.”  Jefferies set aside $1.48 billion for pay and benefits in
the fiscal year ended Nov. 30, compared with $1.28 billion in
the eleven months ended Nov. 30, 2010, according to the filing.
The total compensation cost related to share-based plans was
$136 million, according to the filing. The company changed its
fiscal year-end to Nov. 30 from Dec. 31, starting in 2010.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG
made some of the year’s biggest cuts in compensation for
investment bankers, averaging as much as 30 percent, people with
knowledge of the plans have said. Bank of America Corp., the
second-largest U.S. lender, is planning pay reductions averaging
25 percent, people have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  