-- DZ Bank Sues JPMorgan, HSBC Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-01T16:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/jpmorgan-sued-by-dz-bank-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
(Corrects gender of spokesman in fifth paragraph of story
published yesterday.)  DZ Bank AG (DZBK)  sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , accusing the banks of making false and
misleading statements in connection with the sale of residential
mortgage-backed securities.  DZ Bank , Germany’s largest cooperative lender, sued
JPMorgan in  New York  State Supreme Court in Manhattan yesterday,
saying it bought about $85 million of the securities based on
flawed offering materials. DZ Bank filed a similar suit today
against HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, in the same court today,
over $122 million worth of the investments.  “Plaintiff did not know the true facts regarding
defendants’ misrepresentations and omissions in the offering
materials, and justifiably relied on those misrepresentations
and omissions,” Frankfurt-based DZ Bank said in court
documents.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for New York-based  JPMorgan (JPM) ,
declined to comment on DZ Bank’s lawsuit.  Neil Brazil , a
spokesman for London-based HSBC, said the company doesn’t
comment on pending litigation.  The JPMorgan case is Deutsche Zentral-Genossenschaftsbank
AG v. JPMorgan Chase & Co, 650293/2012, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan). The HSBC case is Deutsche Zentral-
Genossenschaftsbank AG v. HSBC North America Holdings Inc.,
650303/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 