-- Kaufman Shuts as Minority-Owned Investment Bank Succumbs to Trading Dearth
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-31T17:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/kaufman-bros-closes-as-bank-succumbs.html
Kaufman Bros. LP, the minority-owned
investment bank that helped unwind U.S. stakes in bailed-out
financial companies, ceased operations as of yesterday,
according to a notice posted on its website.  Chief Executive Officer Benny Lorenzo told employees
yesterday after trading ended that Kaufman was closing
immediately, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter. New York-based Kaufman had a staff of about 40,
according to one of the people, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Small firms came under pressure as dealmaking and trading
slowed on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may deepen.  Standard
& Poor’s  said in a Jan. 27 statement that brokers and investment
bankers “are likely to face a prolonged period of low
profitability and possibly other financial pressures because of
ongoing weakness” in global markets.  Neither Lorenzo nor Chief Financial Officer Gerard Durkin
returned messages left on their office and mobile phones
yesterday and today. Michelle Ong, a spokeswoman for the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, declined to comment on
Kaufman’s situation. The firm was still listed as an active
broker-dealer on the regulator’s website.  Diversity Goals  The Securities Investor Protection Corporation, responsible
for recovering customer assets from closed brokerages, hasn’t
yet received any information from the Securities and Exchange
Commission on Kaufman, according to  Stephen Harbeck , SIPC
president.  Kaufman had assets of $3.26 million and partners’ capital
of $1.21 million as of Dec. 31, 2010, according to documents
filed with regulators.  Kaufman was founded in 1995 and billed itself as “the
country’s largest minority-owned and operated investment banking
and advisory firm” focused on technology, media,
telecommunications, green technology and health care. The firm
said in June that it helped advisory clients raise more than $50
billion since 1999.  The company, which also has offices in  San Francisco , said
it was sought out by institutional investors,  hedge funds  and
government agencies to help meet diversity goals. Kaufman’s
 website , before it was disabled today, said the firm
participated in public offerings of Citigroup Inc. and American
International Group Inc. as the U.S. Treasury Department
disposed of stakes accumulated when it bailed out the firms
during the financial crisis.  Lorenzo was born in the  Dominican Republic  and holds
degrees from  Cornell University  and  Harvard Business School ,
according to a company statement. He acquired a majority stake
in March 2009 and became chairman and CEO in June of that year,
according to the firm. Co-founder Craig Kaufman ceded those
titles and became a managing director with co-founder Robert
Kaufman, the firm said. Craig Kaufman didn’t respond to a
message left at his office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  