-- Kenya Shilling Advances for Sixth Day, Longest Run in 10 Months
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-01-31T13:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/kenya-shilling-advances-for-sixth-day-longest-run-in-10-months.html
Kenya ’s shilling strengthened for
the sixth day, the longest winning streak in 10 months, on
“tight liquidity” and as the euro appreciated against the
dollar.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 1.1 percent and was trading 0.7 percent stronger at
84.10 per dollar at 3:44 p.m. in the capital Nairobi. This is
the longest winning streak since March.  “The shilling is gaining against the dollar on account of
tight liquidity in the money market” and following gains of the
euro, Jeremiah Kendagor, acting head of trading at Nairobi-based
Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., said in a phone interview.  The euro strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.3180, its sixth
gain in seven days, as Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said
progress had been made in debt-swap talks with bondholders.  Kenya’s  inflation rate  fell for a second month to 18.3
percent in January from 18.9 percent in December, the Nairobi-
based Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said today in an e-
mailed statement. The central bank’s monetary policy committee
is meeting tomorrow.  Tanzania’s shilling advanced on increased dollar inflows
from the agricultural industry and low dollar demand. The
currency of East Africa’s second-biggest economy appreciated as
much as 0.6 percent and was trading 0.3 percent stronger at
1,595.  “The shilling has gained due to inflows coming in from
agriculture particularly the cashew nuts and low demand for
dollars,” Fred Siwale, a dealer with CRDB Bank Plc, said today
by phone from  Dar es Salaam , the commercial capital.  Uganda ’s shilling strengthened for the third day on tight
liquidity, appreciating as much as 0.8 percent, and traded 0.5
percent stronger at 2,322.75.  “The shilling gained on tight liquidity,” Abbey Mutabali,
a currency trader at Centenary Bank Ltd., said by phone from
Kampala. “The outlook is of a further rally of the shilling
because of its tightness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  