-- Kenya May Keep Key Rate Unchanged After 6 Increases Curb Prices
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-01-31T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/kenya-may-keep-key-rate-unchanged-after-6-increases-curb-prices.html
Kenya ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  lending rate  unchanged for a second month as
six increases last year helped to cool inflation in  East
Africa ’s largest economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, will keep the benchmark  interest rate  at a record 18
percent, according to all five economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The central bank, based in the capital, Nairobi, will announce
its decision in an e-mailed statement today.  “Inflation has stabilized and is slowing and the shilling
has appreciated significantly,” Angus Downie, a fixed-income
and currency strategist at Ecobank Transnational Inc., said by
phone from  London . “It may be too early to start cutting rates
so the central bank will likely leave it on hold.”  Policy makers boosted the key rate by 12 percentage points
last year to rescue the shilling and combat inflation, which
reached 19.7 percent in November. Since then, inflation has
slowed to 18.3 percent in January as the impact from the worst
drought in 60 years waned and the shilling surged 27 percent
against the dollar from a low of 106.75 on Oct. 11.  The central bank in neighboring  Uganda  will also announce
its interest rate decision at 11:30 a.m. local time in Kampala,
the capital. The Bank of Uganda, which raised its benchmark
interest rate by 10 percentage points since introducing it in
July, held the rate at a record 23 percent on Jan. 3.  Kenya’s government is targeting inflation to slow to about
10 percent within a year and ease to 5 percent in the fiscal
year ending June 30, 2015.  The central bank is under pressure to lower interest rates
to support the economy. Acting Finance Minister Robinson Githae
said on Jan. 30 higher interest rates are “supposed to be a
temporary measure.”  “Once the excess liquidity has been mopped we should be
able to see a reduction in interest rates which is important to
everybody,” Githae said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  