-- Krugman Doesn’t Tell Whole Story About British Austerity: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-31T00:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/krugman-doesn-t-tell-whole-story-about-british-austerity-view.html
Does the recent experience of the
U.K., which is mired in a painful economic slump, debunk the
idea that austerity is the way out of the developed world’s
ills? This question is on the minds of economists and elected
officials the world over, and the answer could provide one of
the most important economic guideposts of our time.  In his Jan. 29 New York Times  column , economist  Paul Krugman  uses the example of Britain to indict what he calls
“expansionary austerity.” The phrase refers to the idea, popular
among U.S. conservatives and some European officials, that
slashing government spending to reduce budget deficits will
trigger a confidence-driven recovery.  On that narrow point, Krugman is right. Since Conservative
Prime Minister  David Cameron  came to power in May 2010 and began
to put in place deficit-cutting measures, Britain’s economy has
decidedly not boomed. Economic output shrank in the fourth
quarter of last year, and by at least one  measure  -- cumulative
change in real gross domestic product since the last peak --
Britain is in worse shape than it was in the wake of the Great
Depression.  But that’s only part of the story. There’s a more important
question, and one with a higher burden of proof: Would Britain
be better off if it hadn’t embarked on an austerity program?
What if the U.K. had instead engaged in more fiscal stimulus,
and with it, more deficit spending? The jury is still out on
that one, but the available evidence suggests that Britain chose
the correct course.  Britain’s Predicament  Consider Britain’s predicament in 2010. After bailing out a
banking system whose total assets dwarfed national annual
economic output, the country faced a battle to demonstrate that
it wasn’t the next Iceland. The British pound had lost about a
quarter of its value against the dollar since mid-2008, and the
government had recently suffered a failed bond auction. With
budget deficits gaping, and gross government debt forecast to
exceed 90 percent of GDP by 2013, Britain needed to do something
fast or risk a market rout.  The resulting combination of spending cuts and tax
increases, some of which began before Cameron, aims to reduce
the U.K. deficit by about 8 percent of GDP by 2016 -- a
magnitude similar to what the U.S. must achieve to get its
budget in long-term balance. It has had some success in
restoring -- or at least maintaining -- investor confidence, in
sharp contrast to the fate of European governments (think
 Greece ,  Portugal  and  Spain ) that didn’t attempt similarly
ambitious austerity measures in time.  The cost of default insurance on U.K. government debt, for
example, currently stands at about 80 basis points (meaning
80,000 pounds a year to insure 10 million pounds of government
debt for five years). That’s roughly where it was when Cameron
took power. In the same period, the cost of insuring French
government debt has more than doubled, to about 165 basis points
from 80.  Postponing deficit cuts hasn’t put  Italy  and France in a
better position. Higher borrowing costs have pushed them into a
period of market-imposed austerity, with all the economic pain
that entails. Forecasters tracked by Bloomberg currently expect
no growth in  France  this year, and a contraction of more than 1
percent in Italy. The forecast for Britain is a 0.5 percent
gain.  The broader lesson isn’t that stimulus is a bad idea in the
U.S., or that austerity is the sole answer to  Europe ’s problems.
Rather, experience suggests that any country’s borrowing will
ultimately run into market constraints, and that governments are
better off getting their finances in order before that happens.  Leeway for Stimulus  The U.S. has so far been lucky. Thanks to the global role
of the dollar and investors’ continued willingness to buy U.S.
Treasuries at extremely low yields, the government still has
some leeway to use fiscal stimulus to create jobs in the short
term. It’s a shame policy makers aren’t taking advantage of that
luxury.  But if the U.S. wants to avoid a predicament similar to --
or possibly much worse than -- the euro area’s sovereign-debt
crisis, it must come up with a credible plan to get budget
deficits and debt under control in the longer term. Britain’s
experience demonstrates that such austerity won’t be easy. It’s
also the only way to avoid paying a steeper price down the road.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 