-- Kuwait Election May Deepen Deadlock With Opposition Controlling Parliament
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-02-01T13:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/kuwait-election-may-deepen-deadlock-with-majority-for-opposition.html
Kuwait’s opposition, buoyed by a wave
of street protests in the oil-rich monarchy, will seek to gain
control of parliament in elections tomorrow and step up pressure
for a handover of powers to elected officials.  The ballot follows months of unprecedented anti-government
demonstrations sparked by corruption allegations against  Sheikh
Nasser  Al-Mohammed Al-Sabah, who quit as prime minister of the
Persian Gulf state in November. That prompted Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, his uncle, to dissolve parliament
and call elections. The opposition has vowed to use its strength
in the assembly to press for measures that would legalize
political parties and let the elected assembly choose a
government.  Under Kuwait’s political system the Cabinet is headed by
the emir’s appointee, traditionally a senior member of the
ruling family, and parliament has more ability to block its
actions than shape them. Their disputes over how to share power
have slowed economic growth and delayed key investment projects
in OPEC’s fourth-biggest crude producer. The deadlock may deepen
with a majority in the legislature for an opposition emboldened
by the Arab Spring.  “The next prime minister will face a real challenge,”
said Ayed al-Manna, a political analyst at  Kuwait ’s Public
Authority for Applied Education. “In the first few months, he
might find ways of dealing with the parliament, if he appoints
more MPs as ministers, if he deals with them as political
organizations.” In the longer term, it’s likely that “the same
crisis will be reborn,” he said.  Repeated Clashes  About 400,000 people are entitled to vote tomorrow in a
country where about a third of the population of 3.6 million is
Kuwaiti. Of the 286 candidates running in five districts, 23 are
women, including four lawmakers who were the first women to be
elected when the last vote was held in May 2009. Tomorrow’s
election will be the fourth in less than six years, as clashes
between lawmakers and government led to repeated dissolutions.  The opposition may win 33 of the 50 seats, based on a
synthesis of available opinion polls, said Talal Al-Kashti, who
manages the Ittejahat Center, a Kuwait-based research group. In
the previous parliament, the opposition averaged about 20
lawmakers.  Demonstrations calling for the premier to quit began in
March, and the biggest on Sept. 21 drew several thousand people.
Opposition lawmakers including Musallam Al-Barrak and Jamaan Al-
Harbash regularly spoke at the rallies.  Payment Allegations  The protests were fueled by allegations that lawmakers
received millions of dollars of unexplained payments and that
Sheikh Nasser transferred public funds into his foreign bank
accounts. The government of Sheikh Nasser, who was replaced by
Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah after his resignation, denied
the accusations.  “We’re telling the family we are partners in power and
public funds, and we are free,”  Al-Qabas  cited Al-Barrak as
telling thousands of supporters at a rally late yesterday. The
opposition candidate was referring to the ruling Al-Sabah
family.  The opposition movement includes Islamists, liberals and
independents, as well as youth groups who cite inspiration from
the Arab protests that swept away longtime leaders in Tunisia,
 Egypt  and  Libya . Some groups demand a constitutional monarchy
and elected government. Others say their focus is fighting
corruption and are calling for political reform without amending
the constitution.  Muslim Brotherhood  Candidates from the Muslim Brotherhood, similar to the
group that dominates Egypt’s first parliament since the fall of
 Hosni Mubarak , and those representing Salafis, followers of an
austere brand of Islam, are likely to gain seats in parliament,
according to Al-Manna.  Islamist politicians may gain as many as 19 seats, up from
seven in the last parliament, pollster al-Kashti said.  “Crises and youth political action usually bring a
parliament with teeth,” he said in a phone interview. “This
parliament will be strong and the Cabinet will have to extend a
hand of cooperation to it.”  Tomorrow’s elections are the most expensive to date,
according to Kuwaiti newspaper reports, which said statistics
show that more than 200 million dinars ($721 million) has been
spent by candidates this time. Candidates often hold their
campaigns in large tents, offering lavish buffets to voters.  Big-Tent Politics  Candidate Mohammed Al-Juwaihel’s tent was burned down on
Jan. 30, allegedly by tribesmen who took offense at some of his
remarks. The Cabinet expressed “concern and dismay” with the
incident and said it would take “all necessary action against
practices that threaten national unity,” the state news agency
 KUNA  reported yesterday.  The Interior Ministry said today it would arrest anyone who
threatens security and stability after the headquarters of the
privately owned Al-Watan television channel were stormed late
yesterday by an angry crowd, reportedly over an interview with a
candidate.  Kuwait created the Gulf’s first elected parliament half a
century ago. Though still classified as an authoritarian regime
in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s  2011 Democracy Index , it
ranked as more democratic than the other five members of the
Gulf Cooperation Council.  Its economy, though, has been the GCC’s slowest-growing in
the past five years, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . It expanded at an average pace of 2.6 percent, compared
with 4.2 percent in the  United Arab Emirates , 5.7 percent in
Bahrain and 18 percent in Qatar.  Private Borrowing  Private-sector borrowing grew at an average pace of 0.9
percent last year, the slowest for at least 17 years. The
government’s failure to deliver on spending pledges leaves banks
lacking in lending opportunities, according to Liz Martins, a
senior economist at HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd.  Opposition candidates including veteran lawmaker Ahmed Al-
Saadoun have accused the government of lagging in implementation
of its $111 billion investment plan, which includes expanding
oil and gas production and building transport networks, a new
port and airport, and power stations.  Kuwait pumped 2.6 million barrels of crude a day in
December, behind  Saudi Arabia , Iraq and  Iran  among the 12
members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 