-- Kyle Flood Is Named Rutgers Football Coach to Succeed Tampa-Bound Schiano
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-01T05:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/kyle-flood-is-named-rutgers-football-coach-to-succeed-tampa-bound-schiano.html
Kyle Flood had the interim tag
removed from his title as head football coach at  Rutgers
University , less than a week after  Greg Schiano  left the job for
the  National Football League ’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers.  Flood, 41, who had been given the post on a temporary basis
after Schiano’s departure, was handed the job permanently
yesterday following Mario Cristobal’s decision to turn down the
Scarlet Knights and stay at  Florida International University .  Flood will be paid $765,000 in guaranteed salary this year,
according to his five-year agreement with the school. Schiano
was due to make almost three times as much.  It is the first head coaching position for Flood, who has
served as offensive line coach at the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based school since 2005. He was also part of the University of
Delaware coaching staff that won the Division I-AA national
championship in 2003.  “Coach Flood is the right guy for the job,”  San Francisco 
49ers offensive lineman Anthony Davis, who played under Flood
from 2007 to 2009, said on the school’s sports website. “The
kids that get to play for him are lucky and their parents should
be comfortable knowing that their kids are not only in a great
program, but also with a great coach.”  Flood’s hiring came one day before high school recruits can
first sign binding letters of intent to attend a university.
Rutgers’ 16-player 2012 class, which Flood helped put together,
is ranked No. 49 in the country based on verbal commitments,
according to  Scout.com .  Flood’s Contract  Flood will be paid a base salary of $750,000 next season,
with an additional $15,000 car stipend, according to the
agreement. He also will be eligible for bonuses based on the
team’s performance on the field and in the classroom.  Schiano, who left last week after 11 seasons with the
Scarlet Knights, was due to be paid roughly $2 million in
guaranteed salary this year before bonuses, according to his
contract.  The discrepancy between the new and old salaries at Rutgers
bucks a national trend this season. New coaches at schools in
college football’s top division will be paid an average of
almost 35 percent more than their predecessors,  USA Today 
 reported  this month, citing prior and current contracts.  Rutgers, which hosted Princeton in 1869 in the first
college football game, is trying to increase revenue to balance
its intercollegiate sports budget. The athletic department’s
$26.9 million subsidy in fiscal 2010 from student fees and the
school’s general fund was the most among the 53 public
universities in college football’s biggest conferences,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Assistant Cuts  The compensation budget for Flood’s assistants will be $1.8
million before bonuses, according to his agreement. That is a
decrease from the $2.9 million that the school spent on
assistants’ salaries, bonuses and benefits in fiscal 2011,
according to documents obtained through Open Records laws.  Flood helped develop Davis, who San Francisco selected with
the No. 11 pick in the 2010  NFL Draft , the highest in school
history. Davis, who called Flood a “father figure,” started
all 16 games this year for the 49ers, who won 13 regular-season
games and lost the National Football Conference championship to
the  New York Giants  in overtime.  Flood is the 29th football coach at Rutgers. The last
Scarlet Knights coach promoted from within, Frank Burns, won a
program-record 78 games from 1973 to 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  