-- New Jersey Pension Funding Is Faulted by Fitch Even After Christie’s Cuts
-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 2012-01-31T17:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/new-jersey-pension-funding-is-faulted-by-fitch-even-after-christie-s-cuts.html
New Jersey ’s ability to move toward
full pension contributions will be “challenging” and may
conflict with goals such as controlling property-tax growth and
funding schools and infrastructure,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Governor  Chris Christie ’s budget for the fiscal year that
ends June 30 funds only 14 percent of the pension payment
recommended by actuaries, even after his benefit changes enacted
last year, Fitch said in a report today. Pension demands will
rise if the state fails to achieve its 8.25 percent assumed
return on investments, the company said.  New Jersey’s pension funds, with $67.2 billion of assets,
returned 1.7 percent last year as gains from debt, private-
equity and real estate investments tempered losses from global
stocks. The funds have an annualized 10-year return of 5.1
percent, according to reports released last week by the
treasury’s investment division.  The state’s estimated pension-funding deficit fell to $36.3
billion from $53.9 billion after passage of Christie’s benefits
plan. The gap then swelled $5.5 billion to $41.8 billion for the
12 months through June after Christie skipped a pension payment.  “Fitch’s report shows again why pension reform was so
vital,”  Andrew Pratt , a spokesman for Treasurer Andrew Sidamon- Eristoff, said in an e-mail. “The unfunded liability for fiscal
2011 would be $20 billion higher if pension reform had not
passed.”  Pension Changes  The bills Christie signed in June raised requirements for
early retirement, boosted employee contributions to pensions and
health care, increased the minimum  retirement age  for new
employees to 65 from 62 and froze cost-of-living increases.  A 2010 law required the state to begin phasing in full
payments over seven years after a decade of lapsed funding.
Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, this year budgeted $484
million for a payment. Actuaries recommended the state put in $3
billion.  New Jersey’s unfunded pension liability will continue to
grow because of the failure to make the full contributions until
fiscal 2018, Fitch said. The company rates New Jersey’s general-
obligation debt AA-, its fourth-highest grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stacie Servetah in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  