-- Nokia Siemens to Cut 2,900 German Jobs in Profitability Push
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-01-31T14:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/nokia-siemens-to-cut-2-900-german-jobs.html
Nokia Siemens Networks, the
wireless-equipment venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , will cut
2,900 jobs in Germany and 1,200 in  Finland  as it struggles to
compete with more profitable manufacturers.  Nokia Siemens will concentrate German operations at five
locations and close other sites including the country
headquarters in Munich, the venture said in a statement today.
The company employs 9,100 people at more than 75 locations in
Germany, according to its  website . Jobs will be cut at all but
two sites in Finland, where it employs 6,900 people.  The company, whose main competitors are Ericsson AB and
Huawei Technologies Co., said in November that it will eliminate
17,000 jobs worldwide, equivalent to about 23 percent of its
workforce, by the end of 2013. The cutbacks are part of a
strategy of reducing annual costs by 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion). Nokia Siemens also announced a target figure of 1,200
for Finnish job cuts ahead of union talks.  “I don’t think you can cut back  Germany  much more than
this,” said Lars Soederfjell, a Stockholm-based analyst at
Aalandsbanken. “Research in the areas outside of mobile
broadband is being hit by this and it’s probably mainly the
fixed networks that are being cut back right now.”  Continued Losses  Chief Executive Officer Rajeev Suri said in November that
Nokia Siemens would scale back product lines to concentrate on
mobile broadband networks and services to become profitable. The
venture has posted losses in all but two quarters since it was
set up in April 2007. The company sold three divisions last
quarter as part of the reorganization.  Nokia  rose  as much as 2.9 percent to 3.87 euros and traded
up 2.1 percent at 4:07 p.m. in Helsinki. Siemens  gained  0.7
percent to 72.75 euros in  Frankfurt .  Operations remaining open in Germany will include optical
networks development in Berlin,  customer service  in Bonn and
Dusseldorf, production and development in Bruchsal and long term
evolution technology, or LTE, development in Ulm, Nokia Siemens
said.  “We oppose this eradication, together with the
employees,” said Michael Leppek, who’s responsible for the
venture at the IG Metall labor union. “Our goal is to retain as
many jobs as possible and to prevent the closure of the Munich
site,” where unions plan protests tomorrow morning.  Finnish Locations  Among sites in Finland, only a plant in Oulu and a
warehouse in Espoo will be spared job eliminations, Nokia
Siemens said. The company employs 6,900 people in the country,
chiefly in Espoo, Oulu, and Tampere.  Nokia Siemens’s workforce totaled 73,686 people as of Dec.
31, compared with 66,160 a year earlier, before it bought assets
from Motorola Solutions Inc., according to Nokia’s 2011
financial report. The venture said in August that it would cut
as many as 1,500 positions from the Motorola units after the
takeover added workers.  The parent companies provided Nokia Siemens with a cash
injection of 1 billion euros in September as Jesper Ovesen, a
former chief financial officer at TDC A/S, was named to oversee
the reorganization as executive chairman.  Disposals  Nokia Siemens sold its microwave unit to  Canada ’s
DragonWave, the WiMax business to NewNet Communications in the
U.S., and a fixed-line operation to Adtran in the U.S. in the
fourth quarter. Further disposals are expected to follow.  “Getting back to positive cash flow and earnings is
priority No. 1 if they want to remain a credible supplier for
the longer term,” Aalandsbanken’s Soederfjell said. “The big
risk right now for NSN is that you may start to lose orders
because competitors can cast doubt on your long-term staying
power.”  Siemens and Nokia abandoned talks in July on selling the
venture to private-equity companies after the buyout firms
failed to come up with a compelling offer. The manufacturers
said in September that Nokia Siemens will “become a more
independent entity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  