-- Obama Aides to Meet Egyptian Delegation Amid Rift Over Groups
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-01-31T19:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/obama-aides-to-meet-egyptian-delegation-amid-rift-over-groups.html
An Egyptian delegation is meeting at
the White House tomorrow with members of President Barack Obama’s national security team as the U.S. presses the
government in Cairo to ease restrictions on democracy and human-
rights organizations, an administration official said.  The visit was planned before  Egypt  earlier this month
blocked some Americans working with non-governmental
organizations from leaving the country, according to the
official, who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.
The discussions will cover a range of issues in addition to the
restrictions on the organizations. The Egyptians also will meet
with Pentagon officials.  Egyptian authorities are preventing Americans working for
U.S.-based non-governmental organizations, including the son of
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, from leaving the
country pending a decision on whether to put them on trial in a
dispute over the groups’ lack of official registration with the
government. Several of the democracy advocates have taken refuge
at the U.S. embassy in Cairo.  Egypt has received an average of $2 billion a year in aid
from the U.S. since 1979, tied to the Camp David peace accord
with  Israel , largely for military purposes, according to the
 Congressional Research Service , the non-partisan research arm of
Congress. To continue the assistance, the Obama administration
must certify to Congress that the country is making progress
toward democracy.  Transition to Democracy  Navy Captain John Kirby, a spokesman for the Pentagon, said
the delegation from the Egyptian Ministry of Defense is in the
U.S. this week to provide updates on the nation’s “transition
to democracy and consult on a wide range of security issues.”  The Egyptian officials are in Tampa today, meeting with
officials of the U.S. military’s combatant command for the
 Middle East  and Central Asia, which includes Egypt. They’re
scheduled to hold meetings in  Washington  starting tomorrow and
running through Feb. 3.  Friction over NGO restrictions increased after Sam LaHood,
the transportation secretary’s son and resident country director
of the International Republican Institute in Egypt, was stopped
on Jan. 21 from boarding a flight to leave Egypt.  Obama had called Egyptian Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of Egypt’s interim ruling body, a day earlier and
stressed the importance of allowing non-governmental
organizations to operate freely. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
last weekend made his second call to Tantawi on the NGO issue.  Message to Delegation  Charles Dunne, director of Middle East and North Africa
programs at  Freedom House , one of the American NGOs targeted by
the Egyptian government, said administration officials must tell
the Egyptians “that this is taken very seriously by the U.S.
government” for certification of continued aid.  Freedom House estimates that 400 American and Egyptian
NGO’s working in Egypt have been similarly targeted for
harassment, said Dunne, a former U.S. diplomat in Cairo.  “It’s a pretty broad-based assault on Egyptian society,”
he said in an interview.  The  U.S. Congress , concerned that Egypt’s military council
or hard-liners might thwart the country’s transition to
democracy, imposed conditions on aid to Egypt in its funding
legislation starting in the current fiscal year.  The law prohibits releasing military assistance to Egypt
unless Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  certifies that Egypt’s
government is “supporting the transition to civilian
government,” including free and fair elections, freedom of
expression, association and religion and due process of law.
Egypt also must uphold its 1979 peace treaty with Israel.  Military Link  Efforts to form a new Egyptian government almost a year
after President  Hosni Mubarak  was forced from office by
widespread protests have been marked by criticism from human
rights groups about repression by military officials  The military link is pivotal for U.S. influence in Egypt
and will be even more important as the  Muslim Brotherhood  and
the Islamic Salafi movement rise to power through elections,
said  Paul Sullivan , a professor at the National Defense
University in Washington who formerly taught at the American
University in Cairo.  “It’s getting ratcheted up over here, it’s getting
ratcheted up over there, and if we’re not careful, it will spin
out of control,” Sullivan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 