-- Obama Seeks to Extend, Expand Small-Business Tax Breaks
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-31T20:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/obama-urges-congress-to-extend-expand-small-business-tax-breaks.html
President  Barack Obama  sent Congress
a package of small business measures today that he said would
expand tax relief and unlock capital to boost the economy and
create jobs.  The plan would expand and make permanent a zero capital
gains rate on small business investments; enact a new, 10
percent tax credit for hiring or increasing  wages ; double to
$10,000 from $5,000 the deductions a startup business could take
and extend 100 percent first-year depreciation, for one year,
for qualified property placed in service before Jan. 1, 2013.  Obama said he wants “to spur entrepreneurship, to help
startups.” At the start of a Cabinet meeting at the White
House, he called on Congress to quickly act on legislation and
said he would “sign it right away.”  Over the past week, the president has been fleshing out
proposals he advanced in his State of the Union address.
Tomorrow, he’s scheduled to give remarks about the economy and
talk about proposals to revive the nation’s housing market.  In the election-year tension between the White House and
Congress, tax benefits for small business may be an area where
Democrats and Republican are to bridge differences.  Raising Money  Karen Mills, head of the  Small Business Administration ,
said the agenda includes steps to make it easier for startup
companies to raise money and to go public. She said it includes
an expansion of a government small business investment program
to an authorized level of $4 billion a year from $3 billion.  “We can target this to places that have been hard hit by
the economy,” Mills said in a conference call with reporters.  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell , said in a statement that while initiatives on funding
and becoming a public company have bipartisan support they
haven’t been scheduled for action in the Democratic-controlled
chamber.  This isn’t about “a contest, or who can claim credit, but
whether we can demonstrate an ability to come together” to help
create jobs and accelerate hiring,  Gene Sperling , director of
the National Economic Council at the White House, said on a
conference call.  Details of the proposals will be included in the fiscal
2013 budget Obama submits to Congress Feb. 13.  The package builds on Obama’s Startup America, which was
announced by the White House a year ago to foster
entrepreneurship to create jobs.  A Small Business Jobs Act that Obama signed in September
2010 included eight tax cuts providing more than $12 billion in
tax breaks for small businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  