-- Obama Says Drone Strikes Important Weapon Against Terrorists
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-01-31T00:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/obama-says-drone-strikes-important-weapon-against-terrorists.html
President  Barack Obama  said drone
strikes on terrorism targets have been “very precise” and will
remain a key part of the fight against terrorists.  The drone strikes by U.S. forces “have not caused a huge
number of civilian casualties,” Obama said in a question-and-
answer session with the public conducted through  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
social networking site Google+.  “It is important for everybody to understand that this
thing is kept on a very tight leash,” Obama said. Drone strikes
on targets inside Pakistan have increased friction between the
U.S. and Pakistani authorities.  In response to another question, Obama said the U.S.
relationship with Pakistan has deteriorated in part because the
nation’s leaders either lack the political will or the capacity
to take on extremists.  “Our relations have gotten more strained because there are
a lot of extremists inside that country,” he said.  Still, he said continued U.S. aid to  Pakistan  and other
nations is important to U.S. security.  “We only spend about one percent of our budget on foreign
aid, but it pays off in a lot of ways,” he said.  On a domestic policy topic, Obama said the U.S. must come
up with a way to protect intellectual property rights on the
Internet that won’t damage “the fundamental integrity of the
internet as an open, transparent system.”  Congress shelved anti-piracy legislation supported by
Hollywood studios after protests by Internet companies,
including Google and Facebook Inc., argued the bills would
hinder innovation, chill free expression and disrupt the Web’s
functioning.  Obama said both sides should work toward a compromise that
would preserve the “basic architecture that’s made the Internet
so powerful and such an open system.”  The online interview appeared on the White House YouTube
channel, and almost 228,000 people submitted more than 133,000
questions and cast more than 1.6 million votes, according to
White House press secretary  Jay Carney .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  