-- Ocado Chief Says Sales Growth to Near 20%
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-31T08:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/ocado-says-loss-narrowed-predicts-slower-revenue-growth.html
Ocado Group Plc (OCDO) , the U.K.’s
largest online grocer, predicted that sales growth will
approach 20 percent by the end of the year and reported that
its annual loss narrowed.  Revenue will be boosted by improved distribution capacity
and expansion in the number of products offered, including
Ocado’s own-label goods, Chief Executive Officer Tim Steiner
said today in a telephone interview.  Sales growth in the first quarter will be about 10 percent,
“broadly in line” with the prior quarter and a slowdown
compared to last year’s 16.6 percent growth, the Hatfield,
England-based company said today in a statement.  “We expect to see an acceleration in the growth rate
through the quarters, so from around 10 percent to somewhere
approaching double that level by the last quarter” Steiner
said. The company is building warehouse capacity and adding
specialty items including Daylesford Organic products.  Ocado rose as much as 6 percent in  London  trading and was
up 5.4 percent at 84.5 pence at 8:30 a.m. That extended the
stock’s gain this year to 55 percent.  “Against the backdrop of a weak U.K. economy, we have
continued to see the development of the online grocery retail
market,” Steiner said in the statement. “We believe this
growth is evidence of a structural shift in consumer behavior
and we will continue to see an expansion of the online grocery
retail market.”  Annual Earnings  Ocado said in December that annual earnings would miss
estimates, hurt by capacity constraints at its distribution
center and the cost of employing extra staff to boost order
fulfillment.  The pretax loss was 2.42 million pounds ($3.8 million) in
the year ended Nov. 27, compared with a loss of 12.2 million
pounds a year earlier, the retailer said today. The average of
10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for a loss of
1.8 million pounds.  Ocado, which listed on the stock exchange in July 2010 and
mostly sells items from upmarket grocer Waitrose Ltd., hasn’t
reported a pretax profit in its 12-year history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  