-- Logitech LifeSize CEO Forecasts Rebound in Revenue Growth
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-01-31T09:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/logitech-s-lifesize-chief-says-slowdown-transition-not-trend-.html
Logitech International SA (LOGN) ’s  LifeSize
Communications Inc.  expects sales growth to accelerate in coming
months after introducing a new videoconferencing offering,
according to the division’s chief.  Lower sales growth in the last quarter of 2011 “was a
moment in time, a transition, not a trend,” Colin Buechler, the
unit’s chief executive officer, said in a phone interview. “The
platform we’re unveiling today will help us back to the expected
growth rates.”  LifeSize’s new universal video collaboration, or UVC,
system provides a “simpler, cost-effective” option for
companies, Buechler said. Logitech, the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, bought LifeSize for $405 million in 2009.
Logitech is seeking new sources of revenue as the proliferation
of tablet computers, which aren’t controlled by mice, are
eroding its traditional desktop and notebook business.  Logitech, based in Morges,  Switzerland , last week cut full-
year forecasts for the third time, citing the weaker euro and
declining sales. Revenue at LifeSize climbed 5.8 percent in the
last three months of 2011 to $38.2 million, down from 19 percent
growth in the previous quarter.  “The LifeSize miss was unexpected,” John F. Bright, an
analyst at Avondale Partners LLC, wrote in a note.  Russia and India  The UVC platform is an “integrated, virtualized software
platform for video infrastructure,” consolidating multiple
products and making them available from a common interface,
LifeSize said in a statement today. It is available worldwide
with infrastructure applications starting at $3,999.  LifeSize is expanding in countries such as Russia and  India 
where “demand is robust,” said Buechler, who was appointed CEO
of the Austin, Texas-based division on Jan. 10.  Demand will also be boosted by “thousands and thousands”
of small and medium-size companies, which will be able to afford
videoconferencing services as the cost of a video-communication
system drops to about $1,000, Buechler predicted.  Trends driving the adoption of videoconferencing include
mobility, led by the surge of smartphones and tablets; the
increase of remote workers connected from home; and companies
seeking to cut travel costs by relying on virtual
communications. Industries such as education, health care and
financial services are increasingly resorting to video
communications, Buechler said.  Logitech’s total revenue fell 5 percent to $714.6 million
in the last three months of 2011.  Logitech shares rose as much as 1.4 percent to 6.99 Swiss
francs and was up 0.9 percent as of 10:24 a.m. in Zurich. The
company has a market value of 1.33 billion francs ($1.46
billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  