-- Crude Oil Snaps Three Days of Declines on Signs of China Growth
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-02-01T13:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/oil-futures-decline-for-third-day-as-consumer-confidence-equities-drop.html
Oil snapped three days of declines in
New York after  China ’s manufacturing index unexpectedly rose,
boosting speculation that the world’s second-biggest crude
consumer is withstanding Europe’s debt crisis.  Futures gained as much as 0.9 percent after China’s
purchasing managers’ index rose to 50.5 from 50.3 in December.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a reading
below the 50 level that marks the difference between expansion
and contraction. Oil pared gains after a report from ADP
Employer Services showed U.S. companies added fewer workers to
payrolls in January than economists estimated.  “Today’s Chinese data was good, and oil is rising in line
with other markets,” said  Eugen Weinberg , the head of
commodities research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The
liquidity situation is extremely good. The market is flooded
with money right now from the central banks. Interest rates are
at extremely low levels, so it is a very generous situation for
financial market participants.”  Crude for March delivery increased as much as 89 cents to
$99.37 in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and traded at $98.87 at 1:19 p.m. London time. The contract
yesterday declined 0.3 percent to $98.48 a barrel, the lowest
close since Jan. 20. Prices slid 0.4 percent in January, falling
for a second month.  Brent oil for March settlement gained $1.12 to $112.10 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
futures traded at $13.23, compared with a record spread of
$27.88 on Oct. 14.  Iranian Risk Premium  The European Union said last month it will ban Iranian oil
imports starting in July and freeze the assets of the country’s
central bank as part of sanctions against the Persian Gulf
nation’s nuclear program.  “We still have a significant Iranian  risk premium ,”  Phil
Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago, said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  Following this week’s trip to  Iran  by a team from the
 International Atomic Energy Agency , Chief Inspector Herman
Nackaerts told reporters in Vienna today the visit was “good”
and that another trip will be likely.  Oil in  New York  has technical resistance along the 50-day
moving average around $99.17 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures settled below that indicator in
the previous two days. Investors tend to sell contracts close to
chart-resistance levels.  Stockpile Reports  U.S. crude  inventories  rose by 2.1 million barrels last
week to 339.5 million barrels, the highest since the week ended
Nov. 11, data from the  American Petroleum Institute  showed
yesterday. An Energy Department report today may show they
increased by  2.6 million barrels , according to the median of 12
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies
are projected to rise 500,000 barrels, according to the survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
Energy Department requires that reports be filed for its weekly
survey, which is scheduled to be released at 10:30 a.m. in
 Washington  today.  U.S. drivers bought 8.51 million barrels a day of gasoline
in the week ended Jan. 27, according to MasterCard Inc.’s
SpendingPulse report on Jan. 31. While that was up from 8.48
million the prior week, fuel demand fell below year-earlier
levels for the 22nd consecutive time last week, declining 5.5
percent from 2011, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  