-- Crude Oil Heads for Monthly Gain on Signs of EU Progress, Tension in Iran
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-01-31T13:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/oil-increases-as-much-as-0-5-in-new-york-to-99-28-on-economic-strength.html
Oil headed for the third monthly
gain since September after  Greece ’s prime minister said debt-
swap talks have made progress, easing concern that  Europe ’s
sovereign debt turmoil will curb demand.  Futures increased as much as 1.9 percent in  New York  after
slipping yesterday to the lowest settlement in more than a week.
Crude also rallied as equities gained and the dollar weakened
after Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said that he is
committed to debt-swap talks with bondholders. Speculation that
sanctions may reduce oil exports from Iran heightened as
international nuclear inspectors met with officials in Tehran.  “There’s risk-on this morning,” which is lifting equities
and commodities, said Ole Hansen, a senior manager of trading
advisory at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “We’ve got a host of
geopolitical situations among the major producers and that will
keep the market supported,” he said, citing Iran tensions and
output halts in  South Sudan  and  Nigeria .  Crude for March delivery gained as much as $1.91 to $100.69
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $100.17 at 12:13 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday fell 78 cents to $98.78, the lowest closing
level since Jan. 20. Prices have risen 1.4 percent this month
and are headed for their biggest January gain since 2006.  Brent oil for March settlement was up $1.53, or 1.4
percent, at $112.28 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange for a gain of 4.6 percent this month. The
European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
futures was at $12.20, compared with $11.97 yesterday and a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  ‘Through the Roof’  London-traded Brent earlier jumped as much as 2.8 percent,
the biggest gain since Jan. 3, after rising above $111.83, its
average closing price in the previous 200 trading days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Brent went through the roof,” said  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director at Switzerland-based consultants Petromatrix
GmbH. “It’s technical triggers in a low-volume environment.”  Equities advanced and the dollar weakened after Papademos,
speaking following a European Union summit in Brussels,
indicated that Europe will find a way out of its debt problems.
The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  added 0.5 percent to 1245.52 today. The
measure has risen 5.2 percent in January and is set for the
biggest monthly gain since October. The euro rose as much as 0.5
percent to $1.3214. A weaker dollar increases the appeal of
commodities priced in the U.S. currency.  International Inspection  Crude posted its third annual gain in 2011 on speculation
escalating tension in the  Middle East  would disrupt supplies
amid a recovery in the  U.S. economy  that would bolster demand.
Futures extended gains this year after the European Union agreed
to embargo Iranian oil exports.  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors who arrived
in Tehran Jan. 29 to clarify aspects of  Iran ’s nuclear program
may extend their stay, Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said,
according to IRNA.  The delegation planned “a three-day mission, but their
stay can be extended if they wish,” Salehi said in the
Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa, the official  Islamic Republic
News Agency  reported yesterday.  “Prices should continue to be supported by a geopolitical
risk premium around $5 to $10 a barrel with a high risk of Iran
to halt crude exports to Europe in retaliation for the EU’s
embargo in July,” Natalie Robertson, commodity analyst at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in
a note today. “Swift action could cause prices to spike higher
due to the dislocation in supply.”  Markets ‘Well-Supplied’  Western countries have accused Iran of using its nuclear
program as a cover for developing weapons. EU foreign ministers
agreed last week to ban Iranian oil imports starting in July and
freeze the assets of the country’s central bank.  Global oil markets are “very well-supplied,” according to
Abdalla El-Badri, the head of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. Any disruption to shipping in the Persian
Gulf, as threatened by Iranian officials in response to a
European embargo on the country’s oil exports, is unlikely, he
said yesterday in  London .  Saudi Arabia , the largest producer in OPEC, has capacity to
replace any supply that disappears, the country’s oil minister,
 Ali Al-Naimi , said at the same event.  U.S. Inventories  Oil inventories in the U.S. rose for the fifth time in six
weeks as refineries processed less in response to lower gasoline
demand, a Bloomberg News survey showed. A build in crude oil
typically puts downward pressure on prices.  Stockpiles rose 2.5 million barrels, or 0.7 percent, to
337.3 million in the seven days ended Jan. 27, according to the
median of seven analyst estimates before tomorrow’s weekly
Energy Department report. An increase of that size would leave
inventories at the highest level since the week ended Nov. 4.
Six of the respondents projected a gain and one a decline.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release weekly crude
and product inventory data today.  U.S. refiners and the union representing more than 30,000
workers have been unable to agree on a new three-year labor
contract because the industry hasn’t addressed demands for
health and safety improvements, according to three union
representatives familiar with negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  