-- Case Shiller Home-Price Index Falls 3.7%
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-31T14:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-fell-3-7-from-year-ago-case-shiller-says.html
Residential real estate prices fell
more than forecast in November, showing distressed properties
are hampering improvement in the U.S. housing market.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 cities
declined 3.7 percent from November 2010 after decreasing 3.4
percent in the year ended in October, the group said today in
New York. Economists projected a 3.3 percent drop, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Another wave of foreclosures threatens to keep the pressure
on prices and delay recovery in the industry that precipitated
the last recession, underscoring the  Federal Reserve ’s view that
housing “remains depressed.” More stability in real-estate
values may be needed to persuade Americans to take advantage of
record-low  mortgage rates .  “We’ve seen  home prices  take a turn for the worse after
showing some signs of a bottom, and we do think that there is
more downside from here,” said Ellen Zentner, a senior
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York,
who correctly forecast the price decline. “If you get stronger
jobs and wage growth, it’ll go far in alleviating some of the
pipeline foreclosures that have yet to happen.”  Stock-index futures held gains after the figures. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in March
rose 0.5 percent to 1,315.7 at 9:22 a.m. in  New York .  Estimates for the price change ranged from declines of 3.9
percent to 2 percent, according to the forecasts of 30
economists in the Bloomberg survey. The Case-Shiller index is
based on a three-month average, which means the November data
was influenced by transactions in September and October.  Month to Month  Home prices adjusted for seasonal variations fell 0.7
percent in November, matching the drop in October. Unadjusted
prices declined 1.3 from October as 19 of 20 cities showed
declines. Phoenix posted a 0.6 percent gain from October.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller group. The
panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who
created the index.  Eighteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by an 11.8 percent slump in Atlanta and a 9.1
percent decrease in  Las Vegas .  Detroit  showed the biggest year-over-year increase, with
prices rising 3.8 percent in the 12 months to November. The
other gain was in  Washington , where prices climbed 0.5 percent
from November 2010.  ‘Trend Is Down’  “Despite continued low interest rates and better real GDP
growth in the fourth quarter, home prices continue to fall,”
 David Blitzer , chairman of the S&P index committee, said in a
statement. “The trend is down and there are few, if any, signs
in the numbers that a turning point is close at hand.”  Historically low  mortgage rates  have failed to revive
housing sales above their pre-recession  peak . The average 30-
year fixed rate mortgage was 3.98 percent as of Jan. 26,
according to a Freddie Mac index. The index reached the lowest
level in 40 years on Jan. 19, when rates fell to 3.88 percent.  A rebound in the inventory of unsold homes may hinder
progress. Banks may seize more than 1 million U.S. homes this
year after legal scrutiny of foreclosure practices slowed
actions against delinquent property owners in 2011, RealtyTrac
Inc., an Irvine, California-based data seller, said Jan. 12.  “Lending standards and demand for loans to purchase
residential real estate were reportedly little changed” in the
fourth quarter from the prior three-month period, the Fed said
yesterday. The Fed surveyed loan officers at 56 domestic banks
and 23 U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks between Dec.
21 and Jan. 10.  Fed on Housing  Fed officials, at the conclusion of their Jan. 24-25 policy
meeting, said the “housing sector remains depressed,” a reason
for their decision to keep  interest rates  low until 2014.  At the same time, falling joblessness and rising incomes
have made Americans more  optimistic , which may provide the
demand needed to stabilize prices. In December, the  unemployment
rate  fell to an almost three-year low of 8.5 percent, Labor
Department figures showed Jan. 6. Personal incomes climbed 0.5
percent last month, the most since March, the Commerce
Department said yesterday.  Builders have become more upbeat about the housing market.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment
index  rose  this month to the highest level since June 2007 as
sales and buyer traffic improved.  Economic Signs  “We turn our attention to the spring selling season with a
renewed sense of optimism, not only because of our own improving
trends but also because of the favorable signs we see in the
economy, new and existing home level inventory, employment,
affordability and  consumer confidence  as it impacts our
business,” Larry T. Nicholson, chief executive officer of
 Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , said during a Jan. 27 conference call.  The  Westlake Village , California-based company builds homes
with an average price of $255,000 in 13 states. Orders climbed
24 percent at Ryland in the fourth quarter from the same three
months a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  