-- U.S. Home Prices Probably Fell at Slower Rate
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-31T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-probably-fell-at-a-slower-rate.html
Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
probably fell at a slower pace in the year to November, pointing
to limited improvement in the residential real estate market,
economists said before reports today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 cities
dropped 3.3 percent from November 2010, the smallest decline in
10 months, after decreasing 3.4 percent in the year ended in
October, according to the median forecast of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Consumer confidence  in January
climbed to the highest level since February 2011, another report
may show.  More stable home prices may help persuade Americans to take
advantage of record-low  mortgage rates , supporting the industry
that precipitated the last recession. At the same time, the
recovery in housing may be slow to develop as foreclosures put
more properties onto the market.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty about what kind of
gains there will be for home prices over the next couple of
years,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior U.S. economist at Bank of
America Corp. in  New York . “In the near term, home prices will
see a modest drop, but once market clears the foreclosures, a
nice rebound will start to kick in.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index, based on a three-month average,
is due at 9 a.m. New York time. Survey  estimates  ranged from
declines of 3.9 percent to 2 percent.  Home prices, after adjusting for seasonal variations, fell
0.5 percent in November from the prior month, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  The year-over-year gauges provide better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Jobs and Income  Falling joblessness and rising incomes have made Americans
more optimistic, which may spur demand and help stabilize
prices. In December, the  unemployment rate  fell to an almost
three-year low of 8.5 percent, Labor Department figures said
Jan. 6. Personal incomes climbed 0.5 percent last month, the
most since March, the Commerce Department said yesterday.  The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer confidence
gauge, due at 10 a.m., probably rose to 68 this month from 64.5
in December, the Bloomberg survey  median  shows.  Builders have become more upbeat about the housing market.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment
index  rose  this month to the highest level since June 2007 as
sales and buyer traffic improved.  ‘Renewed’ Confidence  “We turn our attention to the spring selling season with a
renewed sense of optimism, not only because of our own improving
trends but also because of the favorable signs we see in the
economy, new and existing home level inventory, employment,
affordability and consumer confidence as it impacts our
business,” Larry T. Nicholson, chief executive officer of
 Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , said during a Jan. 27 conference call.  The  Westlake Village , California-based company builds homes
with an average price of $255,000 in 13 states. Orders climbed
24 percent in the fourth quarter from the same three months a
year earlier.  Builder shares have improved as the market stabilized. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder Index of 12
builders including Ryland and Lennar Corp. has  surged  51 percent
since the end of the third quarter, compared with a 16 percent
increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  Nonetheless, a rebound in the inventory of unsold homes
could hinder progress. Banks may seize more than 1 million
houses in 2012 after legal scrutiny of foreclosure practices
slowed actions against delinquent property owners in 2011,
RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data seller, said
Jan. 12.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  