-- Honda Cuts Full-Year Profit Forecast After Thai Floods Disrupt Production
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-01-31T07:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/honda-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast-after-thai-floods-disrupt-production.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Japan ’s third-
largest automobile maker, lowered its full-year profit forecast
after  Thailand ’s worst floods in almost 70 years disrupted
Southeast Asian production.  Net income will decline to a three-year low of 215 billion
yen ($2.8 billion) in the 12 months ending March 31, compared
with a previous estimate of 230 billion yen, the company said in
a statement today. Honda also lowered projections for operating
profit and revenue.  The Thai floods hit Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda as they
were recovering from the deadly tsunami that ravaged
northeastern Japan in March, allowing  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to gain market share. Japanese confidence is
now returning, with Honda President Takanobu Ito saying last
week he expects record vehicle sales next fiscal year amid a
“complete rebound.”  “The company will probably see the best improvement in its
financial status among Japanese carmakers after production
returns to normal because Honda was probably the worst hit,”
said Takashi Aoki, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based Mizuho Asset
Management Co. “Its production growth will probably be much
faster than others.”  Honda estimates the Thai floods will cost the company 110
billion yen this fiscal year and the appreciation of the yen
will cost about 57 billion yen, it said. That led the company to
lower its forecast for operating profit, or sales minus the cost
of goods sold and administrative expenses, by 26 percent to 200
billion yen.  Analysts Miss Again  Average analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg called for
Honda to raise its forecast for net income to about 250 billion
yen and keep the one for operating profit unchanged. Before
Toyota slashed its profit forecast by 54 percent last month, the
average analyst estimate had projected for no change.  Third-quarter net income fell 41 percent from a year
earlier, while operating profit declined 65 percent and revenue
dropped 8 percent, the company said.  Honda, the maker of the Civic and Accord sedans, is
predicting earnings to recover next fiscal year.  Sales in the 12 months ending March 2013 will exceed 4
million vehicles for the first time as the carmaker heads for
the “year of the complete rebound,” President Ito said in an
interview last week. The redesigned Accord sedan, the Civic and
CR-V sport-utility vehicle will help Honda increase U.S. sales
24 percent to 1.43 million units in 2012, Ito said.  Annual production at Honda fell for the second time in
three years, declining 20 percent to 2.91 million units in 2011.
Worldwide output at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s biggest carmaker,
fell 8.2 percent to 7.8 million units last year.  Best Performer  Honda fell 0.6 percent to 2,666 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo trading before the earnings announcement. Honda shares
have added 14 percent this year, the best performer among
Japan’s three biggest carmakers.  Honda revised its outlook for the yen against the dollar to
78 from 80, and 106 from 112 versus the euro. The company
estimates its operating income to be reduced by 15 billion yen
for every one yen gain against the dollar, and 1 billion yen to
the euro.  “Honda wasn’t even able to compete this year,” said
 Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-based auto analyst at research firm
Toward the Infinite World Inc. “There will be a recovery next
fiscal year though, as Honda introduces new cars and inventory
recovers in  North America .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  