-- Lone Colombian Forecaster Who Got Rate Call Right Predicts More Increases
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-01-31T19:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/lone-colombian-forecaster-who-got-rate-call-right-predicts-more-increases.html
Global Securities’s Daniel Escobar,
the only analyst surveyed by Bloomberg to predict  Colombia ’s
 interest-rate  increase yesterday, says policy makers will raise
borrowing costs twice more by June to keep inflation in check.  Escobar correctly forecast that the central bank would
raise the benchmark overnight target 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 5 percent while the other 31 analysts in
the survey predicted no change. The increase is the eighth since
the beginning of last year as central bankers seek to cool the
fastest economic growth in five years, even as their
counterparts from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  trimmed  interest rates  to
fend off the effects of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Colombia’s internal dynamics remain strong and the
economy doesn’t need further stimulus,” Escobar said by
telephone from Bogota. Policy makers will raise the rate to as
high as 5.5 percent in the first half of 2012 and leave it there
through year-end, he said.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  last month said it wouldn’t be
“appropriate” for the bank to raise borrowing costs as other
central banks cut. Colombia’s peso jumped as much as 1.1
percent, and bond yields rose today.  The surprise move follows a 25-basis-point increase in
November, when the seven-member board, led by central bank chief
Jose Dario Uribe, cited the need to bolster credibility amid
rising inflation expectations. Policy makers kept the rate on
hold in December.  ‘Surprise’  Colombia’s rate increases are in contrast to cuts in
 emerging markets  worldwide. Brazil,  Chile ,  Russia , the
 Philippines ,  Israel ,  Romania , Moldova, and Mauritius all reduced
benchmark lending rates within the past two months amid concern
Europe’s debt crisis will derail global growth.  The rate differential, or spread, between peso bonds due
July 2024 and June 2016 may fall as the unexpected move reduces
inflation expectations, said Munir Jalil, the chief economist at
Citigroup’s Colombia unit.  “This definitely took the market by surprise,” said Jalil
in a phone interview from Bogota. “The central bank’s statement
is very hawkish, the question now is how much farther they have
to go.”  The peso advanced 0.4 percent to 1,810.40 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1,817.75 yesterday. Yields on the government’s peso bonds
due May 2014 rose 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to
6.18 percent, according to data from the country’s stock
exchange.  ‘Strong Momentum’  Signals the economy is slowing will allow Banco de la
Republica to leave the benchmark rate at 5 percent through June
before raising it to 5.5 percent at the end of 2012, according
to Jalil.  Colombia’s  retail sales  rose 1.3 percent in November from
the year-earlier period, lower than the 5.9 percent median
estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Bank lending is
also showing signs of slowing, Jalil said.  In their statement yesterday, policy makers cited rapidly-
expanding credit and economic growth that reached 7.7 percent in
the third quarter as the reasons for raising rates.  “The latest information suggests that in the fourth
quarter, the Colombian economy continued to show strong
momentum,” policy makers said in their  statement . “Bank credit
continued to show high rates of increases.”  The bank’s statement was “very plain” and didn’t give
many details on how the decision was made during the meeting
that lasted nearly eight hours, said Julian Marquez, analyst at
Interbolsa SA in Bogota.  No Indications  Third-quarter gross domestic product growth seemed to be
what “triggered” the bank’s decision, he said.  Marquez said the bank didn’t give any indicators on its
position toward future rate decisions.  Total lending rose to 213 trillion pesos ($117.2 billion)
in November, up 22 percent from 174.3 trillion pesos in the same
month a year earlier.  Uribe yesterday said the bank expects the economy expanded
5.5 percent to 6 percent in 2011 and will grow 4 percent to 6
percent in 2012. He said the rate increase seeks to stabilize
growth.  At the same time, the bank also noted that inflation
expectations have increased. Inflation ended 2011 at 3.73
percent, within the central bank’s target of 2 percent to 4
percent for 2011 and for 2012.  ‘Cruise Speed’  In a bid to ease gains in the currency, the central bank
said Oct. 28 it will sell $200 million in dollar options
whenever the peso’s 20-day moving average changes by more than 4
percent. No options have been auctioned since the announcement.  Speaking after the decision at the central bank in Bogota,
Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the government won’t
bring any dollars into the country for financing in 2012, and
will also keep at least $1 billion of Ecopetrol dividends
offshore -- continuing a policy from last year -- in a bid to
keep the peso’s appreciation in check.  Additionally, the government will also keep $1.2 billion of
royalty funds offshore, Echeverry said, adding that the rate
increase was intended to keep the economy on “cruise speed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net 
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net 
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  