-- Hong Kong Homes Face 25% Drop in Year of the Dragon: Mortgages
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-02-01T05:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/hong-kong-homes-face-25-drop-as-loans-fall-in-year-of-dragon-mortgages.html
The Year of the Dragon, representing
wealth and power in China, is shaping up to be the opposite for
the world’s costliest housing market, Hong Kong.  Mortgages (HKMGLEND)  that need to be insured by the government because
of risk experienced the steepest plunge in six years in 2011, a
sign the biggest home price decline since the global credit
crisis is accelerating. Property  prices  that have slid 6 percent
since June may fall as much as 25 percent by 2013, estimates
 Andrew Lawrence  of  Barclays Capital , who predicted the initial
slide in April.  Asian real estate markets from  Singapore  to Beijing to
Mumbai are stalling or have started declining as governments
seek to curb the type of  housing bubble  that brought down the
 U.S. economy . In Hong Kong, rising borrowing costs, extra
transaction taxes and higher down-payment requirements imposed
by the government have fueled the slump.  “We’re in for a very challenging first half,” said Wong Leung-sing, associate director of research at  Centaline Property
Agency Ltd. , the city’s biggest closely held realtor. “The drop
in secondary mortgages means buyers are having trouble borrowing
from the banks the full amounts they need. The ones that are
taking the biggest hits right now are the middle- to lower-
priced housing segment.”  Prices had surged 70 percent from 2009 to their 14-year
high in June. Home deals in December fell for a sixth straight
month to the lowest since November 2008, according to the Land
Registry.  Hong Kong  will continue measures to maintain stable home
prices, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said at his annual budget
speech today.  36 Percent Drop  Loans covered by the Hong Kong Mortgage Corp.’s insurance
program decreased 36 percent in 2011 from a year earlier to
HK$26 billion ($3.4 billion), according to figures released Jan.
11. It was the biggest drop since 2006, said the body, which was
set up in 1999 to provide government insurance for mortgages
exceeding 70 percent of a property’s value -- also known as
secondary mortgages -- in a bid to revive slumping home prices
at that time.  The HKMC in June 2011 reduced the maximum value of property
that can be covered by its insurance program to HK$6 million
from HK$6.8 million, the second reduction since late 2010.  Hong Kong’s median home price of HK$3.15 million is a
record 12.6 times the annual median household income of
HK$249,000, according to a Jan. 23 report by Belleville,
Illinois-based Demographia. Second-place Vancouver had a 10.6
multiple, followed by Sydney with 9.2.  Falling Transactions  The number of property transactions with a value of below
HK$2 million will probably fall to less than 900 this month, the
lowest since record-keeping began in 1996, according to  Midland
Holdings Ltd. (1200) , Hong Kong’s biggest publicly traded realtor.  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers including  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and
billionaire Li Ka-shing’s  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , fell 24
percent in 2011, after gaining more than 75 percent over the
previous two years.  The gauge fell 0.5 percent at the noon trading break today,
reversing an earlier gain. It has gained 12 percent this year,
compared with the 11 percent increase in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  Chinese New Year began on Jan. 23. Dragon years in the 12-
year zodiac are associated with wealth and power because the
creature is the icon of China’s emperors.  A three-room, 880-square-foot apartment in Tai Koo Shing,
one of Hong Kong’s biggest middle-class private housing projects,
was sold for HK$7 million this month, HK$1.5 million lower than
the original asking price, according to Kenneth Chiu, a district
sales manager at Centaline.  Rising Lending Rates  Last year’s decline in prices and transactions coincided
with the rise in borrowing costs. Hong Kong banks, led by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBC)  and  BOC Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (2388) , increased mortgage
rates at least six times since April as liquidity dried up.  Despite the Jan. 25 announcement by U.S. Federal Reserve
officials that benchmark  interest rates  would probably remain
below 1 percent through 2014, average mortgage rates in Hong
Kong are forecast to rise.  They could reach as high as 4 percent by the end of 2012
from the current 2.38 percent, said Sharmaine Lau, chief
economist at  mReferral Mortgage Brokerage Services . Borrowing
costs were 0.9 percent in early 2011, almost the lowest in 20
years, the company’s data shows.  ‘Slightly Faster Fall’  The increase “should weigh on transaction volume and
suggests we will see a slightly faster fall in prices,” said
Lawrence, the Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays. “It’s
incremental that each time mortgage rates go up, there are less
people in the market.”  Liquidity is falling as tightening measures in  China  have
driven companies to borrow in Hong Kong, while capital outflows
from the city continue as foreign banks repatriate funds from
 Asia  because of the European sovereign debt crisis.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the city’s de-facto
central bank, has asked lenders to keep more reserves as part of
their counter-cyclical measures, Chief Executive  Norman Chan 
said in November.  “Hong Kong banks are very reluctant about raising mortgage
rates further because of what it may do to transactions,” said
Lau. “But at the same time they’re facing a steep increase in
funding costs.”  For a HK$2 million, 20-year mortgage, the increased
interest rate of 4 percent from 2.38 percent means an extra
HK$19,656, or 16 percent, in annual repayments, Bloomberg
calculations show.  ‘Irrationally Low’  “The last couple years mortgage rates have been
irrationally low,” said Lau. “Bringing them back to the 3 to 4
percent range would bring things to a more reasonable level from
a historical perspective.”  The HKMA, which doesn’t have an independent interest-rate
policy because of the local currency’s peg to the  U.S. dollar ,
has kept its base rate at a record-low 0.5 percent since
December 2008.  Hong Kong’s property prices halved between 1997 and 2003 as
the city fell into recession brought on by the Asian financial
crisis, the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and the SARS epidemic.
Since 2004, prices have recovered while loans drawn down from
the HKMC rose for four straight years from 2007 to a record
HK$41 billion in 2010.  The government’s mortgage insurance program has been “the
way many first-time buyers managed to get into what is an
extremely expensive market,” said Lawrence. The next group to
be affected will be “the equity-rich, first-time buyers who are
going to get priced out of the market.”  ‘Determined’  Lawrence forecast in April that home prices might drop
because of rising mortgage rates.  To temper surging housing demand, the government has
imposed extra stamp duties since 2010 on all homes sold within
two years of the date of purchase, while raising minimum down-
payment requirements on some property transactions. It has also
increased land supply for private housing, and pledged to build
more subsidized homes and ensure the supply of land for private
housing.  The government is “determined” to increase land supply
and will make available at least 47 residential sites for
auctions, Financial Secretary Tsang said today. The sites will
provide about 13,500 homes, he said.  Buyers Sidelined  “At a time like this, most buyers are staying on the
sideline,” said Simon Lo, head of Asia research and advisory
for property broker Colliers International. “The general
expectation is that home prices will drop further so they are
all postponing their homebuyer plans.”  Home prices are also stalling because of the threat of a
slowdown in wage increases, Lo said. About 13 percent of Hong
Kong firms plan staff cuts in the first quarter, exceeding the
previous quarter’s 8 percent, according to a report by New York-
based headhunter Hudson Highland Group Inc.  Home prices may need to fall at least 10 percent in 2012
before buyers are lured back,  Benjamin Hung , chief executive
officer of  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s local unit, Hong Kong’s
fourth-biggest mortgage lender, said in an interview on Dec. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 