-- Ten Top U.S. Intellectual-Property Verdicts Doubled to $4.6 Billion in ’11
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/top-ten-ip-verdicts-hit-4-6-billion-in-2011-almost-twice-previous-year.html
Lawsuits by  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  St. Jude
Medical Inc. (STJ)  to protect trade secrets helped account for the
largest increase in U.S. history last year in the size of
intellectual-property jury awards.  The 10 biggest intellectual-property verdicts, including
six patent-infringement and four trade-secret cases, totaled
$4.6 billion, almost twice the $2.4 billion awarded in 2010. The
verdicts include the two largest ever over trade secrets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The largest, for $2.3 billion, was against an ex-employee
of a unit of St. Jude, a maker of medical devices based in  St.
Paul ,  Minnesota . The worker was accused of taking company
secrets for implantable devices for a Chinese startup company.  The second-highest, for $920 million, was against a South
Korean company over secrets connected to DuPont’s Kevlar. The
verdicts follow a trend of more cases and more trials, said
 Elizabeth A. Rowe , a law professor.  “Companies are becoming more aggressive and more willing
to pursue these cases,” said Rowe, who teaches intellectual-
property law at the University of  Florida . “As more and more of
these cases go to trial, it encourages people to bring them. You
have a growing body of precedents,” she said.  James A. Gale , the attorney who won the $2.3 billion
verdict for St. Jude’s Pacesetter subsidiary, said there has
been “a significant increase in our own firm in the number of
trade secrets cases that are being brought.”  Verdicts as Messages  “Not only are they being filed more frequently, but
plaintiffs aren’t stopping at an injunction,” Gale said. “They
want a verdict. You need to send a message to your competition
and your employees and former employees.”  As intellectual-property verdicts have risen, so have other
jury awards. Billion-dollar verdicts have made a comeback in the
past three years, with five from 2009 through 2011, compared
with one from 2006 to 2008.  Last year was the first since 2004 in which three verdicts
were returned of $1 billion or more.  The largest in any category, for $150.4 billion, was also
the highest ever in U.S. history. The La Grange,  Texas , verdict
was awarded to the estate and family of a man over a claim that,
when he was 8 years old, he was set on fire to cover up a sexual
assault.  The plaintiff died 13 years later, before the trial, of a
cancer related to his burns, said the family’s attorney,  Craig
M. Sico  of  Corpus Christi , Texas.  Prod to Prosecutors  The verdict, awarded in December, will never be paid, and
the case was pursued to persuade prosecutors to bring criminal
charges against the defendant, Sico said. That hasn’t happened
yet, he said.  The third billion-dollar verdict in 2011 came in June, when
a jury in Baltimore ordered  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , based in Irving,
Texas, to pay $1.5 billion to residents of a Maryland community
over a claim the company contaminated groundwater through a leak
from a gas station. Exxon’s motion challenging the $1 billion
punitive component of the verdict is pending in state court.  The largest intellectual-property verdicts of the year
included the DuPont and St. Jude cases, along with two patent
awards among the 10-largest in U.S. history.  One was for $482 million against a  Johnson & Johnson  unit
over stent technology. The other, for $345 million, was against
 SAP AG (SAP)  over a patent involving business-application software in
a suit filed by closely held  Versata Software Inc. , based in
Austin, Texas.  Recession’s Impact  The recession helped spur the rise in trade-secret cases,
said  Rick Laminack , who won a $94 million verdict against
Accenture LLP in May over  business software . The amount fell
when the trial judge erased $50 million in punitive damages.  “In my 25 years, I’ve always seen business-type torts go
up when the economy is suffering,” the lawyer said.  Rowe agreed.  “Trade secrets have a rising importance in this economy,”
she said. “Because there is so much more at stake, they almost
turn these into bet-the-company lawsuits, as we’ve seen in the
patent cases.”  There are other reasons, Laminack said.  “You’ve seen an explosion in new, innovative ideas,” he
said. “Just by the sheer volume of the new trade secrets that
are out there, you would see an explosion” in litigation.  Taking such property has been made easier by laptop
computers, portable drives and the Internet, Laminack said.  “It’s not like you have to break into somebody’s research
lab,” he said.  Worker mobility has also been a factor, Rowe said.  Employee Migration  “Employees are leaving jobs more than before,” she said.
Whether recession-driven or in seeking opportunities, some of
these workers are taking their old employers’ information with
them, she said.  “Not all the lawsuits are against former employees,” she
said. “We’re seeing a lot of company-against-company cases.”  In the St. Jude case, the company’s Pacesetter unit sued
former employee Yongning Zou, alleging he stole company secrets
to make implantable medical devices, such as pacemakers and
defibrillators. Pacesetter claimed that Zou, a hardware design
engineer, brought the information to a startup company in  China 
in which he owned a 48 percent stake. Zou didn’t appear or have
a lawyer at the trial in  Los Angeles .  The jury awarded $2.3 billion in April and the court later
issued an injunction stopping Zou’s company, Nervicon, from
using any of St. Jude’s property. It reduced the judgment
against Zou to $1.45 billion. Gale declined to comment on the
lawsuit and the prospects of collecting a judgment.  St. Jude Statement  “St. Jude Medical takes the protection of proprietary
intellectual property and trade secret misappropriation very
seriously and will continue to pursue damages against Zou, his
company Nervicon, and others who steal our intellectual
property.” Amy Jo Meyer, a company spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  The DuPont case was the largest-ever contested verdict in a
trade secrets case. The chemical company contended that  South
Korea ’s  Kolon Industries Inc. (120110)  wrongfully obtained DuPont’s
proprietary information about Kevlar, a material used in bullet-
proof vests and other products, by hiring some of the company’s
former engineers and marketers.  DuPont considered Kolon’s actions “theft on a massive
scale,” said Brian Riopelle, who represented the Wilmington,
Delaware-based company at the trial. “It was a fight that
DuPont was going to fight.”  Jeff G. Randall, a Kolon trial lawyer, didn’t return calls
for comment.  Kolon Statement  Kolon said in a statement after the verdict that it “had
no need for and did not solicit any trade secrets or proprietary
information of DuPont.” Many of the alleged secrets “are
public knowledge,” the company said, vowing to appeal. Its
requests to set aside or reduce the verdict were denied Jan. 27.  For some companies, intellectual-property litigation is
aimed at sending a message to competitors, as well as current
and former employees, Rowe said. This is particularly important
in protecting trade secrets from foreign competitors, she said.  “There is so much outsourcing, we don’t have a good system
in place to protect these trade secrets,” she said. “One way
to do it is to file these suits.”  Such verdicts may continue to rise, in part because the
cases have become more attractive to traditional plaintiffs’ law
firms, said Laminack, whose Houston firm,  Laminack, Pirtle &
Martines LLP , has specialized primarily in product-defects
claims and other personal-injury cases for plaintiffs.  “We handled some intellectual property, but this was our
first big foray into this area,” he said.  Tort Reform  Tort reform measures in Texas and other states have limited
damages or restricted which cases can be pursued, Laminack said.
Conservative judges have also limited the chances of keeping a
verdict once it’s awarded, he said.  In trade secrets claims “we don’t have to worry about
caps,” he said. “In personal injury, you worry about what will
happen on appeal because the courts are business-friendly.”  “You’ll see more and more plaintiffs’ lawyers coming into
this,” Laminack predicted. “All the plaintiffs lawyers I talk
to would love to get into this area.”  The DuPont case is E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Kolon
Industries Inc., 3:09-cv-00058, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia (Richmond). The St. Jude’s case is
Pacesetter Inc. v. Nervicon Co., BC424443, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles). The J&J stent case is
Saffran v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , 2:07-cv-00451, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall). The SAP case is
Versata Software Inc. v. SAP America Inc., 2:07-cv-00153, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall). The
assault case is Middleton v. Collins, 2009V-224, District Court,
Fayette County, Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 