-- Democrats Retain U.S. House Seat in Oregon Special Election
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-02-01T05:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/oregon-special-election-tonight-previews-2012-campaign-themes.html
Suzanne Bonamici won a special
election yesterday in Oregon to replace fellow Democrat David Wu, a race testing how the two parties match up in a Democrat-
leaning district nine months before the November election.  Wu resigned in August after  Portland ’s Oregonian newspaper
reported on allegations that he had engaged in unwanted sexual
activity with an 18-year-old girl.  Bonamici, a former state senator, had 54 percent of the
vote with 69 percent of precincts reporting, while Republican
Rob Cornilles had 39 percent, according to the Associated Press
tally.  Cornilles, the owner of a consulting company for sports
franchises, emphasized his business background. Bonamici focused
on her legislative experience.  In the Oregon district, the political parties test-marketed
messages for November’s presidential campaign and other
congressional races.  Cornilles said Bonamici voted to raise taxes and fees.
Democrats cast Cornilles as a Tea-Party aligned candidate and
questioned the number of jobs created by his company.  Both sides focused on  Medicare (USBOMDCR) . Cornilles said Bonamici
would cut benefits for seniors because she supports President
Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul enacted in 2010. The
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee linked Cornilles
with a Republican plan passed by the House last year that would
create Medicare vouchers.  Bonamici’s victory “is a clear message from Oregon voters
that they want their elected officials to create jobs and stand
up for small business, while standing strong against Republican
efforts to end the Medicare guarantee,” House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, said in a statement.  Obama got 61 percent of the vote in the district in the
2008 presidential election. In the 2010 midterm elections,
voters backed Wu over Cornilles by 13 percentage points. Wu
first won his seat in 1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  