-- Toronto-Dominion Considering ‘Wealth Opportunity’ in U.S., Pedersen Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-01-31T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/toronto-dominion-considering-wealth-opportunity-in-u-s-pedersen-says.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canada’s
second-largest lender, may expand wealth-management operations
in the U.S. as it seeks a broader market for mutual funds and
investment advice.  “We’ve got lots of strengths we can deploy,” Mike Pedersen, the bank’s head of wealth management and insurance,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We’re thinking
through what we want to do with the U.S.”  Toronto-Dominion, led by Chief Executive Officer  Edmund Clark , 64, built a network of more than 1,300 branches across
the Eastern U.S. during the past seven years,  spending  more than
$25 billion to open retail outlets and purchase lenders
including  Portland , Maine-based Banknorth Group Inc. and
Commerce Bancorp Inc., based in  Cherry Hill ,  New Jersey .  “They tend to be located in disproportionately urban,
high-growth, affluent areas,” said Pedersen, 51. “There’s
obviously a wealth opportunity there.”  The company currently offers products and investment advice
in the U.S. through  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , the Omaha,
Nebraska-based brokerage in which the lender owns a 45 percent
stake, more than any other shareholder. TD Ameritrade advisers
typically serve the bank’s clients with less than $750,000 to
invest, while Toronto-Dominion would serve customers with a
higher net worth.  Plans for Toronto-Dominion’s U.S. branches would be
executed over the “medium-to-long term,” Pedersen said.  ‘Growth Drivers’  Wealth management, which combined with the bank’s insurance
unit in November, posted record  profit  of C$1.31 billion ($1.3
billion) in fiscal 2011 under International Financial Reporting
Standards. That represents 22 percent of the lender’s total net
income for the year ended Oct. 31.  “We view both of these businesses as potential growth
drivers for the bank in the next few years,” said Pedersen, who
worked at London-based Barclays Plc and Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce before joining Toronto-Dominion in 2007. He became
head of wealth management in November 2010.  Pedersen said acquisitions aren’t a focus for either part
of the unit, which had assets under management of C$189 billion
at the end of October.  The bank will have more than 2,000 wealth advisers in
 Canada  by the end of this year, up from 1,970 in 2011, giving
the company “critical mass,” Pedersen said.  Toronto-Dominion also has made “significant investments”
in technology and infrastructure for the business, he said.  ‘Lower Risk Appetite’  The bank  disclosed  on Jan. 26 that its insurance business
earned C$541 million last year. The firm offers home, auto, life
and health insurance across Canada, and acquires clients mainly
through direct channels and affinity groups instead of through
insurance brokers. There are opportunities to sell insurance to
wealth-management clients, according to Pedersen.  “We have a lower risk appetite than most insurance
businesses,” Pedersen said. “This is an insurance business
that is owned and operated by a bank, and a fairly conservative
bank at that. So we just won’t take some of the risks that many
insurance companies take.”  Toronto-Dominion rose 0.4 percent to C$77.46 in trading
yesterday on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have climbed
4 percent in the past year, compared with a 4.4 percent decline
for the 42-company  S&P/TSX Financials Index (STFINL) .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  