-- Mortgage Accord, Foreign Bribes, Municipal Bonds: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-01-31T12:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/mortgage-accord-debt-collection-settlement-foreign-bribes-compliance.html
States have until Feb. 3 to decide
whether to accept a proposed nationwide settlement of a
foreclosure probe with banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  that may total as much as $25 billion.  State and federal officials have been negotiating an
agreement with the largest mortgage servicers that would set
standards for how banks conduct home foreclosures while
providing mortgage relief to borrowers. Any accord would be
separate from a state-federal probe of mortgage securitization
announced last week.  All 50 states announced an investigation into bank
 foreclosure  practices in 2010 following disclosures that
companies were using flawed documents in seizing homes. A group
of state attorneys general and federal officials have since
negotiated terms of a proposed settlement.  States are now considering whether to sign on the agreement
and discussed the terms last week. At a meeting in Chicago with
officials from Democratic attorney general offices, Iowa
Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is helping to lead the
negotiations, declined to comment about whether there’s a
deadline for states to accept the deal.  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto last week
wrote to the U.S.  Justice Department , the Department of Housing
and Urban Development and Miller seeking more details on the
deal. Masto said she needs answers quickly to 38 questions to
evaluate the agreement because the sign-on deadline is Feb. 3.  “We, along with our federal partners, are responding
directly to Attorney General Masto to try to address her
concerns,” Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller’s office,
said in an e-mail yesterday. Greenwood confirmed the Feb. 3
deadline.  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  has said he won’t sign
onto the deal as drafted. California Attorney General Kamala
Harris’s office last week called it “inadequate for
California.”  New York  attorney general  Eric Schneiderman , who’s joining
federal agencies to investigate the bundling of  mortgage loans 
into securities sold to investors, said in an interview last
week that the releases in the proposed foreclosure settlement
will allow that probe to proceed.  Compliance Action  Asset Acceptance Unit to Pay $2.5 Million in FTC Settlement  Asset Acceptance Capital Corp. (AACC)  agreed to pay a civil
penalty of $2.5 million to settle U.S. Federal Trade Commission
charges it deceived consumers while trying to collect old debts.  The company’s Asset Acceptance LLC unit agreed to tell
consumers with debts too old to be legally enforceable that it
won’t sue to collect them, the FTC said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Under the proposed settlement order, Asset Acceptance must
also investigate disputed debts and ensure it has a reasonable
basis for claiming that the consumer owes the money before
continuing collection efforts, the agency said.  Asset Acceptance, based in Warren, Michigan, pays pennies
on the dollar for debts owed to credit card companies, health
clubs and telecommunications and utilities providers, as well as
other debt buyers, according to the FTC. It has bought tens of
millions of consumer accounts, targeting those more than a year
past due that other collectors have pursued. Some of this debt
is too old to be legally enforceable under state statutes, the
FTC said.  Asset Acceptance said the settlement won’t have a
“material adverse effect” on its business and doesn’t
represent any admission of the FTC’s claims, according to a
statement posted on Business Wire. The company said it agreed to
“undertake industry-leading consumer protection practices”
under the accord.  The case is U.S. v. Asset Acceptance LLC, 12-cv-182, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  Yazaki, Denso Agree to Price-Fixing Conspiracy Guilty Plea  Yazaki Corp (YAZZ) . and  Denso Corp. (6902)  agreed to plead guilty and pay
a total of $548 million in criminal fines for their role in a
price-fixing and bid-rigging conspiracy involving sales of auto
parts in the U.S., the Justice Department said.  Four Yazaki executives, all Japanese, also agreed to serve
prison sentences in the U.S. ranging from 15 months to two
years, the department said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Yazaki, a closely held company based in Tokyo, agreed to
pay a $470 million fine, the second-largest criminal fine for a
violation of the Sherman Act antitrust law, the department said.
Aichi, Japan-based Denso agreed to pay a $78 million fine.  The conspiracy to rig bids and fix prices of auto parts,
including instrument panels and fuel sensors, had been going on
for as long as a decade, according to court documents filed by
the Justice Department yesterday in federal court in Detroit.  “The antitrust division will continue to work with the FBI
and our law enforcement counterparts to root out this kind of
pernicious cartel conduct that results in higher prices to
American consumers and businesses,” Sharis Pozen, the
division’s acting head, said in the statement.  The investigation into the auto parts price-rigging scheme
is “ongoing,” and the executives who agreed to plead guilty
also agreed to cooperate with the investigation, according to
the statement.  Ex-Secret Service Official Acquitted of Foreign Bribes  A former deputy assistant director of the U.S. Secret
Service, R. Patrick Caldwell, was one of two security-industry
executives acquitted by a federal jury in a foreign bribery case
in Washington.  Caldwell, who is also a former chief executive officer of
 Protective Products of America Inc ., and John “Greg” Godsey
yesterday were found not guilty of agreeing to make payments to
a federal agent posing as a representative of the west African
country of Gabon.  Both men faced as long as five years in prison had they
been convicted. U.S. District Judge Richard Leon told the jury,
which has been deliberating for eight days, to continue
considering charges pending against three other defendants.  “Justice was done, but it cost Greg Godsey two years of
his life in a case that should never have been brought,”
Godsey’s lawyer, Michael Madigan of Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP, said yesterday in an interview.  “We are very grateful for the verdict,” Caldwell’s
lawyer, Eric Dubelier of Reed Smith LLP in Washington, said in
an e-mail.  The trial is the second in a 22-defendant kickback
conspiracy case stemming from a fake $15 million weapons deal.
It’s the biggest prosecution of individuals accused of violating
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A trial of four others
arrested in the sting ended in a mistrial in July after a jury
failed to agree on a verdict.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the verdict, saying the jury is still
deliberating.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  Three UBS Clients Charged With Hiding Money in Offshore Accounts  Three ex- UBS AG (UBSN)  clients, including two who ran venture
capital firms, were indicted on charges of hiding millions of
dollars in assets from U.S. tax authorities through the use of
secret offshore accounts.  Stephen M. Kerr and Michael Quiel, who separately ran
venture capital firms, were charged in an indictment made public
yesterday in federal court in Phoenix. A former San Diego
attorney, Christopher M. Rusch, was arrested Jan. 29 in Miami
after being expelled from Panama at the request of the U.S.
government.  Kerr, who ran CCN Worldwide Inc., had accounts worth more
than $5.6 million in 2007 that he failed to report to the
 Internal Revenue Service , according to a Justice Department
statement and the Dec. 8 indictment.  Quiel, who ran Legend Advisory Corp., had accounts valued
at more than $2.6 million in 2007 that he also failed to report
to the IRS, according to prosecutors and the indictment. He was
arrested in the Phoenix area.  Rusch had signature authority over secret accounts held by
Kerr and Quiel, and helped facilitate their transactions,
prosecutors said. Rusch also had secret offshore accounts in the
names of others at UBS and a Panamanian bank, prosecutors said.  Kerr, Quiel and Rusch were charged with conspiring to
defraud the IRS. Kerr and Quiel were charged with filing false
tax returns in 2007 and 2008 and with failing to file Reports of
Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts for those years.  The case is United States v. Stephen Kerr, 11-cr-02385,
U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  Samsung Probed by EU Antitrust Regulator Over Mobile Patents  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  is being probed by European Union
antitrust regulators over licensing of patents to other mobile-
phone manufacturers.  The  European Commission  in a statement today said it will
investigate whether Samsung broke a 1998 commitment to license
any standard essential patents for phones on “fair, reasonable
and non-discriminatory terms.” It acted after Samsung claimed
last year in European courts that rivals infringed its patents,
the EU said in a statement.  Regulators have increased scrutiny of intellectual property
rights, with EU antitrust chief Joaquin Almunia saying last
month that he wanted to ensure patents weren’t used to block
rivals’ expansion. He is also probing Honeywell International
Inc. and DuPont Co. over chemical patents and is looking into
standards in the banking industry.  James Chung , a spokesman for Samsung in Seoul, Korea,
declined to immediately comment.  The EU said in November that it was quizzing Samsung and
rival  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. over the use of patents.  Both companies were
sent requests for information about “the enforcement of
standards-essential patents in the mobile-telephony sector,”
the EU said at the time.  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple in London, declined to
comment. Cupertino, California-based Apple said in a U.S. court
filing in October that Samsung faced an EU probe into its
“egregious” misuse of patents.  Apple and Samsung have filed intellectual property lawsuits
against each other in at least 10 countries, according to
Samsung. The legal battle between Apple and Samsung, its closest
competitor in tablet computers, has intensified as consumers use
devices such as tablets and smartphones to surf websites, play
games and download music.  Samsung today lost a bid to overturn a German sales ban on
its Galaxy 10.1 tablet computers obtained by Apple in an
intellectual property dispute.  Symmetry Ex-CEO Moore to Return $450,000 in SEC Clawback Suit  Symmetry Medical Inc. (SMA) ’s former chief executive officer will
return $450,000 in pay and stock proceeds to resolve U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission claims that he profited from
accounting fraud by a U.K. unit.  Brian S. Moore benefited from a scheme in which employees
inflated financial results in 2005 and 2006 “by systematically
understating expenses and overstating assets and revenues” at
Symmetry’s Thornton Precision Components Ltd. subsidiary, the
SEC said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
South Bend, Indiana. The agency also settled claims against
Symmetry Chief Financial Officer Fred L. Hite, who will pay
$210,000.  The SEC recovered compensation from Moore and Hite under a
provision in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that gives the agency
authority to seize payouts to CEOs and CFOs at companies that
restate earnings “as a result of misconduct.” The law doesn’t
specify whether the executives must be involved in wrongdoing.  “It is important to emphasize that the SEC did not accuse
Mr. Moore of any wrongdoing,” Russell G. Ryan, an attorney for
Moore at King & Spaulding LLP, said in an e-mail statement. “He
is glad to have put the matter behind him.” A lawyer for Hite
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Moore and Hite resolved the SEC claims without admitting or
denying wrongdoing.  Symmetry, a South Bend-based firm that designs, develops
and manufactures surgical instruments, discovered “accounting
irregularities” in 2007 and has “cooperated with the SEC since
then,” president and CEO Thomas J. Sullivan said in a telephone
interview. The company wasn’t accused sanctioned.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Municipal-Bond Regulator Seeks Rules to Stem Overcharging  The regulator of the $3.7 trillion U.S. municipal-bond
market is seeking rules to prevent overcharging by firms that
resell debt for brokers and to ensure that individual investors
have access to new securities.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which crafts
regulations for state and local governments, also wants to force
better disclosure of pricings in bond offerings, Alan Polsky, a
vice president with Dougherty & Co. and the chairman of the
MSRB, told reporters on a conference call yesterday. The board
approved the steps during its meeting last week, he said.  The MSRB rules are subject to the approval of the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Wireless Companies to Face New U.S. Disclosure Rules in Bill  Mobile carriers such as AT&T Inc. and makers of wireless
devices including  HTC Corp. (2498)  would be required to disclose when
phones contain monitoring software under draft legislation in
the U.S. House.  The proposed measure released yesterday responds to
concerns of lawmakers who learned last year that mobile-phone
software provider Carrier IQ Inc. gathered data on wireless
phone users.  “Consumers have the right to know and to say no to the
presence of software on their mobile devices that can collect
and transmit their personal and sensitive information,”
Representative Ed Markey, a Democrat from Massachusetts who
wrote the bill, said in a statement.  Carrier IQ, based in  Mountain View , California, sparked a
debate on the collection of mobile-phone user data and consumer
privacy. European regulators started investigating the company’s
software after a security researcher posted a 17-minute  YouTube
video  Nov. 28 detailing data logs collected by Carrier IQ.  The disclosure requirements in Markey’s draft bill would
apply to companies that make or sell mobile phones, providers of
telecommunications services and businesses that let consumers
download software with monitoring capabilities.  For more, click here.  Senate Bill Would Force SEC Disclosure of Iran-Related Business  Senate Banking Committee leaders circulated draft
legislation that would tighten sanctions on Iran over its
nuclear program and its human-rights record.  Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat,
and senior Republican Richard Shelby of Alabama released a
proposal yesterday that would require companies traded on U.S.
stock exchanges to disclose any Iran-related business to the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The proposed sanctions come on top of an array of new
penalties imposed on Iran by the U.S. and the European Union
over the past three months. The senators said they plan to seek
a committee vote on their bill Feb. 2.  The measure would also extend U.S. sanctions to firms
involved in joint ventures with Iran anywhere in the world
involving uranium mining or new energy projects. The objective
is to ratchet up the pressure on Iran’s leaders to “abandon
their illicit nuclear program and support for international
terrorism,” according to a statement from their offices.  The Johnson-Shelby plan also would penalize U.S. parent
firms for certain Iran-related activities of their foreign
subsidiaries, expand sanctions on Iran’s energy and
petrochemical sectors, and mandate sanctions on those who supply
Iran with weapons and other technologies used to commit human
rights abuses.  Last week, the EU announced an oil embargo on to the 27-
nation bloc effective July 1; banned trade in gold, precious
metals, diamonds and petrochemical products from Iran; and
imposed an asset freeze on Iranian banks and port operators that
will make tens of billions of euros in annual trade with Iran
almost impossible.  On Dec. 31, President Barack Obama signed into law
congressional sanctions on Iran’s central bank aimed at
complicating payments for Iranian oil by refiners in any
country. On Nov. 21, the U.S., U.K. and Canada took coordinated
action targeting Iran’s financial sector, with implications for
any entities that do business with both Iran and Western
nations.  Courts  MF Global Judge Picks Law Firm for Class Action Over Pay  The judge handling the  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  bankruptcy
appointed an interim law firm for a potential group lawsuit over
back pay, saying he expected the firm to coordinate with lawyers
working on other cases against the defunct company.  Outten & Golden LLP, the New York firm named as interim
lead counsel, has been advising Todd Thielmann and Pierre-Yvan
Desparois, who sued MF Global in November to recover 60 days’
wages and benefits for themselves and other employees. They
joined with plaintiffs in two other would-be class-action suits,
asking the judge to pick a lead law firm and dismiss a fourth
suit filed after theirs. The judge agreed to their requests in a
court order signed yesterday.  The suits were filed after the liquidator of broker-dealer
 MF Global Inc. (MF)  dismissed 1,066 employees as part of the shutdown
of the firm.  Employees (MFGLQ)  didn’t get 60 days’ advance written
notice of the firings, as required by the Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act, according to filings in Manhattan
bankruptcy court. Under bankruptcy law, wage claims may get
priority status, with a possibility of being paid in full.  Explaining his order, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn
wrote that lawyers for the four sets of plaintiffs “are engaged
in a vitriolic battle about which cases will proceed forward and
who will serve as interim counsel” while they seek approval for
class-action status.  Outten has fought about 50 so-called WARN Act cases and has
a website dedicated to such litigation, Glenn said in the order.
The interim appointment doesn’t mean Outten will lead a class
action, if the case is certified as such, he said.  The MF Global parent filed for bankruptcy with almost $40
billion in debt on Oct. 31 after making bets on European
sovereign debt and getting margin calls.  The employee suit is Thielmann v. MF Global Finance USA,
11-02880, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Comings and Goings  Christie Says Top N.J. Bank Regulator Considine to Step Down  Thomas B. Considine,  New Jersey (STONJ1) ’s top banking and insurance
regulator, will return to private industry, Governor  Chris
Christie  said.  Considine will leave in February to join MagnaCare Inc., a
New York health-plan services company, as chief operating
officer, Christie said. The governor nominated Ken Kobylowski,
Considine’s chief of staff, to succeed him.  Christie, 49, said he expected Considine to leave at some
point during his administration. Under Considine, 59 insurers
entered the New Jersey market, 64 others expanded operations and
the department intensified fraud prevention, Christie said.  Kobylowski said the biggest issue facing his department is
creation of the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
with authority over large financial institutions.  “The question really is going to be: How broad does the
CFPB view their authority in terms of regulations from the
largest institutions to the smallest institutions,” Kobylowski
said. “We have state-chartered banks in New Jersey that run the
gamut from $50 million in assets all the way up to $10
billion.”  Considine has been head of banking and insurance since
Christie took office in January 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 