-- Oshkosh Profit Falls 61% on Declining U.S. Military Sales
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-01-31T22:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/oshkosh-profit-falls-61-on-declining-u-s-military-sales-1-.html
Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) , a maker of blast-
resistant military trucks, said its first-quarter profit fell 61
percent as sales to the U.S. Defense Department declined. The
results beat expectations.  Net income dropped to $38.9 million, or 42 cents a share,
in the quarter ended Dec. 31, from $99.6 million, or $1.09 a
share, in the year-earlier period, the company said in a
statement. Excluding some items, per-share profit was 37 cents,
exceeding the 34-cent average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Revenue rose 10.5 percent to $1.88 billion in the quarter
from $1.7 billion a year earlier.  The company said it expected a better performance next
year. Improving cost structure, new products and increasing
sales in  emerging markets  “will deliver earnings growth in 2013
and beyond,” Chief Executive Officer Charles Szews said in a
statement.  Shareholders on Jan. 27 rejected billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ’s challenge to install six candidates on the 13-member
board of directors. In a separate filing today, the company also
said all 13 of its nominees were elected, citing preliminary
 results . One seat previously had been too close to call. The
dispute cost 2 cents a share in the quarter, Oshkosh said.  “With the proxy fight behind the company’s management, we
believe that the focus will be on growth opportunities,” Walter
Liptak, an analyst with Barrington Research Associates Inc. in
 Chicago , said yesterday in a note to investors.  Icahn Stake  Oshkosh, based in the Wisconsin city of the same name, fell
71 cents, almost 3 percent, closing at $24.28 in New York
trading. The shares dropped 39 percent in 2011.  Icahn, 75, has criticized Oshkosh’s performance and
management. He suggested selling its JLG construction-equipment
business and merging Oshkosh with another truck maker,  Navistar
International Corp. (NAV)  of Lisle,  Illinois . Last year, Icahn
announced a 9.5 percent stake in Oshkosh and a 9.8 percent stake
in Navistar.  Charles Brady, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets Corp. in
 Boston , said in a Jan. 27 note to clients the election results
were a “significant win for Oshkosh and a repudiation of Carl
Icahn.” He said Icahn will probably sell his shares of Oshkosh.
He rates the company as “outperform.”  “This was a solid quarter for Oshkosh and results were
mostly better than expected,” Brady said today in a separate
note.  FMTV Profit  The company reported a $4 million profit in the quarter on
a U.S. Army contract valued at more than $3 billion to build
trucks and trailers for the Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles,
or FMTV, three months earlier than expected.  Chief Financial Officer David Sagehorn, who led the
conference call instead of Szews, who was out sick, said FMTV
sales accounted for about 30 percent, or $315 million, of
quarterly defense revenue. He said the program’s profit margin,
which amounts to about 1.3 percent, may “tick up a little bit
over the remaining quarters of the year,” with more movement in
fiscal 2013.  Sales at two of Oshkosh’s four units rose during the
quarter, led by a 74 percent increase to $505 million in
external customer sales of access equipment segment, which
includes aerial lift platforms and tow trucks, the company said.  Revenue in the commercial unit, which makes concrete mixers
and garbage trucks, rose 44 percent to $172 million. Defense
fell 6 percent to $1.05 billion, and fire and emergency fell 19
percent to $163 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  