-- Shanghai Index Posts Best January Since 2009 Amid Pension-Fund Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-31T08:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/most-chinese-stocks-fall-on-profit-concern-paring-index-s-monthly-advance.html
China’s stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index to its best January performance since 2009, as
 Greece  made progress in debt-swap talks and on speculation the
government will encourage pension funds to invest in equities.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) , the listed unit of
China’s largest electricity producer, rose 2.4 percent on
prospects a cap on coal prices will bolster earnings this year.
Sany Heavy Industry Co. climbed 1.6 percent after the company
said it will buy a majority stake in a German machinery maker.
 Angang Steel Co. (000898)  slid the most in two months after the
steelmaker estimated a loss for 2011.  “The hope lies in government support measures such as
encouraging more local pensions to invest in stocks and the
market believes these measures will materialize soon,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West  China  Securities Co. in Shanghai.
“Corporate earnings are slowing but most of this looks like
they are being priced into equities now.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 7.57 points, or 0.3
percent, to 2,292.61 at the close, erasing a 0.4 percent loss.
The  CSI 300 Index  added 0.1 percent to 2,464.26. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, retreated 1.5 percent yesterday in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite climbed 4.2 percent in January on
speculation slowing growth will prompt the central bank to relax
monetary policies and the government will take measures to
support stocks.  The index fell 22 percent last year after the People’s Bank
of China raised  interest rates  three times and reserve ratios
six times to cool inflation that accelerated to its fastest pace
in three years in July. It trades at 9.4 times estimated
earnings, near the record low of 8.9 times reached on Jan. 6,
according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Pension Funds  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told reporters in
Brussels today after a European Union summit he’s “strongly
committed” to reaching a debt-swap accord with bondholders that
is crucial to lowering Greece’s debt burden and freeing up
another round of aid before the country faces a 14.5 billion-
euro ($19 billion) bond payment on March 20. The European Union
is China’s largest export market.  China may announce methods for local pensions to invest in
the stock market as soon as the first quarter, the  Securities
Times  reported today, citing an unidentified person. As much as
30 percent of pension assets, or about 580 billion yuan ($91.6
billion), may be allowed for stock investment, according to the
newspaper, which is operated by the People’s Daily.  Huaneng Power advanced 2.4 percent to 5.50 yuan even after
the electricity supplier said profit probably slumped more than
50 percent last year. Analysts including China Merchants
Securities Ltd.’s Peng Quangang and Ping An Securities Ltd.’s
Wang Fan said Huaneng’s earnings projection was in line with
their forecasts.  ‘Pretty Optimistic’  “We are pretty optimistic about their performance this
year given the government cap on coal prices and increase of
electricity tariff,” China Merchants Securities’s Peng, who
recommends buying the stock, said by telephone from Beijing.  To help limit losses at power utilities, the central
government capped spot coal prices at northern Chinese ports at
800 yuan a ton from the start of this year. The nation also
raised electricity prices nationwide in December.  Datang International Power Generation Co., a unit of
China’s second-biggest electricity producer, gained 1.8 percent
to 5.20 yuan. Huadian Power International Corp., the listed unit
of the fourth largest, rose 2.2 percent to 3.32 yuan.  Sany Heavy, the biggest Chinese machinery maker, gained 1.6
percent to 14.21 yuan. The construction-equipment maker run by
China’s richest man and a partner will pay 360 million euros for
German concrete-pump maker Putzmeister Holding GmbH to add
technology and expand abroad.  Profit Growth Slows  Listed companies have started to announce annual earnings
reports and will finish before the end of April. Forty-five
companies in the  Shanghai  Composite have released annual profits
so far, gaining 19 percent on average and trailing analyst
estimates by 3.2 percent, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. That compared with an increase of 38 percent in the
previous year.  China’s tight monetary policies and cost increases are
hurting corporate profits, according to UBS AG. Corporate profit
growth will be about 15 percent in 2011, compared with analysts’
forecasts for about 20 percent, Gao Ting, chief China strategist
at UBS, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s offices in Shanghai.  “The market’s estimates are still too high,” Gao said.
For non-financial companies, fourth-quarter earnings may drop
between 5 and 10 percent from the previous year, while first-
quarter profit may decline 10 percent on average, he said.  Steelmakers Retreat  Angang slumped 4.4 percent to 4.58 yuan, its biggest slide
since Nov. 30. The steelmaker probably had a net loss of 2.15
billion yuan last year because of higher costs and lower product
prices, compared with a profit of 2.05 billion yuan in 2010.  Maanshan Iron & Steel Co. , China’s fourth-largest listed
steelmaker, lost 0.8 percent to 2.56 yuan. Nanjing Iron & Steel
Co. dropped 1.7 percent to 2.87 yuan. Both companies said net
income for 2011 may have plunged by more than 50 percent.  The China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing is due to
release a manufacturing index for this month tomorrow. The gauge
may fall to 49.6 from 50.3 in December, according to the median
estimate of 17 economists in a survey by Bloomberg News. The
number of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Winnie Zhu in Shanghai.
Editors: Allen Wan,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  