-- Tottenham Moves to Sign Adebayor, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-01-31T11:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/tottenham-moves-to-sign-adebayor-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Adebayor Move  Tottenham is offering 8 million pounds ($12.6 million) to
 Manchester City  to sign on-loan striker Emmanuel Adebayor on a
permanent deal,  the Daily Mail said.   The transfer period ends tonight.  Adebayor, who City signed for 25 million pounds from
Arsenal in 2009, is on a season-long loan with Tottenham. Spurs
pays about half his 170,000 pounds-a-week City wages, and
Adebayor would have to take a pay cut to make the move, the Mail
said.  Spurs may also want to sign Wigan striker  Hugo Rodallega ,
whose contract ends at the end of the season,  the Mirror said.   Arsenal Teenager  Arsenal is interested in buying 19-year-old Borussia
Dortmund midfielder Thomas Eisfeld, the  Daily Telegraph  said.  The player, who is recovering from a knee injury, is out of
contract after the season and the Gunners would allow him to
develop with the reserves, the newspaper said. He would cost
about 600,000 pounds, it said.  The Telegraph said the north London team is also interested
in Watford centre-back Adrian Mariappa, although current
defender Sebastien Squillaci would have to be traded first.  Tevez in Limbo  Manchester City may allow  Carlos Tevez  to stay on the
fringes of the team all season after AC Milan said it wasn’t
able to sign him on loan, the Guardian said.  Tevez hasn’t played for City since last year, when a
dispute with manager  Roberto Mancini  left him off the squad. The
Argentine rejected a move to Paris Saint-Germain and Milan may
not be able to meet City’s asking price of 30 million euros ($40
million), the newspaper said.  United to Hammers  Manchester United’s 18-year-old midfielder Ravel Morrison
will move to West Ham after United declined to extend his
contract because of disciplinary problems,  the Guardian said.   The newspaper said Trevor Brooking, the F.A. director of
football development, rates Morrison as highly as  Paul Gascoigne 
and Jack Wilshere at the same age.  Hammers coach  Sam Allardyce  thinks he can handle the player
even though United gave up, the Guardian said.  Davies Bid  Bolton rejected a 1.5 million pound bid for striker  Kevin Davies  by Sunderland manager Martin O’Neill, the  Newcastle
Chronicle  said.  Sunderland is struggling with injuries to its strikers, and
Bolton manager Owen Coyle has said he wouldn’t block a move
should Davies request one, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  