-- Tourism Seen Adding $850 Billion With Obama’s New Visas: Retail
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-01-31T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/tourism-seen-adding-850-billion-with-obama-s-new-visas-retail.html
Bloomingdale’s Chief Executive
Officer Michael Gould is a fan of President Barack Obama’s
efforts to speed up tourist visas for Chinese and Brazilian
shoppers.  Doing so would create an “immediate” surge in retail
sales as foreign shoppers clamor for  Marc Jacobs  and Kate Spade
designs, Gould said in a telephone interview Jan. 27. The
department store chain is preparing for a potential boom by
tailoring merchandise assortments to Brazilian and Chinese
tastes and advertising outside of the U.S. for the first time.  “We’re expecting an enormous uptick in growth,” Gould
said from the Bloomingdale’s New York headquarters. “We have
the kind of brands that are highly respected by these visitors,
and the faster they can get here the better.”  Obama signed an  executive order  Jan. 19 giving the
Department of  Homeland Security  and Department of State 60 days
to come up with a plan to process visa applications from China
and  Brazil  more quickly. The order recommends shortening the
process to three weeks from four months. Visa processing
capacity in China and Brazil must be increased by 40 percent in
the next year, according to the order.  The resulting increase in U.S. tourism could create 1.3
million jobs and add $850 billion to the economy by 2020, the
 National Retail Federation  said in a Jan. 19  report , citing the
U.S. Travel Association.  The Washington-based Federation for American Immigration
Reform said Obama’s order, which calls for less stringent
screening, increases potential for “terrorism and visa
overstays,” the group, which advocates tougher border patrol,
said in a  statement  on its website.  Cautious Spending  Americans are spending cautiously amid slow wage growth,
limited job gains and depressed real estate values.  Consumer
spending  stalled in December, with purchases little changed
after rising 0.1 percent the prior month, Commerce Department
figures showed.  For years, retailers from Saks Inc. to  Macy’s Inc. (M) ’s
Bloomingdale’s have watched as Chinese and Brazilian shoppers
traveled to cities such as Paris and  Rome , where the wait time
for a visa is about 10 days.  “It’s really stupefying to see the number of Chinese
tourists in Paris,” Gould said. “We find it frustrating to see
business going elsewhere.”  From 2000 to 2010, the U.S. Share of global tourism fell to
11 percent from 17 percent, spurred by stricter security
following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, said David French,
head of government relations at the Washington-based NRF.  Sagging Dollar  Obama’s plan could help U.S. gain back its share of the
global tourism market, Stephen Sadove, chief executive officer
at  Saks Inc. (SKS) , said in an emailed statement. The New York-based
luxury department store could see quick surges in business at
its gateway city locations such as New York,  San Francisco  and
Chicago locations, he said.  “Currently, the process is very difficult for citizens
from countries such as China, Brazil and  India  to obtain tourist
visas,” Sadove said. “Additional tourists in the U.S. would
lead to increased revenues in retailing and hospitality.”  The sagging dollar has also attracted foreign tourists to
the U.S. as they seek to buy clothing and jewelry on the cheap,
French said.  “Demand for U.S. visas from Brazil, China and India have
spiked immensely as these economies boom,” French said in a
telephone interview. “This is a winning situation for retailers
because a key reason overseas visitors want to come is to
shop.”  Lobbying Congress  The NRF has spent the past year lobbying Congress to
support loosening the visa wait time. NRF President Matthew Shay
visited U.S. officials in Beijing in October to ask for their
help in making travel to the U.S. easier for Chinese tourists.  “Speeding up the visa process is one of the quickest ways
to boost the  U.S. economy ,” Shay said in the Jan. 19 report.  To appeal to overseas tourists, Bloomingdale’s is preparing
to tailor assortments to include flashier name brands and logos,
Gould said. Many tourists prefer prominent logos on iconic
American brands. Bloomingdale’s is currently planning its
overseas marketing campaign.  “We mainly advertise at airports and through concierge
services at various cities,” Gould said. “But we’re planning
ways to also advertise overseas.”  Visa applications in  China  went up 34 percent in 2011 from
a year earlier, while Brazil’s requests went up 42 percent,
Obama said.  Flashy Logos  U.S. brands including  Tiffany & Co. , Coach Inc., and
Abercrombie & Fitch Co., with flashy logos and luxury appeal,
could benefit from the boost in tourism, Omar Saad, analyst at
International Strategy and Investment Group, wrote in a report
Jan. 20.  Mall of America, the biggest shopping center in the U.S.
with 520 stores, attracts about 3 million international tourists
annually, said Doug Killian, director of tourism marketing.  The average receipt for a foreign tourist is 2.5 times
higher than a domestic visitor’s, Killian said in a telephone
interview from  Minneapolis , where the  mall  is located.  With the current increase in Chinese visitors, Mall of
America has focused on opening stores for luxury brands
including  Michael Kors , Armani and  Hugo Boss , Killian said. The
mall has also hired staff with language fluency in Chinese,
Japanese and Spanish.  Killian said the mall has also successfully worked with
airlines to offer more flights from China and  Japan .  “We’re seeing real increases from China and Brazil, which
would only be higher if the U.S. were to ease visas,” Killian
said. “We’re prepared to see a big boom in business if that
happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in  New York  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  