-- How to Listen for Racism on the Campaign Trail: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-01-31T00:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/how-to-listen-for-racism-on-the-campaign-trail-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Here are some things you could
learn about black Americans from the recent statements and
insinuations of Republican presidential candidates,
Republican congressmen and Republican-friendly radio
personalities:  Black people have  lost the desire  to perform a day’s
work. Black people  rely on  food stamps provided to them by
white taxpayers. Black people, including Barack and
 Michelle Obama , believe that the U.S.  owes them something 
because they are black. Black children  should work  as
janitors in their high schools as a way to keep them from
becoming pimps. And the pathologies afflicting black
Americans  are caused partly by  the Democratic Party, which
has created in them a dependency on government  not
dissimilar  to the forced dependency of slaves on their
owners.  Judging by these claims, all of which have actually
been put forward recently, here is a modest prediction:
This presidential election will be one of the most race-
soaked in recent history. It is already more race-soaked
than the 2008 election, which, of course, marked the first
time that a black man became a major-party candidate.  I don’t know why this is. Perhaps because Senator  John McCain , the Republican contender in 2008, generally and
admirably refused to race-bait. But the Republican
candidates in today’s contest aren’t so meticulous about
avoiding the temptation to dog-whistle their way to the
nomination.  A Dark Art  Dog-whistling -- the use of coded, ambiguous language
to appeal to the prejudices of certain subsets of voters --
is one of the darkest political arts. In this race,  Newt Gingrich  is streets ahead of his nearest competitor in its
use. In addition to his comments about black children
working as janitors, he has repeatedly referred to Obama as
the country’s “food-stamp president.”  Food stamps have been fixed in the minds of many white
voters as a government subsidy misused by blacks  at least 
since 1976, when  Ronald Reagan  complained of “strapping
young bucks” who used public assistance to buy “T-bone
steaks.” (It is distressing to remember, in light of
Reagan’s subsequent beatification, that he was to racial
dog-whistling what  Pat Buchanan  has been to Jew-baiting; it
was Reagan who also introduced the “welfare queen” into
public discourse.)  The genius of dog-whistling is its deniability. It
would be difficult for a figure such as  Rush Limbaugh  to
run for public office, given his record of fairly
straightforward race-baiting. (Limbaugh, who in the words
of  Harvard Law School ’s Randall Kennedy is an “excellent
entrepreneur of racial resentment,” has been on a tear
lately. He has accused Obama -- who he says “ talks honky ”
around white people -- and the first lady of abusing public
funds  as payback  for the ill-treatment afforded their
ancestors.)  But “food-stamp president” is just indirect enough
that Gingrich is  protected  from detrimental blowback, at
least during the largely white Republican primaries.  Kennedy, who studies the role of race in national
elections, told me last week of a rule he uses to measure
whether a candidate’s appeal to prejudice will succeed: If
it takes more than two sentences for a critic to explain
why a dog-whistle is a dog-whistle, the whistler wins.
Gingrich seems to understand this, and so, despite
criticism from blacks, has made the term “ food-stamp 
president” a staple of his stump speeches.  New Realization  Kennedy offers the theory that this campaign’s dog-
whistling may be prompted by a realization by right-leaning
provocateurs that voters have become inured to charges of
racism. I suspect another phenomenon has hastened this
realization: A handful of black Republicans have abetted
dog-whistling by making their own bombastic statements
about the degraded moral health of the black community, the
putative foreignness of the Obamas and the  Democratic
Party ’s plantation-like qualities.  The former presidential candidate  Herman Cain , who
last week endorsed Gingrich, told me in an interview last
year that Obama was more “international” than American. He
also said that, unlike Obama, he rejects the label
“African-American” because he feels “more of an affinity
for America than I do for  Africa .”  Representative  Allen West  of  Florida , one of two black
Republican House members,  recently called  the Democratic
Party a “21st-century plantation” and  compared himself  to
Harriet Tubman. In August,  he said , “Today in the black
community, we see individuals who are either wedded to a
subsistence check or an employment check. Democrat physical
enslavement has now become liberal economic enslavement,
which is just as horrible.”  How far in intent is West’s message from  this one ,
recently delivered by  Rick Santorum  in Sioux City,  Iowa : “I
don’t want to make black people’s lives better by giving
them somebody else’s money; I want to give them the
opportunity to go out and earn the money.” (Santorum later
 denied  that he said the word “black,” arguing that what he
actually said was “blah.” The denial is not credible.)  The writer Gary Younge  has noted  that in Woodbury
County, which includes Sioux City, nine times more whites
use food stamps than blacks do. But it doesn’t matter:
Santorum wasn’t driven from the race for making such a
blatant appeal to white resentment -- instead, he won the
Iowa caucus.  An Odd Video  Recently, I watched an educational children’s video
produced by a company part-owned by  Mike Huckabee , the
former Arkansas governor and presidential candidate (and
current Fox News host). The video series, called “Learn Our
History,” is meant as a corrective to a left-wing
interpretation of the American story.  In one episode, a group of children are transported to
 Washington , in the late 1970s, a time when, we are told,
“people are out of work and some of their morals are just
gone.” The group, walking down a cartoon version of a
street from “The Wire,” is  confronted by a black mugger  in
a tank-top emblazoned with the word “Disco.” (Yes,
“Disco.”) The mugger says to the time-travelers, “Gimme yo
money!”  I asked Huckabee why the video advanced this
particular stereotype. We had been speaking about the
rationale for the video series, and he had just finished
telling me that the project was meant to encourage moral
leadership. Then he told me he had nothing to do with
writing the show’s scripts, but it was his impression that
the mugger wasn’t meant to be black. In any case, we were
talking about a cartoon, he said, and cartoons traffic in
“caricature.”  This is something cartoons share with many of today’s
leading Republicans.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  