-- Paris Hilton Perfume Maker Sued by Investor in Delaware Over Proposed Sale
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-31T19:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/paris-hilton-perfume-maker-sued-by-investor-in-delaware-over-proposed-sale.html
A shareholder of  Parlux Fragrances
Inc. (PARL)  sued the company’s board of directors, claiming they are
selling the maker of Paris Hilton’s perfume too cheaply.  Jose Dias sued Parlux’s chairman, the company’s directors
and the proposed buyer,  Perfumania Holdings Inc. (PERF) , which operates
a chain of perfume shops, in a case made public today in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. Perfumania, controlled by
the family of Chairman Glenn Nussdorf, is one of Parlux’s
biggest customers, according to the complaint.  “Perfumania was able to use the company’s dependence on
them to negotiate a deal that allowed it to pick up the company
at an unfair price and under unfair terms,” Dias claimed in the
complaint.  Parlux said the proposed cash and stock deal was worth $170
million when it was announced in December. Since then,
Perfumania’s shares have plunged, reducing what Parlux’s
investors will receive, according to the complaint.  The deal would give Perfumania control over its largest
trading partner and the maker of celebrity-branded fragrances
from Rihanna,  Paris Hilton  and Nicole Miller.  Under the sale, holders of  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based
Parlux can choose to take $4 in cash and 0.20 share of
Perfumania or 0.53333 of a share of the acquirer.  The board hasn’t released enough information about the
proposal and failed to pursue a deal that is in the best
interests of shareholders, Dias claimed in the suit.  The complaint asked the judge to halt the proposed sale and
to certify the case as a class-action, or group, lawsuit to
represent all shareholders.  Perfumania Chief Executive Officer Michael Katz and Palux
CEO Frederick Purches didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment on the suit.  The case is Jose Dias v. Frederick E. Purches, CA 7199,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  