-- Penguins Captain Sidney Crosby Has Soft-Tissue Neck Injury, No Fracture
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/penguins-captain-sidney-crosby-has-soft-tissue-neck-injury-no-fracture.html
Pittsburgh Penguins captain  Sidney Crosby , who hasn’t played since Dec. 5, has a soft-tissue neck
injury that may mimic symptoms of a concussion.  The Penguins said Dr. Alexander Vaccaro of Thomas Jefferson
University Hospital in Philadelphia, the past president of the
American Spinal Injury Association, reviewed Crosby’s medical
tests two days ago and found no evidence of a neck fracture.  Neurological spine specialist Robert S. Bray of  Los Angeles 
had found last week that Crosby has a neck injury in addition to
the concussion symptoms that have kept him out. Bray has treated
Crosby with an injection to alleviate swelling in the C1-2 joint
of the neck and will be overseeing his rehabilitation with
therapists, the team said yesterday in a  statement .  Doctors said the characteristics of a soft-tissue neck
injury are similar to concussion symptoms. The injury is
treatable and Crosby will return to action when he’s symptom
free, the Penguins said.  Crosby, 24, has been skating and working out for more than
a week. The Penguins, who are in third place in the Eastern
Conference’s five-team Atlantic Division with a 29-17-4 record,
have won eight straight games.  Crosby sustained back-to-back head injuries in last year’s
Winter Classic against the  Washington Capitals  and again four
days later against the Tampa Bay Lightning. He missed the rest
of the 2010-11 season. Crosby returned to the ice this season
for eight games until he was sidelined when concussion-like
symptoms returned during a game against  Boston  on Dec. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  