-- Pep Boys Seen Gaining 27% as Cheapest Value Lures Bids: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-01-31T15:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/pep-boys-seen-gaining-27-as-cheapest-value-lures-bids-real-m-a.html
A buyout of  Pep Boys  at the lowest
auto-parts valuation in a decade is leaving the door open for a
bidding contest that may cost the winner 27 percent more.  Pep Boys - Manny, Moe & Jack  agreed to sell itself to
private-equity firm Gores Group LLC for $15 a share yesterday.
Including net debt, the $1 billion takeover values Pep Boys at
5.9 times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
less than any deal for an auto-parts retailer worth at least
$100 million since 1999, the data show.  With analysts projecting Pep Boys will generate the most
free  cash flow  in almost a decade in the coming fiscal year,
Avondale Partners LLC now says the Philadelphia-based company
could be worth as much as $19 a share in an acquisition. While
its  operating margin  has recovered after Pep Boys lost more than
a penny for every dollar of sales in 2008, private equity firms
still have room to increase its profitability that still lags
all its closest rivals, according to Gabelli & Co.  “The bid price leaves some room for another financial
buyer to pay up,” Brian Sponheimer, an analyst for Gabelli in
Rye, New York, said in a telephone interview. “The company is
well positioned to generate strong free  cash flow  over the next
several years.”  Gabelli is a unit of Gamco Investors Inc., which  owned 
shares of Pep Boys as of Sept. 30.  Stan Neve, a spokesman for Pep Boys, said in a telephone
interview that the “merger agreement with the Gores Group was
reached after careful evaluation.”  Relative Value  “The merger agreement includes a go-shop provision to
determine whether other prospective buyers would offer even more
value for the company,” he said.  “We think this is a full and fair price,” said Ryan Wald,
managing director at Los Angeles-based Gores Group. “The
management team and the board have done a great job of
maximizing value for all of the shareholders.”  Pep Boys traces its  roots  to 1921 when four Navy friends
pooled $800 to open an auto parts supply store in Philadelphia,
according to the company’s website. Since becoming a publicly
traded company  65 years ago , it has  grown  to more than 700
locations that repair vehicles and sell parts such as tires,
brake pads and windshield wiper blades.  Average Price  Gores Group’s offer of $15 a share in cash was 34 percent
higher than Pep Boys’ average price in the previous 20 trading
days and valued the company at $1 billion including $215 million
in  net debt , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the agreement contains a 45-day “go-shop” period
that lets Pep Boys consider other offers, the deal is expected
to be completed by the end of the fiscal second quarter of 2012,
the companies said in a statement yesterday.  The acquisition sent Pep Boys’ shares as high as $15
yesterday before closing up 24 percent at $14.93. That was the
 biggest gain  since May 2001, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Pep Boys rose as high as $15.01 today and was up 0.5
percent to $15 at 10:30 a.m. in New York.  Gores Group’s offer valued Pep Boys at 5.9 times its  Ebitda (PBY) 
of $171.4 million in the past 12 months. That was the lowest for
a takeover of an auto-parts retailer worth more than $100
million since Unipart’s 1999 purchase of Partco Group Plc in the
U.K., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sales Discount  The current Ebitda multiple for Pep Boys is at least 22
percent less than 11 other U.S. automotive retail companies
worth more than $500 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Pep Boys also trades at a 61 percent discount to sales of $2
billion in the past 12 months.  “The price is going to prove to be particularly attractive
for the buyers,” Stephen F. Roseman, chief executive officer at
New York-based Thesis Fund Management LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a classic private equity turnaround.”  The  Thesis Flexible Fund (TFLEX)  has about 4.8 percent of its
assets invested in Pep Boys, the highest proportion for any
fund, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Other buyout firms may emerge because Pep Boys is boosting
its free cash flow and has margins that can be improved,
according to Bret Jordan, a Boston-based analyst at Avondale.  Operating Margins  After deducting capital expenses, Pep Boys will produce
about $66 million in cash from operations next year, according
to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be more
than it has generated since 2004, the data show.  The company had an operating margin of 4.1 percent in the
past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its largest
rivals, including  Monro Muffler Brake Inc. (MNRO) , O’Reilly Automotive
Inc. and AutoZone Inc., all had margins of at least 7.1 percent.  Pep Boys may be able to get a price in the “higher
teens,” Avondale’s Jordan said. An offer for $19 a share would
be 70 percent higher than the stock’s  average  in the 20 days
prior to Gores Group’s bid and 27 percent more than its current
agreement, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, Pep Boys ended 0.5 percent below Gores Group’s offer
at $14.93 a share yesterday, signaling some traders aren’t yet
betting on a competing bid, the data show.  Pep Boys had halted efforts to sell itself last year after
failing to attract a high enough price, two people with
knowledge of the negotiations said in February.  ‘A Formality’  It had received initial indications of interest at $10 a
share to $11 a share, the people, who declined to be identified
because talks weren’t public, said at the time.  “$15 per share is pretty much as good as it’s going to get
for Pep Boys,” Anthony Cristello, a Richmond, Virginia-based
analyst at BB&T Capital Markets, said in a telephone interview.
“The go-shop provision is more of a formality. The likelihood
of another private equity or financial buyer coming in is
probably fairly low at this point.”  With analysts projecting a fourth straight year of  earnings
growth  as the company rebounds from the biggest profit slump in
at least two decades, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, Avondale’s Jordan says Pep Boys can attract more
takeover interest.  “It’s been trending upwards from a profitability
standpoint as they refocus the business,” he said. “I wouldn’t
be stunned by a higher-teen offer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net .
PBY US <Equity> CN
 Z US <Equity> CN
MDS US <Equity> CN 