-- Petrobras Shuts Fifth Most Productive Well After Accident
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-01-31T21:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/petrobras-reports-accident-at-platform-in-santos-basin.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s
state-controlled oil producer, shut its fifth most productive
well after detecting a leak of 160 barrels in deep waters of the
Atlantic Ocean.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based producer is known,
spilled oil from the production column at the Carioca Nordeste
well before shutting output, the company said today in an e-
mailed statement. The well produced 25,034  barrels  a day, or 1
percent of Petrobras’ domestic output in November, according to
the country’s oil regulator.  Brazil’s oil regulator will carry out an inspection of the
Dynamic Producer platform tomorrow, the agency said today in a
separate statement. The leak has been halted and the spill is
being contained, the regulator said. Petrobras said it is
collecting the oil and investigating the causes of the accident.  The Carioca field is part of the so-called Santos Cluster
that holds the largest  oil fields  discovered in the Americas in
more than three decades. Petrobras is developing fields in more
than 2,000 meters (6,562 feet) of water in a bid to more than
double output by 2020.  The accident happened at a time Petrobras’ production
growth has missed estimates. Last year output at Petrobras
increased at the slowest pace since 2007 because of delays in
equipment deliveries and more stringent security measures that
Brazil’s oil regulator put in place after the Macondo oil spill
in deep waters of the  Gulf of Mexico .  Chevron’s Spill  Production grew 1.4 percent in 2011 to 2.6 million barrels
a day of oil and natural gas, slower than its 7.7 percent target
for the year, according to information on Petrobras’s website.  Chevron Corp., the second-largest U.S. energy company by
market value, was fined and ordered to halt all drilling and
crude production off Brazil’s coast after discovering a leak on
Nov. 7. Chevron, operator of the offshore well that triggered
the leaks, estimated the volume of the seeps at 2,400 barrels.  Petrobras was unchanged at 24.57 reais in  Sao Paulo . The
stock is up 14 percent this year, more than the 11 percent gain
in the benchmark  stock index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  