-- Pfizer Recalls 1 Million Birth-Control Packs on Wrong Dosage
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-01T21:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/pfizer-recalls-1-million-birth-control-packs-after-mix-up-in-pill-dosages.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, recalled 1 million birth-control packs after
discovering that pills were mixed up inside the packages,
possibly putting women at risk for unintended pregnancies.  The company recalled 14 lots of Lo/Ovral-28 tablets and 14
lots of a generic version of the medicine, New York-based Pfizer
said yesterday in an e-mail. About 1 million packs of 28 tablets
were withdrawn, Grace Ann Arnold, a Pfizer spokeswoman, said in
a separate e-mail.  The pills, manufactured and packaged by Pfizer, were
marketed by closely held Akrimax Rx Products of Cranford,  New
Jersey  under the  Akrimax Pharmaceuticals  brand. The company
hasn’t received any reports of adverse health consequences,
Arnold said.  Each pack contains 21 white tablets that contain the
synthetic hormones norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol and are
taken for 21 consecutive days. The remaining seven tablets are
inactive pink pills taken for a week.  “An investigation by Pfizer found that some blister packs
may contain an inexact count of inert or active ingredient-
tablets and that the tablets may be out of sequence,” the
company said. That could cause women to take an incorrect daily
dosage and increase the risk of accidental pregnancy.  The error was “identified and corrected immediately,” and
doesn’t pose immediate health risks, Pfizer said. “However,
consumers exposed to affected packaging should begin using a
non-hormonal form of contraception immediately.”  Wyeth Pharmaceuticals won FDA approval of Lo/Ovral-28 in
1976.  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  is among companies that offer
generic copies. Pfizer acquired Wyeth in 2009.  Pfizer rose less than 1 percent to $21.31 at 4 p.m. New
York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Silver Spring, Maryland at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 