-- Pfizer Net Beats Estimates as Animal Health Counters Generics Competition
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-31T21:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/pfizer-net-beats-estimates-as-animal-health-counters-generics-competition.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as
the company’s non-pharmaceutical units and cost cutting overcame
losses from generic competition to its best-seller Lipitor.  Fourth-quarter earnings excluding some items were 50 cents
a share, beating by 3 cents the average of  18 analyst  estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income fell 50 percent from a year
earlier to $1.44 billion, or 19 cents a share, after the New
York-based company lost patent exclusivity for the cholesterol
pill Lipitor, Pfizer said in a statement today.  A decline in sales from  prescription drugs  was countered by
revenue increases at the animal health unit and infant nutrition
business, two divisions Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  has
said are slated to be spun off or sold. The company reduced
costs by 9 percent in the quarter.  “Cost is where they can keep a grip on what operating
income will look like,” said Aparna Krishnan, an analyst with
IHS Global Insight in  London . “Even 9 percent costs-down still
does not compensate for the 4 percent drop in top-line growth,”
she said.  Pfizer’s divestiture of the nutrition and animal health
units is part of Read’s strategy to shrink the company and focus
on new prescription drugs. Read said today those divestitures
are “on track,” and the company would announce them this year.  Pfizer fell less than 1 percent to $21.40 at 4:01 p.m. New
York time. The shares have gained 18 percent in the past 12
months.  Forecast Trimmed  Pfizer forecast 2012 profit of $2.20 to $2.30 a share, 5
cents less than the previous range of $2.25 to $2.35. “That
nickel is entirely due to foreign exchange,” said Chief
Financial Officer Frank D’Ameilio.  Investors may disregard the reduction, since it’s
attributable to the exchange rates,  Tim Anderson , an analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in a note today.  Revenue fell 3.5 percent to $16.7 billion, spurred by a 6
percent drop in sales from its pharmaceutical business to $14.1
billion. Revenue from the animal health  unit  grew 13 percent to
$1.11 billion, and sales from the infant nutrition unit rose 22
percent to $598 million.  Lipitor Sales  Lipitor led the revenue decline. Sales of the drug fell 24
percent to $2 billion. U.S. drug sales declined 15 percent to
$5.46 billion.  “These are big blockbuster drugs for Pfizer which are
potentially not going to be growing or not growing as much in
2012,” Krishnan said in a telephone interview. “It’s going to
be that big gulf that’s a challenge.”  Read said the company probably wouldn’t replicate its
strategy of offering rebates and coupons to hold onto market
share for Lipitor even after copycats entered the market. “The
Lipitor opportunity is unique in its size,”  Read said .  The biggest cuts to expenses came from research and
development spending, which fell 17 percent to $2.33 billion.  Fourth-quarter net income a year earlier was $2.89 billion,
or 36 cents, when the company enjoyed exclusive rights to its
best-selling product Lipitor.  The company is awaiting U.S. approval in March of its blood
thinner, Eliquis, developed with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. to
prevent stroke in heart patients, a market estimated at $7
billion to $9 billion by Leerink Swann & Co. analysts.  In March, Pfizer also plans to start selling its
pneumococcal vaccine, Prevnar-13, for adults over 50 in March.
The company’s two Prevnar vaccines are Pfizer’s number-three
product, with $834 million in combined fourth-quarter sales.  After losing exclusive rights to sell  Lipitor (PHAM1150)  in the fourth
quarter, Pfizer will also face competition from copycat versions
of erectile dysfunction pill Viagra at the end of March. The
“little blue pill” was Pfizer’s sixth best-selling product in
the fourth quarter. Its sales rose 5 percent to $523 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  