-- Poland Says Stricter European Carbon Goal Depends on Global Action
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-31T12:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/poland-says-stricter-european-carbon-goal-depends-on-global-action.html
A potential European Union move to a
stricter emissions-reduction goal is conditional on efforts by
non-EU nations to cut  greenhouse gases , a Polish government
official said.  Poland maintains its position that the EU agreed to lower
pollution by 20 percent by 2020 from 1990 levels and that
deepening the goal to 30 percent “is conditional on comparable
moves by other countries,” said Zbigniew Kamienski, deputy
director at the economic development department of Poland’s
 Economy Ministry .  “As we know, this is not the case now,” he said in an
interview in Warsaw today during a climate conference.  The costs of tightening the EU’s carbon-reduction target
are less than previously estimated, an analysis by the European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, showed yesterday. A 30
percent goal would involve cutting  greenhouse gases  by 25
percent in the bloc, and using imported emissions-reduction
credits to account for the remaining 5 percent.  The analysis, requested by governments, came as
environmental lobbies and companies including  Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA) 
Plc urge the EU to adopt a more ambitious climate goal and curb
the supply of allowances in the EU emissions-trading system, the
world’s largest, after prices slumped to a four-year low last
year.  ‘Lot of Doubts’  EU environment ministers are due to discuss the analysis
when they next meet on March 9. Prices for EU carbon permits
rose 0.9 percent at 7.84 euros ($10.35) on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London .  Connie Hedegaard , the EU climate
commissioner, said today in Brussels that the price of carbon is
“too low.”  “We have a lot of doubts concerning the cost analysis
presented by the European Commission as we have no access to the
analytical model, which is protected by copyright,” Kamienski
said. “It’s strange that when we are about to take very
important decisions for  Europe ’s economy, we are expected to
accept it blindly.”  Member states  remain divided on whether to raise the
stringency of the EU’s climate policies, a step that would cost
the bloc a total of 70 billion euros, according to the analysis.  The cost of moving to a 30 percent emissions-reduction
target in 2020 would range from 10 euros per capita in the  Czech
Republic  to 136 euros in Luxembourg, according to the EU
document. Four out of 27 nations in the bloc, Estonia, Latvia,
 Bulgaria  and  Romania , may make a profit of 7 euros to 54 euros
per capita, it showed.  Goals Under Debate  While western European countries have voiced support for
tighter pollution caps on companies, eastern nations, led by
 Poland , have in previous years tended to favor a more cautious
approach and said a more ambitious target could hurt their
economic competitiveness.  The commission analysis is in the form of a strategy paper
to be presented to member states for consideration and does not
constitute a legislative proposal.  Denmark , which holds the
bloc’s rotating presidency, vowed to stimulate a debate on the
EU long-term carbon goals at the March meeting of environment
ministers.  In a policy paper presented last year, the commission said
the most cost-effective way to achieve the 2050 goal of reducing
carbon by at least 80 percent would be to lower discharges by 40
percent in 2030 and 60 percent in 2040. The EU may cut
greenhouse gases 25 percent by 2020 compared with 1990, as long
as it steps up energy-saving measures, according to the
commission.  “We can’t treat it as economically beneficial while
yesterday’s analysis raises a lot of doubts,” Kamienski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
NI CLIMATE
NI CMD
NI CMDMARKET
NI COAL
NI COALMARKET
NI COS
NI ELC
NI ENV
NI ENVMARKET
NI FINNEWS
NI GAS
NI GASMARKET
NI MARKETS
NI EXCLUSIVE 