-- Policy Scope Shields Asia From Global Risk: IMF
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-31T02:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/policy-scope-shields-asia-from-global-risk-imf.html
Asia-Pacific nations including the
world’s most populous,  China , have scope to boost spending and
cut borrowing costs to protect their economies if the global
slowdown worsens, an International Monetary Fund official said.  “Most economies in  Asia  have room for a strong policy
response,” Anoop Singh, the IMF’s Asia-Pacific department
chief, told reporters in  Washington . “Asian economies have
proven generally resilient to this turbulence in global markets
and they are helping support global growth.” Still, there is
still a risk of contagion, he said.  While still the driver of global growth, emerging markets
including China are seeing weaker exports as Europe fails to
quell its sovereign debt crisis. The IMF last week cut its
forecast for developing Asia to 7.3 percent in 2012 from a
September estimate of 8 percent and warned the world could be
plunged into another recession if  Europe ’s woes worsen.  Singh said China, which he doesn’t expect to experience a
“hard landing,” has room to boost fiscal spending while India,
which raised the repurchase rate 13 times in the past two years
to 8.5 percent, should lower its fiscal deficit. In  Japan , the
central bank can accelerate asset purchases, he said, while
 Australia  has more fiscal and monetary policy flexibility than
almost any other developed nation.  Driving Australia’s gross domestic product are exports of
iron ore and coal. The nation sends about a quarter of its
overseas shipments to China, the world’s second-largest economy,
whose largest export market, in turn, is Europe.  ‘Very Welcome’  The recent decline in external surpluses in China and many
Asian economies “is certain very welcome,” Singh said.  China’s export growth slowed in December, with overseas
shipments rising 13.4 percent from a year earlier after a 13.8
percent increase in November, data from the Beijing-based
customs bureau showed Jan. 19.  “So far some of the reduction we’re currently seeing, is
perhaps more of a reflection of temporary factors such as strong
domestic investment and of course weak external demand,” Singh
said, referring to China.  “Therefore it is very important that we see, as the
authorities want to establish, policies that strengthen domestic
consumption that will ensure that a recent decline in the
current-account surplus is sustained over the medium term,” he
said. Singh declined to comment when questioned on the value of
the yuan.  ‘Substantially Below’  The IMF in its annual assessment of  China’s economy 
published in July pressed for gains in the yuan, saying the
currency “remains substantially below the level consistent with
medium-term fundamentals.”  In a more recent report prepared for a Jan. 19-20 meeting
of Group of 20 officials, the IMF staff said that the currency
had been allowed to appreciate “faster than in the past,” and
that the pace of accumulation of foreign-exchange reserves had
slowed since a G-20 meeting of leaders in November.  “The authorities need to continue to allow the  exchange
rate  to appreciate closer to equilibrium and to move ahead with
financial sector reform,” according to the staff report.  Nations including  Malaysia ,  New Zealand  and  Thailand  have
reduced  interest rates  or left them unchanged in recent meetings
to shield their economies from the protracted European turmoil.  The fund predicts global growth of 3.3 percent this year
from a September forecast of 4 percent. The expansion next year
will be 3.9 percent, down from 4.5 percent. The euro area may
enter a “mild recession” in 2012 as it shrinks 0.5 percent.
The U.S. outlook was unchanged at 1.8 percent growth.  China’s estimated expansion was cut to 8.2 percent from 9
percent.  India  is expected to grow 7 percent in 2012, 0.5
percentage point less than in September forecasts.  The  Reserve Bank of India  lowered the cash-reserve ratio
for banks to 5.5 percent from 6 percent on Jan. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  