-- Portugal as Greece Prods ECB to Halt Contagion Buoying Bulls
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-01-31T17:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/portugal-as-greece-pressures-ecb-to-halt-contagion-prompting-nascent-bulls.html
The growing prospect  Portugal  may
follow Greece in needing more aid to skirt default may spur the
 European Central Bank  to extend its response to the debt crisis,
underpinning gains in the region’s stock market.  “Eurozone large-cap equities could rise 20 percent to 30
percent this year given the depressed starting point,” Michael Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , wrote in a report to clients yesterday. Financial
conditions have improved and “there is no reason that this
cannot continue so long as the ECB continues to keep its foot on
the accelerator,” he said.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  is planning a second round of
three-year bank loans next month, after lending 489 billion
euros ($645 billion) in December and cutting the benchmark
 interest rate . The moves, while shoring up debt of  Spain  and
Italy, failed to buoy Portugal, where the cost of insuring
against default rose to a record yesterday. The yield on the 10-
year bond climbed to a euro-era high of more than 18 percent
today before declining to 16.40 percent at 4.44 p.m. in London.  The  Euro Stoxx 50 Index , the benchmark for the 17-nation
euro area, was down 19 percent last year before the ECB extended
bank loans on Dec. 21. The index has climbed almost 7 percent
since then.  “A resolution in Portugal would be positive, but the
market has moved on to other things,” said  Padhraic Garvey , a
fixed-income strategist at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam. “What
we’ve had over the past few months is more differentiation.”  Portuguese Yields  Investors have been selling Portuguese debt, perpetuating
the increase in bond yields that is fueling speculation the
nation won’t be able to auction bonds next year before funds
from its 78 billion-euro bailout run out.  Since the ECB stepped in with bank loans, the difference
between Spanish and Portuguese 10-year bond yields widened by
362 basis points and the gap with  Italy  grew by 410. Italian and
Spanish bonds gained as the ECB lending helped the two countries
sell more than 40 billion euros of debt since the start of the
year at lower costs then in recent months.  The renewed interest in euro-region debt hasn’t trickled
down to the most peripheral of countries in the European Union,
with Greece struggling to conclude a deal for bondholders to
accept writedowns and Portugal trying to convince investors they
won’t be next in line for a similar haircut.  Greek Stake  Greek bondholders are being pushed to cede more ground
after agreeing in October to take a 50 percent reduction in the
face value of more than 200 billion euros of Greek debt.
Portugal may face a funding gap of 9 billion euros next year
unless it can sell longer-maturity debt, which is made more
difficult with 10-year borrowing costs as high as they are.  Portugal Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  reiterated
yesterday that there was no risk of investors being asked by
government officials to take losses on Portuguese debt. “What
matters the most at this time is that all the financial stress
is removed,” he said while at the EU summit in Brussels.  The ECB will remain active in “supporting government bond
markets of the countries that have come under pressure,” said
Bill Dinning, the Edinburgh-based strategy chief at Kames
Capital Plc, which manages about $75 billion. “I don’t think we
should doubt the motivation, which is to continue with the  euro
zone  in its current construction.”  EU Meeting  The stalled Greek debt talks and the surge in Portuguese
yields overshadowed yesterday’s EU summit where leaders agreed
to speed sanctions on high-deficit states and require euro
countries to anchor balanced-budget rules in national law.  Portugal and  Greece , which account for 4 percent of the
euro-region’s $12 trillion economy and 16 percent of its debt,
are “a distraction,” Darda wrote. Spain and Italy, which
account for 80 percent of euro-area borrowing, are “far more
important,” and “with the ECB moving to expand its balance
sheet and lower rates, there is a better chance for Spain and
Italy to make it despite what happens to Greece and Portugal,”
he wrote.  Italy sold 7.5 billion euros of bonds yesterday, paying
5.39 percent to lend for five years, the least in four months.
The issuance will help fund 25.8 billion euros of bonds maturing
tomorrow, the country’s biggest redemption of the year.  Spain auctioned 2.5 billion euros of bills on Jan. 24,
pricing three-month notes at 1.285 percent, the lowest since
March. The country sold about 17 billion euros in bonds in
January, about 20 percent of its total target for all of 2012.  “Despite increasing market concerns about Portugal, there
is enough support for Italy and Spain and interest from domestic
investors in terms of demand for bonds, as generally seen over
the past month,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist
at Credit Agricole SA in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 