-- Pound Rises to 10-Week High Versus Dollar on Europe Optimism, Stock Gains
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-01-31T16:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/pound-advances-versus-dollar-on-consumer-confidence-data-greek-swap-deal.html
The pound strengthened to a 10-week
high against the dollar as optimism European leaders are moving
closer toward resolving the region’s debt crisis damped demand
for the relative safety of the greenback.  Sterling headed for its strongest monthly gain versus the
dollar since October after Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
said progress had been made in debt-swap talks with the nation’s
bondholders. European lenders may next month ask the  European
Central Bank  for twice the amount of loans they took in
December’s refinancing operation, the Financial Times reported.
Data showed U.K. consumer confidence increased to a seven-month
high. Ten-year gilts rose for a fifth day.  “The pound is being driven by a broader uptick in risk
sentiment,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a market strategist at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. “A lot of people are encouraged
that European financial operations are going to handle all of
their imminent funding needs.”  The pound gained 0.5 percent to $1.5783 at 4:09 p.m.  London 
time after climbing to $1.5797, the strongest level since Nov.
21, and has risen 1.5 percent over the month. Sterling
appreciated 1 percent to 82.82 pence per euro and was little
changed at 120.41 yen.  European chiefs meeting in Brussels yesterday agreed to
accelerate the introduction of a permanent 500 billion-euro
($660 billion) rescue fund and signed a deficit-control treaty.
Papademos said he’s “strongly committed” to reaching a debt-
swap agreement with  Greece ’s creditors.  The FTSE 100  Index (UKX)  of shares gained 0.2 percent and the
Stoxx Europe 600 index rose 0.7 percent.  ECB Lending  The ECB lent European financial institutions 489 billion
euros in three-year loans on Dec. 21 as part of its measures to
encourage banks to maintain lending. Some banks may double or
triple their requests at the next operation, the FT said, citing
three unnamed chief executive officers.  The U.K. currency snapped yesterday’s decline against the
dollar after GfK NOP Ltd. said its  gauge  of U.K. consumer
sentiment climbed four points from December to minus 29, the
highest reading since June. Consumers’ outlook for the economy
and their personal finances also improved.  Mortgage approvals rose less than economists forecast in
December and  consumer credit  fell the most on record, a separate
 report  from the Bank of England showed.  The pound has weakened 0.5 percent this year according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar dropped 2 percent, and
the euro weakened 1.1 percent.  Gilts Drop  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.97 percent after earlier climbing
five basis points to 2.04 percent.  Overseas investors cut their gilt holdings by the most
since March 2009 last month, according to the Bank of England.
Investors sold a net 10.66 billion pounds of U.K. government
debt, compared with net purchases of 16.3 billion pounds in
November, data published on the central bank’s website showed.  Gilts have handed investors a 0.1 percent return this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Treasuries gained
0.2 percent.  Since the  Bank of England  expanded its debt-purchase
program on Oct. 6, gilts have returned 0.5 percent after
volatility was taken into account, according to Bloomberg risk-
adjusted return rankings.  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The
returns are not annualized.  The U.K. plans to auction as much as 7.25 billion pounds of
bonds and bills this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 