-- QPR Adds Zamora, Cisse at English Soccer Transfer Deadline; Spurs Get Saha
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-01T01:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/premier-league-spending-seen-falling-as-qpr-signs-lazio-s-cisse.html
Queens Park Rangers bolstered its bid
to stay in the English Premier League by signing forwards
Djibril Cisse and  Bobby Zamora  on the final day of soccer’s
transfer period, while striker  Louis Saha  joined Tottenham.  Everton, Manchester City and Fulham also made moves before
yesterday’s 11 p.m. London time deadline as analysts predicted
four times less spending than a year ago by Premier League
clubs.  Zamora, 31, moves to QPR from Fulham, while Cisse, 30,
joins from Lazio. Both signed 2 1/2-year contracts, QPR said on
its website, without disclosing the transfer fees.  “QPR are certainly a club that are looking to go
forward,” Zamora said. “The sky’s the limit. I want to be a
part of that.”  QPR is 16th in the Premier League, two points above the
three relegation places at the bottom of the 20-team league.  Premier League transfer spending was expected to be between
between 50 million and 70 million pounds ($80 million and $110
million) as teams seek to comply with so-called financial fair-
play rules, Mark Roberts, a senior consultant at Deloitte LLP’s
sports business group, told Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Clubs face penalties from European soccer’s ruling body,
UEFA, if they have losses of more than 45 million euros ($59
million) for a three-year stretch starting last July. Chelsea
and Liverpool pushed last year’s spending to a record 225
million pounds by signing  Fernando Torres  and Andy Carroll,
respectively.  Tottenham Strengthens Attack  Tottenham, which is third in the Premier League,
strengthened its attack by adding the 33-year-old Saha, who’s
scored 149 goals for Fulham, Manchester United and Everton.  Tottenham agreed to sell striker Roman Pavlyuchenko to
Lokomotiv Moscow. Spurs also sent defender Sebastien Bassong to
 Wolverhampton Wanderers  and defender Vedran Corluka to  Bayer
Leverkusen , both on loan for the rest of the season.  Everton signed Glasgow Rangers striker Nikica Jelavic and
re-signed midfielder  Steven Pienaar  from Tottenham on loan until
season’s end.  Jelavic, who has 36 goals in 55 matches for Rangers, signed
a 4 1/2-year contract, Everton said, without disclosing a fee.
Pienaar left Everton for Tottenham during the January 2011
transfer window.  Manchester City  added David Pizarro from Roma until the end
of the season and sent defender Wayne Bridge on loan to
Sunderland.  “Pizarro is a good player,” said City coach  Roberto Mancini , who managed the midfielder at  Inter Milan . “I think he
can help us in the next three months. He has good quality.”  Two players joined the Premier League on loans from German
teams as Sunderland added former Liverpool defender Sotirios Kyrgiakos from Wolfsburg and Fulham signed striker Pavel
Pogrebnyak from Stuttgart.  West Brom and Birmingham agreed on an undisclosed fee for
defender Liam Ridgewell, who signed a 2 1/2-year contract with
the Baggies, with a club option for another year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  