-- Wen Says China Should Allow People to Criticize Government
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-31T09:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/premier-wen-jiabao-says-china-should-allow-people-to-criticize-government.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
people should be allowed to criticize their leaders, echoing
similar pledges he’s made in the past.  China  should “create conditions allowing the people to
criticize the government,” Wen said, according to  a statement 
issued by China’s cabinet about a meeting today to discuss its
annual work report.  Wen and other Chinese leaders have pledged greater
transparency and more attention to disputes between citizens and
local officials in an effort to reduce social unrest that could
erode the Communist Party’s claim to power. Rights activists and
U.S. officials have criticized the country for what they say is
a worsening rights record.  In comments to the Charlie Rose show earlier this month,
U.S. Ambassador Gary Locke said there was a “significant
crackdown and repression going on within China.”  Human Rights
Watch  said last year that China is seeing “the largest
crackdown on dissent in over a decade.”  At a press briefing marking the end of parliamentary
meetings in March last year, Wen said China must “create
conditions for the people to criticize and supervise the
government” in order to eliminate corruption. He also said the
nation needed to pursue “institutional reform” and that any
“political restructuring” must be done in an orderly way and
under the Communist Party’s leadership.  Speaking at the Royal Society in  London  last June, Wen said
that allowing people to criticize the government would make
authorities live up to their responsibilities.  Strikes, demonstrations and other protests doubled to at
least 180,000 in 2010 from four years earlier, according to Sun
Liping, a sociology professor at Beijing’s Tsinghua University.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 John Liu  in Beijing at   jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  