-- RadioShack Drops Most in 30 Years as Profit Trails Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-01-31T21:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/radioshack-tumbles-after-fourth-quarter-profit-misses-estimates.html
RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  plunged the most in
more than 30 years after the consumer-electronics retailer
suspended share repurchases and reported preliminary fourth-
quarter earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates.  RadioShack  declined  30 percent to $7.18 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , the steepest drop since at least July 29, 1980. The shares
tumbled 47 percent last year.  The quarterly results were hurt by promotions during the
holiday shopping period amid “ongoing pressures” on  consumer
spending , according to a statement yesterday. RadioShack also
cited “underperformance” in the  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  wireless
business, which in part prompted gross margin to shrink to 35
percent from 41 percent a year ago.  “RadioShack is seeing a somewhat dramatic shift to a
structurally lower gross margin and we are unclear where this
shift will bottom out,”  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott in New York, wrote today in a note to clients.
He downgraded the shares to “neutral” from “buy.”  Suspending stock buybacks “for the near term” will enable
RadioShack to spend on its businesses including mobile phones,
Chief Executive Officer James Gooch said in the statement. The
 Fort Worth , Texas-based chain also said it plans to continue
paying a quarterly dividend.  Earnings probably fell to 11 cents to 13 cents a share last
quarter, RadioShack said. Analysts projected 37 cents, the
average of 19  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Net income for
2012 will probably decline compared with 2011, according to the
statement.  The company bought back $11.9 million of shares in the
fourth quarter. It had cash of about $590 million at the end of
the fourth quarter, compared with $569 million a year earlier.  RadioShack is scheduled to report fourth-quarter results on
Feb. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at  cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 