-- Rand Set For Its Best Month in a Year as Stocks, Commodity Prices, Advance
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-01-31T14:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/rand-set-for-best-month-in-a-year-as-stocks-commodity-prices-advance.html
The rand advanced, heading for its
best start to a year since 2006, as stocks and commodities
climbed after most countries in  Europe  agreed to tighter budget
controls and  Greece  made progress on debt talks.  South Africa’s currency appreciated 0.8 percent to 7.7760
per dollar as of 3.43 p.m. in Johannesburg. It has gained 4
percent in January, the most in a month since December 2010. The
rand last started the year on a winning note in January 2006.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index  of 24 raw materials gained and
a measure of  emerging-market stocks  advanced after European
Union leaders, meeting in Brussels yesterday, completed a
fiscal-discipline treaty that speeds sanctions on high-deficit
states. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said he’s
“strongly committed” to reaching a debt-swap pact with
bondholders. The euro, the currency of 30 percent of  South
Africa ’s trade, snapped its biggest decline in two weeks.  “The market believes that some rescue package will be put
together and that it will be successful,” Ian Cruickshanks,
head of treasury strategic research at Johannesburg-based
Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “A bit of confidence is
coming back into the euro, and in the rand as well because of
the trade relationship. Equities are also up, and that is always
a sign that risk appetite is returning.”  South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  advanced for the first
time in three days, led by miners including BHP Billiton Ltd.
and Anglo American Plc. Raw materials account for as much as 60
percent of South Africa’s exports.  Trade Surplus  The rand stayed stronger after a report showed borrowing by
households and business rose more than economists forecast in
December. South Africa had a trade surplus of 4.7 billion rand
($605 million) last month, compared with a deficit of 8 billion
rand the month before, a separate report showed. The median
forecast of 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey was a deficit of
1.6 billion rand.  “The unexpected surplus bodes well for the rand on two
fronts,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“Firstly, the data is positive from a gross domestic product
differential perspective as it implies lower import volumes and
relatively robust exports. Secondly, the lower trade deficit
would have contributed positively to a narrowing in the current
account.”  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 gained, driving
the yield down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
7.73 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  