-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Lowest in Four Months as U.S. Economic Data Cool
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-01-31T22:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/treasuries-snap-four-day-gain-before-u-s-home-prices-confidence-report.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
note yields to the lowest in almost four months, as reports
showed  consumer confidence  unexpectedly dropped and business
activity in the U.S. cooled in January.  Benchmark yields  fell  for a fifth straight day, the longest
streak since September, as reports on housing prices, business
output and consumer sentiment indicated U.S. economic growth
still faces headwinds. Demand for safe assets was supported as
European leaders worked toward a financial rescue for Greece.
Thirty-year bond yields dropped as the  Federal Reserve  bought
longer-term debt and announced operations for February.  “There’s a lot of talk about the weakening economy,” said
 Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital
Markets America Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trades with
the Fed. “For now, the market is very well bid and the European
crisis has not gone away. The buybacks are starting in a week
when there’s no supply.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.8 percent at 4:59 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, the lowest since Oct.
4. The 2 percent securities due in November 2021 rose 13/32, or
$4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 26/32.  Five-year note yields fell three basis points to 0.70
percent and reached a record low 0.6981 percent. Yields on 30-
year bonds dropped six basis points to 2.94 percent after
earlier gaining three basis points.  No Bubbles  It’s impossible to have a bond market bubble because
investors can expect to receive their money back when the bond
matures, according to  John Bogle , the founder of mutual fund
company Vanguard Group Inc. who popularized  index (MXWD)  investing.  Buyers of Treasuries at the current low  interest rates 
merely agree to a smaller return for the duration of the bond,
Bogle said today at the John C. Bogle Legacy Forum hosted by
 Bloomberg Link .  Treasuries returned 0.3 percent in January as of yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities gained 1.9 percent.  A measure of  government bonds  around the world advanced 0.6
percent in January, while global corporate bonds returned 2.2
percent according to the indexes. The MSCI All Country World
 Index (MXWD)  of stocks returned 5.5 percent this month as of yesterday,
including reinvested dividends.  Greek Talks  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald
Nowotny said he “can’t be sure” that  Greece  will be able to
carry out the necessary fiscal and economic measures and stay in
the 17-nation shared currency.  Yields fell as the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 cities declined 3.7 percent from November 2010
after decreasing 3.4 percent in the year ended in October, the
group said today in New York.  The New York-based Conference Board’s confidence index
decreased to 61.1, lower than the most pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, from a revised 64.8 reading
the prior month. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc. said its business barometer declined to 60.2 from 62.2 in
December. Readings above 50 signal growth.  “The economy keeps bouncing between moderate growth and
weaker growth, said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist in New
York at primary dealer Mizuho Securities USA, Inc. “Interest
rates have no reason to move higher.”  Fed Operations  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs under a program it announced in September and
plans to conclude in June. The central bank said today it will
buy about $45 billion of securities and sell about $43 billion
during February.  The central bank bought $2.52 billion of securities
maturing from February 2036 to November 2041 today, according to
the New York Fed’s  website .  “That’s probably keeping a little bit of a better bid in
the back end of the market,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury
trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc.  The Fed has purchased $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds
of quantitative easing known as QE1 and QE2. The central bank
announced on Jan. 25 that it plans to keep its target for
overnight bank lending at a record low through at least late
2014, and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s considering
another program of debt purchases.  Treasury Auctions  “One additional factor that could add flattening pressure
on the long end of the curve over the next month are large
coupon payments in February,” strategist  Priya Misra , head of
U.S. rates strategy at Bank of America wrote in a report today.
“Total coupon payments in February are close to $37 billion 10-
year equivalents, compared to $4 billion in January.”  Of that amount, nearly $24 billion in 10-year equivalents
of the additional coupon payments are for 30-year bonds, she
wrote. If these coupons are reinvested in the same sector,
demand will exceed supply and may add to the flattening
pressure, she said.  The Treasury will announce tomorrow the sizes of three, 10-
and 30-year debt to be sold on three consecutive days beginning
Feb. 7. The Treasury has sold $32 billion in three-year notes,
$24 billion in 10-year debt and $16 billion in bonds each
refunding month since November 2010. Quarterly refundings are
held each February, May, August and November.  The Treasury Department lowered its borrowing estimate for
the current quarter by 18 percent to $444 billion, reflecting
higher receipts and lower spending. The Treasury reduced its net
borrowing estimate for January through March by $97 billion from
a projection of $541 billion three months ago. U.S. Treasury
officials also see net borrowing of $200 billion in the second
quarter. The estimates set the stage for the Treasury’s
quarterly refunding announcement tomorrow.  Budget Update  The  U.S. budget deficit  will shrink this year to $1.1
trillion, the  Congressional Budget Office  said today in a
report. The deficit, which would be down from last year’s $1.3
trillion, will fall because of strengthening tax revenue and a
sharp slowdown in  government spending , the CBO said.  Investors also purchased debt today to increase the duration
of their portfolios to match benchmarks at the end of the month,
such as the Barclays U.S. Treasury Index. Duration measures how
sensitive a bond’s price is to changes in yield.  The Barclays index is expected to extend by 0.01 years for
the end of January, compared with 0.03 years at the end of
December, according to the firm, a primary dealer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  