-- GOP Said to Focus on Cost of Consumer Bureau Rules
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-01-31T18:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/republicans-said-to-focus-on-cost-of-u-s-consumer-bureau-rules.html
Republican lawmakers today escalated
their criticism of the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
over estimates that its first rule would require nearly 7.7
million employee hours of work to comply.  Senator  Richard Shelby , the top Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee, took aim at a rule published Jan. 20 on
remittances, charging it is inconsistent with the agency’s
stated goal of lowering costs for consumers.  “The bureau’s remittance transfers rule, however, suggests
that lowering costs is not high on its priorities,” Shelby,
from Alabama, said at a hearing with  Richard Cordray , the
bureau’s director.  Cordray countered that the new rule would cost 25 cents per
hundred dollars of remittances, which are cash transfers across
international boundaries.  “It’s a small price to pay that there have never been any
consumer protections for people who send money overseas,”
Cordray said. “These people deserve consumer protections.”  The consumer bureau has attempted to allay concerns about
costs, particularly the regulatory burden on smaller community
banks and  credit unions . At a hearing in Congress last week,
Cordray said the bureau was seeking public input on changes to
the remittance rule to ease the impact on smaller firms.  Small Banks  Small banks “don’t really need to take on these burdens
for not doing it in the normal course of business,” Cordray
told lawmakers from a House Oversight subcommittee. “What I
pledged to the community bankers and credit unions is that we
will consider our regulatory work in that way.”  Cordray said at the Senate hearing that the bureau will
create two advisory committees, one for community banks and
another for credit unions.  Since Dodd-Frank was passed in 2010, Republican lawmakers,
nearly all of whom opposed the law, have been warning of the
burdens it would impose. In addition to the remittance rule,
regulators have estimated that the Volcker Rule limiting banks’
proprietary trades could require more than 6.5 million hours of
employee compliance work, and a requirement to draw up “living
wills” to assist federal regulators liquidating a bankrupt firm
might need more than 1.6 million hours.  Shelby, from  Alabama , has pressed regulators to implement
rigorous cost-benefit analyses for each rule and has introduced
legislation that would prohibit regulators from finalizing rules
without proving they would benefit the economy.  Dodd-Frank Defended  President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats defend
the Dodd-Frank Act, which tightens oversight of the financial
markets in the wake of the credit crisis that led to the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Dodd-Frank also
created the consumer bureau, and Obama bypassed Republican
opposition by using a recess appointment earlier this month to
install Cordray as its director.  The 473-page remittance rule, released on Jan. 20, was
praised by consumer groups for adding transparency to the
international remittance industry, which has been accused of
charging exorbitant fees and defrauding customers. The  Federal
Reserve  wrote and proposed the rule, which is required under
Dodd-Frank, and the new agency finalized it.  Western Union Co. (WU)  and  Moneygram International Inc. (MGI)  are the
biggest players in the U.S. market for remittances, cash
transfers made across international borders. The global market
totaled $440 billion in 2010, according to the  World Bank .  The proposal requires firms to tell the customer the fees
being charged, the  exchange rate  being applied and the total
amount the person on the other end will receive. It has been
praised by Americans for Financial Reform, an umbrella group of
labor unions, consumer advocates and civil rights lawyers, for
providing “clarity and confidence” for consumers.  Compliance Burden  The bureau estimated the rule would create an ongoing
compliance burden of about 61,000 hours annually for the 155
large banks and credit unions supervised by the bureau. It would
require a total of about 1.4 million hours for money
transmitters supervised by the bureau, according to estimates
included in the rule. The rule estimated that 67,000 money
transmitters would be affected by the rule.  Some of the burden would be caused by a requirement that
companies develop new fraud-protection tools from scratch,
according to Paul Dwyer of Viamericas Corp.  “We want to work well with our new federal regulator, but
they’ve erred so far in protecting some theoretical consumer
rights, they’ve thrown out the baby with the bathwater,” Dwyer,
the chief executive officer of the Bethesda, Maryland-based
remittance company, said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 