-- Rice Exports From Myanmar Seen Doubling in Challenge to Thailand, Vietnam
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-01-31T09:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/rice-exports-from-myanmar-seen-doubling-in-challenge-to-thailand-vietnam.html
Rice exports from Myanmar may more
than double to 1.5 million metric tons this year, an industry
group forecast, highlighting the country’s potential to boost
overseas trade as its government pursues reform.  As the government starts to purchase production at above-
market prices to encourage greater planting, shipments may
increase to as much as 2 million tons next year and reach 3
million tons by 2015, according to the Myanmar Rice Industry
Association. Sales totaled 700,000 tons in 2011.  An advance in exports may bolster global stockpiles, while
boosting competition for  Thailand , Vietnam and  India . The
projected gain may make Myanmar the world’s sixth-largest
shipper this year, with volumes at the highest level since the
1960s, when the country was the world’s largest exporter,
according to data from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  “Myanmar coming into the market will take away some
markets from Thailand, worsening Thai rice exports,” said
Vichai Sriprasert, honorary president of Thai Rice Exporters
Association. “In the long run, Myanmar has the potential to
become the top exporter because of its fertile land and water.”  The price of  100 percent grade-B rice  from Thailand, a
benchmark variety from the largest exporter, plunged 18 percent
from a three-year high in November to $546 per ton on Jan. 18.
Rough rice traded on the Chicago Board of Trade, which was at
$14.49 per 100 pounds at 5:33 p.m. in  Singapore , has lost 2.5
percent this year. Prices have declined as India resumed exports
of non-basmati rice after a four-year ban.  ‘Economic Frontier’  Myanmar has the potential to become the  Asia ’s “next
economic frontier” if it takes advantage of its natural
resources, young  labor force  and proximity to China and India,
the  International Monetary Fund  said last week. The country,
which shares borders with the world’s two most-populous nations,
may grow 5.5 percent in 2011-2012, the IMF said.  Myanmar President Thein Sein has been releasing dissidents
and engaging with the opposition, prompting the U.S. and  Europe 
to reassess sanctions against the former military dictatorship.
The country is the “most promising” Asian market as the
government reforms the political system in a nation that has
ample natural resources, investor  Jim Rogers  said in November.  Target Markets  While local consumption accounts for 11.5 million to 12
million tons per year, total milled-rice output may increase 11
percent to 13.5 million tons in the year that started in October,
and climb to 15.5 million tons over the next three years, the
association said in an e-mail. Target markets for white-rice
sales are  Africa , Indonesia and the  Philippines , it said.  The increase in planting was driven by a government policy
of buying rough rice at about 10 percent above the market rate,
according to the association. The program started in about the
middle of January, it said.  Global rice stockpiles may gain 3 percent to 100.1 million
tons in 2011-2012, the highest level since the season ended 2003,
as worldwide output increases 2.5 percent to a record 461.4
million tons, according to projections from the USDA.  Myanmar has agreed to sell 200,000 tons of white rice to
Bulog,  Indonesia ’s state food agency, the association said in a
separate statement on Jan. 29. That’ll be the first exports to
Indonesia in more than 10 years, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  