-- Roche to Nominate Independent Board Directors in Takeover Bid for Illumina
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-31T22:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/roche-to-nominate-independent-directors-for-illumina-s-board-1-.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  will nominate a
slate of independent candidates for election to Illumina Inc.’s
board of directors at the company’s annual meeting this year.  Roche, which made a $5.7 billion hostile bid for Illumina
this month, is proposing to increase the size of Illumina’s
board to 11 directors from nine, the Basel, Switzerland-based
company said today in a statement. The move would allow
shareholders to elect a majority of directors nominated by
Roche, the company said.  Illumina has bolstered its takeover defenses since Roche
made its $44.50 a share acquisition offer last week. The San
Diego-based maker of gene-mapping tools is granting investors
the right to buy shares at half price, a so-called poison-pill
maneuver. The strategy can block an unwanted bid by making it
prohibitively expensive.  Roche’s nominees are Bary Bailey, 53, president of 4B
Management LLC and operating partner at Cressey & Co.; Earl Collier, 64, chief executive officer of 480 Biomedical and
senior adviser to Polaris Venture Partners; Dwight Crane, 74, a
former Harvard Business School professor; David Dodd, 62, CEO of
RiversEdge BioVentures LLC; Michael Griffith, 53, CEO of
Laureate Biopharmaceutical Services Inc.; and Jay Hunt, 72,
president of The Development Group.  Roche is engaged in a “board packing” plan that doesn’t
recognize Illumina already has eight independent board members,
said Jay Flatley,  Illumina’s (ILMN)  chief executive officer and the
ninth director.  “Our highly qualified board will continue to act
independently and in the best interests of stockholders,”
Flatley said today in a company statement.  Illumina hasn’t yet scheduled a date for the meeting, which
in the past has been held in March or April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  