-- Trump Opens Canada’s Tallest Condo Tower With $6 Million Toronto Suites
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/trump-opens-canada-s-tallest-condo-tower-with-6-million-toronto-suites.html
Trump International Hotel & Tower
Toronto, Canada’s tallest residential building, opens today,
capping a seven-year effort to bring the brand of billionaire
 Donald Trump  to the country’s largest city.  The C$500 million ($498 million) Trump tower is the first
of three luxury hotel-condominium projects opening this year in
Toronto, after The Ritz-Carlton opened last year. The  Four
Seasons Hotel (FS)  and Private Residences and the 66-story Shangri-La
Toronto are also set to open this year.  Toronto’s rise of luxury hotel residences follows a record
year for tourism, with more than 9 million hotel-room nights
sold in 2011, according to Tourism Toronto. The industry
association said the availability of luxury hotel options
attracts “high-value visitors” to the city.  About 60 percent of the 118 residential units in the 65-
story tower have been sold, with the remaining condos priced
from C$2.3 million to C$6.3 million, according to Talon
International Development Inc., the owner and developer.  The building also has hotel suites, owned by investors who
can earn revenue when used by a hotel guest. About 85 percent of
the 261 hotel rooms have been sold, with the rest priced from
C$967,000.  “In this market, and at the prices I know those units have
commanded, that’s a pretty healthy ratio,” John Andrew, a real-
estate professor at Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario,
said in a telephone interview.  An international investor bought a penthouse at Toronto’s
Four Seasons for C$28 million, which the developer said last
year was the most expensive condo ever sold in  Canada .  Luxury Tower  Talon, based in Toronto, bought the property at Bay and
Adelaide streets in the financial district in 2004 and proposed
a luxury tower with the Trump name. The Trump Hotel Collection
has a management agreement to operate the hotel, which was
originally slated to open in 2009. Design changes delayed the
project, Talon said.  The closely held developer arranged C$310 million in
construction financing from  Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
AG (RZBOPA) , an Austrian bank, in 2007 and started construction with
C$250 million in sales.  Buyers have come from around the world, with Canadians
representing a “considerable portion,” Talon Chief Executive
Officer Val Levitan said in an e-mail. That portion is growing
as the project nears completion, he said.  “Early on, the bulk of purchasers were investors,”
Levitan said. “Over the past couple of years that mix has
shifted much more towards people who are looking to use their
suites as their primary home, a downtown pied-a-terre or even as
a corporate suite.”  Taking Gamble  Investors of Toronto’s luxury units are taking a gamble on
a limited market of wealthy visitors and dwindling prospects as
companies cut back on corporate travel, according to Andrew,
director of the Queen’s Real Estate Roundtable.  “I’m very skeptical that there is sufficient market to
support all of these hotels,” Andrew said in an interview.
“There are not enough wealthy individuals running around that
are going to keep those hotels in business.”  Toronto will have about 1,000 luxury rooms after the Four
Seasons and Shangri-La open, estimates Trump’s general manager
 Mickael Damelincourt .  “Compared to what  Chicago ,  Los Angeles , Miami, Paris,
 London  has to offer in terms of luxury hotels, it’s nothing,”
Damelincourt said. “There is definitely a demand.”  Trump Hotel Collection also oversees five U.S. hotels
including two in  New York  and one in Chicago, and a hotel in
 Panama .  Nobody Can Compete  If there is rivalry brewing among Toronto’s luxury hotels,
the billionaire behind the brand name said he isn’t worried.  “Toronto is a vibrant, great city. We have a great
product,” Donald Trump told reporters Jan. 24 at the Americas
Lodging Investment Summit in Los Angeles. “Nobody will be able
to compete with us.”  The Trump building is in the heart of Toronto’s financial
district, rising 277 meters (908 feet) among towers bearing the
logos of Canada’s largest banks including Bank of Montreal and
Bank of  Nova Scotia .  The Trump hotel features a two-level spa with pool, a
12,000-square-foot ballroom and 31st-floor dining at Stock
Restaurant Bar & Lounge. Rooms start at C$395 a night and go as
high as C$20,000 for the 4,000-square-foot presidential suite.  ‘Elevate Toronto’  “Collectively, these luxury properties help elevate
Toronto to a level of being one of the elite cities in the
world,” Alex Shnaider, chairman of Talon, said in an e-mail.
“It will benefit the city as a whole -- making a great city
even better.”  The hotel-condo idea remains “an unproven concept” for
Canada, with uncertain investment returns, said Yossi Kaplan, a
Toronto realtor with Your Choice Realty whose clients own units
in the building. Trump’s name resonates more with foreign
investors than Canadians, he said, and most calls he gets on the
project are from outside the country or recent immigrants.  Trump’s name was a draw for Toronto’s John Hutson, who
bought a 17th-floor hotel suite as an investment and a 48th-
floor two-bedroom condo to live in.  “You associate Trump with special projects that have wow
factors,” said Hutson, 50, a tax partner at  Deloitte & Touche
LLP  whose office is a five-minute walk away. “The key is buying
the best. And from a quality and location perspective, for my
money, it’s Trump.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  