-- Rupiah Gains for Second Month as Rating Lifts Demand for Bonds
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-01-31T03:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/rupiah-gains-for-second-month-as-rating-lifts-demand-for-bonds.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah was headed for
its best start to a year since 2008 after the nation regained
its investment-grade ranking, spurring global funds to plow more
cash into the nation’s bonds and stocks.  The currency advanced for a second straight month after
Moody’s Investors Service raised its credit-rating one step to
Baa3 on Jan. 18, following a similar move by  Fitch Ratings  in
December.  Standard & Poor’s , which accorded Indonesia the
highest junk rating, may follow, according to  Standard Chartered 
Plc, which forecast 10-year government bond yields will fall to
new lows this quarter.  “Positive sentiment and confirmation from the rating
companies would continue to support the rupiah and bond
markets,” said Wiwig Santoso, head of treasury and markets at
PT Bank DBS Indonesia in Jakarta. “Indonesia’s economy is still
in a good position to continue to grow.”  The rupiah advanced 0.6 percent this month, the most in a
January for four years, to 9,014 per dollar as of 9:30 a.m. in
Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency was little changed today and may trade
between 8,600 and 8,800 this quarter, Wiwig said.  Gross domestic product increased 6.38 percent in the final
quarter of 2011 from a year earlier, versus 6.54 percent in the
third quarter, according to the median forecast of economists in
Bloomberg News survey before official data due on Feb. 6.
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy is “likely to stay on the
upward trajectory,” Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said in a
Bloomberg TV interview on Jan. 29 from Davos, Switzerland.  Yields Decline  The credit-rating upgrades, together with solid economic
growth and external balances, should spur the rupiah’s
appreciation, Standard Chartered said in a Jan. 30 research
report. Emerging-market money managers may allocate more funds
to Indonesia while central banks may add the nation’s bonds and
currency to their reserves, it said.  Overseas investors bought about $280 million of local
stocks more than they sold this month, according to exchange
data. They raised their holdings of  government bonds  to 230.4
trillion rupiah ($25.6 billion), up 3.4 percent from Dec. 31,
government  data  show.  The yield on the 7 percent notes maturing in May 2022 fell
65 basis points this month through yesterday to 5.45 percent,
based on prices from the Inter-Dealer Market Association. The
rate dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
today, according to prices from Standard Chartered.  “Feedback from onshore investors reveals that they have
ample cash to invest,” said Jennifer Kusuma, a rates strategist
in Singapore at Standard Chartered, who forecast 10-year yields
will drop to 5.25 percent this quarter. “Supply risks are also
minimal.”  The government plans to auction Islamic bonds maturing in
2018, 2022 and 2027 today as well as regular notes maturing in
2036 to help finance its development spending, according to its
sale  calendar .  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  