-- Russian Investors Target London’s Luxury Homes as Presidential Vote Looms
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-01-31T10:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/russian-investors-target-london-s-luxury-homes-as-presidential-vote-looms.html
Russian investors increased their
share of luxury-home purchases in  London ’s most expensive
neighborhoods more than any other group in the fourth quarter,
Hamptons International said, as Vladimir Putin bids to regain
the presidency in March amid growing opposition.  Russians accounted for 16 percent of all transactions in
the Chelsea, Kensington, Knightsbridge and Belgravia
neighborhoods handled by the London-based  broker , according to a
report today. That was up from 5 percent in the previous three
months and 1 point more the combined total for European Union
countries.  “It’s a precaution against things going too far in the
wrong direction,” Adam Challis, head of residential research,
said by phone. “The very well-connected folk realized that
there was going to be some serious political uncertainty and
that they’re better off putting their money into London
property.”  Russian Prime Minister Putin faces the biggest challenge to
his rule since coming to power 12 years ago after allegations of
fraud in Dec. 4 legislative polls sparked mass protests. Putin’s
voter support has fallen to 37 percent, according to an opinion
poll by the independent  Levada Center , indicating he will need
to face one of the four opposition candidates in a second-round
run-off.  Haven for Investors  Buyers from the U.K. accounted for 42 percent of all
transactions included in the survey, 2 percentage points less
than in the third quarter. The share of deals by Middle East
investors climbed to 16 percent from 15 percent, while Chinese
purchasers fell to 2 percent from 5 percent.  Russian investors accounted for around 38 percent of home
sales of more than 10 million pounds last year, according to
Knight Frank LLP. They made up about 15 percent of purchases
between 5 million pounds and 10 million pounds, the London-based
broker said.  Luxury homes have performed better than other parts of the
U.K. real-estate market, with values rising for 14 straight
months, as overseas buyers sought safer investments and competed
for a smaller number of properties for sale, Knight Frank LLP
said Jan 9.  The pound’s weakness has also made the market more
attractive to foreign investors. The British currency has lost
about 22 percent of its value against a basket of currencies
since the housing market peaked in the third quarter of 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 