-- Russia Faces Onslaught at UN to Back Ouster of Assad in Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-01-31T15:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/russia-faces-pressure-to-back-ouster-of-assad.html
The U.S. and the European Union plan
to mount a rare diplomatic assault on  Russia  today at the United
Nations, seeking to overcome an impasse on a  Security Council 
resolution calling for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to go.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , joined by her U.K. and
French counterparts, will attend a 3 p.m. briefing on Syria
presented to the UN’s decision-making body in New York by Arab
League Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi. The presence of the top
diplomats adds weight to a Western drive to persuade Russia to
withhold its veto of an Arab-European draft resolution endorsing
an Arab League plan for a  power transfer  in Syria.  Almost a year into the unrest in Syria, the EU and its
allies have yet to overcome Russia’s resistance at the UN to
efforts to hold Assad responsible for a crackdown that the UN
estimates has killed more than 5,000 people. Today, the Arab
speakers plan to present the case for a handover of power within
two months, a plan that the Russians say is on par with imposing
regime change.  “We have seen the consequences of neglect and inaction by
this council, not because the majority of the council isn’t
eager to act -- it has been -- but there have been a couple of
very powerful members who have not been willing to see that
action take place,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said. “That may
yet still be the case. We’ll see.”  No Force  The latest draft of a Western-backed  Arab League  resolution
on Syria seeks to assure Russia that military intervention isn’t
planned to force out Assad. “Nothing in this resolution compels
states to resort to the use of force or the threat of force,”
says the draft, obtained today.  As the UN Security Council meets, the violence in Syria
reached the edges of Damascus, where government troops battled
for control of rebel-held suburbs of the capital.  More than 100 people were killed yesterday, according to
Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights, and Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab Organization
for Human Rights. About 6,461 people have been killed in Syria
since protests against Assad started in mid-March, including
4,685 civilians, the Syrian Observatory said on its website
today.  While the Europeans anticipate a Russia veto, their
strategy is to weaken Russia and highlight its growing isolation
in the 15-member body through repeated votes on Syria, according
to Richard Gowan, a UN specialist at the  New York  University
Center for International Cooperation.  “The Russians have talked themselves into a corner, so
they have no choice but to block it,” Gowan said in an
interview. “If they back down, it will be a diplomatic
defeat.”  Veto Again?  Russia and  China , veto-wielding members of the Security
Council, blocked a UN resolution Oct. 4 seeking to pressure
Assad to stop killing protesters in a crackdown that began 11
months ago.  Russia may convince another Security Council member to veto
the plan or work to have the proposal withdrawn before a vote,
according to a senior foreign ministry official, who declined to
be identified under ministry policy.  That attitude hasn’t deterred the Europeans from pushing
for a vote.  “This resolution endorses the plan of the Arab League,”
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said today in an interview
in New York with Sky TV. “This is not the Western nations
trying to say what should happen in Syria, this is the plan from
the Arab world.”  ‘Increasing Pressure’  Russia and China “will come under ever increasing pressure
from world opinion and Arab opinion not to simply side with a
dictatorial and repressive regime,” he said.  Russia’s steadfast allegiance to its Soviet-era ally
carries its own risks should the leader they back be toppled.  “They are basically taking a bet that Assad will remain in
power, which is not the bet that everyone else is taking,” said
Jonathan Eyal, director of international  security studies  at the
 Royal United Services Institute  in  London . “Now they may be
proven right, but they equally may be proven very wrong, in
which case an enormous amount of their reputation in the  Middle
East  goes out of the window.”  In New York, pressure on Russia is also coming from the
political arm of the Syrian opposition, the Syrian National
Council, which is making its debut at the UN.  Russia’s Interests  SNC President Burhan Ghalioun met yesterday with Russia’s
UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, to promise Moscow that its
interests in  Syria , Russia’s most important ally in the Middle
East, will be preserved regardless of Assad’s fate.  “We reassured them that we are keen to continue the
historic relationship with Russia,” he told reporters in New
York in comments made in Arabic and translated into English. “I
appeal to Russia, which has long historical ties with the Syrian
people, to prevent the Assad regime from exploiting the Russia
support in order to continue its oppression.”  Moscow can’t afford to lose its naval base in Tartous, on
the  Mediterranean Sea , given that it’s “said farewell to all
its Mediterranean client states and bases in the past decades --
from  Egypt , which evicted Russia in the 1970s, to  Serbia , which
became a landlocked state following the dissolution of the last
 Yugoslavia  in 2003,” according to Soner Cagaptay, director of
the Turkish Research Program at the Washington Institute.  Time to Re-Think  The Russians may still have time to re-think their
position.  Joshua Landis , director of the Middle East Studies
program at the University of Oklahoma in Norman, said that while
the regime is ultimately doomed, it may survive into 2013.  To mollify Russia, the draft underwent several rewrites to
deal with accusations that Western powers were seeking a Libya-
style overthrow of an autocrat.  A call for  member states  to prevent arms sales to Syria was
dropped, as Russia sells weapons to the regime, and language
that urged Assad to relinquish power was replaced with a call
for him to delegate power to his deputy, a move that could leave
Assad the nominal leader even if devoid of powers.  “We don’t anticipate him to accept or listen to the
resolution,” said Ghalioun. “Nevertheless, to have that
resolution is extremely important to emphasize his lack of
legitimacy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  