-- Russia Won’t Allow Libya-Style Syria Solution, Lavrov Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-31T16:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/russia-will-never-allow-libya-style-syria-solution-lavrov-says.html
Russia  will “never allow” the
United Nations  Security Council  to authorize a Libya-style
operation to resolve the political crisis in Syria, Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov said.  “We are not a friend, we are not an ally of President
Assad,” Lavrov said in an interview with Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television today in Sydney. “We never said
President Assad remaining in power is the solution to the
crisis. What we did say is it is up to the Syrians themselves to
decide how to run the country.”  Russia is willing to use its Security Council veto to block
a resolution proposed by U.S. and western European nations and
their Arab allies that calls on President Bashar al-Assad to
transfer powers to his deputy, a senior Foreign Ministry
official said today.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will lead a
diplomatic push in the UN Security Council to sanction Syria,
which hosts Russia’s only military base outside the former
Soviet Union and where more than 5,000 people have been killed
since March 2011 according to the UN. Russia argues that the UN-
sanctioned bombing of  Libya  by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization was abused to bring about regime change and that
Western governments are trying to repeat that in Syria.  Libyan Example  “The international community unfortunately did take sides
in Libya and we would never allow the Security Council to
authorize anything similar to what happened in Libya,” Lavrov
told the ABC’s Lateline program during a visit to mark 70 years
of diplomatic ties between Russia and  Australia . A second Libya
“would be a disaster for the Arab world and for world
politics,” he said.  Calling for Assad to cede power as demanded by the Western-
Arab resolution before the end of talks between the Syrian
government and the opposition is premature, said the foreign
ministry official, who declined to be identified as per ministry
policy. Russia may use its veto, convince another Security
Council member to veto the plan or work to have the proposal
withdrawn before a vote, the official said.  ‘Condemn Strongly’  Failure to secure UN approval for the departure of Assad
may bolster his regime, prolonging a standoff as the U.S. and
 Europe  step up sanctions to pressure Syrian ally  Iran  to give up
its suspected nuclear weapons program.  “We condemn strongly the use of force by government forces
against civilians,” Lavrov said, referring to the violence in
Syria. “But we condemn in the same strong way the activities of
the armed extremist groups who attack government positions, who
attack the administration of various provinces of Syria, who
attack police stations and who terrorize people, telling them
not to come to jobs, not to hospitals, not to come to shops.”  Russia maintains a servicing point for naval vessels in the
Syrian port of Tartous, where about 600 Defense Ministry staff
are stationed, according to the Izvestia newspaper, giving it
access to the Mediterranean. Russia dismissed U.S. criticism
after a ship delivered Russian ammunition to Syria this month.
It also signed a $550 million deal to sell 26 Yak-130 jet
trainer aircraft to the country, according to the Kommersant
newspaper.  Arms Shipments  “We are arming the constitutional government,” Lavrov
said, adding that Russia was implementing contractual
obligations in delivering the weapons. “The arms we are selling
to Syria, they are not used against demonstrators.”  The Syrian leader’s father, Hafez al-Assad, who ruled his
country for three decades until his death in 2000, was a close
ally of the  Soviet Union . This month, three Russian warships,
including the country’s only aircraft carrier, visited Tartous
in what a former head of the Russian navy said was a show of
force aimed at preventing NATO military involvement in Syria.  “The international community must speak with one voice,”
Lavrov said, referring to the path to resolve the crisis. “If
we want to end violence in respect to where it comes from, then
all those countries on whose soil various opposition groups are
present, they must lean on those groups, we all must lean on the
Syrian government, and tell them you must sit down and stop
this. You must agree how your country is going to be run.”  He said Russia wouldn’t “prejudge the outcome” of such
talks, “whether this would involve the president of  Syria 
leaving, or whether there would be some other solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  