-- Rutgers Assistant Flood to Replace Schiano as Football Coach, Ledger Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/rutgers-assistant-flood-to-replace-schiano-as-football-coach-ledger-says.html
Rutgers University  promoted
assistant Kyle Flood to replace  Greg Schiano  as football coach
after failing to lure former assistant Mario Cristobal from
 Florida International University , the Newark Star-Ledger said,
citing two unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Flood, 41, took the job on an interim basis on Jan. 26,
when Schiano was hired as head coach of the  National Football
League ’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Flood has been at Rutgers since
2005 and interviewed for the full-time position at the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based school over the weekend.  Rutgers turned to Flood as Schiano’s successor yesterday,
hours after Cristobal decided to stay at FIU in Miami, where
he’s been head coach for five years, the Star Ledger said.
Cristobal turned Rutgers down after the sides had come to an
agreement on financial terms.  Flood’s hiring comes ahead of the Feb. 1 national signing
day, the first chance for high school football players to make
an official written commitment to a college under National
Collegiate Athletic Association rules.  “It’s an honor that they chose me to be in this role and
I’m going to do everything I can to stay in it,” Flood told
reporters on Jan. 28. “You’re never ready for your first head
coaching job, but I’m as ready as I’m ever going to be. This is
19 years in the making.”  The Scarlet Knights had a 68-67 record in 11 years under
Schiano and won five of six bowl games.  Schiano’s Turnaround  In Schiano’s first five years at Rutgers, the Scarlet
Knights had one season with more than five wins. In his final
six seasons, the team reached the eight-win plateau five times,
and went undefeated in five bowl games.  Schiano won national coach of the year honors after the
2006 season, when he led Rutgers to a school-record-tying 11
victories and its first postseason win. Schiano made $2.03
million, including bonuses, from Rutgers in the fiscal year
ended in June.  Terms of Flood’s contract weren’t immediately available.
Flood coached tight ends and offensive linemen from 2005 until
2008, when he was appointed assistant head coach.  Rutgers is seeking to increase revenue to balance its
intercollegiate sports budget. The Rutgers athletic department’s
$26.9 million subsidy in fiscal 2010 was the most among the 53
public universities in college football’s biggest conferences,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Rutgers’s conference, the  Big East , is in the midst of an
overhaul. It lost Pittsburgh, Syracuse and  West Virginia  to
other Bowl Championship Series leagues and added six other
schools in the past six months. Boise State, San Diego State and
the Navy joined for football, while Southern Methodist,  Central
Florida  and Houston are members for all sports.  The league needed eight football members to retain its
guaranteed berth in one of the five BCS games, which pay the
most of the postseason bowl matchups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  