-- Ryan Seacrest’s Company Gets $300 Million From THL Partners, Bain Capital
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2012-01-31T17:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/ryan-seacrest-s-company-gets-300-million-from-thl-partners-bain-capital.html
Ryan Seacrest , the radio and TV
producer and host of “American Idol,” garnered a commitment
for as much as $300 million from  Thomas H. Lee Partners  LP and
Bain Capital LLC to fund media ventures.  The private-equity investors will provide capital to Ryan
Seacrest Media to buy and develop companies, content and other
properties, according to a statement today. Clear Channel
Communications, the radio broadcaster controlled by the
investors, will also participate.  The accord deepens the ties between the private-equity
groups and Seacrest, who hosts nationally syndicated radio shows
carried by San Antonio-based Clear Channel, the largest U.S.
radio broadcaster. Ryan Seacrest Productions makes “Keeping Up
with the Kardashians,” the highest-rated show on the E! cable
TV network, as well as spinoff programs.  The production company will remain independent and
majority-owned by Seacrest, according to today’s statement.
Clear Channel Chief Executive Officer Bob Pittman, THL Managing
Director Richard Bressler and  Bain Capital  Managing Director Ian Loring will work with Seacrest and his management.  Ryan Seacrest Media formed a joint venture this month with
billionaire Mark Cuban’s HDNet, AEG and Creative Artists Agency
to create a new cable channel, AXS TV, later this year. His
company is also producing two reality series, “Melissa and Tye:
A New Reality,” for CMT and Bravo’s “Shahs of Sunset.”  In addition to “Idol,” Seacrest is host and producer of
“On Air With Ryan Seacrest,” syndicated to 150 stations in
 North America . He also hosts the “American Top 40” music
countdown show on radio.  Bain and Thomas H. Lee Partners acquired control of Clear
Channel in July 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  