-- Samsung Securities Said to Plan to Close Most of Its Hong Kong Operations
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a ,   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-01-31T10:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/samsung-securities-said-to-plan-to-close-most-of-its-hong-kong-operations.html
Samsung Securities Co. (016360) , South
Korea’s largest brokerage by market value, plans to close some
of its overseas businesses, said three people with knowledge of
the matter.  The company will shut equity sales and research operations
in  Hong Kong , said the people, who declined to be identified
because the plan hasn’t been publicly announced. It wasn’t
immediately clear how many jobs will be eliminated, the people
said. Samsung Securities will also withdraw from Singapore,
where it has five employees, one person said.  Samsung Securities and Asian rivals like  Daiwa Securities
Group Inc. (8601) , which expanded in the region to compete with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley, are cutting jobs after
 Europe ’s credit crisis hurt trading income and advisory fees.
Daiwa,  Japan ’s second-largest brokerage, said today it will
eliminate 200 positions overseas.  South Korean brokerages posted a combined loss of $43.3
million in the six months ended September from their 93 overseas
offices as Europe’s sovereign debt woes spurred market
volatility, the country’s  Financial Supervisory Service  said in
a Jan. 5 statement. The deficit widened from $17.3 million a
year earlier, according to the regulator.  Samsung Securities opened its Hong Kong office in April
2001, according to a November earnings presentation posted on
its website. With about 100 employees, the Hong Kong office is
the company’s largest outside Korea, one of the people said.  New York, London  The company also has offices in  New York , London, Shanghai
and Tokyo with about 40 workers between them, according to the
November presentation. Those offices won’t be affected by the
restructuring, one person said.  Reuters reported earlier today that Samsung Securities
would restructure overseas operations, citing people it didn’t
identify. Samsung Securities Chief Executive Officer Kim Suk
declined to comment when reached on his mobile phone today.  Shares of Samsung Securities rose 0.7 percent to close at
61,300 won in Seoul trading today. That compares with the
benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index’s 0.8 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  