-- Samsung Fails to Overturn Apple’s German Ban on Sales of Galaxy Tab 10.1
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-31T09:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/samsung-fails-to-overturn-apple-s-german-ban-on-sales-of-galaxy-tab-10-1.html
Samsung Electronics Co. lost a bid
to overturn a German sales ban on its Galaxy 10.1 tablet
computers obtained by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in an intellectual property
dispute.  The Higher Regional Court in Dusseldorf backed the ban in a
ruling today. While Apple can’t rely on a European Union design
it used to win the sales ban, the order is justified under
German competition rules, Presiding Judge Wilhelm Berneke said.  “Samsung wrongfully takes advantage of the enormous
reputation and prestige of the iPad,” Berneke said. “Samsung
unfairly imitates the iPad with its tablet.”  The legal battle between Cupertino, California-based Apple
and its closest competitor in tablet computers is intensifying
as an increasing number of consumers use devices such as tablets
and smartphones to surf websites, play games and download music.  After the initial victory in Germany last year, Apple has
faced several setbacks over the design issue. A Dutch appeals
court ruled on Jan. 24 that Samsung can continue to sell the
tablet in the Netherlands. Apple also lost similar rulings in
Australia and  California  in December.  10.1N Tablet  The ruling has little relevance because of the new Galaxy
Tab 10.1N, Samsung said in an e-mailed statement after the
ruling. The decision doesn’t apply to a suit Apple filed over
that model, which is being reviewed by a lower court in
Dusseldorf, the company said.  The court today said the sales ban also applies to the
Galaxy 8.9., so a separate ruling on that device, requested by
Apple, isn’t necessary.  In today’s case both sides were appealing a Sept. 9 sales
ban issued by the lower court. Samsung sought to overturn the
ban, while Apple wanted it extended to cover all EU countries.
The court said today that the ban only applies in  Germany .  Today’s cases are: OLG Dusseldorf, I-20 U 175/11 and I-20 U
126/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Dusseldorf via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  