-- Samsung Probed by EU Antitrust Regulator Over Mobile Patents
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-31T14:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/samsung-probed-by-eu-antitrust-regulators-over-abuse-of-mobile-patents.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  is being
probed by European Union antitrust regulators over licensing of
patents to other mobile-phone manufacturers.  The  European Commission  said it will investigate whether
Samsung broke a 1998 commitment to license any standard
essential patents for phones on “fair, reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms.” It acted after Samsung claimed last year
in European courts that rivals infringed its patents, the EU
said in a statement.  Regulators have increased scrutiny of intellectual property
rights, with EU antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia  saying last
month that he wanted to ensure patents weren’t used to block
rivals’ expansion. He is also probing Honeywell International
Inc. and DuPont Co. over chemical patents and is looking into
standards in the banking industry.  The EU is “very interested in standards because of their
increased importance in view of the telecom boom and the
disputes that are going on in the handheld industry,” said
Douwe Groenevelt, a lawyer with De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek NV
in Brussels. Companies that own “standards-essential patents
are in a very powerful position” because rivals must ask for a
license to make products compatible with industry norms.  James Chung , a spokesman for Samsung in  Seoul ,  Korea ,
declined to immediately comment on the EU investigation.  Licensing Terms  The EU commission will investigate whether Samsung broke EU
monopoly abuse rules and violated a commitment to the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute over licensing terms by
using “certain of its standard essential  patent rights  to
distort competition in European mobile device markets,” the
Brussels-based agency said in an e-mailed statement today.  The EU said in November that it was quizzing Samsung and
rival Apple Inc. over the use of patents.  Both companies were
sent requests for information about “the enforcement of
standards-essential patents in the mobile-telephony sector,”
the EU said at the time.  Alan Hely, a spokesman for  Apple (AAPL)  in  London , declined to
comment. Cupertino, California-based Apple said in a U.S. court
filing in October that Samsung faced an EU probe into its
“egregious” misuse of patents.  Apple, Samsung Cases  Apple and Samsung have filed intellectual property lawsuits
against each other in at least 10 countries, according to
Samsung. The legal battle between Apple and Samsung, its closest
competitor in tablet computers, has intensified as consumers use
devices such as tablets and smartphones to surf websites, play
games and download music.  Samsung today lost a bid to overturn a German sales ban on
its Galaxy 10.1 tablet computers obtained by Apple in an
intellectual property dispute.  European Union regulators have had mixed success with
antitrust cases over standards. The EU settled a probe of
memory-chip designer  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  in 2009 into so-called “patent
ambush.” The practice involves patent owners hiding their
intellectual property so they can demand royalties from other
companies forced to use the same technology once it becomes a
standard.  The commission dropped a four-year probe into  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of chips for mobile phones, started
after competitors complained the chipmaker was charging
excessive royalties on patents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 