-- Sands China to Pay First Dividend, Has Cash for Expansion
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-01-31T10:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/sands-china-to-pay-dividend-has-cash-to-expand.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928) , Asia’s biggest
casino operator by market value, will pay its first dividend,
saying it has enough cash to fund expansion plans in Macau.  The unit of billionaire Sheldon Adelson’s  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS)  said it will pay an interim dividend of 58  Hong Kong  cents
per share. The payout will occur on or about Feb. 28, Sands
China said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange.  The operator of the Venetian Macao said it “has determined
that it has sufficient reserves, after the payment of this
interim dividend, to finance its operations and the expansion of
its business, including the development of additional integrated
resorts.”  Macau’s casino revenue rose 25 percent in December to 23.6
billion patacas ($2.95 billion), as Chinese tourists spent more.
Chinese gamblers have fueled growth in the former Portuguese
colony, where gambling sales have more than tripled in the past
four years.  Sands  China  will be the third among six Macau casino
operators to pay a dividend.  “MGM China is quite likely to pay its first dividend this
year too, as the company is in a net cash position,” said
Philip Tulk, head of Asian conglomerates and gaming research at
Royal Bank of Scotland.  Sands China has jumped 19.6 percent this month in Hong Kong
trading, outperforming the 10.6 percent gain in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . The stock was down 2.2 percent to HK$26.25 at
the close.  Visitors to Sands China’s locations in Macau, the world’s
biggest casino center by revenue, rose by 5 percent to 6 percent
to more than 1 million during the Lunar New Year holiday from
Jan. 23 to Jan. 29, the company said on Jan. 30.  Wynn Macau Ltd., a unit of Las-Vegas based  Wynn Resorts
Ltd. (WYNN)  in November, said it will pay a special dividend of HK$1.20
a share, following a move by SJM Holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  