-- Sandusky Lawyers to Learn Identities of Alleged Victims From Prosecutors
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-31T22:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/sandusky-victims-identities-to-be-disclosed-to-defense-by-prosecutors.html
The identities of the 10 people who
allegedly were sexually abused by former  Pennsylvania  State
University coach Jerry Sandusky will be disclosed to his lawyer
by Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly.  Kelly’s office will provide the identities to Sandusky’s
attorney by Feb. 3, according to papers filed yesterday in state
court in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. The decision follows a “bill
of particulars” request by Sandusky for documents disclosing
the identities and locations of the alleged victims and
witnesses.  “A bill of particulars may not be used as a substitute for
discovery, or to require the Commonwealth to recite all of the
evidence within its possession or its theories of the case,”
Jonelle Eshbach, senior deputy attorney general for the criminal
prosecutions section, said in the filing.  Sandusky, 68, a former assistant football coach, is charged
with more than 40 counts stemming from the alleged sexual abuse
of 10 boys. He waived a preliminary hearing in December and
prosecutors said his case will proceed to trial.  Sandusky, who is under home confinement, asked the court
last week to amend his bail conditions. He is seeking permission
to visit with his grandchildren in his home with supervision and
to leave his residence to assist his attorneys in locating
potential defense witnesses.  Bill of Particulars  State prosecutors are opposed to relaxing bail restrictions
and asked a judge to deny Sandusky’s request for additional
details sought in his bill of particulars.  Prosecutors today also asked that a jury be selected from a
another county because of the ties between Centre County and
 Penn State . To ask Centre County residents to “insulate
themselves from the institution” is “unfair and
impracticable,” the state said in its filing.  Sandusky opposes the request for an out-of-county jury, his
lawyer Joseph Amendola said.  “Jerry’s case has drawn national attention as a result of
which we feel there’s no better place than Centre County from
which to select fair minded individuals to sit as jurors,”
Amendola said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky, CP-
14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  