-- Santander to Complete Real Estate Cleanup in 2012, Botin Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-01-31T15:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/santander-to-complete-real-estate-cleanup-in-2012-botin-says.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest
lender, will fully comply this year with government-imposed
provisioning requirements on real estate, Chairman  Emilio Botin 
said.  The Spanish administration’s plan to make banks acknowledge
higher losses on real estate assets “goes in the right
direction” and “these provisions must be fully made this
year,” Botin said during a speech to reporters today in Madrid.
Any lender that can’t show it’s viable “should be sold,” he
said.  Santander, which earned 24.4 billion euros ($32 billion) in
net operating income in 2011, was able to deploy 1.81 billion
euros in the fourth quarter to boost provisions to cover the 8.6
billion euros of property assets accumulated on its balance
sheet during Spain’s property crash. The new government of
 Mariano Rajoy  is preparing to announce a plan for restructuring
Spain’s banking system and Botin said he expected the new rules
to be made public on Feb. 3.  Rajoy has so far given few details about his plan, except
to say that he wants banks to value real estate more
realistically and also reduce the number of banks in Spain by
encouraging mergers.  “If your piece of land is worth 100, it can’t say on your
balance sheet that it’s worth 1,000,” he said in a Jan. 14
speech in Malaga, Spain. Spanish banks have about 176 billion
euros of what the Bank of Spain terms “troubled” assets linked
to real estate and have set aside provisions to cover about a
third of that amount, according to the  regulator .  Santander bolstered the provisioning level for acquired
real estate assets to 50 percent of their value in the fourth
quarter from 32 percent previously. The bank cut its lending to
developers to 23.4 billion euros in December from 27.3 billion
euros a year earlier, the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  