-- Santander Profit Slumps After Spanish Real-Estate Cleanup
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-01-31T17:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/santander-net-slumps-more-than-estimated-on-real-estate-charges-in-spain.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest
lender, said fourth-quarter profit plunged 98 percent as it
anticipated tougher rules on recognizing real-estate losses at
home and earnings declined in the U.K. and  Brazil. (SANB11)   Net income  fell to 47 million euros ($61.9 million) from
2.1 billion euros a year earlier, the bank said in a filing to
regulators today. That compared with the average 1.78 billion-
euro estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts.  Santander and other Spanish banks are under pressure from
Mariano Rajoy’s new government to recognize more losses on
building land and apartments that have piled up on their balance
sheets as a result of the country’s property  crash . The lender
booked 1.81 billion euros in charges for Spanish real-estate
provisions and a 600 million-euro goodwill charge at its
Portuguese unit as profit sagged in its biggest markets.  “Cleaning up the real estate is a sensible thing to do and
it’s probably long overdue,” said  Andrea Williams , who helps
manage about $1 billion, including Santander shares, as head of
European equities at Royal London Asset Management. “I guess
the other banks will now have to go and follow suit.”  Santander fell 0.6 percent to 5.95 euros in  Madrid  trading,
paring this year’s gain to 1.4 percent and valuing the lender at
54.2 billion euros. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Spain’s
second-biggest bank, will publish earnings Feb. 2.  Short of Pledge  Full-year net income fell to 5.35 billion euros from 8.18
billion euros and profit excluding one-time items was 7.02
billion euros, the Santander, Spain-based lender said. The bank
fell short of a pledge by Chairman Emilio Botin last June to
report earnings “in line” with the 8.18 billion euros posted
in 2010.  Santander will maintain its dividend of 60 euro cents a
share and boost earnings from Brazil, its biggest market, by 15
percent this year, Botin told reporters in Madrid today. The
bank had reached “a turning point” in  Spain , Botin said.  Politicians should take a “large” part of the blame for
the economic crisis while banks have very little responsibility,
he said.  Botin reiterated a target he set in September for Santander
to achieve return on equity of 12 percent to 14 percent in 2014
“despite the recent worsening of the international
environment.” The bank will have to see how things go this year
and next because of the impact on earnings of a worsening
economic outlook and tougher regulation, he said.  Time to Normalize  Botin told investors in September that earnings this year
would be similar to those in 2011 after Chief Executive Officer
Alfredo Saenz said at the same event in  London  that it may take
three years for profit to “normalize.”  Net interest income rose to 7.97 billion euros in the
fourth quarter from 7.33 billion euros a year ago, the bank
said. The Santander group’s lending increased 3.6 percent from a
year ago as customer deposits rose 2.6 percent.  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending reached 3.89
percent in December from 3.86 percent in September, Santander
said. Net loans newly classified as in default were 4.05 billion
euros compared with 4.21 billion euros in the third quarter.  The bank booked provisions for loan losses of 2.8 billion
euros in the fourth quarter compared with 2.4 billion euros a
year earlier, Santander said.  Real-Estate Cover  The bank previously said it had about 1.5 billion euros in
gains from sales of insurance and auto loans unit stakes in the
Americas to bolster its balance sheet. Santander used those
funds to partly offset 3.18 billion euros in one-time provisions
that included the pretax charges for Spanish real estate and
Portuguese goodwill, plus portfolio writedowns and the
amortization of intangibles and pensions, the bank said.  Following the real-estate charges, the bank now has
provisions to cover 50 percent of properties on its balance
sheet, up from 31 percent previously, Santander said. The bank
said it has 8.55 billion euros of real estate on its books.  Santander’s profit before provisions of 24.4 billion euros
in 2011 “underlines the group’s ability to generate future
earnings in a situation where lower requirements for provisions
will feed through to net profit,” the bank said in a statement.  Fourth-quarter profit from Spain plunged to 29 million
euros in the fourth quarter from 320 million euros a year
earlier as lending shrank 4.6 percent, Santander said.  Brazil Earnings  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending in Spain rose to
5.49 percent from 5.15 percent in September. The bad-loans ratio
at its Santander branch network jumped to 8.47 percent from 5.52
percent a year earlier, the bank said.  Earnings from  Brazil (SANB11)  fell to 637 million euros in the
fourth quarter from 751 million euros a year earlier.  Profit from the U.K. declined to 388 million euros from 436
million euros. Ana Patricia Botin, Botin’s eldest daughter who
runs the U.K. unit, in September predicted a decline in its
profitability in 2012 and 2013 as the bank focuses on
investment. Full-year profit declined more than 40 percent
because of a charge to cover compensation claims to customers
mis-sold mortgage-loan insurance.  Santander’s core capital ratio rose to 10.02 percent in
December under Basel II criteria from 9.42 percent in September.
The bank said Jan. 9 it had met the 9 percent core capital ratio
requirement set under European Banking Authority criteria six
months ahead of the June deadline after selling stakes in its
banks in  Brazil  and  Chile , swapping preferred shares for equity
and paying dividends in stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  