-- Sarkozy Allies in Parliament Back Sales-Tax Rise Opposed by French Public
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-01-31T13:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/sarkozy-allies-in-parliament-back-sales-tax-rise-opposed-by-french-public.html
Members of parliament from French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s political party said they back his
plan to fund a 13 billion-euro ($17 billion) cut in payroll
charges through higher sales taxes.  Sarkozy met today with members of the ruling Union for a
 Popular Movement  to explain the measures, which he announced
Jan. 29 and are opposed by public opinion.  France  holds
presidential elections in April and May and legislative
elections in June.  “The majority is unified and motivated,” Christian Estrosi, a UMP member from the Mediterranean city of Nice, said
after the meeting. “The majority realizes that what’s important
is to do what’s good for France, regardless of the elections.”  Sarkozy’s measures would raise the rate of tax on most
goods and services by 1.6 percentage points to 21.2 percent. The
government would use the extra revenue to finance a cut in
payroll costs paid by employers to boost competitiveness.  “The cost of labor is a priority if we want to remain
competitive,” Jerome Chartier, a deputy from suburban Paris,
said after the meeting. “Nobody raised any objections.”  By pressing an unpopular tax less than three months before
the vote, Sarkozy is showing “courage” and underlining that
he’s a better economic manager than Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande , the deputies said. Hollande leads Sarkozy in polls.  “The unemployed can’t wait,” said Sebastien Huyghe, a UMP
deputy from the north of the country.  A BVA poll for BFM TV on Jan. 12 showed 55 percent of the
French are opposed to simultaneously increasing sales tax and
cutting labor charges, while 43 percent favor it.  The deputies said Sarkozy didn’t indicate when he’ll
announce his candidacy for the elections, which are scheduled
for April 22 and May 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  