-- Housing Recovery Seeds Planted, Economist Case Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-31T19:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/seeds-of-housing-market-recovery-have-been-planted-case-says-tom-keene.html
The housing market may be poised to
begin its turnaround in the months to come, according to
S&P/Case-Shiller’s  Karl Case .  “If you look at the fundamentals, such as number of
existing sales and number of new sales, and look if they are
going in the right direction, they are,” Case, co-creator of
the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values, said today in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and
Ken Prewitt.  The index, which measures residential real-estate values in
20 cities, declined 3.7 percent from November 2010 after
decreasing 3.4 percent in the year ended in October. Economists
projected a 3.3 percent drop, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Case said the information provided in the index, a three-
month moving average of September, October and November, lags
behind the real economy and he said he is more optimistic about
the recovery than in past months based on leading data.  “I do believe the seeds of the recovery are being
planted,” he said.  According to Case, even with the decline in prices since
the housing bubble burst, many homeowners who bought in the
early 2000s are “still way ahead” in their investment, he
said.  “You have people way on top with a high willingness to pay
who are transacting,” Case said. “Everyone else is holding out
waiting for prices to go back and no one knows how long it will
take for that to clear up.”  ‘Shadow’ Inventory  This leads to “shadow” inventory, he said. There are many
people postponing the sale of their homes until prices
stabilize. As the market picks up a “seemingly infinite
supply” will become available, he said.  Case said another positive sign is the trend in household
formations, in which the “massive movement” of young people
who moved in with their parents during the housing crises are
venturing out again.  From Sept. 2010 to July 2011 the market lost 750,000
households, according to Case. During August and September, of
last year the market added 518,000 households, he said.  “We are getting at the business of tearing down some of
the old and cleaning up the mess,” Case said. “It’s a
complicated picture, but everything seems to be moving in the
right direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  