-- Iran Business Ties to Be Revealed Under U.S. Senate Legislation
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/senate-bill-would-force-sec-disclosure-of-iran-related-business.html
Senate Banking Committee leaders are
proposing to tighten sanctions on  Iran  over its nuclear program
and human-rights record.  Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat,
and senior Republican  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama  circulated a
legislative draft yesterday that would require companies traded
on U.S. stock exchanges to reveal any Iran-related business to
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The proposed sanctions come on top of an array of new
penalties imposed on Iran by the U.S. and the European Union
over the past three months. The senators said they plan to seek
a committee vote on their bill Feb. 2.  The measure would also extend U.S. sanctions to firms
involved in joint ventures with Iran anywhere in the world
involving uranium mining or new energy projects. The objective
is to ratchet up the pressure on Iran’s leaders to “abandon
their illicit nuclear program and support for international
terrorism,” according to a statement from the two senators’
offices.  “Iran’s continuing defiance of its international legal
obligations and refusal to come clean on its nuclear program
underscore the need to further isolate Iran and its leaders,”
Johnson said in the statement.  The Johnson-Shelby plan also would penalize U.S. parent
firms for certain Iran-related activities of their foreign
subsidiaries, expand sanctions on Iran’s energy and
petrochemical sectors and mandate sanctions on those who supply
Iran with weapons and other technology used to commit human
rights abuses.  The bill also requires intensified targeting of Iran’s
Revolutionary Guard Corps.  U.S., EU Measures  Last week, the EU announced an embargo against Iranian oil
by the 27-nation bloc effective July 1; banned trade in gold,
precious metals, diamonds and petrochemical products from Iran;
and imposed an asset freeze on Iranian banks and port operators
that will make tens of billions of euros in annual trade with
Iran almost impossible.  On Dec. 31, President  Barack Obama  signed into law
congressional sanctions on Iran’s central bank aimed at
complicating payments for Iranian oil by refiners in any
country. On Nov. 21, the U.S., U.K. and  Canada  took coordinated
action targeting Iran’s financial sector, with implications for
any entities that do business with both Iran and Western
nations.  The U.S., European allies and  Israel  accuse Iran of trying
to acquire the ability to build nuclear weapons. Iran’s leaders
say their program is solely for civilian energy and medical
research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 