-- Serbian Regulator Bans MK Group’s Bid to Buy Hellenic Sugar
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-01-31T17:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/serbian-regulator-bans-mk-group-s-bid-to-buy-hellenic-sugar.html
MK Group d.o.o. , a Serbian
diversified holding company that focuses on agribusiness, won’t
be able to buy  Hellenic Sugar Co. (HSI)  as the acquisition would push
its market share in  Serbia  to 78 percent, the country’s market
regulator said today.  The Commission for the Protection of Competition banned
further “concentration” in the Serbian sugar market that would
arise from the acquisition and rejected MK Group’s offer to sell
one of its sugar units within three years and to cap sugar
prices, according to a statement posted on its website.  MK Group wanted to carry out the transaction through its
sugar producing unit  Sunoko d.o.o. , which is also a member of
 Germany ’s Nordzucker Gmbh & Co KG. Its portfolio of four
refineries in Serbia would have expanded to six units.  MK submitted a non-binding offer for 82.33 percent of
Hellenic Sugar last year, when its owner, the  Agricultural Bank
of Greece SA (ATE) , decided to sell non-banking activities. The tender
initially drew 11 potential buyers and the race has boiled down
to the Serbian holding and  Suedzucker AG (SZU) , MK Group’s owner
Miodrag Kostic said in an interview yesterday.  Sunoko said in an e-mail that the regulator’s decision was
“unfounded” as it “inflicts damage” to the Serbian sugar
industry and interferes with “the strengthening of
competitiveness and the concentration of production capacities,
necessary to prepare for strong competition in the EU markets.”  Serbia exports around 100,000 tons of sugar to Greece worth
between 70 million euros ($92 million) and 80 million euros a
year, accounting for 65 percent of an annual sugar export quota
the country has with the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  