-- Shell to Raise Dividend for First Time Since 2009
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-01-31T17:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/shell-seen-raising-dividend-for-first-time-since-2009-energy.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, may raise its dividend this year for the
first time since 2009 as crude prices around $110 a barrel and
new projects generate cash.  Shell will increase its  payout to investors  by 4.8 percent
in 2012 to $1.76 a share, according to the median estimate from
26 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The Hague-based company gave
about $8 billion in the first nine months of last year, and this
week will probably make no change in the dividend for the fourth
quarter of 2011, the data show.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  is on course to beat a
target to increase cash flow from operations by more than 80
percent from 2009 to 2012, giving him room to return more money
to investors. Shell rose 11 percent in  London  last year,
compared with declines of 1.1 percent at  BP Plc (BP/)  and 0.4 percent
at  Total SA (FP)  in Paris, its two closest European peers.  “The cash flow they’ve generated is way above their
expectations,” said  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in London who predicts an “incremental”
increase in the dividend this year.  Brent oil averaged about $111 a barrel last year, compared
with $80 in 2010, helping the company to extract more cash from
new drilling and production projects.  Shell’s 12-month dividend yield, or the annual payout
already made as a percentage of the share price, is 4.6 percent,
lower than the 6.1 percent for Eni SpA of  Italy  and 5.7 percent
for France’s Total, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. BP
offers investors 3.8 percent.  Shell rose 0.5 percent to 2,240.5 pence in London. BP
climbed 2.7 percent and Total gained 1.5 percent.  ‘Less Risky’  Eni and Total saw their dividend yields pushed up in part
by concerns arising from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, which
depressed their shares, according to Jason Kenney, an analyst at
Banco Santander SA. In contrast, Shell was considered a “less
risky play,” he said.  Kim Blomley, a London-based spokesman at Shell, declined to
comment.  Shell may even go as far as paying a special dividend or
buying back shares to maximize shareholder value, according to
analysts at Citigroup Inc.  “As key projects come onstream and capital expenditure
stabilizes, free  cash flow  is set to increase structurally,
underpinning significant potential for dividend growth,” Morgan
Stanley said in a note. “We expect Shell management to start
raising its dividend in the next three to nine months.”  In 2010, Shell paid the most in dividends among the
companies trading on the London Stock Exchange’s main index.
“One pound in seven pounds paid as dividends in the FTSE came
from Shell,” Voser  told  shareholders in May.  Revive Output  Staffing constraints and multibillion-dollar projects
already under way in  North America ,  Asia  and  Australia  will
limit Shell’s ability to spend even more cash on developing
projects, according to analysts.  “Massive free cash flow enables both higher dividends and
higher capital expenditure,” Aymeric de-Villaret and Irene Himona, analysts at  Societe Generale , said this month.  Shell is the middle of a $100 billion four-year investment
plan through 2014 that’s aimed at reviving production with about
30 projects to start through 2020. The company will present its
annual strategy along with fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 2. It
will be followed by  BP  on Feb. 7.  Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, Shell is
expected to report earnings of $5.2 billion, according to the
mean estimate of eight analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Resume Payments  BP, its largest European rival, is forecast to report
profit of $4.8 billion profit on the same basis, according to
the survey. The London-based company, which resumed payouts in
the fourth quarter of 2010 after suspending them because of the
 Gulf of Mexico  spill, may increase its payout to 30 cents this
year from 28 cents, according to the median forecast of 28
analysts.  Robert Wine , a company spokesman, said BP’s board sets the
dividend in line with the company’s performance.  Shell expects to invest $30 billion over five years in oil
and gas developments in Australia to supply liquefied natural
gas to Asia. Shell is also working to secure U.S. government
permits to drill off Alaska this year and is exploring in the
Gulf of Mexico, Iraq and Malaysia as well as looking for shale
gas in  China .  Hold Off  Not every Shell follower agrees dividends will be raised.
The company has enough spending to do that Voser may hold off on
raising shareholder payments for the time being, said Kenney at
 Banco Santander  in Edinburgh.  “The capital commitments are quite significant to be
stepping up the capital dividend,” Kenney said by phone. “It’s
a generous dividend already.”  Shell’s free-cash flow is estimated to rise to $17.4
billion this year from negative $5.5 billion in 2009, according
to Bloomberg  data .  “The cash flow has been strong,” Shell Chief Financial
Officer Simon Henry told investors in October. “We need to get
back to that structural positive free cash flow position from
delivering the major projects before we look to grow the
dividend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  