-- Sichem Hiroshima Tanker Leaves U.K. Coryton Plant for Amsterdam
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-01-31T11:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/sichem-hiroshima-tanker-leaves-u-k-coryton-plant-for-amsterdam.html
An oil-products tanker left
Petroplus Holdings AG’s  Coryton (BPCOCRUD)  refinery in the U.K., loaded
with cargo and bound for Amsterdam, as administrators for the
insolvent Swiss company continued talks to keep the plant open.  The Sichem Hiroshima, which can carry about 13,000 metric
tons, has a draft of 8.5 meters (27.9 feet), compared with 6.2
meters before arriving at the site, according to AISLive ship-
tracking data on Bloomberg. Draft refers to a vessel’s sailing
depth and is an indication of cargo size.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the U.K. administrator for Zug-
based Petroplus, is in talks to secure crude for the Coryton
refinery while seeking buyers for the plant, an official at PwC
said today, declining to be identified in line with company
policy. The site, 30 miles east of London, has enough crude to
last a “number” of days, Richard Howitt, a European Parliament
member for the east of  England , said last week.  Howitt is meeting with European Union officials including
Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  in Brussels later today
to discuss Coryton’s future, he said.  The Lian Xing Hu crude tanker, which has shipped average
cargoes of about 58,000 tons in the past six months, is anchored
off England’s east coast with a draft of 12.8 meters, according
to AISLive data. The vessel is showing Coryton as its
destination, and has been since at least Jan. 17.  The refinery has the capacity to process 172,000 barrels of
crude a day and 70,000 barrels of other feedstock, according to
the U.K. Petroleum Industry Association. The plant has been
running at 100,000 barrels a day after lenders froze about $1
billion in credit to Petroplus at the end of last year.  Coryton is “still refining at the moment,” Linda
McCulloch, an official at Unite, the U.K.’s largest labor union,
said today by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  