-- Slim Rebuts OECD’s Study Citing Overcharging in Mexico’s Telecom Industry
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-01-31T22:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/slim-refutes-oecd-study-finding-overcharging-in-mexico-s-telecom-industry.html
Carlos Slim , who controls  Mexico ’s
dominant phone companies, said the prices they charged in the
country are among the world’s lowest, in response to a report by
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  The billionaire refuted the study released yesterday by the
OECD, which said Mexican customers were overcharged by $13.4
billion a year from 2005 to 2009. The data used by the OECD
“was pulled out of thin air” and lacked substance, Slim said
during a press conference in Mexico City today.  Slim’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the largest wireless carrier in
the Americas, controls 70 percent of Mexico’s mobile market. The
company also owns Telefonos de Mexico SAB, which has an 80
percent share of the nation’s fixed-line market. The phone
industry’s excess fees combined with the potential loss of
business caused by high prices equaled 1.8 percent of Mexico’s
gross domestic product, according to the OECD.  “It’s difficult to compare a country with $1,000 per
capita with countries with $40,000,” Slim said. “It’s not that
the lower broadband impacts GDP growth, it’s that the lower rate
of growth affects the broadband.”  Prices for high-speed  Internet service  in Mexico are the
highest in the OECD, according to the organization’s report,
which used a comparison method called “purchasing power
parity” to adjust for economic differences between countries.
America Movil Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said
last year that the method is questionable for comparing specific
prices.  Mexico “needs the socioeconomic boost provided by greater
access to more efficient communication services, in particular
high-speed broadband,” the OECD said.  ‘Major Disadvantage’  Slim said a government ban that prevents Telmex, as the
Mexico City-based fixed-line operator is known, from offering
pay television services is “a major disadvantage.”  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO)  has captured market share from Telmex by
offering “triple play” packages of phone, Internet and cable.
 Telmex (TELMEXL)  can only offer Internet and phone and has said pay-TV
would boost revenue.  America Movil shares fell 0.9 percent to 15.14 pesos at
3:22 p.m. in Mexico City trading today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net  