-- Soccer Club Owner Mandaric Says Tax Evasion Trial an ‘Insult’
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-31T12:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/soccer-club-owner-mandaric-calls-redknapp-tax-evasion-trial-an-insult-.html
Soccer club owner Milan Mandaric
told a London court that  tax evasion  charges over $295,000 paid
to Tottenham Manager  Harry Redknapp  were an “insult” to
someone as wealthy and law-abiding as him.  Redknapp, 64, and Sheffield Wednesday owner Mandaric, 73,
are on trial on two counts of tax evasion over $295,000 paid
into a bank account in Monaco named after the manager’s dog,
Rosie, when the two worked together at Portsmouth soccer team.  Mandaric said he was worth “more than 100 million pounds
($157.8 million),” and had amassed a fortune after leaving his
native  Croatia  for the U.S. Mandaric said he’d paid as much as
55 million pounds in taxes during the six years he owned
Portsmouth before selling it in January 2006.  “Going through something like this is sad and unfair,”
Mandaric said, during a second day of testimony in  London . “Its
an insult to me, to my family, to my friends, to my associates
and even to some of those thousands of supporters who know who
the chairman is.”  Prosecutors have said Mandaric transferred Redknapp’s
bonuses into the Monaco account to avoid paying U.K. employment
taxes. Mandaric said the money didn’t have anything to do with
soccer, and was for Redknapp, who had become a friend, to invest
in U.S. stocks. Redknapp told police in an interview that the
money was a bonus for selling striker  Peter Crouch  for a profit
in 2002.  Mandaric told prosecutor John Black he could have been
“wrong” when he wrote in a 2006 letter to Premier League
investigators the Monaco account was opened to reward Redknapp
for soccer success.  Redknapp has yet to take the witness stand. The soccer
coach’s contract was worth 4.2 million pounds over three years
when he quit for Southampton in 2004, Mandaric said. He returned
to Portsmouth a season later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  