-- South Korea Exports Slow, Inflation Moderates as Europe Crisis Dims Growth
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-02-01T07:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/south-korea-s-consumer-prices-rise-3-4-in-january-from-12-months-ago.html
South Korea ’s exports unexpectedly
fell for the first time in more than two years and inflation
moderated to the slowest pace in 12 months, boosting the case
for the central bank holding off on interest-rate increases.  Overseas  shipments  dropped 6.6 percent in January from a
year earlier after a revised 10.8 percent rise in December as
 Europe  and the Lunar New Year holiday disrupted shipments, the
Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in a statement today.
Consumer prices rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier, the
slowest since January 2011 when they gained at the same speed, a
separate report today showed.  The releases add to signs that Europe’s crisis is weighing
on South  Korea ’s trade partners while providing policy makers a
reason to cut or hold off raising rates. Bank of Korea Governor
Kim Choong Soo has said rates are below desired levels, adding
that the situation can’t be left for long.  “The economy may hit bottom this quarter before recovering
slowly later this year,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income
analyst at Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  Exports fell to $41.5 billion in January from a revised
$48.9 billion in December, today’s report showed. Imports
climbed 3.6 percent to $43.5 billion. The trade shortfall was
$1.96 billion, the first deficit since January 2010.  “Exports will improve in February with more working
days,” the ministry said in today’s statement.  Europe Slowdown  The won dropped 0.3 percent to close at 1,126.35 per dollar
in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Kospi
stock index gained 0.2 percent.  Shipments to Europe dropped 44.8 percent from a year
earlier in the first 20 days of January, the ministry said.
Shipments to  China , the biggest buyer of South Korean goods,
increased 7.3 percent. Exports to the U.S. and  Japan  rose 23.3
percent and 37.2 percent respectively. Data for exports to
individual countries are only available for the first 20 days of
the month.  Semiconductor exports fell 8.5 percent, the ministry said.
Overseas shipments of vessels dropped 41.5 percent.  The 3.4 percent gain in  consumer prices  compares with a 4.2
percent advance in December. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 18 was for a 3.6 percent increase. Prices rose
0.5 percent from December. The bank aims for inflation of 2
percent to 4 percent.  Core prices, which exclude energy and food costs, advanced
3.2 percent in January from a year ago, today’s report said.  Scope to Cut  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its estimate for
global growth this year to 3.3 percent from a September forecast
of 4 percent on Jan. 24, warning the European debt crisis
threatens to derail the world economy. The expansion next year
will be 3.9 percent, down from 4.5 percent. The euro area may
enter a “mild recession” in 2012 as it shrinks 0.5 percent.
South Korea’s growth forecast for this year was cut to 3.5
percent from 4.4 percent.  Asia-Pacific nations including the world’s most populous,
China, have scope to boost spending and cut borrowing costs to
protect their economies should the global slowdown worsen, the
IMF’s Asia-Pacific department chief, Anoop Singh, said earlier
this week.  Both the  Bank of Korea  and the South Korean government
forecast 3.7 percent growth this year. The nation’s  gross
domestic product  expanded 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter of
2011 from the previous three months, the slowest in two years,
according to a BOK report on Jan. 26.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said this week that the
economy may hit bottom in the first or second quarter due to
Europe.  Output (KOIPIMOM)  declined for a third month in December, hurt by
slowing exports and sluggish domestic demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  