-- South Carolina Fund Paid High Fees for No Gain, Treasurer Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-31T22:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/south-carolina-fund-paid-high-fees-for-no-gain-treasurer-says.html
South Carolina (STOSC1) ’s $26 billion pension
fund paid excessive fees while trailing peers after half the
plan’s assets were invested with  hedge funds  and private-equity
firms, State Treasurer Curtis Loftis said.  The South Carolina Retirement System would have done 13
percent better between fiscal 2007 and 2011 by investing in a
mix of 40 percent bonds and 60 percent equities, Loftis said
today in a statement prepared for a legislative hearing. He said
Robert Borden, the pension’s chief investment officer until he
resigned in December, oversaw a plan that placed 49.3 percent of
assets in “alternative investments.”  The fund paid $343.6 million in investment-management fees,
or 1.3 percent of assets last year, compared with 0.6 percent of
assets paid in fees by the $54 billion Virginia Retirement
System, Loftis said in the report. In 2005, similar fees for the
 South Carolina  fund came to about $22.4 million, or 0.9 percent,
according to Loftis.  “We have an underperforming pension fund that is
expensive, overly complicated and places the taxpayers and
 pension plan  members at excessive risk,” Loftis said in remarks
prepared for the hearing. “Many of these deals were constructed
outside the normal framework of the pension plan and if problems
are found they will take long periods of time to unwind.”  Trailing Peers  The South Carolina fund had a return on assets of about 18
percent last year, compared with about 21 percent for an index
of similar plans from Bank of New York Mellon Corp., according
to Loftis. He said allocations of 60 percent bonds and 40
percent equities would have produced earnings of $3.4 billion
more than the fund had from 2007 through 2011.  Borden defended the fund’s allocations in an interview.  “We ranked in the top third of our peer group over the
last three years,” Borden said by telephone today. “The plan
was fairly defensively postured going into June,” he said,
citing concerns that equities would decline because of issues
tied to European debt.  More than three quarters of the pension is committed to
partnerships managed by third parties, and the structure of the
arrangements is known only to Borden, Loftis said.  For the five years through June, the South Carolina fund
had annualized returns on assets averaging 3.95 percent compared
with 4.91 percent for public pensions with assets greater than
$5 billion, according to data from the pension fund and Wilshire
Associates  Borden, who oversaw the plan’s assets from 2006 until he
left in December, prompted allocations into such areas as real
estate, hedge and private-equity funds, as a way to diversify.
The average amount invested in alternatives at other public
pensions was about 13 percent in 2010, according to Loftis. He
cited figures from the National Association of State Retirement
Administrators.  Borden has joined a money management firm in  Chapel Hill ,
 North Carolina . Adam Jordan, chief of staff at the South
Carolina fund, didn’t respond immediately to a telephone call
seeking comment on the Loftis report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin,  Texas  at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 