-- South Korea Retailer E-Land Joins Group to Bid for L.A. Dodgers
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-01-31T05:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/south-korea-appareal-retailer-e-land-joins-group-to-bid-for-l-a-dodgers.html
South Korean apparel retailer E-Land
is part of a group that has made a bid for Major League
Baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers, a company spokesman said.  Closely held E-Land is providing financial backing for
 Peter O’Malley ’s bid to buy back the Dodgers, the Los Angeles
Times reported, quoting two people familiar with the team’s sale
process who requested anonymity.  O’Malley, a former owner of the Dodgers, has had
discussions with Tony Ressler, a minority owner of the Milwaukee
Brewers and chairman of New York-based  Ares Capital Corporation (ARCC) ,
the newspaper also said.  Kim Dal Hyun, a spokesman for E-Land, confirmed in a phone
interview that the group has bid without giving details about
its members.  Current owner  Frank McCourt  agreed with MLB to sell the
Dodgers, who filed for bankruptcy in June. The sale must be
finished by April 30, and the team said in a court filing last
year that it may sell for $1 billion or more.  Other potential bidders for the team include Rick Caruso,
the Los Angeles real estate developer who is working with former
Dodgers and New York Yankees manager Joe Torre; hedge-fund
manager  Steve Cohen  of SAC Capital Advisors LLC in  Stamford ,
Connecticut; and Mark Walter, chief executive officer of
Guggenheim Partners LLC in New York, who counts Magic Johnson,
the former Los Angeles Lakers player and a basketball Hall of
Famer, among his partners.  E-Land has 27 units in areas including retail, fashion and
construction. One of its businesses, E-Land Ltd., a clothing
company, had sales of KRW 423 billion ($376 million) in 2010,
according to its annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  