-- Sri Lanka Inflation Slows to Lowest Level in More Than Two Years
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-01-31T09:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/sri-lanka-inflation-slows-to-lowest-level-in-more-than-two-years.html
Sri Lankan inflation slowed in
January to a 26-month low, giving the central bank scope to
shield economic growth by leaving  interest rates  unchanged.  Consumer prices  in the capital, Colombo, increased 3.8
percent from a year earlier after gaining 4.9 percent in
December, the Department of Census and Statistics said on its
website today. The median of seven estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 4.7 percent advance.  Sri Lanka  has left interest  rates  unchanged since the
beginning of February 2011 to aid domestic spending and devalued
its currency in November to boost exports. Demand for credit has
curbed scope to lower borrowing costs, central bank Governor
Ajith Nivard Cabraal signaled today, contrasting with neighbors
from  Indonesia  to  China  that have eased monetary policy in
recent months as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurts the global economy.  “We don’t have room like the rest of the region to ease
monetary policy as there’s already demand pressure with credit
growth still strong,” Sanjeewa Fernando, an analyst at CT Smith
Stockbrokers Pvt. in  Colombo , said before the report. “Keeping
rates on hold is the best option for inflation and growth.”  The $50 billion economy can achieve 8 percent growth in
2012, Cabraal said today. Sri Lanka’s 3 percent rupee
depreciation was a one-off move, he also said.  Expansion has rebounded since the end of a 26-year civil
war in May 2009, boosted by the development of roads and ports,
tourism, foreign investment and consumer demand.  Inflation will probably remain around the “mid-single
digit” level in 2012, the central bank said this month. The next
monetary policy announcement is scheduled for Feb. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  