-- Stahl Bides Time Taking Market Share as Rivals Seen as Targets
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-01-31T11:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/stahl-bides-time-taking-market-share-as-rivals-seen-as-targets.html
Stahl Holdings BV , whose chemicals
treat Louis Vuitton leather bags and shoes, said it has gained
market share among automotive clients and may buy competitors
hurt by the economic slowdown.  Stahl, owned by Paris-based buyout firm  Wendel (MF)  SA, had
stable sales in 2011 against a backdrop of shrinking orders in
the wider market as the debt crisis, a housing slump and raw-
material inflation took a toll on furniture and clothing demand,
leather-finish head John Fletcher said in an interview.  The leather chemicals industry is poised for consolidation,
Fletcher said in a telephone interview yesterday. TFL Holding
GmbH has been taken over by administrators and  BASF SE (BAS)  opted to
keep its operation in March after failing to garner attractive
bids.  Clariant AG (CLN) ,  Lanxess AG (LXS)  and Stahl are the other main
players in the market and are in a good position to wait for
acquisition targets, he said.  “If you talk about the big five, we have to wait and see
what happens to TFL and BASF in the next 24 months, because most
likely Lanxess, Clariant and Stahl are in a very good position
to wait,” Fletcher said. “Conditions could get worse before
they get better for those two companies.”  Stahl and its largest rivals are trying to move away from
commodity leather chemicals used in furniture and garments,
where competition from Italian rivals such as Alpa Spa and
Lamberti SpA and low-cost Asian players is growing, to tap
rising demand for luxury goods and cars.  M&A  TFL, based in Weil am Rhein,  Germany , is suffering after
its private equity owner saddled it with 65 million euros ($85
million) in debt, leading the company to break covenants in
2008, people familiar with the situation have said. Odewald
bought TFL, which has annual sales of about 240 million euros,
from Permira Advisers LLP in 2003 for an undisclosed price.  Creditors of TFL are poised to start the sale process, the
company’s trustee said in December.  Efforts to consolidate among European suppliers of leather
chemicals have so far been hampered by low valuations.  Stahl may be interested in certain “lucrative” parts of
TFL, Fletcher said. Stahl, with a reported 182.8 million euros
of net debt, is prepared to make “small and medium bolt-on”
acquisitions, according to a Dec. 2 presentation.  “You could imagine a break-up scenario if things are very
bad for TFL on cash,” the executive said. “Some Chinese could
be involved, other smaller Italian competitors could have enough
cash to buy a factory or one sales region of TFL.”  Asian Overhaul  Stahl is halfway through the restructuring of its Asian
business, where operations have been hurt by the drop in
Chinese-made furniture sold to the U.S. and a decline in demand
for “heavy gloss” used in fashion goods, Fletcher said.  Stahl’s revenue in 2011 was probably “in line” with 2010,
which amounted to 330.1 million euros, the Stahl director said.
Market conditions have been weakening with the exception of the
global  luxury goods  segment. Stahl also had significant growth
in market share of the automotive leather, where demand has held
up over the past year.  “That was a major achievement because in the leather
community, the volumes of leather coated in 2011 was
significantly less because the cost of leather itself is at a
very elevated level,” Fletcher said.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell to 14.6 percent of revenue in the first half
of 2011 from 16.6 percent of sales for the whole of 2010. That
margin was little changed in the second half of 2011 from the
first half, Fletcher said.  “We expect some relief in the margin pressure to be coming
in 2012,” Fletcher said. “Certain raw materials have the
potential to come back down and we expect our prices to be kept
at the levels we have now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  