-- Sudan Security Agents Arrest Opposition Members, Umma Party Says
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-01-31T08:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/sudan-security-agents-arrest-opposition-members-umma-party-says.html
Four members of  Sudan ’s main
opposition  Umma party  were arrested yesterday in the capital,
Khartoum, party officials said.  The four were picked up at a cafe by plain-clothed men who
identified themselves as members of the state security service,
Mohamed al-Mahi Mohamed, a party youth leader, said by phone
today. Police spokesman al-Sir Ahmed Omar didn’t answer phone
calls seeking comment.  “The regime thinks that by targeting us, they silence
opposition voices,” Mariam al-Mahdi, an Umma party spokeswoman,
said by phone. “This repressive environment will help us
mobilize people against intellectual and political terrorism
practiced by the government.”  Sudan’s human rights record deteriorated last year with the
eruption of new armed conflicts and crackdowns on students,
rights advocates and the media, New York-based  Human Rights
Watch  said on Jan 22. At least 73 students were arrested last
month during a sit-in at Khartoum University to protest police
violence and to demand the overthrow of the government.  Another Umma party member was arrested by state security
agents on Jan. 27 after he organized protests in support of
people displaced by the Merowe hydroelectric dam, north of
Khartoum, Mohamed said. About 20 Umma members have been detained
in the past three months, he said.  Six members of Girifna, or the “we’re fed up” movement,
were detained on Jan. 25 after participating in a seminar on
human rights, their lawyer said.  Girifna was established in October 2009 on the eve of the
voter registration for Sudan’s presidential and parliamentary
elections in April, 2010, to campaign against President Umar al- Bashir and his ruling  National Congress Party , according to the
group’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  