-- Support for Scottish Independence Is at a Standstill, Poll Shows
-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2012-01-31T09:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/support-for-scottish-independence-is-at-a-standstill-poll-shows.html
Support for Scottish independence
remained little changed at 39 percent, according to an Ipsos
MORI poll of more than 1,000 Scots for the  Times newspaper .  The results showed an increase of 1 percentage point on a
poll by the same organization two months ago. It’s the first
poll to be conducted since First Minister Alex Salmond said last
week his planned referendum on independence will ask: “Do you
agree that Scotland should be an independent country?”  Support for remaining in the union fell to 50 percent from
57 percent two months ago, according to the poll. This probably
reflects a significant rise between the two polls in previously
pro-union voters who are now undecided, said the newspaper.  Since the latest poll is based on Salmond’s preferred
question, the findings will add weight to the arguments of his
opponents, who say that by removing any reference to  Scotland 
leaving the U.K., the question is biased, the newspaper
reported.  Sixty-seven percent of those questioned said they had
definitely made up their minds on how they will vote, while 33
percent might reconsider, the poll showed.  Eighty-two percent of pro-union voters said they will
definitely vote “no,” while 18 percent may yet change their
mind. Sixty-nine percent of “yes” voters will definitely vote
that way, while 31 percent said they might still change their
mind.  The poll also found that some Scots are still unhappy about
Salmond’s choice of timing for the referendum. Almost half of
all Scots, 47 percent, said the vote should be held in the next
18 months, by the fall of 2013 and before autumn 2014. Fewer
than one in four Scots agree with Salmond’s chosen deadline of
the fall of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story: Tim Farrand in Edinburgh
at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  