-- Most Swiss Stocks Advance; Richemont, Actelion Increase as Holcim Drops
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-01-31T16:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/swiss-stocks-advance-as-ubs-credit-suisse-novartis-lead-the-gainers.html
Most  Swiss stocks  rose as most
countries in the European Union agreed to tighter budget
controls and  Greece  made progress on debt-swap talks.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the world’s second-largest
luxury goods maker, led gains as a gauge of Swiss consumer
demand increased.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  climbed 1.6 percent as a poll of
analysts predicted that the biotechnology company’s most
important treatment will probably meet the main goal of a study.
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  fell after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised selling
shares of the cement maker.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, slipped less than 0.1 percent to
5,970.49 at the close of trading in Zurich, as more than two
stocks gained for each that declined. The gauge rose 0.6 percent
this month. The broader Swiss Performance Index advanced 0.2
percent today.  “Political leaders are in agreement on budget controls,
but there isn’t a lot that has changed,” said Guillaume Chaloin, a  fund manager  at Meeschaert Asset Management in Paris,
which oversees $2.6 billion in assets. “We’re seeing a rebound
in stocks, but I think it will be short term.”  EU leaders, meeting in Brussels yesterday, completed a
fiscal-discipline treaty that speeds sanctions on high-deficit
states and requires euro countries to anchor balanced-budget
rules in national law. Eight nations outside the euro area
backed the pact. The U.K. and the  Czech Republic  boycotted it.  The policy makers, meeting at the 16th summit in two years,
also agreed to bring the region’s permanent bailout fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, into operation on July 1, a year
ahead of schedule.  Greek Talks  Greece aims to complete debt-swap talks with bondholders
this week. Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told reporters after
the summit that he’s “strongly committed” to reaching a deal.  Swiss stocks pared their gains after a report showed
sentiment among U.S. consumers unexpectedly dropped in January.
The Conference Board’s  confidence index  fell to 61.1 from a
revised 64.8 reading in December, figures from the New York-
based private research group showed.  The median forecast  of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a reading of 68.  Richemont added 1.6 percent to 52.10 Swiss francs, snapping
two days of losses.  A gauge of Swiss consumer demand rose in December,
suggesting the economy is stabilizing. The consumption
indicator, which signals developments about three months ahead,
advanced to 0.92 from a revised 0.78 in November,  UBS AG (UBSN)  said.  Actelion Advances  Actelion increased 1.6 percent to 35.25 francs. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News said the company’s lung treatment,
macitentan, has a 63 percent chance of success in a drug trial
in the second quarter.  Tornos Holding AG rose 3.2 percent to 9.60 francs. The
manufacturer of  machine tools  reported annual sales of 271.1
million francs ($296 million) compared with 160.1 million francs
a year earlier.  Holcim, the world’s second-largest cement maker, slipped
1.7 percent to 52.45 francs. The stock was cut to  “sell”  from
“neutral” at Goldman Sachs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  