-- Syrian Opposition Council Backed by U.S. Hindered by Divisions
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-01-31T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/syrian-opposition-council-backed-by-u-s-hindered-by-divisions.html
Western plans to pressure  Syria ’s
regime to negotiate with the opposition are complicated by the
differing short-term strategies and long-term political goals of
the groups opposing President Bashar al-Assad.  While the U.S. has lined up behind the main opposition
coalition, the Syrian National Council, analysts such as Joshua Landis say the group faces high hurdles.  “There are divisions between old and young, urban rich and
rural poor, secularists and Islamists, the opposition inside and
outside the country,” Landis, director of the Middle East
studies program at the University of Oklahoma in Norman, said in
an interview. “It’s not promising.”  The Syrian National Council’s prospects are drawing
attention as Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and her
counterparts from the U.K.,  France  and  Germany  meet today at the
 United Nations Security Council . They are lending their clout to
an Arab League proposal calling for Assad to hand power to a
successor who would form a unity government with opposition
groups within two months.  SNC President Burhan Ghalioun said yesterday that his group
should play a leading role in a political transition.  “The SNC reflects the entire spectrum of the street and of
the opposition,” Ghalioun told reporters through a translator
at the UN.  Those challenging the regime are divided in many ways,
including along secular and religious lines, according to Andrew
Spath, a Middle East scholar writing for the Foreign Policy
Research Institute, a policy group in Philadelphia.  Seeking a Formula  Internal disagreements persist even within constituent
groups such Islamists, Spath wrote this month on the institute’s
website. “Only recently have leading Muslim scholars from
various Islamic trends come together in search of a formula to
unite in support of the revolution.”  The SNC has to draw disparate groups together even as it is
“still trying to overcome all the challenges of what really
began as an amateur opposition” in October, said Steven
Heydemann, a special adviser for Middle East initiatives at the
United States Institute for Peace, a non-partisan policy group
funded by Congress.  The leaders are “academics, professionals, people who were
not hardcore, street-fighting opposition types,” Heydemann said
in a telephone interview.  In addition, SNC leaders are hampered by weak ties to Syria
itself, Landis said.  Syrian Exiles  Ghalioun and the other SNC officials who met with Clinton
in Geneva in December “have been out of the country for 20, 30
years,” he said. Ghalioun is a political science professor at
the Sorbonne University in Paris.  “There are myriad divisions that are very difficult for
Syrians to overcome, but democracy and toppling the regime are
two things that everyone can get behind,” Landis said.“It’s
very difficult to get them to agree on anything else.”  The makeup of the SNC has added to the complexity of
attempts to forge ties with groups on the ground, including the
Syrian Free Army, the armed anti-regime group.  Heydemann said the SNC is concerned that the Syrian Free
Army could become an independent military body. As they try to
establish civilian controls, Ghalioun and his colleagues are
finding that the armed group has only tenuous control over the
fighters acting in its name, Heydemann said.  Obstacles to Alliances  The  Arab League  would like the SNC to ally itself with an
internal opposition group, the National Coordinating Committee,
to produce a platform for talks with the regime on a unity
government. An attempt at an agreement failed due to opposition
from the rank-and-file of both groups.  Among their differences, the National Coordinating
Committee vehemently rejects foreign involvement, while the SNC
has sought it out. The coordinating committee favors negotiating
with the regime without preconditions, while the SNC wants to
see the end to violence and the release of political prisoners
first. The SNC’s Ghalioun yesterday ruled out negotiations until
Assad steps down.  Such divisions are not “uncommon in these situations where
the people on the ground often resent the outside opposition who
are running around to world capitals, while those on the inside
are bearing the brunt of the pain,”  Robert Danin , a senior
fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in Washington, said
in an interview. “That divide needs to be overcome.”  Clinton emphasized the need for unified resistance when she
met in December with SNC members in Geneva. She didn’t offer the
SNC formal recognition at that meeting.  ‘For All Syrians’  The Obama administration has been wary of offering the SNC
much direct support to avoid fueling conspiracy theories
portraying the opposition as a tool of the West, according to a
State Department official who wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record.  The SNC has sought to include members from Syria’s minority
groups, a step the Obama administration sees as crucial to
peeling support away from the Assad regime. State Department
spokesman  Victoria Nuland  praised the SNC yesterday for its
efforts to create a “a Syria for all Syrians.”  Members of the SNC who aren’t part of the Sunni Muslim
majority are “not dominant figures among their community”
inside Syria, weakening their influence, according to Emile Hokayem, a senior fellow for regional security at the
International Institute for Strategic Studies, a Washington
policy group. Hokayem spoke at a briefing shortly after
returning from meetings with Syrian loyalists and opponents in
Lebanon.  Historical Norms  That will not help strengthen opposition unity, Hokayem
said. He said the opposition may become even more frayed over
time as more people defect from the Assad regime, bringing their
own agendas.  The very idea of unifying the opposition may run against
cultural and historical norms, Landis said.  “The rebels are upholding the principle of national
identity, as opposed to sect and family,” Landis said.
“They’re for democracy, against sectarianism.”  The catch is that Syria doesn’t have a history of national
unity and it may not be possible to establish something that
never existed, he said.  Clinton and the other foreign ministers who are going to
the UN to support the Arab League “assume democracy is the
natural and healthy way” of governing in Syria,’’ Landis said.
“This, of course, is what sets you up for a fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  