-- Syrian Troops Push Deeper Into Damascus Suburbs Before UN Resolution Talks
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-01-31T14:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/syrian-troops-push-deeper-into-damascus-suburbs-before-un-resolution-talks.html
Syria ’s army deployed to battle
opposition fighters in suburbs of the capital, Damascus, ahead
of a United Nations debate on a resolution calling for President
Bashar al-Assad to leave.  Army tanks and troops battled their way into Zamalka,
Arbeen, Rankous and Talfita, Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the
U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said in a
telephone interview. The army has led a wide-ranging offensive
to crush the Free Syrian Army, made up of defectors and armed
civilians, since Jan. 27, he said.  “The rebels were holding control of some areas and were
talking to the media freely, and since then the army has
regained control of much of these areas,” Abdel Rahman said.
“Intense shooting and explosions are heard in Rankous and
Talfita, and the army is raiding homes and detaining people in
Zamalka and Arbeen.”  Some 6,461 people have been killed in Syria since protests
against Assad started in mid-March, including 4,685 civilians,
the Syrian Observatory said on its website today.  Abdel Rahman and Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said they didn’t yet have
information on any casualties today. Twelve people were killed
in the violence today, according to Al Arabiya television which
reported shooting between government forces and the Free Syrian
Army in the central city of Homs.  Information Blackout  More than 100 people were killed yesterday, Abdel Rahman
and Merei said. “The number of people killed has risen to about
100 every day since the army launched its offensive a few days
ago,” Merei said in a telephone interview from Damascus. “We
are having difficulty in finding out such information because
the authorities are shutting down the phones, the electricity
and the water in these areas.”  The U.S. and the European Union plan to mount a rare
diplomatic assault on  Russia  today at the UN, seeking to
overcome an impasse on a  Security Council  resolution calling for
Assad to step down. Russia has maintained close relations with
the Syrian government since the Soviet era, and has a naval base
in Tartous, on the  Mediterranean Sea .  Russia and  China , veto-wielding members of the Security
Council, blocked a UN resolution Oct. 4 seeking to pressure
Assad to stop killing protesters in a crackdown that began 11
months ago. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
“guarantees” that his country will block the UN Security
Council from approving military intervention in Syria, Interfax
reported.  Burhan Ghalioun, president of the main opposition
coalition, the Syrian National Council, met yesterday with
Russia’s UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, to promise Moscow that
its interests in Syria, Russia’s most important ally in the
 Middle East , will be preserved regardless of Assad’s fate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  