-- U.K. Stocks Rebound From Two-Day Drop as EU Countries Agree Budget Rules
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-01-31T16:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/u-k-stocks-rebound-from-two-day-drop-as-eu-countries-agree-budget-rules.html
U.K. stocks  rose as most countries
in the European Union agreed to tighter budget controls and
results from  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  and  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  reassured investors in the outlook for earnings.  ARM, whose chip designs are used in Apple Inc.’s iPad,
added 2 percent as sales and earnings topped analysts’
estimates. BSkyB rose 3.7 percent after posting earnings before
interest, taxes and exceptional items that beat estimates.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  gained 10.52, or 0.2 percent,
to 5,681.61 at the close in London, rebounding from two days of
losses. The FTSE All-Share Index climbed 0.3 percent, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index increased 0.4 percent.  “The market is moving to a place of thinking that we are
in a recovery and because of that the market is willing to take
a bit more risk,” said Fredrik Nerbrand, global head of  asset
allocation  at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. He spoke in a
Bloomberg Television interview with  Owen Thomas .  The FTSE 100  jumped 2 percent  this month, extending its
rally from last year’s  lowest level to 15 percent  amid
speculation that the euro area will contain it sovereign-debt
crisis,  China  will ease monetary policy and the U.S. economic
recovery will strengthen.  EU leaders, meeting in Brussels yesterday, completed a
fiscal-discipline treaty that speeds sanctions on high-deficit
states, requiring euro countries to anchor balanced-budget rules
in national law. Eight countries outside the euro backed the
pact, while Britain and the  Czech Republic  boycotted it.  The policy makers, meeting at the 16th summit in two years,
also agreed to bring the region’s permanent bailout fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, into operation on July 1, a year
ahead of schedule.  Merkel Warns Greece  The meeting ended with German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
voicing frustration that Athens has failed to overhaul the Greek
economy.  “Greece’s debt sustainability is especially bad,” Merkel
told reporters. “You have to find a way through more action by
the Greek government, more contributions by private creditors,
for example, in order to close this gap.”  Greece aims to complete debt-swap talks with bondholders
this week. Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told reporters after
the summit that he is “strongly committed” to reaching a deal.  U.K. consumer confidence  rose to the highest level in seven
months in January as slowing inflation eased pressure on
shoppers, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  The  gauge of sentiment  added 4 points from December to
minus 29, the strongest reading since June, the London-based
research group said in a report today. Consumers’ outlook for
the economy and their personal finances also improved.  ARM, BSkyB Climb  ARM increased 2 percent to 609.5 pence after saying that
 fourth-quarter revenue  climbed 21 percent as the company
increased the number of licenses sold for smartphones and tablet
computers. Earnings per share of 3.7 pence topped  estimates  of 3
pence.  BSkyB gained 3.7 percent to 690 pence. First-half operating
profit rose 16 percent, topping analysts’ estimates, as the
U.K.’s biggest commercial broadcaster sold more broadband
products to its subscribers. Ebit in the six months ended Dec.
31 increased to 601 million pounds ($947 million), beating
 analyst’s estimates  for 585 million pounds. Sales climbed 6
percent to 3.4 billion pounds.  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  soared 8.6 percent to 87.1 pence as the
U.K.’s largest online grocer predicted that sales growth will
approach 20 percent by the end of the year and reported that its
annual loss had narrowed.  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  slumped 7.5 percent to 14.1 pence as the
largest U.K. consumer-electronics retailer said Chief Executive
Officer John Browett will leave after four years in charge to
become head of retail operations at Apple Inc. in  California .  Carpetright Plc (CPR)  tumbled 11 percent to 550 pence after
forecasting that full-year underlying pretax profit will be
“slightly below” the lower end of current market estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  