-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Rises to Highest in Seven Months
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-31T08:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/u-k-gfk-consumer-confidence-rises-to-highest-in-seven-months.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  rose to the
highest in seven months in January as slowing inflation eased
pressure on shoppers, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  An index of sentiment rose 4 points from December to minus
29, the strongest reading since June, the London-based research
group said in an e-mailed report today. Consumers’ outlook for
the economy and their personal finances also improved.  Inflation (UKRPCYR)  slowed to 4.2 percent in December, and all of the
U.K.’s six biggest energy companies are trimming prices in
response to a drop in wholesale costs.  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  said last week consumer-price gains will slow
“sharply” this year and that policy makers have scope to
increase bond purchases as the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe 
threatens to tip the U.K. into another recession.  “A few rays of light have started to reach long-suffering
consumers, including falling inflation and the recent reduction
in energy prices,” Nick Moon, GfK Social Research managing
director, said in a statement. “Consumer confidence is still
seriously depressed and we should treat this month’s modest
improvement with caution.”  The pound rose 0.2 percent against the dollar and was
trading at $1.5735 as of 8 a.m. in  London .  Economy Shrinks  GfK surveyed 2,000 people from Jan. 6-15, before data was
published showing the economy shrank 0.2 percent in the  fourth
quarter , its first contraction in a year. The data have a margin
of error of plus or minus 2 points.  GfK said the increase in January “may simply reflect a
hangover from the Christmas feelgood factor.”  “Risks of a double-dip recession, and our expectation that
the deterioration in the labor market has not bottomed yet, make
it unlikely that  consumer confidence  will continue improving
significantly from here,” said Blerina Uruci, an economist at
 Barclays Capital  in London.  Inflation has slipped from a peak of 5.2 percent in
September. A measure of Britons’ assessment of their personal
financial situation over the past 12 months rose 1 point to
minus 22, and the gauge for the coming year increased the same
amount to minus 9. A gauge assessing the economic outlook rose 8
points to minus 33, while shoppers’ assessment of the climate
for making major purchases rose 9 points to minus 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  