-- U.S. Steel Sells Back Serbian Plant, State Looks East for Buyers
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-01-31T14:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/u-s-steel-sells-back-serbian-plant-state-looks-east-for-buyers.html
Serbia bought back the  Smederevo
steelworks  from  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  for a token amount of $1 as the
biggest U.S. producer of the metal by volume is cutting losses.  Serbia’s government will seek a new buyer for the country’s
only steel mill with “multiple targets in mind,” including
Ukrainian, Russian producers and “some from the far East,”
Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said in Belgrade today at the
signing of the buy-back agreement with David Rintoul, U.S.
Steel’s vice president for European operations.  U.S. Steel will leave no debts for the steel plant and will
assist in the temporary takeover by the state, Cvetkovic said.
The Pittsburgh-based company said on Jan. 30 that it will take a
loss of $350 million to $400 million in the first quarter on the
sale. The total charge may be as much as $450 million, including
some $50 million from currency adjustments in  Serbia .  “This is the value of the plant that we have on our
books,” Rintoul said, describing the Jan. 30 announcement as a
“non-cash event” which has “no impact on the company that the
government inherits.”  U.S. Steel bought the unit from the state for about $23
million in September 2009, investing “hundreds of millions of
dollars” in upgrades and making profit until 2009, Cvetkovic
said.  “The global crisis and particularly the crisis in  Europe 
is continuing” cutting demand, Rintoul said.  Repurchasing the plant is an “unwanted move” for Serbia
to avoid the steelworks’ shutdown and job losses for its 5,400
workers, as well as for some additional 15,000 people involved
with supplier companies.  The state may have to borrow bank loans to keep up
production at the loss-making mill, Cvetkovic said. Its current
annual output fell to 1 million metric tons of steel, compared
with a capacity of 2.2 million tons a year. The cost of
operating the steel factory will not widen Serbia’s 2012 budget
gap from the projected 4.25 percent of gross domestic product,
Cvetkovic said.  “Buying back the steelworks is simply a lesser evil than
abandoning it,”Cvetkovic said.  U.S. Steel has recently offered the plant to  ArcelorMittal (MT) 
for $300 million, then cut the price to $200 million, while
ArcelorMittal was willing to pay only the original price of $23
million from Serbia’s asset sale, Vecernje Novosti reported
today, citing an unidentified source.  To contact the reporter on this story: Misha Savic in Belgrade
at   msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at  jagomez@bloomberg 