-- U.S. Sweep to Rein in Identity Theft Targets 105, IRS Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-01-31T21:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/u-s-sweep-to-rein-in-identity-theft-targets-105-irs-says.html
A nationwide sweep to rein in
identity theft and tax-refund fraud targeted 105 people in 23
states, leading to 939 criminal charges, including 58 arrests
and 10 guilty pleas, according to the  Internal Revenue Service .  The sweep took place last week and involved 150 visits to
check-cashing facilities to ensure the businesses didn’t
facilitate fraud and identity theft, the IRS said in a statement
today.  Identity theft in the past year has been on the rise with
thieves stealing Social Security numbers, some stored in
hospital and school databases, said Steven Miller, the IRS’s
deputy commissioner for services and enforcement. The stolen
numbers are used to file false tax returns for refunds, he said.  “It’s not something we’re taking lightly and we’ve
dramatically stepped up our efforts” to catch the thieves
before the refunds are made, Miller told reporters today on a
conference call.  The sweep was an attempt to show that the IRS is ready to
combat fraud as the tax-filing season begins, Miller said.  In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the IRS stopped
260,000 fraudulent returns related to identity theft, protecting
$1.4 billion in refunds, Miller said.  The U.S. initiated 187 investigations into identity theft
in 2009 compared with 224 in 2010, according to the IRS.  ‘Extended Nightmare’  Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, said at a
congressional hearing last year that taxpayers whose information
has been stolen enter “an extended nightmare” as they work
with government agencies to solve the thefts and settle issues
with banks and other bureaucracies.  Hundreds of IRS investigators conducted the crackdown with
officials from the Justice Department and U.S. attorneys, the
IRS said.  Also, the IRS updated its computer systems to screen out
potentially fraudulent claims, which inadvertently delayed
refunds for some early filers by a week, Miller said. The delays
aren’t related to last week’s sweep, he said.  “We don’t anticipate further delays,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  