-- U.S. Steel Rises After Forecasting Higher Prices in Quarter
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-01-31T21:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/u-s-steel-reports-wider-than-forecast-loss-as-european-demand-declines.html
U.S. Steel Corp. (X) , the country’s
largest producer of the metal by volume, advanced the most in
four weeks in New York after forecasting improved prices and
shipments at its biggest division.  U.S. Steel rose 5.1 percent to close at $30.19, the biggest
gain since Jan. 3. Shares of the Pittsburgh-based company have
increased 14 percent this year.  Prices and shipments of flat-rolled steel, used in autos
and appliances, will increase in the current quarter, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer John Surma said today in a quarterly
earnings statement. The performance of the European unit also
will improve, after selling a plant in  Serbia , and the tubular-
products unit will remain strong, he said.  “We expect to report a significant improvement in
operating results in the first quarter,” Surma said.  The fourth-quarter  net loss  narrowed to $226 million, or
$1.57 a share, from $249 million, or $1.74, a year earlier, it
said. The loss excluding foreign-exchange effects and an
environmental-remediation charge was $1.14 a share, missing the
average projection from 17 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg, which was for an 86-cent loss.  Sales gained 12 percent to $4.82 billion from $4.3 billion,
beating the $4.71 billion average of 12 analysts’ estimates in
the survey.  ‘Really Shocked’  “I’d be really shocked if their flat-rolled business
didn’t make money in the first quarter,” Chuck Bradford,
president of Bradford Research in New York, said today in a
telephone interview. “Tubular should be better or at least as
good and  Europe  should be better because they’ll be excluding
Serbia.”  The company sold its Serbian division to the Serbian
government for a nominal price, U.S. Steel said. The division
had an operating loss of more than $200 million in 2011,
according to the company.  The Serbian plant was “the most financially disadvantaged
piece of the company,”  Mark Parr , an analyst at Keybanc Capital
Markets in  Cleveland , said by phone. “If you pull that out, the
company would have made money in 2011.”  The loss from the company’s European business  unit  widened
to $89 million from $39 million a year earlier.  “U.S. Steel Europe results continue to reflect the
difficult economic situation in the region,” Surma said in the
statement.  The Bloomberg Steel Profitability  Index (.STLPROT) , a measure of the
condition of North American blast-furnace operators, rose 2.4
percent on average in January from a year earlier. The index
measures benchmark prices of steel and steelmaking inputs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  