-- Governors Seeking Jobs Offer Tax Breaks as Budget Woes Ease
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-01-31T15:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/u-s-governors-vying-to-boost-jobs-offer-tax-breaks-as-budget-burdens-ease.html
At least nine U.S.  governors , vying
for jobs to heal the workplace losses of the recession, have
taken advantage of improving budgets to propose tax breaks to
entice new employers or company expansions in their state-of-
the-state addresses.  States from  Alaska  to  Florida  are looking at lowering
levies including property, utility and unemployment taxes after
recovering revenue and the lowest municipal  interest rates  since
the 1960s helped bolster their finances.  “We are all out there competing against each other and
competing in the global economy to create more jobs in our
states,” Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman, chairman of the
 National Governors Association , said in a Jan. 24 interview in
 Seattle .  States are getting a boost from an economic recovery that
has increased tax collections since the beginning of 2010,
easing the political fights in U.S. capitals ahead of elections
this year. At least 11 governors will be chosen this year, with
 Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker  potentially facing a recall vote
forced by foes opposed to his curbs on labor unions.  State tax collections grew for a seventh straight quarter
in the period ended Sept. 30, increasing 5.6 percent from a year
earlier, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  Budget Gaps Fall  With more cash flowing in, only California,  Missouri (STOMO1) ,  New
York (STONY1)  and  Washington  have reported budget gaps since the fiscal
year began, a decline from 15 states a year ago, according to
the Denver-based  National Conference of State Legislatures .
 Yields (BBWK20GO)  on 20-year bonds with a Moody’s Investors Service rating
of Aa2, the third-highest, fell in the week ended Jan. 19 to the
lowest since April 1967, according to a Bond Buyer index.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Tea Party-backed Republican
whose approval rating plunged last year amid a clash over school
funding, used his speech this month to call for a $1 billion
increase for education. In Wisconsin, Walker, a Republican,
highlighted his ability to balance the budget without “massive
layoffs” while pouring $1.2 billion more into Medicaid, the
state-run health-care program for the poor.  In  Iowa (STOIA1) , Governor Terry Branstad, a 65-year-old Republican,
proposed reducing commercial and industrial property taxes by 40
percent over eight years, saying the levies are the second-
highest in the U.S.  Costing Jobs  “I believe there is agreement within this chamber that
these taxes must be reduced, not because they cost businesses
money, but because they cost Iowans jobs,” Branstad said in his
Jan. 10 speech to the Legislature.  Georgia (STOGA1)  Governor Nathan Deal, a Republican, proposed
eliminating the  sales tax  on energy used in manufacturing.  Deal, 69, also offered sales and use tax exemptions for
construction materials in projects of regional significance,
“giving us an important tool when competing with other states
for projects creating large numbers of jobs.”  Kansas (STOKS1)  Governor  Sam Brownback , 55, offered a plan to reduce
the highest individual income tax rate to 4.9 percent from 6.5
percent, cut the bottom tax bracket to 3 percent and eliminate
individual state tax on most small-business income.  “These reforms will set the stage for strong economic
growth in  Kansas  and will put more money into the pockets of
Kansas families and business,” Brownback, a Republican, said in
his Jan. 11 speech.  Nebraska Unemployment  Tax incentives have helped  Nebraska (STONE1)  overcome competition
from five other states, including  Illinois (STOIL1)  and  Iowa , for a
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   data center  that opened two years ago. The company’s
decision came after Heineman, a 63-year-old Republican, signed
legislation offering businesses tax and wage credits, sales-tax
refunds on purchases linked to expansions and a 10-year
exemption on personal property.  Nebraska ’s  unemployment  was 4.1 percent in December, less
than half the national rate, and the state has a budget surplus
of $414 million, according to Jen Rae Hein, a spokesman for the
governor.  This year, in his Jan. 12 state-of-the-state speech,
Heineman outlined a proposal to reduce the corporate income-tax
rate, eliminate the inheritance tax, and lower individual
income-tax rates and expand the brackets for middle-class
residents.  ‘Better Business Climate’  “If you can create a better business climate through lower
taxes, lower regulations, a stronger education system, then
you’re going to be more attractive to small businesses, to
larger businesses who are looking for the best place to
locate,” Heineman said.  New Mexico (STONM1) ’s governor, 52-year-old Republican Susana Martinez, proposed exempting half of the state’s small
businesses from the gross receipts tax.  “We are competing with other states,” Martinez said. “A
recent study ranked  New Mexico  dead last in terms of our
competitiveness. It said we have one of the most burdensome tax
codes in the country.”  Utah (STOUT1)  Governor Gary Herbert, 64, a Republican, on Jan. 25
urged lawmakers to cut unemployment insurance tax rates for the
state’s 85,000 employers, “and allow them to create more jobs
and hire more people.”  Virginia (STOVA1)  Governor Bob McDonnell, 57, a
Republican, offered an investor tax credit to provide working
capital to small businesses that he said create 70 percent of
new U.S. jobs.  ‘Burdensome’ Taxes  Florida (STOFL1) ’s Scott urged lawmakers to lower “burdensome”
taxes on small businesses, while  Alaska (STOAK1)  Governor Sean Parnell,
49, a Republican, pressed lawmakers to approve legislation that
would lower taxes on the oil industry to keep production from
moving to other states.  Mark Robyn, an economist with the Washington-based  Tax
Foundation , questioned the effectiveness of such incentives.  “For every tax credit you give away, you have to charge
higher tax rates to everyone else,” Robyn said in a telephone
interview. “If you’re giving away a tax break to a company,
that’s revenue you’re giving up that could be used for public
services, like education, or leave it in the taxpayers’
pockets.”  Other governors used their state-of-the-state speeches to
pledge they would not increase taxes.  “Every day, we compete with our neighboring states for
jobs,” Governor Peter Shumlin, 55, a  Vermont (STOVT1)  Democrat, said in
a Jan. 5 speech. “I remain determined not to increase broad-
based taxes on Vermonters as we begin to see signs of modest
economic growth.”  Challenges Remain  To be sure, states still face challenges. Revenue remained
7 percent below pre-recession levels in the third quarter of
2011, and is “not growing fast enough to recover anytime
soon,” according to a  report  this month by the Center on Budget
and Policy Priorities, a Washington-based nonprofit research
organization.  “Things are a little better, but we’re still coming out of
a deep hole and are a long way from pre-recession levels,”
Elizabeth McNichol, a senior fellow at the organization, said in
a telephone interview.  Faced with budget gaps, governors in  California  and
 Maryland  are seeking to raise taxes on high earners.  Maryland (STOMD1) ’s
Democratic governor,  Martin O’Malley , 49, offered a budget plan
that would cap income-tax deductions at 90 percent for those
earning more than $100,000 and 80 percent for those earning more
than $200,000.  In  California (STOCA1) , Governor  Jerry Brown , a 73-year-old Democrat
trying to close a $9.2 billion deficit, has proposed raising
income taxes on individuals making at least $250,000 a year to
10.3 percent from 9.3 percent. For those with annual incomes of
more than $1 million a year, the rate would rise to 12.3 percent
from 10.3 percent.  New York (STONY1)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , 54, a Democrat, won
lawmakers’ approval of a plan to overhaul the state tax code by
raising rates on the wealthiest residents and cutting them for
millions of married couples earning less than $300,000 a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  