-- U.S. Highway Trust Fund Faces Insolvency Next Year, CBO Says
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-01-31T16:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/u-s-highway-trust-fund-faces-insolvency-next-year-cbo-says.html
The Highway  Trust Fund , which pays
for U.S. road, bridge and mass-transit projects, faces
insolvency “sometime” during the 2013 fiscal year that will
begin Oct. 1, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The Highway Trust Fund will probably run a deficit of $10
billion this year, compared with $8 billion in 2011, the
Washington-based CBO, which provides Congress with analysis on
programs funded by the U.S. budget, said in a  report  today. The
fund, which is financed through fuel taxes, won’t be able to
meet its obligations next fiscal year, according to the report.  “Today America is one big pothole and we have lots of
bridges that are crumbling,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a speech in  New York  yesterday. “The Highway
Trust Fund was a great source to build our interstate highway
system, but it has been diminished.”  Revenue into the trust fund, primarily from U.S. fuel
taxes, has declined as cars have become more fuel-efficient and
Americans are driving less because of higher gasoline prices,
according to the U.S. Department of Transportation.  President  Barack Obama  and Congressional Republicans have
ruled out increasing the 18.4-cents-a-gallon gasoline tax, last
raised in 1993. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Obama’s
deficit-reduction commission have recommended increasing the tax
by 15 cents a gallon.  Spending Exceeds Income  The trust fund collected $36.9 billion in the fiscal year
ended Sept. 30. It was authorized by Congress to fund $52.7
billion in highway and mass transit projects.  Congress has moved $34.5 billion to the trust fund from the
general fund since 2008 to keep it solvent.  The Senate and House have proposed bills authorizing more
in spending than the fund’s income from taxes.  The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, led by
California Democrat  Barbara Boxer , approved  legislation  calling
for $109 billion in spending over two years. That measure may be
considered by the full Senate next month.  The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, led
by Florida Republican  John Mica , is set to  introduce  a bill
today authorizing about $260 billion over five years.  Obama last week proposed funding infrastructure projects
with money that had been spent on the wars in Afghanistan and
 Iraq .  Since 2009, U.S. surface-transportation funding has
continued through a series of legislative extensions, the latest
of which expires March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  