-- Gupta Joined Goldman Board Call From Galleon’s Office, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/u-s-prosecutors-file-new-indictment-against-rajat-gupta.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of giving inside information to fund
manager  Raj Rajaratnam , faces new allegations he passed tips
about earnings of Goldman Sachs in 2007 and  Procter & Gamble Co .
in 2009.  In a superseding indictment filed yesterday in federal
court in Manhattan, the U.S. broadened its description of the
insider-trading scheme, saying it began in March 2007 not in
2008 as alleged in October. Prosecutors also said Gupta tipped
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs’s
first quarter 2007 earnings and, while at Galleon’s offices,
listened to a Goldman Sachs board meeting where earnings were
disclosed.  “During that call, the audit committee discussed the
company’s quarterly earnings announcement that would be made the
following day,” assistant U.S. attorneys Reed Brodsky and
Richard Tarlowe said in the indictment. “Gupta participated in
the  audit committee  call from the premises of Galleon.”  Gupta, 63, who also led McKinsey & Co. and was a P&G
director, was accused in October of passing inside information
to Rajaratnam from 2008 to January 2009.  $22.5 Million  The U.S. said yesterday that Gupta’s investments with
Rajaratnam, which included $10 million invested in funds and an
ownership stake in at least two other funds, was a motive for
him to engage in the insider-trading scheme. Gupta made a
commitment to invest about $22.5 million in a private-equity
fund focusing on  Asia , the U.S. said.  Gupta provided the inside information to Rajaratnam
“because of Gupta’s friendship and business relationships with
Rajaratnam,” prosecutors said. “Gupta benefited from
Rajaratnam’s capital commitment to, and position as a limited
partner of, the private equity fund.”  The government said the conspiracy continued until January
2009, beyond when Gutpa’s lawyer has said his client’s
friendship with Rajaratnam deteriorated.  Gupta was previously charged with five counts of  securities
fraud  and one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud.  Prosecutors added a new securities fraud charge yesterday 
based on the March 12, 2007, conference call, in which there was
discussion that the next day Goldman Sachs would announce
quarterly earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  About 25 minutes after Gupta left the conference call,
Rajaratnam had one of his funds buy about 350,000 shares of
Goldman Sachs stock, prosecutors said.  $2 a Share  The next day, after Goldman Sachs announced its quarterly
results, it opened more than $2 a share higher than the previous
close, prosecutors said.  The U.S. yesterday also said Gupta passed Rajaratnam
another tip after attending a Goldman board meeting on Sept. 19,
2007, also a day before quarterly earnings were announced.  Rajaratnam caused a Galleon Tech fund to purchase more than
700,000 shares of common stock at a cost of more than
$140 million. The U.S. didn’t say how much the  fund manager 
earned as a result of the tip.  In an e-mailed statement, Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis ,
called the government’s allegations “totally baseless” and
said that his client “did not trade in any securities, did not
tip Mr. Rajaratnam so he could trade, and did not share in any
profits as part of any quid pro quo.”  ‘Honesty and Integrity’  “The newly added charges -- like the ones brought last
year -- are not based on any direct evidence, but rely on
supposed circumstantial evidence,” Naftalis said. “The facts
in this case demonstrate that Mr. Gupta is innocent of all of
these charges, and that he has always acted with honesty and
integrity.”  Naftalis has said the friendship between the men
deteriorated after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in September 2008. As a result, Gupta lost
$10 million in investments he made with Rajaratnam.  Prosecutors said yesterday that the scheme continued until
January 2009, alleging Gupta illegally tipped Rajaratnam about
P&G’s January quarterly results.  At about 9 a.m. on Jan. 29, 2009, a day before P&G
announced its quarterly earnings, Gupta participated in a P&G
board call that included information that the company would
report that growth of pre-existing business was below its
previous guidance.  Eight Minutes  At about 1:18 p.m. that day, Gupta called Rajaratnam and
spoke to him for about eight minutes, prosecutors said
yesterday.  That afternoon, Rajaratnam told a Galleon portfolio
manager, “that he had heard from someone on the P&G board
certain information concerning P&G’s organic sales growth,”
prosecutors said.  Beginning at about 2:52 p.m. that day, Galleon shorted
about 180,000 shares of P&G stock.  In a previously made allegation, prosecutors said that on
Sept. 23, 2008, just 16 second elapsed between the time Gupta
disconnected from a Goldman board call and his assistant
telephoned Rajaratnam.  Before the close of the  New York  Stock Exchange that day,
Gupta allegedly participated by phone in a meeting during which
Goldman Sachs agreed to accept a $5 billion investment from
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Two minutes before the market closed that day, Rajaratnam
caused certain Galleon funds to buy about 217,200 shares of
Goldman Sachs common stock at a total cost of about
$27 million, according to the indictment.  Galleon made a profit of about $840,000 on the transaction
after the Berkshire investment became public, the U.S. said.  ‘Legitimate Reasons’  Gupta, who denies wrongdoing, faces as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of any of the securities fraud charges and
as long as five years if convicted of conspiracy, according to
the office of  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. He also
faces a fine of as much as $5 million, prosecutors said.  “There were a host of legitimate reasons for any
communications between Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam -- not the
least of which was Mr. Gupta’s attempt to obtain information
regarding his $10 million investment in the GB Voyager fund
managed by Mr. Rajaratnam,” Naftalis said.  “In fact, Mr. Gupta lost his entire investment in the
fund, negating any motive to deviate from a lifetime of probity,
integrity and distinguished service,” Naftalis said.  Rajaratnam, who was convicted by a jury last year, is
serving an 11-year prison term.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 