-- UBS May Purchase Brazilian Lender as Banking License Stalls
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-01-31T16:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/ubs-may-purchase-brazilian-lender-as-banking-license-stalls.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , which sold its Brazilian
lending unit in 2009, may purchase another as it steps up
efforts to restart an investment-banking business in the
country, a person familiar with the company’s plans said.  The company, based in Zurich, has sought a Brazil license
for the past two years to open its own business trading stocks
and bonds, investing proprietary funds, and offering derivatives
and syndicated loans, according to the person, who asked not to
be named because the matter is private. Regulators haven’t
granted permission as they try to spur larger banks to purchase
smaller ones with existing licenses instead.  UBS sold its Pactual bank unit to billionaire  Andre Esteves , the former head of the business, for $2.5 billion in
2009, less than three years after buying it. The Swiss company
still has a private bank and a mergers-and-acquisitions business
in  Brazil , with more than 200 workers.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest lender, agreed in April 2010 to
buy Brazil brokerage Link Investimentos, and still hasn’t
received approval from the central bank for the deal, according
to the person, who declined to name potential bank acquisition
targets.  “There could be newcomers seeing an acquisition as a way
to speed up the process of entering the market,” Anthero Meirelles, the central bank director, said in an interview in
May.  A spokesman for UBS declined to comment on the company’s
Brazil strategy.  Fewer Options  Small banks’ financing options in Brazil narrowed when the
market for selling loan portfolios dried up in 2010 following an
accounting-fraud probe linked to the practice at Banco
Panamericano SA. Banco BTG Pactual SA, founded by Esteves,
purchased Panamericano for 450 million reais in January after
the FGC, the nation’s guarantee deposit bank, agreed to extend a
 credit line  to the bank to cover Panamericano’s losses.  In April FGC funded the acquisition of Banco Schahin SA by
Banco BMG SA, a lender focused on payroll-deductible loans. The
FGC also financed the purchase of Banco Matone SA by J&F
Participacoes SA, the holding company for beef exporter JBS SA.
It merged the lender with Banco JBS SA to create Banco Original.
On Dec. 27, Banco Cruzeiro do Sul agreed to acquire control of
Banco Prosper SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  