-- UBS, Foreclosure Accord, Berezovsky, Commerzbank, MF Global in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-31T11:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/ubs-foreclosure-accord-berezovsky-commerzbank-mf-global-in-court-news.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader who is accused of causing the largest loss from
unauthorized trading in British history, pleaded not guilty to
fraud and false accounting.  Adoboli, dressed in a  gray suit and blue tie, pleaded not
guilty to all charges at a hearing in  London  yesterday. A trial
that may last as long as eight weeks was scheduled to start in
early September.  Adoboli, 31, has been in custody since Sept. 15 when UBS
asked London police to arrest him for causing a $2.3 billion
loss. The case led to the departures of Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel  and the co-heads of the Swiss bank’s global
equities business. The trial could be “really awful” for UBS,
said Steven Francis, a regulatory lawyer in London.  “There’ll be an assessment of what training he was given”
and of “the bank’s compliance procedures,” said Francis, a
lawyer at Reynolds Porter Chamberlain, who isn’t involved in the
case.  UBS isn’t able to comment on the case because “English
criminal law limits what we can say about this incident,”
Oliver Gadney, a spokesman for the bank, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Adoboli, who was remanded into custody, is being held at
Wandsworth prison in southwest London. One of his lawyers, Paul
Garlick, told Judge Alistair McCreath he may request bail for
Adoboli soon.  The loss allegedly caused by Adoboli came from trading in
Standard & Poor’s 500,  DAX (DAX)  and EuroStoxx index futures,
according to the Zurich-based bank. The risk from the trades was
masked by fictitious positions, UBS said. Adoboli, who worked
for UBS’s investment bank, also falsified records on exchange-
traded-fund transactions, prosecutors have said. He was charged
with fraud and false accounting dating back to 2008.  For more, click here.  Proposed 50-State Foreclosure Accord Deadline Set for Feb. 3  State attorneys general have until Feb. 3 to decide whether
to sign a proposed nationwide settlement of foreclosure
wrongdoing with banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Citigroup Inc. that may total as much as $25 billion.  State and federal officials have been negotiating an
agreement with the largest mortgage servicers that would set
standards for banks conducting home foreclosures while providing
some mortgage relief to borrowers. Any accord would be separate
from a state-federal probe of mortgage securitization started
last week.  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto wrote in a
Jan. 27 letter to the Justice Department, the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development and Iowa Attorney General Tom
Miller, who is helping to lead negotiations, seeking more
details on the deal. Masto said she needs answers to evaluate
the agreement because the “sign-on deadline” of Feb. 3.  “I need this information as soon as possible to allow my
office to continue to evaluate the proposal on behalf of the
state of Nevada,” she wrote. Jennifer Lopez, a spokeswoman for
Masto, confirmed the letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News, and declined further comment.  State officials discussed the settlement last week as part
of a Chicago meeting with federal officials after being sent
information on its terms. Miller declined to comment at the time
about whether there is a deadline for states to decide whether
to accept it. Geoff Greenwood, his spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  At least one state attorney general -- Delaware’s  Beau
Biden  -- has said he won’t sign on the deal as currently
drafted.  California  Attorney General Kamala Harris’s office last
week called it “inadequate for California.”  Hong Kong ’s Tiger Court Fight Tests Regulator’s Offshore Reach  Hong Kong’s securities watchdog is fighting to defend the
way it tackles offshore targets after losing the first round of
its insider trading case against hedge fund firm Tiger  Asia 
Management LLC, Bloomberg News’ Debra Mao reports.  The Securities and Futures Commission will try next week to
overturn a court ruling that it can’t seek civil remedies from
New York-based Tiger Asia under a law used to freeze the assets
of suspected rule breakers. The regulator has invoked the law in
at least three other pending cases.  The legal battle, which both the SFC and Tiger Asia’s
founder Bill Hwang have pledged to take to Hong Kong’s top
court, will determine whether the agency can sue independently
for relief before asking government departments to bring
criminal or civil market misconduct cases.  “Their first line of attack has been an injunction to
freeze your assets,” said Nick Hunsworth, a disputes partner at
Mayer Brown JSM in Hong Kong, of the city’s regulator. “If now
they’re being told that wouldn’t work, it would impose on them a
radical rethinking of their strategy.”  Though Hong Kong criminalized market manipulation offenses
such as insider trading in 2003, prosecuting suspected offenders
has been a challenge in a market where overseas investors made
up 46 percent of equities trading turnover for the 12 months
preceding September 2010, according to the most recent  Hong Kong
stock exchange  data.  Almost one in four companies listed in Hong Kong are
neither incorporated nor domiciled within the jurisdiction,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mainland Chinese
companies made up 46 percent of the exchange’s market
capitalization through the end of December, according to stock
exchange statistics.  “If a person is not in the jurisdiction but their assets
are, then the court can decide whether there are grounds to
freeze them,” Mark Steward, the SFC’s enforcement director,
said in an interview. “Clearly we are attacking some vested
interests who have a lot to lose if we succeed.”  Steward said the commission is focused on putting
counterparties and other victims of market misconduct back into
the position they were in before any questionable transactions
took place. “We can’t say the job is done until victims have
been remediated,” he said.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Tiger
Asia Management LLC, Sung Kook Hwang Bill, Raymond Park, William
Tomita, CACV178/2011 in the Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  For more, click here.  California’s Harris Seeks to Improve Mortgage Deal With Holdout  California Attorney General Kamala Harris’s holdout
position in a proposed agreement with banks over foreclosure
practices may reap financial and political rewards at the cost
of prolonging some constituents’ suffering, Joel Rosenblatt
reports.  Her strategy has created an obstacle in the negotiations
between state attorneys general and the five largest U.S.
mortgage servicers over a nationwide probe. By Harris’s own
reckoning, her reluctance to sign onto a deal and any
investigation she might pursue risk deepening the “blight and
despair” for many of the 2.2 million California homeowners whom
she has said are “holding on by their fingernails.”  Still, she is pushing a broader probe of banks’ mortgage
practices, including securitization of the loans. The gambit may
lead to more favorable terms in a proposed multistate agreement
said to be worth as much as $25 billion, and might carry Harris,
a rising star in the Democratic Party, to higher office, both a
state political observer and law professor said.  “If she just goes along with other attorneys general, it’s
not her achievement” said  Bruce Cain , a professor of politics
and executive director of the  Washington  Center at the
University of California, Berkeley. “It’s hard to claim credit
for something that was a group effort.”  By holding out, Harris stands to “put her own mark on
it,” Cain said. “It’s a risky strategy but if it works out
well for her then this is something she’ll be able to use in her
future campaign for governor.”  State and federal officials have been negotiating a
settlement with  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co.  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  The
nationwide foreclosure probe, begun in October 2010, was
triggered by revelations that companies were using faulty
documents in seizing homes.  The proposed accord would set requirements for how lenders
conduct home foreclosures and mandate that the banks fund loan
principal writedowns for homeowners and provide refinancings,
said a person familiar with the matter who didn’t want to be
identified because the terms aren’t public.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Charlotte, North, Carolina-based
Bank of America, declined to comment on Harris’s role in the
settlement talks. Tom Kelly, a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan,  Mark Rodgers  of New York-based Citigroup Inc., Vickee
Adams of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo and Gina Proia of
Detroit-based  Ally Financial  also declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Berezovsky Said to Gain Hold on $600 Million of Anisimov Cash  Boris Berezovsky won a London court order placing $600
million from billionaire Vasily Anisimov’s sale of a stake in
Russia’s largest iron-ore producer into an escrow account, said
three people with knowledge of the matter.  Anisimov can’t touch almost a quarter of the $2.5 billion
that state-controlled VTB Group paid for his 20 percent of
mining company  Metalloinvest Holding (METIN)  after the U.K. High Court
ruling in December, the people said, declining to be named
because the ruling isn’t public.  Berezovsky, the self-exiled former billionaire adviser to
President Boris Yeltsin, filed a claim in 2009 to recover money
he said he loaned Anisimov to buy a mining asset that became
part of Metalloinvest, two of the people said.  The court allowed the sale to VTB, Russia’s second-biggest
lender, while forcing $600 million into the special escrow
account until a decision is made on the case, the people said.
The trial will begin in October, an external press official for
the businessman said by e-mail, declining to comment on the
funds and asking not to be identified.  Anisimov’s legal counsel and VTB’s press service declined
to comment when called by Bloomberg.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  UBS Clients Kerr, Quiel, Rusch Charged in Offshore Tax Case  Three former UBS AG clients, including two who ran venture
capital firms, were indicted on charges of using secret offshore
accounts to hide millions of dollars in assets from U.S. tax
authorities.  Stephen M. Kerr and Michael Quiel, who separately ran
venture capital firms, were charged in an indictment made public
yesterday in federal court in Phoenix. A former San Diego
attorney, Christopher M. Rusch, was arrested Jan. 29 in Miami
after being expelled from  Panama  at the request of the U.S.
government.  Kerr, who ran CCN Worldwide Inc., had accounts worth more
than $5.6 million in 2007 that he failed to report to the
Internal Revenue Service, according to a Justice Department
statement and the Dec. 8 indictment.  Quiel, who ran Legend Advisory Corp., had accounts valued
at more than $2.6 million in 2007 that he also failed to report
to the IRS, according to prosecutors and the indictment. He was
arrested yesterday in the Phoenix area.  Rusch had signature authority over secret accounts held by
Kerr and Quiel, and helped facilitate their transactions,
prosecutors said. Rusch also had secret offshore accounts in the
names of others at UBS and a Panamanian bank, prosecutors said.  The case is United States v. Stephen Kerr, 11-cr-2385, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  For more, click here.  Clariden Sued in Singapore Over Minor’s Risky Trades in Futures  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s private banking unit Clariden Leu
induced a 19-year-old minor to make risky trades in futures
contracts and should be liable for the losses incurred,
according to a lawsuit filed in  Singapore .  Ian Ow and his father Ow Weng Fye sought to recoup
S$896,871 ($715,607) from Clariden Leu and their former banker
Aaron Chwee in a lawsuit filed at the Singapore High Court. A
closed hearing is scheduled for next month.  “The trades were carried out through the instigation of
Chwee without any consultation with WF Ow,” the Ows said in
their lawsuit. “Clariden did not take reasonable care as any
prudent bank would have.”  Ian Ow, who was considered a minor under Singapore law when
he traded in Singapore MSCI futures contracts in 2007, was
convinced by Chwee that Clariden had the systems in place to
make trades which would be profitable and risk free, according
to court papers. The age of majority in Singapore for purposes
including voting is 21. It was lowered to 18 for entering most
contracts in 2009.  Adrian Tan, the Ows’ lawyer, declined to comment as did
Chwee. Clariden declined to comment.  Both father, who was a former executive director at
Millennium Securities in Singapore, and son were “sophisticated
and knowledgeable investors,” Clariden said in its defense. Ian
Ow’s trades are also binding as he was no longer considered a
minor under Swiss laws at the time of the trades in question,
the bank said.  The case is Ow Tuc Yun Ian and Ow Weng Fye v Clariden Leu
Ltd and Aaron Chwee S752/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  FDIC Sues Former Officers of Merced’s County Bank Over Loans  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. sued former officials
of County Bank in Merced, California, part of  Capital Corp. of
the West , claiming their mismanagement caused $42 million in
losses through bad loans.  Named in the suit, filed Jan. 27 in federal court in
Fresno, were former County Bank Chief Executive Officer Thomas
T. Hawker; John J. Incandela, Dave Kraechan, and Edwin Jay Lee,
who are former vice presidents; and Edward Rocha, the former
chief operating officer and bank president.  “Defendants caused or allowed County to make imprudent
real estate loans,” the FDIC said in the complaint.  The bank, which was established in 1977 and provided
residential construction loans in California’s central valley,
failed in 2009, according to the complaint. The FDIC is receiver
for the bank.  “Management repeatedly disregarded the bank’s credit
policies and approved loans to borrowers who were not credit
worthy” or lacked sufficient collateral, the FDIC alleged.  The former officers either had no phone number listed or
had an unlisted number, and couldn’t immediately be located for
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is FDIC v. Hawker, 12-CV-00127, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California (Fresno).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Dresdner Bonus Cut Was ‘Right Thing to Do,’ Blessing Says  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  told
a court he “didn’t like” a guaranteed bonus pool for Dresdner
Kleinwort bankers and cut the awards because of special
circumstances arising from the financial crisis.  Blessing, 48, testified yesterday in a London lawsuit filed
by more than 100 former Dresdner Kleinwort bankers suing
Commerzbank for slashing bonuses by at least 90 percent after
taking over Dresdner in 2009. Stefan Jentzsch, Dresdner’s former
CEO, had promised to set aside 400 million euros ($525 million)
for discretionary pay, the bankers claim.  Commerzbank argues it was reasonable to reduce bonuses
following the record loss by Dresdner’s investment banking unit
in 2008. Blessing, who oversaw Commerzbank’s January 2009
acquisition of Dresdner and its 18.2 billion-euro bailout during
the credit crunch, said he had to consider the interests of
other employees, shareholders and the general public.  “From my point, I behaved honorably,” said Blessing.
“But from their point, I probably disappointed them.”  Blessing said he discussed the 400 million-euro pool with
Jentzsch in 2008, before the takeover was completed. “I stated,
I don’t like this thing,” he said. Because the promise had been
made by Dresdner’s management, “there was no way we could have
changed it or done anything about it.” Jentzsch is scheduled to
testify later in the trial.  Commerzbank spokesman Andrew Walton declined to comment
outside court.  The German lender has spent an estimated 4 million pounds
($6.3 million) on legal fees fighting the Dresdner bankers’
lawsuit, Hochhauser said.  For more, click here.  Stanford Deputy Sought to Falsify Returns, Witness Says  Laura Pendergest Holt, former chief investment officer of
Stanford International Bank Ltd., asked a company research
analyst to change negative investment returns to positive ones
that could be given to bank owner R. Allen Stanford, the analyst
said.  Mark Collinsworth, who then worked for Stanford Financial
Group Co., testified yesterday in Houston federal court that
Holt made the request in March 2008 after showing him an e-mail
she said she received from Stanford. The financier was
requesting performance results for part of the bank’s investment
portfolio.  “She showed me the e-mail on her iPhone and said, ‘I’m
going to forward this to you but I want you to make the numbers
positive,’” Collinsworth, a government witness, said during
cross-examination in the second week of Stanford’s $7 billion
criminal fraud trial.  “I thought, surely she wouldn’t ask me to change negative
numbers to positive numbers,” he said. Collinsworth said he
refused to make the changes and didn’t know if Stanford was
presented the correct investment results at a meeting the next
day. “I was not going to lie to the owner of the company,”
Collinsworth said of why he sat silently at the meeting with
Stanford and was relieved not to be called upon.  Stanford, 61, who was indicted in June 2009, is charged
with 14 counts including mail fraud, wire fraud and obstruction
of an SEC probe. He denies the charges.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-Secret Service Official Acquitted of Foreign Bribes  A former deputy assistant director of the U.S. Secret
Service, R. Patrick Caldwell, was one of two security-industry
executives acquitted by a federal jury in a foreign bribery case
in Washington.  Caldwell, who is also a former chief executive officer of
 Protective Products of America Inc ., and John “Greg” Godsey
were found not guilty yesterday on charges they agreed to make
payments to a federal agent posing as a representative of the
west African country of Gabon.  Both men faced as long as five years in prison had they
been convicted. U.S. District Judge Richard Leon told the jury,
which deliberated for eight days, to continue considering
charges against three other trial defendants.  “Justice was done, but it cost Greg Godsey two years of
his life in a case that should never have been brought,”
Godsey’s lawyer, Michael Madigan of Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP, said yesterday in an interview.  “We are very grateful for the verdict,” Caldwell’s
lawyer, Eric Dubelier of Reed Smith LLP in Washington, said in
an e-mail.  The trial, which opened Sept. 28, is the second in a 22-
defendant kickback conspiracy case stemming from a fake $15
million weapons deal. It’s the biggest prosecution of
individuals accused of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act. A trial of four others arrested in the sting ended in a
mistrial in July after a jury failed to agree on a verdict.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the verdict, saying the jury was still
deliberating.  The government said the defendants agreed to pay a $3
million commission for the business, half of which they were
told would be passed on to the country’s defense minister.  Three of the original 22 defendants have pleaded guilty
while trials for the remaining 13 are pending.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Asset Acceptance Unit to Pay $2.5 Million in FTC Settlement  Asset Acceptance Capital Corp. (AACC)  agreed to pay a civil
penalty of $2.5 million to settle Federal Trade Commission
charges it deceived consumers while trying to collect old debts.  The company’s Asset Acceptance LLC unit agreed to tell
consumers whose debts may be too old to be legally enforceable
that it won’t sue to collect on that debt, the FTC said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Under the proposed settlement order, Asset Acceptance must
also investigate disputed debts and ensure it has a reasonable
basis for claiming that the consumer owes the money before
continuing collection efforts, the agency said.  “This FTC settlement signals that, even with old debt, the
prohibitions against deceptive and unfair collection methods
apply,”  David Vladeck , director of the FTC’s bureau of consumer
protection, said in the statement.  Asset Acceptance, based in Warren, Michigan, pays pennies
on the dollar for debts owed to credit card companies, health
clubs and telecommunications and utilities providers, as well as
other debt buyers, according to the FTC. It has bought tens of
millions of consumer accounts, targeting those more than a year
past due that other collectors have pursued. Some of this debt
is too old to be legally enforceable under state statutes, the
FTC said.  Asset Acceptance said the settlement won’t have a
“material adverse effect” on its business and doesn’t
represent any admission of the FTC’s claims, according to a
statement posted on Business Wire. The company said it agreed to
“undertake industry-leading consumer protection practices”
under the accord.  The case is U.S. v. Asset Acceptance LLC, 12-cv-182, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  Yazaki, Denso Agree to Price-Fixing Conspiracy Guilty Plea  Yazaki Corp. (YAZZ)  and  Denso Corp. (6902)  agreed to plead guilty and pay
a total of $548 million in criminal fines for their role in a
price-fixing and bid-rigging conspiracy involving sales of auto
parts in the U.S., the Justice Department said.  Four Yazaki executives, all Japanese, also agreed to serve
prison sentences in the U.S. ranging from 15 months to two
years, the department said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Yazaki, a closely held company based in  Tokyo , agreed to
pay a $470 million fine, the second-largest criminal fine for a
violation of the Sherman Act antitrust law, the department said.
Aichi, Japan-based Denso agreed to pay a $78 million fine.  The conspiracy to rig bids and fix prices of auto parts,
including instrument panels and fuel senders, had been going on
for as long as a decade, according to court documents filed by
the Justice Department yesterday in federal court in Detroit.  “The Antitrust Division will continue to work with the FBI
and our law enforcement counterparts to root out this kind of
pernicious cartel conduct that results in higher prices to
American consumers and businesses,” Sharis Pozen, acting
assistant attorney general in charge of the antitrust division,
said in the statement.  “We’re focused on our future and happy to have this
chapter closed,” said Misty Matthews, a spokeswoman for Yazaki.
In a statement on its website, Yazaki said it has cooperated
fully with the Justice Department investigation and would cut
the salaries of its chairman and president by 50 percent for
three months “as a reflection of remorse.”  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court News  Christie Backs Nominee Kwon After Family’s Legal Settlement  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  defended his choice of
Phillip Kwon to serve on the state Supreme Court after a liquor
store run by Kwon’s family forfeited almost $160,000 to settle a
U.S. civil lawsuit over $2 million in cash deposits.  Kwon, 44, was nominated last week and would be the first
Asian American on the court if confirmed. Kwon’s mother and wife
own a liquor store in Mount Vernon,  New York . Prosecutors sued
two bank accounts in June 2011 and seized $290,236, claiming the
business illegally “structured” 222 cash deposits so that they
were below the $10,000 threshold to avoid triggering the
required filing of currency transaction reports with U.S.
authorities.  The business, KCP Wines & Liquor Corp., settled last month
with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Brooklyn , New York,
forfeiting $159,630 without admitting wrongdoing. The case
“didn’t involve Kwon in the least,” Christie, a first-term
Republican, said at a news conference in Trenton.  “I have complete confidence in Phil and his integrity, and
this doesn’t reflect on that at all,” Christie said. “I’m
anxious for the Senate to schedule their confirmation hearings,
and if there are any questions about that, there will be a full
opportunity to ask about it.”  Kwon, the first assistant attorney general in New Jersey,
worked for 10 years as a federal prosecutor, including the
seven-year period when Christie was the U.S. attorney. Kwon
declined to comment on the case.  George Stamboulidis, an attorney for the business, said it
reported all cash receipts to the Internal Revenue Service and
paid all required taxes.  “Put simply, there was nothing illegal or improper about
the source of the deposits, and taxes were fully paid,” said
Stamboulidis of  Baker & Hostetler LLP  in New York. “The
business wasn’t structuring cash deposits. Phil had no ownership
interest in the store and was not involved in this matter in any
way.”  The forfeiture case is United States v. Any and All Funds
on Deposit in Hudson Valley Bank, 11-cv-2849, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Christie Says Supreme Court Nominee Won’t Rule on Gay Marriage  New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said his pick to be the
first openly gay justice on the state Supreme Court won’t rule
on issues involving same-sex marriage.  Christie, a first-term Republican, said the nominee, Bruce
Harris, told the governor that he has advocated for gay marriage
personally and as a politician.  “If confirmed to the court he would recuse himself from
that matter because he did not want there to be the appearance
of bias on his part on that issue,” Christie told reporters in
Trenton yesterday. “My perspective on that issue was to put it
aside because he’s not going to rule on that if he goes to the
court.”  Litigation Departments  MF Global Judge Picks Law Firm for Class Action Over Pay  The judge handling the  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  bankruptcy
appointed an interim law firm for a potential group lawsuit over
back pay, saying he expected the firm to coordinate with lawyers
working on other cases against the defunct company.  Outten & Golden LLP, the New York firm named as interim
lead counsel, has been advising Todd Thielmann and Pierre-Yvan
Desparois, who sued MF Global in November to recover 60 days’
wages and benefits for themselves and other employees. They
joined with plaintiffs in two other would-be class-action suits,
asking the judge to pick a lead law firm and dismiss a fourth
suit filed after theirs. The judge agreed to their requests in a
court order signed yesterday.  The suits were filed after the liquidator of broker-dealer
 MF Global Inc. (MF)  dismissed 1,066 employees as part of the shutdown
of the firm.  Employees (MFGLQ)  didn’t get 60 days’ advance written
notice of the firings, as required by the Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act, according to filings in Manhattan
bankruptcy court. Under bankruptcy law, wage claims may get
priority status, with a possibility of being paid in full.  Explaining his order, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn
wrote that lawyers for the four sets of plaintiffs “are engaged
in a vitriolic battle about which cases will proceed forward and
who will serve as interim counsel” while they seek approval for
class-action status.  Outten has fought about 50 so-called WARN Act cases and has
a website dedicated to such litigation, Glenn said in the order.
The interim appointment doesn’t mean Outten will lead a class
action, if the case is certified as such, he said.  The MF Global parent filed for bankruptcy with almost $40
billion in debt on Oct. 31 after making bets on European
sovereign debt and getting margin calls.  The employee suit is Thielmann v. MF Global Finance USA,
11-02880,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 