-- Hungary State Companies Win Mobile Bid as Orban Widens Sway
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-01-31T12:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/hungary-state-companies-win-mobile-bid-as-orban-widens-influence.html
Hungary  awarded the nation’s fourth
mobile frequency to a group of state-owned companies, extending
the government’s influence on the nation’s key industries.  Postal service Magyar Posta Zrt., power company Magyar
Villamos Muvek Zrt. and development bank Magyar Fejlesztesi Bank
Zrt. offered 10 billion forint ($45 million) for 5 megahertz of
the 900 MHz frequency, the media and telecommunications
authority said in Budapest today.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s Magyar
Telekom Nyrt. and the local units of  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , Hungary’s three current mobile operators, won extra
frequency capacities.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government has snapped up
stakes in companies the government has deemed strategic as
European countries from  Greece  to Poland sell holdings to plug
budget holes. Orban, who is seeking  International Monetary Fund 
and European Union aid, effectively nationalized private pension
funds and levied special taxes on companies including banks and
telecommunication providers to shore up the budget.  “The government’s appetite for controlling strategic
assets has surprised many investors who still struggle to see
any economic rationale behind it,” said Peter Attard Montalto,
a London-based economist at Nomura International Plc. “I
continue to see it as an extension of Orban’s economic
nationalism ideology.”  Taking Stakes  The government on May 24 announced the purchase of  OAO
Surgutneftegas (SNGSP) ’s 21.2 percent stake in  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , Hungary’s
largest refiner, for $2.65 billion in what then-Development
Minister Tamas Fellegi called a “first step” to boost the
state’s role in strategic industries.  The government increased its stake in vehicle-parts
supplier Raba Nyrt. to 73.84 percent on Dec. 14 from 16.15
percent.  Hungary, the most indebted eastern member of the EU, is
trying to revive financial aid talks with the IMF and EU, which
broke down last year after the government passed a central bank
law that the 27-member bloc said may curb monetary policy
independence.  EU finance ministers pushed Hungary on Jan. 24 to do more
to rein in its  budget deficit , holding out the threat of a
suspension of subsidies if the government fails to meet targets.  Magyar Villamos Muvek took over the government
telecommunications network last year as part of its plan to
enter the market. The power producer, which is also expanding
into the natural gas market, purchased a 49.5 percent stake in
Bakonyi Elektromos Muvek Termelo Zrt., giving it full ownership
of the power plant.  Spurring Competition  “Maximizing frequency income wasn’t the only goal,” the
authority said in the statement. “Spurring competition,
incentivizing the entrance of a new service provider, social
utility and achieving high income together” were the goals.  Besides the so-called ‘A’ block on the 900 MHz frequency,
the state consortium also purchased two other blocks, ‘D’ and
‘E’ on the 1,800 MHz and 2,100 MHz frequencies, the media
authority said. Vodafone, Magyar Telekom and Telenor won 5.8 MHz
on the EGSM band.  Vodafone offered to pay 15.7 billion forint, Magyar Telekom
offered 10.9 billion forint and Telenor offered 7.3 billion
forint for the extra capacity, the media authority said. The
watchdog, also known as NMHH, was offered a net 43.9 billion
forint from the entire tender.  Magyar Telekom shares declined 7 forint, or 1.3 percent, to
533 forint by 12:30 p.m. in Budapest, falling for a fourth day.
The benchmark BUX stock index gained 1.1 percent to 19,280.41,
led by OTP Bank Nyrt.  Government Strategy  “Today’s decision is in line with a government strategy
aimed at bolstering the state’s role in strategic industries,”
Attila Gyurcsik, an analyst at Budapest-based Concorde
Securities, said in a phone interview before the decision. The
state-owned mobile group could try to “profiteer at the expense
of the other companies at the risk that future infrastructure
developments will be delayed or scrapped.”  Hungary’s mobile market has three operators, with Magyar
Telekom, Hungary’s former phone monopoly and the largest player
by market share. NMHH called a two-round international auction
last year to sell the rights to use the fourth mobile frequency
for 15 years.  The authority was selling a primary frequency block at a
starting price of 4 billion forint and other blocks at 700
million forint and 560 million forint, respectively.  Hungary’s timing on extending the state’s presence in
strategic industries is taking place as the sovereign debt
crisis in the euro area is spurring asset sales in other
European countries. The Greek government last year said it wants
to raise 50 billion euros by 2015 via state-asset sales and
real-estate development.  Polish, Romanian Sales  Poland sold stakes in 126 companies last year, raising 13.1
billion zloty ($4.07 billion). The Treasury Ministry sold
minority stakes via the stock exchange in companies including
Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, the EU’s largest coking coal
producer, Tauron Polska Energia SA, Poland’s second-largest
power utility, and PZU SA, its biggest insurer. It also sold a
12 percent stake in lender Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA.  Romania is pushing ahead with plans to sell stakes in
state-owned companies this year, even after market turmoil led
to the failed sale of a 9.8 percent stake in the biggest  oil
company , OMV Petrom SA, in July.  The government wants to sell a 15 percent stake in gas
producer Romgaz SA and minority stakes in utilities
Hidroelectrica SA and Nuclearelectrica SA, as well as in power-
grid operator  Transelectrica SA (TEL)  and in natural-gas grid operator
Transgaz SA.  Hungary, which had divested most of its state-owned
companies in the 22 years since the end of communism, signed a
contract with  E.ON AG (EOAN)  in March 2010, by which  Germany ’s biggest
utility agreed to give Hungary a purchase priority on its local
natural gas wholesale unit.  Orban’s office at the time said the action would prevent
E.ON Foldgaz Trade Zrt. from falling into “undesired hands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  