-- UniCredit Sees Europe Economy, Markets in Recovery Mode in 2012
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-01-31T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/unicredit-sees-europe-economy-markets-in-recovery-mode-in-2012.html
Europe ’s economy and markets, buoyed
by European Central Bank lending, “should remain in recovery
mode” in 2012, UniCredit SpA said in its economic outlook.  The euro-region  economy  “is already stabilizing” after
bottoming out this winter, according to the report presented
today in Milan. Still, Italy,  Portugal  and  Greece  will suffer
recessions, and austerity measures and uncertainty “will be a
drag” on the region’s recovery, Italy’s biggest bank said.  “We are at the more optimistic end of the spectrum of
those who try to forecast 2012,” Erik F. Nielsen, UniCredit’s
chief global economist, said in an interview in Milan, adding
that UniCredit forecasts euro-region growth of 0.5 percent this
year. “We’re going to avoid the big recession.”  Unlimited three-year loans made by the ECB in December have
helped shore up sentiment among investors in the region, pushing
down bond yields.  Italy ’s 10-year benchmark bond yielded 5.982
percent today, compared with almost 7 percent on Jan. 11, the
level that led Greece, Ireland and Portugal to seek bailouts.  “The market recovery should continue,” UniCredit said in
today’s report. “Spreads should tighten, equity prices should
move higher, and as banks enjoy greater access to ECB liquidity
in both euros and dollars, their need to sell FX-denominated
assets will ease -- and with that we see further euro
weakness.”  Still, amid investor concern about private-sector
involvement in future euro-area bailouts, the debt crisis has
morphed into “a financial-sector crisis, and is starting to
threaten the non-financial private sector as well as the social
cohesion of some countries,” the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  