-- Murray & Roberts Plans to Sell $256 Million of Stock to Existing Investors
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-01-31T07:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/murray-roberts-plans-to-sell-256-million-of-stock-to-existing-investors.html
Murray & Roberts Holdings Ltd. ,
 South Africa ’s second-biggest construction company, plans to
sell 2 billion rand ($256 million) of stock to existing
investors to cut debt and fund its order book and expansion. The
stock fell the most in 11 months.  The rights issue will boost a recovery and growth plan
aimed at restoring profit “as soon as practically possible,”
Johannesburg-based Murray & Roberts said in a statement today.
Lowering debt will help Murray & Roberts “withstand the impact
of current uncertain global economic and financial markets.”  Shares of Murray & Roberts fell as much as 9 percent, the
most on an intraday basis since Feb. 25, to 25.49 rand and was
trading at 26.42 rand as of 9:12 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Murray & Roberts posted a fiscal  loss  of 5.05 rand a share
before one-time items and resolved to not pay dividends until
its liquidity improved following a slowdown in South African
spending on infrastructure and unresolved claims with projects
in its home market and Dubai. Murray & Roberts, which helped
build the Gautrain rapid-rail network that links Johannesburg
and  Pretoria , has operations in the Middle East and  Australia .  On Jan. 27 Citigroup Inc. named the South African
construction company as one of its top stocks and said the
industry may grow profit by an average of 11 percent this year,
helped by a weaker rand and capital expenditure in Australia’s
mining sector.  Murray & Roberts said its order book increased to 57
billion rand by the end of December, up from 55 billion rand at
the end of June. The company “is experiencing improved trading
conditions in all operating platforms, other than Construction
Africa and  Middle East ,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  