-- Transport Vessel Isn’t Being Made SEAL Mothership, Admiral Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-01T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/uss-ponce-isn-t-persian-gulf-seal-mothership-admiral-says.html
The Navy isn’t deploying a
“mothership” in the  Persian Gulf  for SEALs and other special
operations forces, contrary to reports by a number of news
organizations, the service’s top fleet-readiness commander said.  The Navy is contracting instead for upgrades to improve
capabilities of the 42-year-old USS Ponce, an amphibious
transport ship that was to be decommissioned, the official said.  The Ponce is “not going over there as an alternate command
ship; it’s not going over there as a special operating force
‘Death-star Galactica’ coming through the Gulf,” Fleet Forces
Command commander Admiral John Harvey said at a meeting with
reporters yesterday. “It’s going over there as” an interim
staging base until a newer vessel can be purchased.  Fox News ,  CBS News  and the Washington Post were among news
organizations that said the vessel was being converted for
commando use. Those assessments were inaccurate, Harvey said.  Some reporters read Military Sealift Command procurement
documents last week and drew the wrong conclusions from certain
specifications and the timing of the successful U.S. special
operations rescue of two hostages, an American and a Dane, on
Jan. 25 in Somalia, Harvey said.  “The topic was a hot one, and people read these”
documents “we generate very closely. I think they put two and
two together and got 22,” Harvey said.  The U.S. already has numerous air and naval facilities in
the Persian Gulf that can handle special operations forces and
their boats, aircraft, surveillance platforms and other
equipment, said another defense official, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because special operations are
classified.  Concentrating Warriors  It would make little sense to concentrate a number of the
nation’s most elite warriors on a boat in the Persian Gulf where
they would be vulnerable to a variety of Iranian attacks and
would require other vessels, missiles and aircraft to protect an
aging ship, the official said.  Instead, the revamped  Ponce  is envisioned as a “lilypad”
for counter-mine Sikorsky MH-53 helicopters and patrol craft,
Harvey said, a requirement that’s been in place since at least
2009.  “There were things we could do that could made it
amenable” for some spaces “to be used by special operating
forces, but it is not an SOF support platform,” he said.  Marine General James Mattis, the U.S. Central Command
Commander, reiterated this year the need for such an “afloat
forward-staging base,” and once the Ponce became available “it
offered an opportunity,” Harvey said.  Mooring Small Vessels  Navy procurement documents list as one specification the
capability to moor some small vessels often used by SEALS, such
as MK-5 Zodiacs and small riverine craft.  Bid documents call for converting the Ponce by June 1 into
a support base for U.S. Navy 5th Fleet mine-sweeping vessels and
helicopters or small patrol craft in the Persian Gulf, Harvey
said.  Contractors interested in bidding on the Ponce upgrade must
respond by Feb. 3, said Military Sealift Command spokesman
Timothy Boulay. “There is no firm date of award,” he said in
an e-mail. The work’s value is still to be determined, he said.  “My goal is to have it ready to sail on the 1st of June,”
Harvey said.  The stories about the Ponce appeared on the same day that
the Wall Street Journal said the U.S. is upgrading its most
powerful bomb to better penetrate deeply buried Iranian nuclear
sites, quoting Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  as acknowledging
the new weapon’s shortcomings.  Bomb Improvements  Four congressional defense committee are reviewing a Jan.
20 Pentagon request to shift $81.6 million to improve the
30,000-pound  Boeing Co. (BA)  Massive Ordnance Penetrator from less
important programs.  The one-paragraph explanation requests funds to “fix
issues identified in testing, including tail fin modifications
and integrating a second fuse, enhance weapon capabilities,
build test targets and conduct live weapon testing.”  The bomb “can be used in a variety of scenarios, and they
haven’t been developed with any one country or mission in
mind,” said Pentagon spokesman  George Little .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  