-- Valero Misses Analysts’ Estimates on U.S. Gulf Coast Results
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-01-31T18:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/valero-fourth-quarter-loss-narrows-after-margin-rises.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the largest
independent U.S. refiner, reported fourth-quarter earnings that
fell short of analysts’ estimates because of lower profits from
its U.S.  Gulf Coast  plants.  Net income was $45 million, or 8 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $438 million, or 77 cents, a year earlier, San
Antonio-based Valero said in a statement today. Excluding an
inventory-related accounting gain, Valero reported a per-share
loss that was 2 cents less than the average predicted in 13
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The fourth quarter clearly showed the volatility of the
refining business,” Valero Chief Executive Officer Bill Klesse
said in the statement.  The company bought crude linked to global prices and used
U.S. oil futures contracts to protect against price swings. The
so-called hedging strategy may have cost refiners including
Valero, Marathon Petroleum Corp. and Tesoro Corp. $700 million
in the quarter, according to a report from Simmons & Co.
International Ltd.  Valero lost $200 million because of its hedging strategy in
the fourth quarter, Chief Financial Officer Mike Ciskowski said
today in a conference call with investors.  Changing Contracts  The company has limited its exposure to losses from this
type of contract by avoiding the use of U.S.-based crude futures
when it buys oil linked to global prices, Ciskowski said.  Refining profit margins that narrowed in the last three
months of 2011 have improved this year, Klesse said. Refinery
closures in  Pennsylvania , the Caribbean and  Europe  will boost
Valero’s earnings as prices increase when there is less supply
of gasoline and diesel, Joe Gorder, Valero’s executive vice
president, said on the call.  “What we’re seeing in our industry now with refinery
closures and shutdowns and reduced run rates, I think we’re
going to see strong demand plus you have growth in these
markets,” Gorder said. “In addition to supply being
constrained, you’re going to have higher demand and we’re going
to be the beneficiaries of that.”  The union representing more than 30,000 U.S. refinery
workers is in discussions on a new contract before the current
one expires tonight.  Klesse said he’s optimistic the company will reach an
agreement with union officials at its Memphis, Tennessee, and
 Port Arthur ,  Texas , refineries to avert a potential strike.  Valero will shut its Memphis refinery if workers decide to
strike and will continue to operate in Port Arthur, Klesse said.  ‘Continue to Negotiate’  “We continue to negotiate,” he said. “I have the
expectation that we will have an agreement.”  Valero lost an average $1.62 for each barrel of oil refined
on the Gulf Coast as the profit fell for converting oil into
gasoline, diesel,  jet fuel  and other products. Valero’s margins
on the Gulf Coast fell by more than half to $3.57 a barrel.
Valero said operating expenses in that region rose to $3.77 a
barrel from $3.50 a year earlier.  “The Gulf Coast is their largest unit regionally, so that
it has a disproportionate impact,” said Mark Gilman, an analyst
with Benchmark Co. LLC in  New York , who rates Valero a ‘hold’
and doesn’t own shares.  Valero fell 1 percent to $24.05 at 1:08 p.m. in New York.
Before today, the shares, which have 13 buy ratings, six holds
and two sell recommendations from  analysts , had risen 15 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  