-- Venezuela Receives Last Shipment of Repatriated Gold Bars
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-01-31T00:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/venezuela-receives-last-shipment-of-repatriated-gold-bars-1-.html
Venezuela  today received the last
shipment of gold bars in an operation that repatriated 160 tons
of the South American country’s reserves of the metal held
abroad, said Nelson Merentes, president of the country’s central
bank.  Fourteen tons of gold arrived at the Caracas airport today
on a flight from  Europe , Merentes said. The gold bars were
transported in a caravan, broadcast on state television, to
vaults at the central bank where street banners proclaimed
“Mission Complete.”  “In two months, we’ve brought 160 tons of gold valued at
around $9 billion back to Venezuela,” Merentes said on state
television from the Caracas airport. “Today marks the last day
of the mission.”  President  Hugo Chavez  in August ordered the central bank to
repatriate the country’s gold reserves as a safeguard against
instability in financial markets. The South American country,
which has the 15th-largest holdings in the world, according to
the World Gold Council, held 211 tons of its 365 tons of gold
reserves in U.S., European and Canadian banks as of August.  Venezuela will leave about 15 percent of its reserves, or
around 50 tons, outside of Venezuela for financial transactions,
Merentes said today. He said on Jan. 3 that the country would
leave 15 tons of gold in banks outside the country.  A central bank report released in August showed that
Venezuela held  gold reserves  with the  Bank of England ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co ., Barclays Plc and Standard Chartered Plc among other
banks.  “This was the largest type of operation to transport this
type of metal in the last fifteen years,” said Merentes. “The
repatriation of our gold was an act of financial prudence and
sovereignty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  