-- Vestas Rises on First China Low-Wind Order: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-31T09:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/vestas-rises-on-first-china-low-wind-order-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , which is
cutting 10 percent of its workforce, snapped two days of
declines in Copenhagen trading after winning its first order in
 China  for a turbine that operates at low wind speeds.  Vestas rose as much as 4 percent, making it today’s  biggest
gainer  in the Copenhagen 20 Index, and advanced 3.5 percent to
64.10 kroner at 10:41 a.m. local time. Before today, the Aarhus,
Denmark-based company had lost 67 percent of its market value
over 12 months.  Vestas, the world’s largest maker of  wind turbines , said
Jan. 12 it will remove 2,335 positions and may cut another 1,600
jobs in the U.S. as competition from Chinese producers hurts
profits. China was the world’s biggest wind turbine market in
2011, installing 20 gigawatts out of a global total of 43
gigawatts, according to preliminary figures from Bloomberg New
Energy. The U.S., which is the second-biggest market after
China, installed 6.5 gigawatts last year.  “It’s very important for Vestas to gain a foothold and
sell its more advanced turbines on the Chinese market,”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at Aabenraa, Denmark-based Sydbank A/S,
said today by phone. “The Chinese government is currently
setting stricter requirements for the quality of turbines and
that may help Vestas and other western producers to sell a bit
more.”  Low Wind Speeds  Vestas said today it will deliver 27 turbines of its V100-
1.8 megawatt model to Datang Hubei Renewable Energy for a
project in the Hubei province, where the average wind speed is
five meters a second.  “Low-wind sites in China is a new market of huge
potential,” Jens Tommerup, who heads Vestas’ China unit, said
in the statement. “The contract is of great significance to us;
it not only helps us open up a new market, but also firms our
steps towards the exploitation of the dominant wind regime in
China.”  The Chinese government has promoted investment in clean
energy generation to diversify away from coal, which fuels 70
percent of the economy and contributes to pollution that
blankets industrial areas from  Hong Kong  to Beijing.  Vestas delivered turbines with a combined capacity of 857
megawatts to China in 2010, equivalent to 15 percent of its
global sales, according to the company’s website. For the first
nine months of 2011, that ratio dropped to 9.3 percent.  “China never became as strong a market for Vestas as
people had hoped,” said Sydbank’s Pedersen, who has an “over-
weight”  recommendation  on Vestas shares. “Right now, we are
seeing an overall slowing down of the Chinese market, and that’s
hurting local competitors more.”  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558) , Vestas’ biggest Chinese competitor,
said today it expects 2011 earnings to fall by more than 50
percent as heightened competition delayed projects and depressed
prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 