-- Wells Fargo Investment Bankers Bringing Buffett-Assisted Revenue
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-31T05:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/wells-fargo-investment-bankers-bring-buffett-assisted-revenue-once-shunned.html
The sun was rising over San
Francisco’s financial district in November 2009 when Richard Kovacevich picked up the phone in his 12th-floor office to call
Omaha, Nebraska.  It was about a year after  Wells Fargo & Co.  and Kovacevich,
the bank’s chairman at the time, had announced a plan to
purchase Wachovia Corp., and now he was reaching out to  Warren Buffett  for help, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
March issue. Just days before, Buffett had heralded his own
acquisition of railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp. for
$26 billion.  The billionaire chairman and chief executive officer of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  had lined up  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for
financing, Kovacevich recalls. Berkshire also is Wells Fargo’s
largest shareholder. The two men spoke for no more than 10
minutes, Kovacevich says, and the banker’s message was simple.  “Here we are, our largest shareholder, and we had never
done any meaningful investment banking for him,” recalls
Kovacevich, 68, who stepped down as chairman in 2009 but
continues to consult with management and represent the company
to customers. “I called him and said we’ve got some great
bankers here now, this is important and we’d really like to
show you what we can do.”  The phone call marked a turning point for Wells Fargo,
 founded in 1852  to serve gold rush pioneers. Far from  Wall
Street , the bank, the fourth-largest in the U.S. by assets and
the biggest by market value, had long rejected the more volatile
and transaction-oriented culture of investment banking. In 2005,
Kovacevich, then also CEO, said having superstar bankers focused
on one-time deals was “incompatible” with his company.  Head Winds  Now, Wells Fargo, which avoided most of the mortgage-
related mistakes made by the largest investment banks, is
pushing into the business it once shunned, even as rivals facing
fickle markets, meager revenues and new restrictions scale back.  Financial firms worldwide announced plans last year to cut
more than 230,000 jobs as global stock offerings plunged 29
percent and U.S. bond issuance fell 6.8 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The move may help Wells Fargo, led since 2007 by CEO  John Stumpf , weather head winds facing commercial banks. Firms are
struggling to find growth as rules limit overdraft and debit
card fees and lending remains sluggish.  Record Earnings  Wells Fargo said third-quarter revenue fell to $19.6
billion from $20.4 billion in the second quarter, missing
analysts’ estimates. The stock dropped as much as  8.9 percent  on
Oct. 17 when the results were announced and was down 11 percent
for 2011. Still, the bank has been profitable for 12 consecutive
quarters through the three-month period ended on Dec. 31,
setting records in the past six. It reported net income of  $15.9
billion  in 2011.  “The government has really limited their ability to grow
their operations, so I can understand why they are trying to
move out of traditional banking, but it’s a tough thing to do,”
says William Frels, CEO of St. Paul, Minnesota-based money
manager Mairs & Power Inc., which held more than 3.6 million
Wells Fargo shares at the end of September. “It’s not a
positive. My take is that they are desperate to find new avenues
of growth.”  After Kovacevich’s call, Buffett added Wells Fargo to the
Burlington deal. The bank has gone on to manage Burlington bond
issues and in January 2011 helped underwrite Berkshire’s $1.5
billion debt offering. Buffett declined, through a spokeswoman,
to comment.  ‘Landscape Has Changed’  “Before the crisis, we would have had to compromise both
our culture and ethics in order to compete,” says Kovacevich,
who, during an almost 35-year banking career that began at
Citicorp, pursued his own agenda in defiance of industry trends.  His refusal to engage in the empire-building of peers such
as Citigroup Inc.’s Sanford Weill and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
 Kenneth D. Lewis  earned him a reputation as a maverick. The
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the sales of Bear
Stearns Cos. and Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2008 led Kovacevich and
Stumpf to rethink their stance.  “The landscape has changed,” says Stumpf, 58. “Some of
the pure investment banks, like Lehman and Bear, are gone, and
some of the foreign competition has retreated back to their own
countries.”  Big Hill  Buffett’s imprimatur notwithstanding, Wells Fargo has a big
hill to climb. Even insiders overlook the lender.  When Vulcan Materials Co. CEO Don James needed advice in
fending off a hostile takeover in December, he didn’t turn to
the bank. Instead, he chose Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which had
advised the company since at least 1999. James, a former
director of Wachovia, is on Wells Fargo’s board. Meghan Stafford, a spokeswoman for Vulcan, declined to comment.  The bank ranked 12th among U.S. debt underwriters in 2011,
with 1,824 deals valued at $53.1 billion, behind London-based
HSBC Holdings Plc and  France ’s BNP Paribas SA, according to
Bloomberg data. In U.S. mergers and acquisitions, Wells Fargo
ranked 21st, lower than boutique investment bank Moelis & Co.,
advising on 31 deals last year valued at $27.6 billion, the data
show.  Wells Fargo also will have to convince naysayers it won’t
go the way of other commercial banks that have sought to enter
the  investment-banking  business only to retreat, says Brian Foran, a New York-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. Bank of
America tried expanding into investment banking with limited
success until it purchased Merrill Lynch, he says.  “Investors are nervous,” Foran says. “They feel like
they’ve seen this movie before.”  Exterminator’s Son  The man Stumpf chose to lead the investment-banking
expansion is John Shrewsberry, a 6-foot-4 (193 centimeter) son
of an exterminator. A former Goldman Sachs vice president,
Shrewsberry has been at Wells Fargo for more than a decade.  His domain now stretches from three floors of a San
Francisco skyscraper to  New York  and  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
where Wachovia was based and where Wells Fargo is converting
240,000 square feet (22,300 square meters) at the 48-story Duke
Energy Center into a home for 1,600 salesmen, traders and
bankers.  “This gives us more capacity,” Shrewsberry, 46, says on
a mid-December morning of his new West Coast aerie, walking
across the 34th-floor trading space in a gray pinstriped suit, a
lavender shirt and a floral-print tie as employees unpack
cardboard boxes and adjust computer screens.  Bay View  The space allows Shrewsberry to squeeze in 175 trading
desks on each floor, an upgrade over the 135 spots and scattered
operations the investment bank had at a previous location. In
his office overlooking  San Francisco  Bay, a small collection of
books lining a glass wall includes Thomas Friedman’s “The World
Is Flat” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1995), an accounting tome
and the “Yale Book of Quotations” (Yale University Press,
2006).  Shrewsberry was an obvious choice for the job, current and
former colleagues say, citing his deliberate decision-making and
consensus-building. He wears a suit every day in a city where
bankers and traders often dress in slacks and open-collared
shirts. His athletic build has been sharpened by years of
downhill skiing and basketball, which he has played at least
once a week for most of the past 30 years.  “He has always been a guy that made the team better,”
says Fred Terrell, vice chairman of investment banking at Credit
Suisse Group AG, who hired Shrewsberry out of Yale’s business
school in 1992 to work in CS First Boston Corp.’s mortgage-
markets department. That’s rare in the business world, Terrell
says. “It generally happens around a person who appreciates
what everyone does, from the smallest person on the team to the
most senior person.”  Flip-Flops  Shrewsberry attended high school in Chino,  California ,
about 35 miles east of  Los Angeles . He graduated with an
economics degree from Claremont McKenna College in 1987, worked
for three years as an auditor at Coopers & Lybrand and then went
to Yale, where he got a master’s degree in business
administration.  After the CS First Boston stint, he took a job at Goldman
Sachs’s principal strategies unit. A year later, he and
colleague Marc Furstein left to start their own firm. The
company, American Commercial Capital LLC, was based in Carlsbad,
California, and made loans to restaurant franchises. The debts
were then packaged into bonds for sale to investors.  With an office about 3 miles from the Pacific Ocean,
Shrewsberry honed his surfing skills, and he and his partners
would sometimes wear shorts and flip-flops to the office.  By 2001, investors had grown wary of purchasing bonds
backed by unconventional lending commitments, and the industry
was changing to favor banks with enough capital to keep loans on
their balance sheets. That May, Wells Fargo  agreed to buy 
American Commercial. Shrewsberry stayed to run the business.  Shrewsberry’s Rise  By the time of the Wachovia acquisition, Shrewsberry had
worked his way up to lead Wells Fargo’s securities and
investment group. He helped examine Wachovia’s books before the
merger was announced and emerged as one of the most vocal
champions for keeping the bank’s securities unit.  Kovacevich says his trust in Shrewsberry’s leadership
helped soften his anti-Wall Street leanings. Less than two years
after the merger was announced, Stumpf promoted Shrewsberry to
president of Wells Fargo Securities LLC, the broker-dealer that
succeeded Wachovia Capital Markets LLC, which includes both
investment banking and sales and trading.  ‘More Fun’  Now, Shrewsberry is looking to take advantage of a seismic
shift reshaping the industry. New financial rules are forcing
banks to divest some capital-intensive businesses and shutter
proprietary-trading units. Regulations also require the largest
U.S. securities firms, as part of bank holding companies, to be
supervised by the  Federal Reserve , which subjects them to
scrutiny absent during the run-up to the most recent crisis,
Kovacevich says. That has leveled the playing field for new
entrants such as Wells Fargo.  “It became a lot more fun and worthwhile both for Wells
Fargo and our customers to do more business together,”
Shrewsberry says.  Wells Fargo’s strategy is to build on its commercial-
banking strength, Kovacevich, Shrewsberry and Stumpf say.
Borrowers, depositors and other long-time clients with
underwriting and advisory needs will be referred to investment
bankers, while traders and salespeople hawk securities
underwritten by the bank to institutional investors and more
than 15,000 advisers at the third-largest U.S. retail brokerage
bring in money from customers.  Cross Selling  “Think of a customer where we have had a lending
relationship with them for 10 to 15 years and now they want to
issue some debt,” Stumpf says. “Who would know that debt
better than us? We’ve analyzed it, and we’ve been with them
through cycles. And now we have this big retail platform that
can help them sell equity or debt into the marketplace.”  The new capabilities mean Wells Fargo can expand its
mission to convince existing customers to use the bank’s other
services -- much as Kovacevich appealed to Buffett. At a Goldman
Sachs investors conference in December, Stumpf highlighted the
opportunity to pursue what he called “deepening cross sell”
with the bank’s more than 6,800 corporate customers.  Such cross selling has long been the Holy Grail of bankers
eager to expand their business without having to find new
customers. Kovacevich helped pioneer and refine the strategy at
Wells Fargo, and Citigroup adopted it as part of its financial-
supermarket model before the bank wrote down tens of billions of
dollars in bad subprime debt.  500 Hires  “Everybody talks about cross selling,” says Bert Ely, a
banking consultant in Alexandria,  Virginia , who has followed the
industry for 30 years. “First of all, it’s hard to do. It’s
even harder to measure. Wells is pretty good at it. Whether
they’re better than JPMorgan or Bank of America is anybody’s
guess.”  For Kovacevich, changes in the industry provided a rare
opportunity to get into the business at what he considers a
minimal cost. The  $12.7 billion  Wachovia purchase gave Wells
Fargo a group of bankers ready to offer underwriting, advisory
and hedging products that customers have always needed, he says.  That Wachovia’s bankers witnessed their unit’s role in the
firm’s collapse and became believers in Wells Fargo’s culture
only helped matters, Kovacevich says. Shrinking operations at
other firms also meant fewer opportunities to jump ship.  Shrewsberry’s unit has added more than 500 people in the 22
months ended on Oct. 31, an increase of 15 percent, hiring
bankers from UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Leerink Swann & Co. and
Chicago-based hedge fund Citadel LLC, led by Ken Griffin, which
shuttered its securities business in 2011.  Rock-Tenn, Targus  Wells Fargo has started getting larger mandates. Last year,
Norcross, Georgia-based  Rock-Tenn Co. (RKT)  sought its advice and that
of head industrials banker John Church in a $4.92 billion
purchase of cardboard-packaging maker Smurfit-Stone Container
Corp.  In October, the bank was the sole adviser to Targus
Information Corp., the maker of CallerID, in its $650 million
sale to  Neustar Inc. (NSR) , which was completed in November. The
lender also has won debt-underwriting business for Cisco Systems
Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co.  The bank has done better in U.S. loan syndications, where
it ranked fourth last year, and U.S. leveraged loans, where it
was third behind Bank of America and JPMorgan, according to
Bloomberg data. Loan-syndication volume jumped 72 percent in the
third quarter from the first compared with growth of 4 percent
for the industry, according to a Dec. 14 report by Vivek Juneja,
an analyst at JPMorgan in New York.  Fastest-Growing Unit  Shrewsberry’s unit is the fastest-growing business at Wells
Fargo, according to Kovacevich and Juneja’s report. Revenue from
investment-banking fees rose  27 percent  in the first nine months
of 2011, the company said in a presentation. Juneja estimates
trading revenue at about $700 million to $900 million a quarter
during the first half of 2011.  The firm, which doesn’t report financial results for its
investment-banking business, has been equally guarded about
specific goals. Kovacevich says he expects Wells Fargo to be
among the top five U.S. investment banks in plain-vanilla
products such as U.S. debt and equity underwriting.  While bank analysts such as Nomura’s Foran and  Betsy Graseck  at Morgan Stanley support Wells Fargo’s expansion,
citing the company’s evolution from a small regional lender and
its strong risk management, they don’t see the company gaining
top-tier status anytime soon.  ‘Gradualist Approach’  The challenge will be to build the business gradually
without committing “more capital in a big, flashy way” or
offering guaranteed compensation to lure high-profile bankers,
Graseck says. “They will continue to be a mid-size investment
bank, not one of the largest. To move into the top tier is a
culture shift. Their strategy is more of a gradualist
approach.”  That’s fine with Stumpf, who says Wells Fargo doesn’t
expect investment banking to displace commercial lending or real
estate. Kovacevich says the unit is unlikely ever to account for
more than 10 percent of the firm’s total revenue or profit.  In addition to persuading CEOs to give Wells Fargo their
business, the bank will have to convince investors its strategy
won’t lead to lower valuations.  “The perception in the market is that investment banking
is more volatile,” Graseck says. “That’s multiple-destroying,
not enhancing.”  ‘So Simple’  Kovacevich shakes off the criticism.  “If we had the discipline for 156 years not to be in
investment banking, why would we be in it today unless we
thought there was a fundamental change?” he says. “This is so
simple, we just had to do this.”  Kovacevich’s nod to the past and Wells Fargo’s efforts to
remember its roots are themes Shrewsberry probably won’t forget.
While executives hold meetings in conference rooms named for the
bank’s largest acquisitions, such as Wachovia and First
Interstate Bancorp, the one nearest Shrewsberry’s office
commemorates a much smaller deal, one that brought him to the
bank a decade ago yet was so tiny that the details weren’t
announced.  A sign attached to the frosted glass reads: “American
Commercial Capital, 2001.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  