-- Wheat Advances on Speculation Cold Weather in Europe May Harm Winter Crops
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-01-31T14:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/wheat-advances-on-speculation-cold-weather-in-europe-may-harm-winter-crops.html
Wheat rose in Chicago, heading for a
second monthly gain, on speculation cold weather in  Europe  will
hurt winter crops that lack protective snow cover. Corn and
soybeans climbed.  Temperatures tomorrow may fall as low as minus 15 degrees
Fahrenheit in Ukraine, Joel Burgio, a senior meteorologist at
Telvent DTN, said in a report yesterday. That may damage plants
that aren’t covered by snow. Prices also advanced as a Russian
official said the country’s government will consider taxing
grain exports.  “There’s a massive cold front coming through,” said
 William Adams , a portfolio manager at Resilience AG in Zurich.
“Ukraine wheat production is expected to drop a bit, and that’s
going to pressure wheat.”  Wheat for March delivery increased 1.9 percent to $6.57 a
bushel by 1:15 p.m.  London  time on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The most-active contract has gained 0.7 this month. Milling
wheat for March delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris rose 2.3
percent to 213.75 euros ($281.65) a metric ton.  “Any winter wheat not adequately protected by snow cover
could be at risk of winterkill in areas where the lows reach
minus 10 degrees Fahrenheit or colder,” Burgio said.  Discussions will take place in two weeks on the possible
imposition of a Russian grain-export duty, Ilya Shestakov,
deputy agriculture minister, said at a conference in Moscow.  Corn and soybeans gained as investors bet rainfall in
Argentina and  Brazil  won’t revive crops damaged by drought,
Adams said. Rabobank International yesterday cut estimates for
global soybean output by 3.4 percent and corn production by 0.1
percent because of the dry weather.  Corn for March delivery advanced 1.2 percent to $6.3925 a
bushel in  Chicago . The grain has dropped 1.1 percent this month.  Soybeans for March delivery climbed 0.4 percent to $11.90 a
bushel. The oilseed is down 1.5 percent in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  