-- WikiLeaks’s Assange Sued by Ex-Lawyers as He Prepares U.K. Top Court Fight
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-31T18:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/wikileaks-s-assange-sued-by-lawyers-on-eve-of-extradition-appeal.html
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange,
who will ask the U.K. Supreme Court tomorrow to block his
extradition to Sweden in a rape case, was sued by the British
 law firm  he hired after his 2010 arrest.  Finers Stephens Innocent LLP , which specializes in
commercial litigation, sued the 40-year-old Australian yesterday
in  London  over legal fees, according to court records. Assange
replaced the firm last year after a U.K. judge rejected his
defense and upheld the Swedish arrest warrant.  “It’s always regrettable when we find ourselves in a
dispute with a former client about fees,” Tim Bignell, a lawyer
at the firm, said in a phone interview today. “We tried to
resolve this amicably with Mr. Assange and we still hope to be
able to.” He didn’t say how much the firm is owed.  Assange, now represented by human-rights lawyer Gareth Peirce, denies the rape claims by two supporters of the anti-
secrecy website who let him stay at their homes in 2010. Assange
argues  Sweden ’s arrest warrant is invalid because the prosecutor
who issued it isn’t a “judicial authority,” as required under
 European Union law .  Peirce didn’t immediately respond to a message seeking
comment about the lawsuit over fees.  Finers Stephens Innocent’s tactics in the first court
hearing went further than questioning inconsistencies in
European law. It criticized Swedish justice in rape cases and
labeled the prosecutor behind the case as a “radical
feminist.”  ‘Substantial Fees’  The law firm had extensive negotiations with Assange over
the unpaid fees, including “substantial fees” owed to lawyers
and repayment of money the firm gave third parties on his
behalf, Bignell said. Assange also moved to a new address in the
U.K. without telling the firm, he said.  Assange’s former lawyer,  Mark Stephens , went on to
represent singer Dannii Minogue and other celebrity victims of
phone hacking by News Corp.’s now-defunct News of the World
tabloid in Britain. Stephens regularly represents media
organizations including Bloomberg News.  Peirce gained notoriety for representing the family of a
man wrongfully killed by London police in a terrorism sting and
three Britons arrested in  Afghanistan  and held in Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba.  Assange, who hasn’t been charged with a crime, is accused
of failing to use a condom with one of the Swedish women and
having sex with the other while she was asleep. The claims
became public around the same time Assange was condemned by U.S.
officials for posting classified military and diplomatic cables
on the  WikiLeaks website  and he claimed the case was politically
motivated.  The Finers Stephens case is: Finers Stephens Innocent v.
Julian Assange, HQ12X00359,  High Court  of Justice Queens Bench
Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  