-- Twitter Global Expansion Increases Sales, Censorship Challenges
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-01-31T03:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/twitter-ad-sales-to-rise-to-540-million-in-2014-emarketer-says.html
Twitter Inc. ’s international
expansion may help fuel a threefold gain in revenue, even as it
raises censorship challenges for the microblogging service.  Ad revenue at Twitter is set to rise to $540 million in
2014 from $139.5 million in 2011, according to New York-based
research firm  EMarketer Inc.  Increasing popularity overseas will
decrease the site’s reliance on U.S. advertisers. The percentage
of dollars coming from the U.S. will fall to 83 percent in 2014
from about 90 percent this year, EMarketer said.  Twitter’s global reach also is forcing the company to
adjust how it manages content. The site announced last week that
it will add the ability to censor posts by country, rather than
deleting messages for the whole world. In the past, if the
government of a country asked Twitter to take down a post, the
company had to do it globally. Even so, Twitter still won’t be
able to operate in some nations, such as  China , Chief Executive
Officer  Dick Costolo  said at a conference.  “We would love for people in China to express themselves,”
he said at AllThingsD’s Dive Into Media conference. “Under the
current situation, that’s not possible.”  LinkedIn Corp., the top professional-networking site, also
will see ad sales soar in coming years, EMarketer said. The
revenue will grow to $405.6 million in 2014 from $154.6 million
last year, according to the firm. The U.S. will account for 60
percent of  LinkedIn (LNKD) ’s sales in 2014, down from 68 percent.  Wider Net  Both sites are benefiting from advertisers casting a wider
net for potential opportunities, looking beyond  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
Facebook Inc. and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Twitter has become a popular way
for politicians, celebrities and executives to spread their
messages. LinkedIn, meanwhile, helps marketers target
professionals, who use the service to connect with colleagues
and find new employment.  Political ads will be important to Twitter in 2012, said
Costolo, who became CEO in 2010. He has sought to bring more of
a business focus to the San Francisco-based startup, which once
didn’t focus on revenue.  “We have figured out the business,” he said. “The
advertising model is working.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  