-- Won Gains on Speculation Korea Exporters Are Selling Dollars; Bonds Fall
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-01-31T06:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/won-gains-on-speculation-korea-exporters-are-selling-dollars-bonds-fall.html
South Korea ’s won advanced, snapping
a two-day decline, on speculation exporters are selling dollars
at the end of the month.  Government bonds  declined.  The currency weakened by as much as 0.2 percent earlier as
data showed factory output shrank for a third month in December.
 Industrial production  declined 0.9 percent from November, when
it dropped a revised 0.3 percent, Statistics  Korea  said. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.1 percent
gain. The Kospi Index of shares rose 0.8 percent after Greek
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said he’s “strongly committed”
to reaching a debt-swap accord with bondholders.  “Exporters and heavy industrial companies selling dollars
supported the won,” said Lee Yong Hee, a Seoul-based currency
dealer with Industrial Bank of Korea. “ Kospi (KOSPI)  gains following
developments in  Greece  also triggered some risk-on moves.”  The won strengthened 0.4 percent to 1,123.26 per dollar at
the close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency jumped 2.6 percent in January, its first monthly gain
since October. Overseas investors bought $5.3 billion more of
the nation’s shares than they sold this month through yesterday,
exchange data show.  A report tomorrow may show exports increased 1.1 percent
this month from a year earlier, the least in more than two years,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Dollar buying may be supported by speculation U.S.-based
Lone Star Funds may start converting the 3.9 trillion won ($3.5
billion) proceeds of its sale of Korea Exchange Bank to Seoul-
based Hana Financial Group Inc., according to Ryoo Hyun Jung, a
Seoul-based chief currency dealer at Citibank Inc. Hana won
approval for its purchase on Jan. 27. Hana Chairman Kim Seung Yu
said that day he plans to close the KEB purchase within five
working days.  The yield on the government’s 3.5 percent bonds due
September 2016 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 3.49 percent today, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. It
climbed five basis points this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  