-- Woolworths Plans to Sell Electronics Unit as Groceries Drives Sales Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2012-01-31T05:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/woolworths-plans-to-sell-electronics-unit-as-groceries-drives-sales-growth.html
Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) ,  Australia ’s largest
retailer, plans to sell its Dick Smith electronics unit to focus
on its supermarkets as competition and falling prices crimp
earnings from selling computers and televisions.  The supermarket chain and general retail operator will take
a A$300 million ($318 million) restructuring charge for the
unit’s sale and the company’s Big W discount outlets will take
over sales of electronics, the Sydney-based company said in a
statement today.  Woolworths’ focus on staples, with Dick Smith representing
less than 4 percent of revenue, has enabled it to withstand
slower discretionary spending that prompted cuts to forecasts at
other retailers, including rival electronics chain  JB Hi-Fi Ltd. (JBH) 
The company intends to boost earnings with more-profitable fresh
produce and a doubling of private-label brands as everyday items
from supermarkets account for 84 percent of group  revenue .  “Commonsense has prevailed and Dick Smith will be
divested,” Peter Warnes, an analyst at Morningstar Inc. in
Sydney, said in e-mailed comments today. “For many a year we
have described Dick Smith as a distraction and called for the
operation to be divested and consumer electronics to be
integrated into Big W.”  Woolworths  shares  rose 1.4 percent to A$24.79 at the close
of Sydney trading, paring this year’s decline to 1.2 percent.
The stock dropped 6.9 percent in 2011, compared with a 15
percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Rivals Rally  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , Australia’s biggest
electronics retailer, rose 0.5 percent, and second-ranked JB Hi-
Fi gained the most since Aug. 10, climbing 6.6 percent to
A$12.60 as the Woolworths plan stoked speculation of industry
consolidation.  “We are going to go into a period of some kind of
rationalization,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350
million at White Funds Management Pty in Sydney.  Woolworths also separately reported second-quarter sales
today, with revenue rising 5.1 percent to A$15.1 billion,
matching the average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Second-quarter food and liquor sales at Woolworths’s
Australian supermarkets rose 4.1 percent to A$9.9 billion, with
revenue from outlets open at least a year gaining 1.1 percent.  Same-store Australian grocery store sales were expected to
rise 1.6 percent, according to the average of four analyst
estimates.  Big W Sales  The Big W discount department store chain posted a 0.1
percent decline in second-quarter sales to A$1.3 billion.  The consumer electronics unit had a 3 percent increase in
revenue to A$581 million.  “The investment and management attention given to Dick
Smith have been disproportionate relative to its position within
the Woolworths group,” the company said. “The company’s
current focus is on accelerating growth in its core trading
divisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  