-- Yale’s Swensen: Index Funds Best Plan for Most
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-01-31T17:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/yale-s-swensen-says-passive-index-funds-best-option-for-most-investors.html
David Swensen , who pioneered an
investing style that helped endowments beat markets by using
alternative assets such as private equity and real estate, said
investors who don’t have access to top managers are best off
using index products.  “There are two sensible approaches to investing -- either
100 percent active or 100 percent passive,” Swensen, the chief
investment officer of  Yale University ’s $19.4 billion endowment,
said today at the John C. Bogle Legacy Forum hosted by  Bloomberg
Link .  Unless an investor has access to “incredibly high-
qualified professionals,” they “should be 100 percent passive
-- that includes almost all individual investors and most
institutional investors,” he said.  Most active mutual funds are more interested in collecting
fees than in boosting returns for investors, Swensen said at the
conference, which highlighted Bogle’s work in building up index
investing as a low-cost alternative to traditional mutual funds.
Yale, which is based in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , returned more
than 14 percent annually over the past 20 years, compared with
the 13 percent increase at the world’s richest school,  Harvard
University .  Swensen said he was “happy” with Yale’s hedge-fund
exposure, adding that the investments remain a necessary part of
the university’s holdings given the “subdued or modest
expectations” of stock-market returns.  ‘A Huge Issue’  “High quality hedge-fund exposure that produces returns
that are fundamentally independent of what’s going on in the
markets can be a great addition to an institutional portfolio,”
said Swensen, 58, who has headed Yale’s investments office since
1985.  Still, hedge funds’ traditional fees of 2 percent of assets
and 20 percent of profits “are a huge issue,” Swensen said,
and unmerited except for extraordinary performance.  “If you’re going to engage in the game where you’re
charging enormous fees, you have to be in the top 5 percent to
10 percent to win on a risk-adjusted basis,” he said.  Swensen said he also takes issue with high-frequency
traders, saying they take unfair advantage of traditional
investors.  “I’ve always viewed high-frequency trading as a tax on the
rest of us,” Swensen said. “A bunch of smart people taking
advantage of order-execution rules as opposed to doing something
good for the market place.”  Yale’s endowment gained 22 percent in the fiscal year ended
June 30, compared with a 21 percent increase for Harvard.
 Columbia University  in  New York  was the best performer among the
eight Ivy League schools last year with a 24 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  