-- Yo-Yo Ma Goes Live for ’Goat Rodeo’ With Top Blue Grass Players
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/yo-yo-ma-goes-live-for-goat-rodeo-with-top-blue-grass-players.html
While cellist Yo-Yo Ma enjoys
stepping away from the classics, he thought his latest venture,
blending his instrument with blue-grass masters, might produce
the sort of mess known as a “goat rodeo.”  “The question at the beginning was, can someone do a
project like this, and the answer is no,” Ma, 56, said with a
laugh during an interview last month at a  New York  recording
studio. “We did it just because we thought that it could be
good.”  “The Goat Rodeo Sessions” CD (Sony) went to No. 1 on
 Billboard  magazine’s classical crossover chart upon release in
October and is still holding steady at No. 3 this week. It also
grabbed the No. 1 slot on the blue-grass charts for 12 weeks,
falling to No. 2 last week.  The chart success nudged the musicians behind “Goat
Rodeo” to reunite before a live audience tonight at the  House
of Blues in Boston . They include mandolin player Chris Thile,
fiddler Stuart Duncan, bassist  Edgar Meyer  and vocalist Aoife
O’Donovan.  “We weren’t planning on this being a hit,” Ma said during
a recent phone interview. “Someone said that what we’re doing
is genre-proof. I thought that was an interesting comment
because we felt that way about it.”  “Goat Rodeo,” which peaked at No. 18 on Billboard’s Top
200 album charts, is one of the best-selling recordings of Ma’s
three-decade career.  On His IPod  The Harvard University graduate said that although the
public and fans associate him with classical music, he doesn’t
think he is limited to that genre. His iPod has blues, Celtic
and Persian tunes on it as well as classical works. His past
recordings include edgy collaborations with jazz vocalist Bobby McFerrin, Brazilian pianist Helio Alves and a Mongolian throat
singer in his  Silk Road  ensemble.  The “Goat Rodeo” project started coming together when
Meyer, who also has performed in the classical and blue-grass
spheres, approached Ma about making some music that would mix
the fiddle, the mandolin and blue-grass elements with the
upright bass and cello.  During rehearsals before the recording sessions last year,
Ma focused on weaving the earthy tones of his 18th-century
 Stradivarius  cello into the folk-like songs.  “The reason my part became more and more simple is that
they figured out what I can’t do,” Ma said. “It got simpler
and simpler because they were so good at taking me in.”  (“The Goat Rodeo Sessions” shows are tonight at the House
of Blues, 15 Lansdowne St. in  Boston , at 7:30 and 10 p.m.
Tickets and information: +1-888-693-2583 or
 http://www.houseofblues.com )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 