-- Outokumpu to Buy ThyssenKrupp Stainless Unit
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-31T10:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-31/thyssenkrupp-outokumpu-agree-deal-on-stainless-frankfurt-mover.html
Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V)  agreed to buy
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s Inoxum stainless steel division in a deal
valuing the unit at about 2.7 billion euros ($3.6 billion), to
create Europe’s largest producer of the alloy.  ThyssenKrupp will retain a minority stake in the business,
receive a “significant” cash payment and transfer financial
and pension liabilities for Inoxum to  Finland ’s Outokumpu, the
Essen, Germany-based steelmaker said in a statement today.  “It’s a very good deal for ThyssenKrupp, the 2.7 billion
euros is a better valuation than we expected,” Ingo-Martin Schachel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by
phone. “This much-awaited consolidation will be positive for
the entire market.”  ThyssenKrupp is divesting a unit that cost 800 million 
euros in writedowns in 2011 and contributed to its annual loss. 
Outokumpu will more than double stainless-steel capacity to 5.5 
million metric tons, Neil Sampat, an analyst at Nomura Holdings 
Inc., estimates. The combined business would have about 18,000 
workers and sales exceeding 10 billion euros, Die Welt reported.  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker, rose as much as
5.1 percent to 22.19 euros in Frankfurt trading, and was at
21.61 euros as of 10:43 a.m. Outokumpu, Finland’s biggest 
stainless steelmaker, slid as much as 9.5 percent to 6.66 euros 
in Helsinki, the most in four months, before trading was halted 
at the company’s request. It last traded at 7.19 euros.  Global Deals  Global steel-industry deals totaled $38.8 billion in the
past 12 months, up from $20.9 billion a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest transaction was
 Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) ’s $9 billion all-share purchase of Sumitomo
Metal Industries Ltd., to create the world’s second-biggest
steelmaker.  Combining Inoxum and Outokumpu would establish a European
stainless-steel industry leader with about 50 percent market
share, Nomura's Sampat said last week. European producers have 
struggled for years with overcapacity, sliding profit and 
rising costs, while failing to agree on mergers.  “The hope has long been that much-needed consolidation
will lead to the creation of a market leader, rationalization of
capacity and improving utilization rates and margins” in
 Europe , Sampat said from  London .  Italy, Germany  Outokumpu would gain better access to central Europe’s main
markets in Germany and  Italy , Michael Broeker, an analyst at
Steubing AG who also covers ThyssenKrupp, said by phone Jan. 23.  ThyssenKrupp, whose stainless-steel panels were used in the
 construction  of the Chrysler Building in 1929 and the Empire
State Building in 1931, on Dec. 2 posted a fiscal full-year loss
because of 2.9 billion euros in impairment charges, mainly on
project delays and cost overruns at its Steel Americas unit.  The two companies and employee representatives reached an
agreement this morning that includes rules for site and
employment protection after talks that started Jan. 27,
ThyssenKrupp said.  The steelmakers agreed to exclude compulsory redundancies
and to preserve all German production sites until at least 2015.
The melt shop at its Krefeld plant will be gradually shut down
until the end of next year, while the facility at Bochum will be
preserved until the end of 2016, ThyssenKrupp said.  The merger requires board and regulatory approvals, it 
said. The company’s supervisory board meets later today to 
decide on the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  