-- 
‘Real Steel’ Leads Box Office With $27.3 Million in Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-10-10T21:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/-real-steel-is-weekend-s-no-1-movie-beating-clooney-s-ides-of-march-.html
“Real Steel,” the action tale
featuring boxing robots, was the top film at U.S. and Canadian
theaters, generating $27.3 million in ticket sales for Steven
Spielberg’s DreamWorks SKG and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   The other new weekend release, the political thriller “The
Ides of March,” was second with $10.5 million, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in a statement. “Dolphin
Tale,” in first place last weekend, dropped to third place with
ticket sales of $9.1 million.  “Real Steel,” inspired by Richard Matheson’s short story,
stars  Hugh Jackman  as an absentee father who trains robots for
the ring. The visual effects-laden film, with Spielberg as
executive producer, had the third-biggest opening ever for a
Columbus Day weekend movie, said Gitesh Pandya, chief executive
officer at movie-tracker  BoxOfficeGuru.com .  “Breaking $25 million in October is something you don’t
see too often,” Pandya said in a telephone interview. “There
hasn’t been a big action movie since the summer, and I think
action audiences have been craving something like this.”  The film, in which Jackman plays a trainer who buys an
outdated boxing robot, is a good sign for DreamWorks, which had
disappointing results with movies earlier this year, Pandya
said. It rebounded recently with “The Help,” a civil rights-
era drama that’s taken in $163 million, he said.  Matheson’s Legend  “Real Steel,” which also features Dakota Goyo as
Jackman’s son, is one of several Matheson works to be adapted to
the screen. Others include the novel “ I Am Legend ,” which
became the basis for the 2007 Will Smith thriller.  “The Ides of March” features  Ryan Gosling  as the
idealistic press secretary to a governor, played by  George Clooney , who aspires to be president.  Paul Giamatti , Philip Seymour Hoffman and Evan Rachel Wood co-star.  The film, distributed by  Sony Corp. (6758) , has garnered talk of
possible Oscar nominations, giving it a chance for sustained
sales, Pandya said. Clooney’s pictures typically take in $10
million to $15 million in their first weekends and have to
contend with the star’s high-profile liberal politics, Pandya
said.  “There are many people in America who do not want to see
his films and a lot of people who love him,” Pandya said. “It
is an older-skewing film and the reviews have been good, so I
think it should have some good legs ahead of it.”  ‘Dolphin Tale’  “Dolphin Tale,” which placed third, stars Harry Connick Jr. and  Morgan Freeman . The film is based on the true story of a
dolphin whose tail was amputated after becoming entangled in a
crab trap. It has taken in $49 million since its release.  Sony’s “Moneyball,” the baseball movie starring  Brad Pitt , came in fourth, with $7.5 million in sales.  “50/50,” the Summit Entertainment LLC film about a young
man who has cancer, was fifth with $5.7 million in its second
weekend. In the movie, Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s character confides
to a friend, played by  Seth Rogen , that he has been diagnosed
with the disease. Anna Kendrick co-stars as a therapist who
tries to help the patient cope with his situation.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films climbed 4.7 percent to
$85.1 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
box-office receipts this year have declined 3.4 percent to $8.11
billion. Attendance is down 5.4 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Oct.
7 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net . Alex Nussbaum in New York   anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  