-- 
Alcoa Puts Show Earnings Risk After 46% Stock Plunge: Options

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i ,   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   K a i t l y n   K i e r n a n
-- 
2011-10-10T20:21:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/alcoa-puts-show-earnings-risk-after-46-stock-plunge-options.html
The price of bearish contracts on
 Alcoa Inc. (AA)  jumped to the highest level since May 2009, as
traders speculate this week’s earnings report won’t stem a
plunge that has erased $9 billion of equity value.  The cost of New York-based Alcoa put options 10 percent
below the share price rose to 7.61 points above calls to buy the
stock on Oct. 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
was the biggest gap in the price relationship known as skew
since April 2009, the data show.  Analysts have cut estimates for Alcoa’s third-quarter
profits to 23 cents a share from 37 cents in July, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Shares of the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
which begins earnings season tomorrow, lost 46 percent since
April, more than double the 22 percent drop for materials
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as concern about
the slowing economy sent the metal down 19 percent.  “It’s hard to be bullish on a company that provides a
product that’s so linked to the broad global industrial
economy,”  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7 billion at
First Asset Management Inc. in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview Oct. 7. The firm reduced its Alcoa holdings to 2.2
million shares from 10 million at the start of the year.
“People aren’t buying metals because they’re worried about the
economy.”  Michael Belwood, a New York-based spokesman for Alcoa,
declined to comment on the company’s options or earnings.  Single-Day Move  Implied volatility, the key gauge of options prices, for
three-month puts to sell Alcoa shares should they drop 10
percent is 64.68 versus 58.79 for calls to buy if it climbs 10
percent. The spread reached 7.61 points on Oct. 4, the widest in
30 months.  The rise in skew and volatility for Alcoa comes after two
months in which equities saw unprecedented volatility, whipsawed
by concerns including S&P’s downgrade that removed the U.S.’s
AAA credit rating, speculation  Greece  may default on its debt,
reports showing rising inflation in countries such as China and
India.  Alcoa options are pricing in a 5.4 percent one-day gain or
loss after its quarterly report tomorrow. The implied move is
calculated from a comparison of implied volatilities for two
options maturities closest to expiration.  ‘Downside Move’  “The market is definitely assigning a greater probability
to a downside move than upside,” Max Breier, a senior equity
derivatives trader at BMO Capital Markets Corp. in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview Oct. 7. “Even if you solve the
problems in Europe we’re still going to be in a world where
growth in the developed world is less than 2 percent.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, also
known as VIX, slumped 16 percent to 36.20 last week after
advancing for the previous two weeks. It dropped 8.8 percent to
33.02 today. In  Europe , the VStoxx Index, which measures the
cost of Euro Stoxx 50 Index options, fell 13 percent to 40.56
last week. The gauge slid 6.5 percent to 37.91 today.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities has tumbled 20 percent
from this year’s peak six months ago. The global primary
aluminum surplus through July reached 614,180 metric tons, a
yearly high as production gained and demand fell, according to
Bloomberg Industries data. The surplus, equal to about 1 percent
of global demand, helped push prices down 9.8 percent this year.
Global producer inventories rose in July to the third-highest
level since April 2009.  Analyst Estimates  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for
worldwide growth next year to 4 percent from 4.5 percent on
Sept. 20, predicting “severe” repercussions if Europe can’t
contain its debt crisis or U.S. policy makers deadlock over a
fiscal plan. U.S. GDP is forecast to rise 2.2 percent in 2012, a
Bloomberg survey of economists shows.  While analysts have reduced their estimates, Alcoa’s
earnings are forecast to be more than double last year’s. Then,
the company reported profit of nine cents a share, topping
predictions, and raised its 2010 global consumption forecast to
a 13 percent increase on higher demand in China,  Brazil  and
 India . Alcoa’s shares rose 1.5 percent last week after falling
20 percent over the previous two weeks.  This year’s decline may mean that Alcoa shares are poised
to rally if the company exceeds analyst estimates with a
“decent quarter,” according to  Mark Demos , who helps oversee
$18 billion at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Minneapolis .  ‘Pretty Good Shape’  “They’re still in pretty good shape,” Demos said in a
telephone interview Oct. 7. “The industry has slowed
significantly but it’s still growing.” Alcoa’s revenue rose for
the past five quarters, reaching $6.59 billion in the most
recent three-month period.  Bond investors are also becoming more bearish on Alcoa. The
cost to protect Alcoa debt for five years has more than doubled
since the end of July. Credit-default swaps tied to the bonds,
which typically decline as investor confidence improves, rose to
a two-year high of 4.73 percentage points on Oct. 4, up from
1.95 at the end of July.  “Industrial commodities have been under a lot of
pressure,” John Kattar, chief investment officer at Eastern
Investment Advisors in  Boston , which manages $1.7 billion, said
in a telephone interview Oct. 7. “A lot of that is centered on
fears of a slowing global economy, but more specifically on
fears of slowing in  China .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Kaitlyn Kiernan in New York at 
 kkiernan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  