-- 
Andy Murray Beats Rafael Nadal in Three Sets at Japan Open Tennis Final

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-10-09T14:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/andy-murray-beats-rafael-nadal-in-three-sets-at-japan-open-tennis-final.html
Britain’s  Andy Murray  recovered from
losing the opening set to beat  Rafael Nadal  of Spain in the
Japan Open tennis final today. He also claimed the doubles
title.  The 24-year-old won 3-6 6-2 6-0 in Tokyo to secure his
second straight singles title after victory at the Thailand Open
last week. After the Nadal match, Murray and his brother Jamie
defeated Frantisek Cermak and Filip Polasek 6-1, 6-4 in the
doubles final.  Murray,  No. 4 in the ATP rankings , had lost his last five
matches against world No. 2 Nadal, the defending Japan Open
champion, including four this year. He now has four titles this
season.  “I need to keep up the wins and hopefully I’ll get to the
No. 3 ranking,” Murray said, according to ATP’s website. “It’s
not the ultimate goal, but it’s the target I set for the last
few tournaments this year.”  Switzerland ’s Roger Federer is
currently third in the ATP rankings.  After losing the opening set, Murray took control of the
second set in the fourth game as Nadal returned wide. He then
recovered from 0-40 down in the next game, firing three aces,
and saved another break point. A break in the eighth game
secured the set.  Three straight breaks in the third set gave Murray his
 first win against Nadal since  the Canadian Open in August 2010.  “For sure in the third set it was some of the best tennis
I’ve played against him,” Murray said. “I was very consistent,
didn’t make too many mistakes and kept a cool head in the
important moments.”  Elsewhere, Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic  won his
first ATP title in more than two years, with a 3-6 6-4 6-1
victory against Croatia’s Marin Cilic at the China Open in
Beijing.  In the women’s final, Poland’s Agnieszka Radwanska beat
Germany’s Andrea Petkovic 7-5, 0-6, 6-4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 