-- 
Aubry, Hollande to Face Off for French Socialists’ Nomination

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-10T07:32:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/aubry-hollande-to-face-off-for-french-socialists-nomination.html
Francois Hollande  and  Martine Aubry 
will face off to decide who will challenge  Nicolas Sarkozy  in
2012 French presidential elections after the two former
Socialist Party chiefs led the first round of the party primary.  The two head for a run-off on Oct. 16. Hollande received 39
percent and Aubry 31 percent yesterday, the party said on its
website, based on about four-fifths of the 2.5 million votes
cast. They needed 50 percent to avoid the second round.  Hollande can’t be sure of repeating his first-place finish
next week, said Bruno Cautres, a political analyst at Cevipof, a
Paris-based political research center. “The gap between Aubry
and Hollande is fundamental. Above 10 percentage points he is
the leader, without question. Below a dozen points, he will have
a hard time.”  Segolene Royal, the  Socialists ’ 2007 presidential nominee,
was fourth with 7 percent. Third place, at 17 percent, went to
lawmaker Arnaud Montebourg, an advocate of nationalizing banks.  “Montebourg represents a trend, a current of the Socialist
party that is emerging,” Cautres said. “He asks for a new
constitution, no new European Union members, state control of
banks and companies. His position is totally different from both
Aubry and Hollande, so it’s difficult to imagine how he will
endorse any of other two.”  The only losing candidate so far to endorse one of the
front-runners was Manuel Valls, who told the 6 percent of voters
who backed him to support Hollande.  ‘Awakening’  “I have heard the word of this awakening, of this need for
justice, and this  France  that wants to be heard,” Hollande said
on i-Tele television when asked about Montebourg’s support.  Polls indicate that either of the potential nominees would
beat Sarkozy in the general election. Sarkozy, who has yet to
declare his candidacy, would take 21 percent in the first round
of the general election compared with 32 percent for Hollande.
Aubry would beat him 29 percent to 22 percent, according to an
Ipsos survey.  Paris-based Ipsos conducted the poll of 962 voters on Sept.
30 and Oct. 1. It didn’t provide a margin of error.  The primary was open to any French voter willing to pay 1
euro ($1.35) to the Socialist Party. It’s the first time the
party opened a primary to non-members.  ‘The Change’  Socialist candidates signed a  common platform  in April,
dubbed “The Change,” that included the creation of a public
investment bank, the construction of 150,000 public-housing
units, changes in taxes on companies, legalization of same-sex
marriage and adoption and cutting the  budget deficit  to below 3
percent of gross domestic product by the end of 2013. The chosen
candidate will be able to change the platform.  Aubry  has called for less reliance on nuclear power, which
generates about 75 percent of electricity in France. She also
promised to restore the  retirement age  to 60, down from 62 as
implemented by Sarkozy, though she would maintain the number of
working years required for a pension, meaning that only people
who started working as teenagers would be able to retire at 60.  Hollande  has called for withdrawal from  Afghanistan  by the
end of 2012, two years earlier than Sarkozy. He said he would
revise the stock options rules for companies and the  tax code 
for individuals and companies.  France will hold the first round of the presidential
election on April 22 and the second and final round on May 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  