-- 
Rugby World Cup Semifinalists Mirror 1987 as All Blacks, Wallabies Advance

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-10T04:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/australia-new-zealand-win-to-set-up-meeting-in-rugby-world-cup-semifinal.html
New Zealand  and Australia advanced
to a Rugby  World Cup  semifinal meeting, setting up a repeat of
the final-four lineup at the first tournament 24 years ago.  Host nation New Zealand beat Argentina 33-10 in Auckland
last night after Australia earlier ended South Africa’s defense
of the Webb Ellis Cup with an 11-9 win in Wellington.  France 
meets Wales in the other semifinal after upset wins over  England 
and Ireland two days ago.  “There have been four tough games over the weekend and I’m
sure that we’ll be better for that particular game,” All Blacks
coach  Graham Henry  said at a post-match news conference. “It’s
the nature of knockout rugby.”  The All Blacks defeated  Wales  in the 1987 semifinals before
winning their only world championship by beating France at
Auckland’s  Eden Park , which will host the remaining four matches
at the tournament including the Oct. 23 final.  France rebounded from two straight losses in the pool phase
to beat England 19-12 two days ago and secure a semifinal
meeting on Oct. 15 with the Welsh, who defeated Ireland 22-10 to
advance to the final four for the first time in 24 years.  Although top-ranked New Zealand’s 23-point winning margin
was the largest in the four quarterfinals, the All Blacks only
pulled away from the Pumas in the final quarter.  “These games come down to one or two moments,” All Blacks
captain Richie McCaw said. “The last thing that you want to do
is panic. There’s always going to be opportunities and it’s
about taking them.”  Weepu’s Boot  Scrum-half Piri Weepu kicked seven penalties for a haul of
21 points, missing only one of his eight attempts at goal.
Forwards Kieran Read and Brad Thorn ran in second-half tries and
Aaron Cruden added a conversion.  Argentina  had trailed 12-7 at the break after scoring the
only try of the first half through flanker Julio Farias Cabello,
which was converted by Pumas captain Felipe Contepomi. Marcelo
Bosch added a second-half penalty that made it 12-10 before the
home team scored the rest of the points.  “It was competitive for 60 minutes then I think the All
Blacks showed their magic,” Contepomi said.  Cruden, who was called into the squad last week after
playmaker  Dan Carter  suffered a tournament-ending groin injury,
was on the pitch because  Colin Slade , Carter’s backup, went off
with a similar problem. Slade was today ruled out of the rest of
the World Cup along with full-back Mils Muliaina. They’ll be
replaced by Stephen Donald and  Hosea Gear , team officials said
today at a news conference in Auckland. Cruden will now assume
the role of first-choice fly-half, Henry said.  ‘Major Challenge’  “It’s a big change obviously and a major challenge for
him,” the coach said. “I thought he handled the situation well
at the weekend when he went on.”  In the matchup of two-time winners in Wellington,  Australia 
edged past South Africa’s most-experienced team to reach the
semifinals for the fifth time.  The Wallabies, who captured their first Tri-Nations title
since 2001 in August, spent three quarters of the game in their
own half and made 147 tackles to 53 by the Springboks.  “What you saw was the most experienced World Cup side
really turn the screws on the youngest,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said in a news conference. “The boys came of age in the
way they accepted that challenge and stood up to it.”  Springboks coach Peter De Villiers, who was appointed in
January 2008, said he would step down following the defeat.  James O’Connor  kicked the game-winning penalty for
Australia in the 72nd minute after  South Africa  had rallied from
8-0 down to take a one-point lead through two penalties and a
drop goal from Morne Steyn. Wallabies captain  James Horwill 
scored the only try at Wellington Regional Stadium.  ‘Step Up’  “In games like that you have to fight and find a way to
win and that’s what we did,” Horwill told reporters. “It took
a lot of guts to get the result. Moving forwards that’s what
it’s going to take. It’s going to be a step up.”  The Wallabies weathered early pressure before going up 8-0.  Second-rower Horwill, who replaced  Rocky Elsom  as Wallabies
captain before the tournament, powered over after the ball broke
loose at a ruck when South Africa tried to run out from near its
own try line. O’Connor missed the conversion, though slotted a
penalty six minutes later.  Steyn pushed a 27th-minute penalty wide after an offside
infringement. The Springboks fly-half was successful from in
front of the posts 10 minutes later and missed with a long-range
attempt with the last kick of the first half.  A 55th-minute Steyn penalty cut the lead to two points and
he then put the Springboks ahead with a drop goal.  Pat Lambie went close with another drop goal attempt from
near halfway in the 68th minute. Three minutes later, Radike Samo was taken out while he was still in the air at a lineout
and O’Connor struck his penalty straight through the middle of
the posts from out wide.  “We did enough to win this game and we just weren’t
accurate enough,” Springboks captain  John Smit  said. “It
really was a ding-dong battle between two good teams.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  