-- 
Australian Lawmakers Will Vote on Carbon Tax Proposal This Week, Swan Says

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-10-09T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/australian-lawmakers-to-vote-on-carbon-tax-this-week-swan-says.html
Australia’s parliament will vote
this week to put into law the nation’s first tax on greenhouse
gas emissions aimed at cutting reliance on fossil fuels and
boosting renewable energy.  “Putting a price on carbon will break the link between
emissions growth and economic growth, driving innovation to find
better, less polluting ways of producing power, goods and
services,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in a statement yesterday.  The developed world’s biggest per capita polluter will
raise A$27.8 billion ($27.2 billion) in three years by making
companies pay for  carbon emissions , Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
said in July when unveiling details of the policy.  Gillard pledged before last year’s election that the
government wouldn’t adopt a carbon tax, and her approval of the
plan has made her Australia’s least-popular prime minister in 18
years, according to opinion polls.  Company executives have said the tax threatens mining jobs
and will push up airfares and food prices. The government is
offering A$47 billion to assist industry and households and spur
renewable energy investment through 2020.  “It’s not an easy reform and I realize it’s got some vocal
opponents,” Swan said. “I’m confident that in time more and
more Australians will come to recognize how important this
decision is for both our generation and those to come.”  Green Support  The government plans to charge the country’s biggest
polluters A$23 per metric ton of carbon dioxide from July 1 next
year in a bid to reduce emissions 5 percent by 2020 from their
2000 levels. Gillard has support from the Greens party and the
three independent lawmakers needed to pass the program.  Australia , which relies on coal to generate 80 percent of
its electricity, will require about 500 businesses to pay for
pollution. The program will boost annual inflation by 0.7
percentage point in its first year, the government estimates.  The tax will rise by 2.5 percent a year, plus inflation.
The legislation will also cut the diesel fuel rebate for mining
companies and raise the excise on aviation kerosene, the fuel
mostly used by airlines, increasing it to 10.16 cents a liter in
2014-15 from 3.556 cents now. The emission tax will switch to a
cap-and-trade system in 2015.  The government will provide A$9.2 billion over three years
to assist high-polluting businesses such as aluminum smelters,
steelmakers and pulp manufacturers.  BlueScope Ltd. and  OneSteel Ltd. (OST) , Australia’s biggest
steelmakers, will receive A$300 million of assistance. Energy
supply companies including  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  and  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) 
have welcomed the plan.  Coal Miners  Origin and AGL “are more likely to win than lose from
carbon pricing” because of their natural gas and renewable
energy expansion plans, Citigroup Inc. said in a July 5 report.  Coal mining companies will get A$1.3 billion, with the
biggest polluters getting assistance over six years, according
to the government.  Anglo American Plc. (AAL) , which mines coal in
Australia, said the tax threatened current and future coal
investments in Australia.  The plan may cost as many as 2,700 industry jobs in
Queensland, the Queensland Resources Council has said. The state
is the world’s biggest exporter of coal used to make steel.  Aluminum producers estimate Gillard’s plan will impose
extra costs of A$120 million on the industry in its first year,
rising to A$400 million in 2020. The policy will put local
producers at a disadvantage to overseas competitors, the
Australian Aluminium Council said.  Facing Losses  Power generators facing losses in the value of their assets
will receive A$5.5 billion in assistance, said the government,
which will also provide loan support to electricity suppliers
and payment for the closure of coal-fired plants to remove as
much as 2,000 megawatts of capacity by 2020.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s largest airline, said it
can’t absorb the cost of the tax, while budget carrier  Virgin
Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA)  said higher fares in Australia would be
inevitable. The Australian Food and Grocery Council has
predicted price rises.  The A$23 cost compares with allowances that averaged 14.26
euros (A$19.08) a ton during the past 12 months in  Europe , which
started the world’s biggest emissions-trading program in 2005.  Part of the plan includes A$10 billion for the Clean Energy
Finance Corp., which will invest in businesses seeking funds to
get projects off the ground, according to the government.  A carbon price may help trigger about A$20 billion of
investments in renewable energy by 2020, the Clean Energy
Council, an industry group, said in July. Spending on new gas-
fired stations may reach A$14.7 billion through 2016, said  Fitch
Ratings .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  