-- 
Asia Stocks Rise as Germany, France Pledge Support for Banks Amid Crisis

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-10-10T11:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/australia-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-on-europe-concern.html
Asian stocks rose as the heads of
 Europe ’s two biggest economies pledged to support banks amid a
debt crisis that threatens global growth. Shares of Chinese
companies fell on speculation the country will maintain tighter
monetary policy.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-biggest maker
of mobile phones, rose 1.6 percent in Seoul and Hanjin Heavy
Industries & Construction Co., which gets 45 percent of its
revenue overseas, surged 15 percent.  Rio Tinto  Group, the
world’s second-largest mining company by sales, added 1.5
percent in Sydney as commodity prices rose. China Overseas Land
& Investment fell 3.5 percent on concern the nation’s housing
market is weakening.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Excluding Japan Index gained 1
percent to 386.23 as of 6:56 p.m. in  Hong Kong . About four
stocks gained for every three that fell. German Chancellor
Angela Merkel said European leaders would do “everything
necessary” to ensure banks have adequate capital. The measure
sank as much as 0.3 percent after Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
opened and Chinese equities resumed trade after a holiday.  “The Europeans have been talking a lot about doing
everything they can to solve the debt crisis, but we still
haven’t seen any detail,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based
strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd. “In China, housing-
market weakness, together with expectations for further monetary
tightening continues to stoke fear of a hard landing for the
economy.”  Prudent Policy  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.9 percent and  South
Korea ’s Kospi Index added 0.4 percent. Japanese markets were
closed for a public holiday. India’s Sensex Index increased 2
percent, led by Tata Motors Ltd.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  closed little changed. The gauge
declined as much as 1.5 percent after the Beijing Morning Post
reported that Chinese central bank adviser Zhou Qiren said the
country should maintain a prudent monetary policy. The Shanghai
Composite Index fell 0.6 percent as the country’s markets
resumed trading after a week-long holiday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.2 percent
today. In  New York , the gauge fell 0.8 percent on Oct. 7 as
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen overshadowed
faster-than-forecast growth in American employment.  Financial stocks had the biggest decline in the  S&P 500 
among 10 industries after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Italy and
 Spain . The S&P 500 last week came within 1 percent of extending
its decline from its April peak to 20 percent, the common
definition of a bear market.  ‘Light Optimism’  At the weekend,  Germany ’s Merkel joined French President
Nicolas Sarkozy in trying to persuade investors they can stamp
out the debt crisis roiling global markets. At a joint press
conference in Berlin, Sarkozy set a deadline of the Nov. 3 Group
of 20 summit to deliver a response that addresses the immediate
debt crisis in  Greece , and what he called the structural defects
in the 17-nation euro area. No details were provided.  “There is some light optimism on the back of the
statements from Sarkozy and Merkel that they will have a euro
stability plan by month-end,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages
more than $300 million at White Funds Management in Sydney.  Samsung rose 1.6 percent to 874,000 won in  Seoul . Hanjin
Heavy surged 15 percent to 18,400 won. LG Display Co. jumped 6
percent to 21,250 won after Shinhan Investment Corp. said the
world’s No. 2 maker of liquid-crystal displays would narrow its
operating loss in the fourth quarter and return to profit in the
second quarter of 2012.  Li & Fung Ltd., the world’s biggest supplier of clothes and
toys to retailers, gained 1.5 percent to HK$13.20 in Hong Kong,
while in Sydney, Billabong International Ltd., a global surfwear
maker, advanced 0.6 percent to A$3.65.  Copper, Oil  Rio Tinto, the world’s No.2 mining company by sales, gained
1.5 percent to A$67.40. Australia’s biggest steelmakers also
climbed, with BlueScope Ltd. advancing 3.1 percent to 84.5
Australian cents and OneSteel Ltd. rising 1.9 percent to A$1.34.
Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s largest offshore oil explorer, added 2.8
percent to HK$13.20 in Hong Kong.  Copper rose for the third straight day in New York on Oct.
7. New York-traded oil futures gained 0.5 percent after Labor
Department figures showed U.S. employers added more payrolls
than forecast in September, easing concern the economy is
slowing. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals, including copper and aluminum, added 1.4
percent. Today, copper futures rose as much as 2.2 percent and
oil as much as 1.2 percent.  Uranium Stocks  Uranium producers also climbed in Sydney.  Extract Resources
Ltd. (EXT)  jumped 10 percent to A$8.86 before trading in its shares
was halted pending an announcement. China Guangdong Nuclear
Power Group Co. may revive a bid for Kalahari Minerals Plc,
which owns 43 percent of Extract, Reuters reported, citing a
person familiar with the situation.  Rival  Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN)  gained 10 percent to A$1.71 and
Energy Resources of Australia Ltd., a uranium producer
controlled by Rio Tinto Group, rose 6.5 percent to A$3.26.  The MSCI Asia Pacific ex-Japan Index dropped 20 percent
this year through Oct. 7, compared with an 8.1 percent loss for
the S&P 500 and a 16 percent decline for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 10.7 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 11.6 times for the
S&P 500 and 9.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  Hong Kong Shares  Hong Kong shares declined today after Chinese central bank
adviser Zhou Qiren said the country should stick to a prudent
monetary policy because small companies will have a better
development environment only if inflation is thoroughly curbed,
according to the Beijing Morning Post report.  Separately, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday that China’s home prices will gradually ease because
of rising inventories and a drop in property-market
transactions. The housing market slumped during the National Day
holiday, typically a strong period for housing sales, Xinhua
said.  Among property developers, China Overseas slipped 3.5
percent to HK$12.24. Agile Property Holdings Ltd., which
develops land in  Guangdong province , tumbled 8.8 percent to
HK$5.47. Guangzhou R&F Properties Co., the biggest developer in
the southern Chinese city, dropped 2 percent to HK$6.29.  Some energy companies slumped in Hong Kong after China cut
fuel prices for the first time this year. PetroChina Co., the
country’s largest oil producer and Asia’s biggest company by
market value, dropped 1.4 percent to HK$9.18. China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp., the refiner known as Sinopec, fell 4.4 percent
to HK$7.16.  Separately, China Petrochemical Corp., parent of Sinopec,
agreed to buy Daylight Energy Ltd. for about C$2.2 billion ($2.1
billion) in cash to add oil and gas assets in  Canada , the
Calgary, Alberta-based company said yesterday in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  