-- 
Bad Weather Hampers Recovery Teams at New Zealand Oil Spill

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-10-10T04:59:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/bad-weather-may-hamper-recovery-teams-at-new-zealand-oil-spill.html
Rain and strong winds are slowing
attempts to pump fuel from a container ship stranded on a reef
off the  northeastern coast  of New Zealand as the first stream of
oil washes up on local beaches.  The stricken vessel, carrying 1,700 metric tons of fuel oil
as well as potentially dangerous chemicals on board, ran aground
Oct. 5 in the Bay of Plenty near Tauranga, 100 miles (160
kilometers) southeast of Auckland. There are reports of oil on
beaches and shoreline-response teams are taking action, Prime
Minister John Key told a news conference in Wellington  “ Public Health  has been issuing messages in response to
the reports, including not eating shellfish or touching anything
with oil on it,” Key told reporters. “These sorts of accidents
are extremely rare.”  Deteriorating weather is disrupting plans to remove  fuel
oil  from the ship and limit the quantity that escapes into the
surrounding ocean. Salvage experts are grappling with how to
remove containers from the vessel and refloat it, while gauging
the risk of the ship breaking up.  Recovering oil from the ship “is everyone’s first focus,”
Transport Minister Steven Joyce told reporters. “That’s very
challenging. The conditions make it quite difficult.”  Changing Weather  Recovery teams were last night able to pump about 10 tons
of oil from the ship to a bunker barge alongside the ship before
efforts were delayed by the changing weather, Joyce said. They
are working on providing a stable platform for the transfer to
resume, he said.  New Zealand’s  MetService  is forecasting winds of 40 miles
an hour, with rain and two-meter waves for areas including the
Bay of Plenty later this evening and the likelihood of sea
conditions becoming very rough. Key, who yesterday flew over the
ship in a helicopter, says reviews are under way to identify how
the incident began.  “I want answers and I think we are entitled to those
answers,” Key told  Television New Zealand’s Breakfast . “Every
year around the world there are ships that get into grief but
not ones that plough into an extremely well documented reef in
very calm waters at high speed as this one did.”  Two investigations are under way into the incident, while
costs are likely to be met by the ship’s insurers, Key said.
“Other actions” could follow as a result of the inquiries, he
said.  About 100 tons of oil is unaccounted for, and is either in
the ship’s keel or has escaped into the sea, Joyce told
reporters. A thin film of oil, known as sheen, has spread from
the ship since it ran aground.  Oil Ashore  “The reality is there will be oil on the beaches and the
first oil has come ashore at Mount Maunganui,” he said. “We
are expecting more oil to come onto the beach. There’s no such
thing as preventing it coming ashore.”  New Zealand  has deployed 500 defense personnel and four
naval vessels, as well as underwater and aerial assessment teams
to prepare for the cleanup, which could take weeks, Joyce said.  There are 25 uninjured crew members on the 32-year-old,
Liberian-flagged Rena and 2,171 containers, according to
 Maritime New Zealand.  The cargo includes four containers of
ferrosilicon, a solid substance that can be hazardous when in
contact with water and can emit hydrogen, the agency said.  The recovery team includes Australians who worked on the
Montara oil spill in 2009 when an estimated 400 barrels of oil a
day leaked into the  Timor Sea  off  Australia ’s northwestern coast
between Aug. 21 and Nov. 3, making it the third-biggest spill in
that nation’s history.  “In terms of the oil recovery side of this response, there
are similarities between the two operations,” said Maritime New
Zealand National On-Scene Commander Rob Service, who also worked
on the Montara  oil spill .  Flooded Hold  Two of the ship’s holds have flooded and the ship is
listing although it is stable, according to the  Maritime New
Zealand  website. Fuel escaped from damaged pipes, while tanks
containing more oil are undamaged, according to the website.  The stresses on the hull are within permissible limits and
the vessel’s condition isn’t deteriorating, Costamare Inc.,
parent of the Rena’s registered owner Daina Shipping Co., said
in a statement Oct. 7. Costamare said it’s cooperating fully
with local authorities.  Salvage and environmental experts have arrived in Tauranga
and nearby islands and reefs to consider ways to protect the
shoreline. About 14 teams are checking beaches for affected
wildlife. Seven blue penguins and two shags covered in oil have
been taken to a wildlife response center for treatment,  Maritime
New Zealand  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  