-- 
Dexia Breakup Gathers Pace as Belgium Will Buy Local Consumer Lending Unit

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-10-10T17:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/belgium-is-said-to-get-france-s-approval-to-buy-dexia-consumer-bank-unit.html
Dexia SA (DEXB)  is being broken up as
Belgium agreed to buy the local consumer-lending unit, ending a
15-year cross-border experiment with France after Europe’s debt
crisis deepened.  The Belgian federal government will pay 4 billion euros
($5.4 billion) for the division and guarantee 60 percent of a
so-called bad bank to be set up for Dexia’s troubled assets,
Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said at a press conference in
Brussels today after a weekend of talks. Dexia will sell assets,
including its Luxembourg unit and its French municipal lending
arm, to give the bad bank capital to absorb future losses.  The dismantling of Dexia, once the world’s leading lender
to municipalities, became inevitable after concern over European
sovereign debt holdings caused its short-term funding to
evaporate. Dexia’s bailout, three months after it passed
European Union regulators’ stress tests, brings the region’s
banking crisis from the continent’s periphery to its center.  “Dexia is not an isolated problem,” said Cor Kluis, an
Utrecht, Netherlands-based analyst at Rabobank International who
rates Dexia “reduce.” “The question for all investors in
 Europe  is how politicians are going to handle this, and what
they want to see is a coordinated and professional solution.
That would be a good opportunity to restore calm.”  Dexia fell as much as 36 percent in Brussels trading and
closed down 4 cents, or 4.7 percent, to 80.5 cents, on concern
the restructuring will leave shareholders with little of value.
The stock resumed trading this afternoon after being suspended
since Oct. 6.  Not ‘Comfortable Spot’  “Investors in Dexia shares will be left with a “bad
bank,’” said Jean-Pierre Lambert, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette
& Woods in  London . “The proceeds of the sale of healthy assets
will help Dexia Holding absorb the losses on the so-called
‘toxic’ assets. This is not a comfortable spot for Dexia
shareholders.”  The governments will guarantee as much as 90 billion euros
of interbank and bond funding for 10 years for Dexia and its
Dexia Credit Local unit.  Belgium  will provide about 61 percent,
France about 37 percent and Luxembourg 3 percent of the backing.
For Belgium, the guarantee equals about 15 percent of gross
domestic product,  “The three governments confirm they will take all the
necessary measures to ensure the depositors’ and creditors’
safety,” according to an e-mailed statement from Belgian Prime
Minister  Yves Leterme ’s office following a meeting yesterday in
Brussels with French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  and
Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden.  Luxembourg Sale  Dexia is in talks to sell Dexia Banque Internationale a
Luxembourg to a group backed by Qatar’s royal family, Frieden
told reporters today, while the government of Luxembourg will
take a minority stake. The unit is valued at about 1.7 billion
euros, according to KBW’s Lambert.  Dexia’s board instructed Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani to enter into exclusive talks with Caisse des Depots et
Consignations and La Banque Postale for an agreement on the
financing of French local authorities and support for Dexia
Municipal Agency from CDC, the bank said in its statement.  The Belgian sale will cut Dexia’s short-term funding needs
by more than 14 billion euros, the lender said in a statement.
Selling the Dexia Municipal Agency would reduce short-term
funding requirements by almost 10 billion euros.  There will be no merger for what remains of Dexia, Mariani
told reporters in Brussels today. He said the bank had tried for
the past three years to reduce its reliance on short-term
funding, adding that the drying up of interbank lending markets
had triggered the bailout, the bank’s second since 2008.  Banking Contagion  Rescuing Dexia has become critical to preventing contagion
in the region’s banking industry. Dexia’s balance sheet, with
total assets of about 518 billion euros at the end of June, is
about the size of the entire banking system in  Greece  and larger
than the combined assets of financial institutions bailed out in
Ireland in the last 2 1/2 years.  Angela Merkel  and  Nicolas Sarkozy , racing to stamp out the
euro debt crisis threatening to engulf the financial system,
gave themselves three weeks to devise a plan to recapitalize
banks, get Greece on the right track and fix Europe’s economic
governance.  “By the end of the month, we will have responded to the
crisis issue and to the vision issue,” the French president
said in Berlin yesterday at a joint briefing with the German
chancellor before they dined at her office.  1996 Merger  Dexia emerged from the 1996 merger of Credit Local de
 France  SA and Credit Communal de Belgique SA, the biggest
municipal lenders in their respective countries. Unlike Credit
Local, which relied exclusively on wholesale funding for its
lending, the Belgian unit also operated a local retail bank.  Over the past decade, the Franco-Belgian bank sought to
combine with another consumer lender in France and elsewhere in
Europe to reduce its reliance on market funding. It failed to
merge with Italian lender Sanpaolo IMI SpA in 2004.  “Dexia accumulated the worst errors,” said  Francois Chaulet , who helps manage 250 million euros at Montsegur Finance
in Paris, and doesn’t own Dexia shares. “They were the experts
of municipal lending. By getting late into businesses they
weren’t able to handle, like securitization and bond insurance
in the U.S., they bought all that others didn’t want to buy.”  Dexia’s 18-member board, equally split between France and
Belgium, met to review the breakup plan yesterday, its third
gathering in less than a month.  ‘More Complex’  Among sticking points for Belgium and France were which
assets to put in the bad bank and what share of borrowings each
government should guarantee. Both countries tried to support
Dexia without endangering their credit ratings. France is one of
six countries in the euro-zone with a AAA rating.  “The situation is more complex than one where you have one
bank, one country, one regulator,” said Kluis.  Further asset sales are likely, including  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  of
 Turkey  and Dexia’s fund-management division.  Standard & Poor’s  on Oct. 6 downgraded the credit ratings
on three units, Dexia Credit Local, Dexia Bank and Dexia Banque
Internationale a Luxembourg, citing the group’s limited access
to wholesale funding markets. The ratings are on credit watch
with “developing implications,” S&P said.  In 2008, after injecting 6 billion euros, France and
Belgium gave Dexia guarantees of as much as 150 billion euros.
Belgium covered 60.5 percent of the guarantees, France 36.5
percent and Luxembourg 3 percent.  Moody’s Review  Belgium’s Aa1 local- and foreign-currency ratings were
placed under review for a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service
on Oct. 7 because of rising funding risks for euro-area nations
with high levels of debt and additional bank support measures
that are likely to be needed.  Separately, KBC Groep NV, Belgium’s biggest bank and
insurer by market value, agreed to sell its private banking unit
to Qatari-backed Precision Capital for 1.05 billion euros. The
sale, announced today, will increase KBC’s capital by about 700
million euros, the bank said.  A large chunk of Dexia’s troubled assets are on the balance
sheet of Dexia Credit Local, a French unit. Dexia Credit Local
carries most of the bank’s 95 billion-euro bond portfolio, which
includes 21 billion euros of Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish
and Irish sovereign debt. Dexia’s municipal lending units in
Italy and  Spain , which it agreed to dispose of to win European
Commission approval for its 2008 bailout, are also on the French
unit’s balance sheet.  In France, state-owned CDC and La Banque Postale may join
with Dexia to create a new company to take over the French
municipal lending arm, according to a statement on Oct. 6 from a
postal union, whose representatives attended a board meeting
where the plan was presented. CDC and La Banque Postale said
today they are forming a joint venture to finance local
governments, to be majority owned by La Banque Postale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  