-- 
Yuan Jumps Most Since ’05 as Best Forecasters Predict Gains: China Credit

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-10-10T08:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/best-forecasters-see-yuan-to-advance-boosting-dim-sum-bonds-china-credit.html
The yuan will extend gains as  China 
seeks to avert a trade war with the U.S., its most-accurate
forecasters predict, bolstering demand for Chinese bonds.  The currency, which jumped the most since its 2005
revaluation today, will rise 0.8 percent to 6.3 per dollar by
March 31, said Leong Sook Mei, the regional head of global
foreign-exchange research at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,
the top forecaster in the six quarters ending Sept. 30.
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , ranked second, expects a 1.1
percent advance to 6.28 by yearend. The yuan added 1.2 percent
in the third quarter, the only one of 25 developing-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg to climb.  China’s central bank said on Oct. 4 that the U.S. risks
triggering a trade war through legislation that would punish the
Asian nation for undervaluing its currency. Policy makers said
they would continue to increase exchange-rate flexibility.
Commonwealth Bank recommended investors buy yuan debt in  Hong
Kong , known as Dim Sum bonds, after an emerging-market selloff
prompted average yields to almost double in seven months.  “Especially with pressure from the senators, Chinese
authorities can still afford to set a stronger yuan for now,”
Singapore-based Leong said in an Oct. 6 interview. “We are very
Asian-currency bearish in the short term. One gift China can
give to the rest of the world through the end of this year is to
allow the yuan to be a bit stronger.”  The yuan climbed 0.6 percent to a 17-year closing of 6.3486
per dollar in  Shanghai  after the week-long National Day public
holiday. Three-month non-deliverable forwards on China’s
currency gained 0.7 percent last week, the most since August and
added 0.3 percent today.  Export Outlook  In offshore markets, the currency added 0.3 percent to
6.3870 per dollar, after falling 2.1 percent in Hong Kong last
month. The yuan is 0.8 percent weaker than the onshore rate,
compared with a discount of 1.6 percent before the holiday.
 Brazil ’s real slumped 17 percent in the third quarter,  Russia ’s
ruble dropped 13 percent and  India ’s rupee weakened 8.7 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi had average margin of error of
0.45 percent on its yuan forecasts, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Commonwealth Bank’s margin was 0.46 percent.  A faltering global recovery is curbing the outlook for
exports in China, the world’s second-largest economy, and
weakening most currencies against the dollar. The euro has
dropped 7.1 percent against China’s currency since the end of
August and the South Korean won slid 10 percent versus the yuan.
The JPMorgan Nominal Effective Exchange Rate, a trade-weighted
index for the yuan, climbed 4.7 percent in September, the most
since December 1997, increasing the cost of goods made in China.  ‘Good Opportunity’  Dim Sum debt fell 2.7 percent in the second half of 2011,
erasing its 1.3 percent gain in the first six months of the year,
according to an index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. The average
yield on Dim Sum bonds surged to 3.65 percent on Oct. 7, up from
a record-low 1.91 percent on Feb. 28, as investors scaled back
expectations for yuan appreciation. That brought it in line with
three-year government bond yields yielding 3.65 percent,
Chinabond data show.  The sell-off in Dim Sum bonds is “a good opportunity to
buy high-grade issues,” said Andy Ji, a currency strategist at
Commonwealth Bank in  Singapore . “There was a bubble in some
pockets of the market and this had a lot to do with yuan
appreciation expectations.”  Dalian Port (PDA) Co., the operator of China’s largest
crude-oil terminal, is selling yuan-denominated bonds this month.
The company, based in the northern Chinese city of Dalian,
reported an 11 percent profit increase for 2010.  ‘Continue Appreciation’  Policy makers won’t seek to stimulate growth by halting
currency gains because that would push up the cost of commodity
imports, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s Leong said. Inflation
eased to 6.1 percent in September from 6.2 percent the previous
month, a report this week will say according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey. Consumer prices
gained 6.5 percent in July, the most in three years, official
data show.  “They will continue appreciation, given the fact that
inflation is still relatively high in China,” said Leong.
“Clearly, the Chinese aren’t going to hike  interest rates  and
so, the only other weapon they have is the yuan.”  China’s onshore 10-year government bond yield dropped 24
basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, in September, the first
decline in four months, to 3.86 percent, the lowest level since
June 8, according to Chinabond. The one-year offshore interest
rate swap, the fixed cost needed to receive a floating payment,
fell five basis points last week to 3.66 percent, and reached
the lowest level since August. The rate rebounded 2.5 basis
points today to 3.685 percent.  Presidential Campaign  The People’s Bank of China has raised interest rates five
times in the past 12 months to combat inflation. Rising
benchmark rates boosted the yield advantage on yuan government
debt over similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries  to 235 basis points
on Sept. 22, the widest in at least four years. While the yuan
has climbed 30 percent against the dollar in the past decade,
the central bank has built up $3.2 trillion in reserves by
purchasing dollars to slow the appreciation.  President  Barack Obama , preparing for the 2012 presidential
campaign, said on Oct. 6 in  Washington  that China has been
aggressive in “gaming the trading system,” including
intervening to keep the value of its currency artificially low.
Obama warned that legislation in the Senate to penalize China
risked triggering trade sanctions against the U.S. A final
Senate vote on laws allowing U.S. companies to seek duties to
compensate for the undervalued yuan is scheduled for this week.  ‘Hot Issue’  “China’s yuan will be a hot issue toward the  U.S.
presidential election  and China is aware of that risk,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at  Credit
Agricole  CIB, the fourth most-accurate forecaster with a margin
of error of 0.69 percent. “China will continue appreciating its
currency preemptively.”  Credit Agricole predicts the yuan will gain to 6.3 per
dollar by the end of the year. Only firms with at least four
predictions were ranked.  A Chinese manufacturing index advanced for a second month
in September and  service industries  expanded at a faster pace,
data released in October showed. The yuan, up 3.8 percent in
2011, will appreciate between 4 percent and 5 percent this year,
central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said last week. The economy will
expand 8 percent to 9 percent a year, he said. Gross domestic
product rose 9.5 percent in the second quarter after increasing
9.7 percent in the first three months, government data show.  Geo-Politics  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on China’s bonds
fell 10 basis points to 164 basis points on Oct. 7, according to
data provider CMA, which compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. The contracts insure debt
against non-payment, and traders use them to speculate on  credit
quality . An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement.  “As long as we don’t have a global recession, what will
dominate China’s foreign-exchange policy is the geo-political
considerations,” said  Thomas Harr , the head of Asian currency
strategy in Singapore at Standard Chartered Plc, the top
forecaster for Asian currencies overall with a margin of error
of 2.66 percent. “They do understand they have a role in the
global economy to play there. The clear outperformer will be the
yuan.”  The London-based bank expects China’s currency to
strengthen to 6.31 per dollar by the end of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  