-- 
German Stocks Advance for Fourth Day as Adidas Climbs; Metro Shares Slide

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-10T16:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/bmw-commerzbank-daimler-henkel-metro-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks rose for a fourth day,
for the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) ’s biggest four-day rally since 2008,
as  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
set a deadline for a plan to recapitalize banks in  Europe .  Adidas AG (ADS)  advanced 3.7 percent as the world’s second-
largest sporting-goods maker forecast sales growth in Russia.
 Metro AG (MEO)  slid 3.2 percent after announcing Chief Executive
Officer Eckhard Cordes doesn’t intend to extend his contract.  The benchmark DAX Index gained 3 percent to 5,847.29 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The DAX has risen 12 percent over
the last four days. The gauge advanced last week as investors
speculated that policy makers will act to support the region’s
debt crisis and U.S. jobs data spurred optimism that the world’s
largest economy will avoid a recession. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX) 
also added 3 percent today.  “Optimism has driven the markets after signs of
convergence” following the German and French leaders’ meeting
yesterday, said Anita Paluch, senior sales trader at Gekko
Global Markets Ltd. in  London . At the same time, “the details
are scarce, if any, and it has yet to be decided who will have
to pay for banks’ capitalization requirements.”  Facing growing concern  Greece  is headed toward a default,
Merkel said yesterday at a joint press conference with Sarkozy
in Berlin that European leaders will do “everything necessary”
to ensure that banks have enough capital. Sarkozy said they
would deliver a plan by the Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit.  Adidas, Henkel Rise  Adidas climbed 3.7 percent to 49.27 euros after Chief
Executive Officer Herbert Hainer said in a statement that
revenue in  Russia  and the  Commonwealth of Independent States ,
excluding currency effects, will exceed 1 billion euros ($1.37
billion) by 2013.  Henkel AG’s preferred shares increased 2.2 percent to 42.15
euros. The company may make acquisitions and could finance the
deals from its own coffers,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported,
citing Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted. The glue and
detergent maker expects to meet its profitability forecasts,
Rorsted was cited as saying. The CEO doesn’t expect a repeat of
the 2008 economic crisis, the newspaper said.  Metro,  Germany ’s largest retailer, dropped 3.2 percent to
32.18 euros after Cordes said he doesn’t intend to extend his
contract beyond next year following media speculation that he
had lost the backing of some supervisory board members.  In a statement released on Metro’s website yesterday,
Cordes said that the “trustful basis to stay on as head of
Metro’s top management does not anymore exist” after
“incidents of the recent weeks and months.”  The stock was downgraded to “neutral” from “buy” at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  