-- 
BNP, Societe Generale Say French Report They May Raise Capital Is False

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-10-09T14:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/bnp-paribas-denies-newspaper-report-that-it-may-seek-eu7-billion.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  France ’s largest bank,
and Societe Generale SA denied a report in today’s Le Journal du
Dimanche that they may seek to raise billions of euros to shore
up their capital as part of a Europe-wide plan.  “BNP Paribas is denying this report, and is confirming
that it plans to reach a Tier 1 capital ratio of 9 percent,”
complying with Basel III rules “by the start of 2013, six years
before the deadline, without a capital increase,” spokeswoman
Carine Lauru said in a telephone interview today.  Societe Generale also “denies the report” and confirmed
its strategic plan to reach a Tier 1 ratio of “well above 9
percent by the end of 2013 without a capital increase,”
Laetitia Maurel, a spokeswoman for the Paris-based bank, said in
an email statement.  Le Journal du Dimanche  today reported that BNP Paribas and
 Societe Generale (GLE)  may seek to raise 7 billion euros ($9.4 billion)
and up to 4 billion euros respectively as part of a Europe-wide
plan to be discussed between France and  Germany  to shore up the
region’s banking system. The French newspaper didn’t say where
it obtained the information.  Paris-based BNP Paribas and Societe Generale, France’s
second-largest bank, said last month they were taking steps to
assuage investors’ fears and reduce their need for U.S. dollar
funding.  Balance Sheet Cuts  BNP Paribas is planning to reach a Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of financial strength, of 9 percent by the start of 2013
through measures including cutting its corporate- and
investment-banking balance sheet by $82 billion, according to a
Sept. 14 presentation.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , who are meeting today, will set a timeframe to
reach equity goals in coming weeks because a signal must be
given to reassure markets, Le Journal du Dimanche said, citing
an unidentified person close to Sarkozy.  Banks will have to seek funds from private investors,
according to the newspaper. If they fail to find private
investors, governments or the European Union will take stakes in
banks, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  