-- 
BNP Plans to Reach Basel III Ratio Without Capital Increase

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-10-09T10:51:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/bnp-plans-to-reach-basel-iii-ratio-without-capital-increase.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  France ’s largest
bank, plans to reach a Tier 1 capital ratio of 9 percent under
Basel III rules by the start of 2013 without a capital increase,
spokeswoman Carine Lauru said in a telephone interview today.  She declined further comment on a report in  Le Journal du
Dimanche  today that BNP Paribas and Societe Generale SA may seek
to raise 7 billion euros ($9.4 billion) and up to 4 billion
euros respectively as part of a Europe-wide plan to shore up the
region’s banking system. The French newspaper didn’t identify
the source of the story. Laetitia Maurel, a spokeswoman for
Societe Generale, declined to comment.  Paris-based BNP Paribas and  Societe Generale (GLE) , France’s
second-largest bank, said last month they were taking steps to
assuage investors and reduce their need for U.S. dollar funding.  BNP Paribas is planning to reach a Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of financial strength, of 9 percent by the start of 2013
through measures including cutting its corporate- and
investment-banking balance sheet by $82 billion, according to a
Sept. 14 presentation.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , who are meeting today, will set a timeframe to
reach equity goals in coming weeks because a signal must be
given to reassure markets, Le Journal du Dimanche said, citing
an unidentified person close to Sarkozy.  Banks will have to seek funds from private investors,
according to the newspaper. If they fail to find private
investors, governments or the European Union will take stakes in
banks, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  