-- 
BOE’s Weale Says the Bank Has a ‘Lot of Scope’ to Increase Asset Purchases

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-10-09T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/boe-s-weale-says-the-bank-has-a-lot-of-scope-to-increase-asset-purchases.html
Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  said the central bank has “a lot of scope” to increase
asset purchases if it’s deemed necessary to boost economic
growth.  “There is quite a lot of scope for further quantitative
easing,” Weale said in an interview on  Sky News  yesterday.  The U.K. central bank last week raised the ceiling for its
asset purchases, or so-called quantitative easing, to 275
billion pounds ($428 billion) from 200 billion pounds. Governor
 Mervyn King  said the move, the first loosening of U.K. monetary
policy since the depths of the recession in 2009, was a response
to what may be the worst financial crisis ever.  Asked if he agreed with King’s description, Weale said
there are similarities to the 1930s and the economic situation
is “very difficult.” He cautioned that central banks can’t
resolve all the world’s economic woes.  Still, “the case for support has grown in the autumn as
the financial situation has appeared to deteriorate,” Weale
said. “What we have seen since the summer is a sharp
deterioration in Britain’s economic prospects.”  King’s statement doesn’t draw a distinction between
economic and financial crises, making it “potentially very
misleading,” former  Bank of England  policy maker  Andrew Sentance  wrote on his blog Oct. 9, adding it risks “creating a
much more apocalyptic and negative view of the economy than is
justified.”  Confidence  “Maintaining the confidence of the business community
through these difficult times is a key issue for economic policy
makers,” Sentance wrote. “In terms of this challenge, the
Governor’s apocalyptic and gloomy statements are surely
counterproductive.”  Weale said Bank of England studies suggested the asset
buying does support the economy and he has not seen a convincing
argument that it only serves to bolster inflation rather than
growth.  As recently as July, Weale sought higher  interest rates  to
quell inflation, which was 4.5 percent in August, more than
double the Bank of England’s target.  While inflation is still likely to pass 5 percent, he said
yesterday the prospect of price pressures in two to three years
is now “less worrying than I had thought” and “that justifies
a slacker policy.”  Britain’s economy grew less than initially estimated in the
second quarter, with gross domestic product rising 0.1 percent
rather than the initial estimate of 0.2 percent, data last week
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 Skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  