-- 
Business Jet Sales May Grow in 2012 as Asia Blunts Slow Economy

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-10-09T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/business-jet-sales-may-increase-in-2012-as-asia-blunts-slow-global-economy.html
Business-jet sales may increase
worldwide starting in 2012 as emerging-market demand blunts a
sluggish  U.S. economy  that fueled a probable decline this year,
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  projected.  Purchase expectations are growing in  Asia , followed by the
 Middle East  and Africa, while the free-fall in developed markets
like  North America  following 2008’s recession has stabilized,
according to an annual survey of 1,500 companies by the Morris
Township, New Jersey-based avionics and cockpit-instruments
maker.  Companies also have cash to spend now, compensating for
individuals that might hold back amid economic uncertainty, Rob Wilson, president of Honeywell’s business and general aviation
unit, said in an interview. Replacement of aging planes has
combined with international  travel demand  to boost potential
sales of longer-range models, he said.  “Cautious optimism” will be a theme at the National
Business Aviation Association’s  annual conference  that starts
today in  Las Vegas , Wilson said. “We’re figuring out how to
make the most of it in uncertain times.”  Customers continue to say that they still intend to buy new
aircraft in the next five years, though some have pushed out the
timing to the latter half of that period, Wilson said.  Air-travel demand has been boosted by growing trade between
 Africa  and  China , a run-up in commodity prices and oil, and the
exploration of new business opportunities in those regions,
Wilson said.  Declining Deliveries  By the time the survey was conducted between May and
August, much of the turmoil in the larger Middle East countries
had settled down, he said.  Global deliveries probably will decline to 600 to 650 from
last year’s 732, then climb in 2012 to less than 700, Honeywell
projected.  The percentage of active fleets comprised by used jets for
sale has declined about four points from a peak in 2009 amid the
financial crisis, the survey found.  Business-jet manufacturers are building new models with
greater range to lure buyers away from the used-aircraft market.
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream,  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Cessna and
 Embraer SA (EMBR3)  are all developing new planes to enter service over
the next two years.  While a good leading indicator of future demand, prices are
still far below 2008’s peak levels, indicating fleet managers
remain cautious, some analysts have said.  How “increasingly acute macro concerns” are affecting
business-jet demand will be a key topic at the business-jet
association’s meeting, Joseph Nadol, an analyst with JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York, wrote in an Oct. 7 note.  Larger Jets  “We would not be surprised by a continuation of recent
trends, including solid demand for larger, long-range jets,
primarily from emerging markets, and far more modest demand for
light jets,” due in part to economic weakness in the U.S.,
Nadol wrote.  Bigger jets that can fly farther and are favored by
corporate fleets are faring better than smaller planes that
interest individual buyers, Wilson said.  “The bottom half of the business-jet market, the half most
dependent on external finance, imploded, falling 57.1 percent in
two years” in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, said
 Richard Aboulafia  with Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based
aviation consulting firm. “That’s the worst market drop I’ve
ever seen.”  The top half, whose corporate customers are much less
reliant on credit, actually grew by 1.5 percent, Aboulafia wrote
in a September note.  Engine Sales  Demand for small and medium-sized jets is likely to remain
stagnant, Honeywell said. As planemakers use up long-held
inventory, parts makers may see a pickup before planemakers do.  John Saabas, who runs Pratt & Whitney  Canada , the biggest
maker of engines for small and medium-sized business aircraft,
said he doesn’t expect gains until the end of 2012.  “We have an opportunity on the engine side, just because
the inventory levels have been depleted so much over the last
couple of years,” Saabas said in an interview. “When it comes
to growth in the whole market, that takes more time. People have
to negotiate deals. The latest events in the U.S. and  Europe  --
people were going to wait out deals, wait and see what happens.
That’s where some of the more softness part comes in.”  The market overall “has held relatively stable over the
last several months, albeit at already low levels, despite a
worsening economic outlook,” David Strauss, an analyst with UBS
Securities LLC in  New York , wrote in an Oct. 6 note.  Still, Strauss warned in his monthly report that “softness
in our survey of industry professionals and other key bizjet
market indicators we track, including flight activity and used
pricing, leaves us less optimistic about a recovery in 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at   sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  