-- 
Egypt on Alert After Night of Clashes With Coptics Leaves at Least 25 Dead

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-10-10T21:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/cairo-riots-leave-more-than-20-dead-as-copts-clash-with-security-forces.html
Egyptian authorities ordered a fact-
finding committee to investigate clashes between Coptic
Christian protesters and security forces that left at least 25
dead.  The violence began Oct. 9 when several hundred Egyptian
Christians, protesting a recent attack on a church, came under
assault by people in plainclothes and were then confronted by
security forces, witnesses said. The army later imposed a curfew
until 7 a.m. yesterday in the center of Cairo, the capital.  “This was not violence between Christians and the army,
nor was it violence between Christians and Muslims; there were
thugs involved,” said Father Youssef Samir, a Coptic priest.
Police in riot gear directed traffic yesterday along the Nile
River, where a burned-out car and smashed glass remained from
the violence. Funerals for many of the victims were held.  Egyptian shares dropped to the lowest level in more than
two years. The benchmark EGX 30 Index slumped 2.3 percent to
3,938.02 in Cairo, the lowest close since March 2009.  Orascom
Construction Industries (OCIC) , the country’s biggest publicly traded
builder, lost 3 percent to 200.11 Egyptian pounds. Citadel
Capital SAE fell 3.2 percent, the lowest level since the company
listed its shares in December 2009.  Egypt’s economy is still reeling from the revolt that
ousted  Hosni Mubarak  from his 30-year presidency, contracting
4.2 percent from January to March as revenue from industries
such as tourism plummeted. Gross domestic product grew 1.8
percent in the fiscal year that ended June 30, according to
government figures, its weakest performance in at least 10
years.  Discrimination Encouraged  Discrimination against Copts, who make up about 10 percent
of the population of Egypt, was encouraged by Mubarak’s
government, according to a U.S.  State Department report  on
religious freedom published last year.  U.S. President Barack Obama yesterday called for all sides
to refrain from violence. “The rights of minorities --
including Copts -- must be respected,” he said.  Some Christians say the discrimination has continued. The
protest was spurred by an Oct. 1 attack on a church in Aswan, in
southern Egypt, said Samuel Sobhi, 34, who joined friends and
relatives of the dead yesterday in the Coptic Hospital in
central Cairo. At least 25 people were killed and 329 injured in
the violence, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported,
citing Health Ministry figures.  Renewed Clashes  In yesterday’s aftermath, men in plainclothes and families
of the victims pelted each other with stones and bottles outside
the hospital, Sobhi said. Several hundred people also threw
rocks at police, the  Associated Press  reported. Inside,
relatives of the dead wailed and banged on the door to the
morgue, demanding to be allowed in. Women slapped their faces
and men sobbed into their hands. “My father has died,” yelled
one black-clad woman. “Oh God, why did you let them do this to
us?” cried another.  The military council asked the cabinet to form a fact-
finding committee to investigate the events, state-run Nile News
reported. About 25 people have been accused of involvement in
the violence, including acts of “sabotage” and attacks on
soldiers and military property, MENA reported.  In a statement faxed to news organizations, the cabinet
said it would review a draft law on the legalization of
unauthorized places of worship and may approve a unified law
within two weeks.  Anti-Discrimination Policy  Egypt  will add a new clause to its punishment law,
stipulating a prison sentence and a fine on anyone, including
government employees, who practices discrimination of citizens
based on gender, origin, language, religion or belief, the
statement said. The fine would range from 30,000 Egyptian pounds
($5,027.82) to 100,000 pounds ($16,759.40), it added.  While the Oct. 9 demonstrations started peacefully, they
turned violent when protesters came under attack by men in
civilian clothing who pelted them with stones, witnesses
including Sobhi said. Demonstrators later clashed with security
forces. Some were killed and injured by gunfire, others by the
armored driving into the crowd, they said.  “All Egyptians should now unite to reject the rule of the
army,” said Michael Gamal, 25, who said his brother died from a
gunshot wound during the protests. He didn’t see who shot him,
he said.  Prime Minister Essam Sharaf said in a televised speech that
the clashes were “unjustified violence” that “raised fear and
concerns about the future of this homeland” and the country’s
transition to democracy.  Protests also broke out in four other provinces, according
to Al Arabiya television.  ‘Horrified’ Church  The Coptic Church said it was “horrified” by the events,
“signaling that outsiders have infiltrated the march and
committed crimes that were blamed on Copts,” MENA reported.
Christians suffer from repeated incidents where attackers aren’t
held accountable and no solutions are reached, the  news agency 
cited the church as saying in a statement.  The church also called on Copts to fast for three days
“for peace to prevail in Egypt,” MENA reported.  “This was the worst incident of violence since the
revolution. It shows people that the transitional period in
Egypt is quite challenging,” Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist at
the Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said by
telephone. “People were already concerned that there’s no
stability or a clear timeline for transition. This makes the
picture bleaker.”  The cost of protecting Egyptian government debt against
default rose to the highest level in almost a week after the
clashes. Five-year credit default swaps gained five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 465, according to data
provider CMA. That is the highest level on a closing basis since
Oct. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  