-- 
Chef Puck Brings Spicy Steak, Elton’s Favorite Eatery to London

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-10-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/chef-puck-brings-spicy-steak-elton-s-favorite-eatery-to-london.html
The  London  restaurant scene is so
vibrant and so diverse, you might wonder what a California chef
has to bring to the table, other than a splash of sunshine.  In the case of Wolfgang Puck, the answer is a lot. CUT,
which has opened at 45  Park Lane , serves some of the finest food
in the U.K., with great ingredients perfectly cooked and
expertly seasoned. It’s the kind of quality achieved only with a
lifetime of experience and months of practice.  Though not well known in  Europe , Puck is  one of the giants 
of the American food world. When he’s not cooking or hanging out
with friends such as  Michael Caine , he’s traveling or appearing
on the TV shows of other celebrities, such as chef  Gordon Ramsay . Elton John says Puck’s CUT is his favorite restaurant in
the U.S. and now he won’t have so far to go, Puck says.  He presides over about 20 fine-dining restaurants,
including one at the revamped Hotel Bel-Air in  Los Angeles , and
he’s best known for Spago and his Oscar parties. He owns about
50 Wolfgang Puck Express venues, and he sells everything from
ready meals to cookware. He estimates his sales at $400 million.
 Forbes in 2008 estimated  his personal income at $16 million.  CUT is a difficult space in London. The room is long and
narrow, a bit like a corridor. The views onto Park Lane are
fine, but when I sat at a window seat, I kept catching the eye
of passing strangers. The decor is Dubai corporate chic, which
isn’t chic in London, and however far the food transports you,
it won’t be far enough for you to forget you’re in a hotel.  Fabulous Food  Having said that, the food is fabulous. Australian wagyu
steak sashimi, spicy radishes, Greek cress (18 pounds/$28) may
be as good as it gets with the starters, yet I am equally happy
with the heirloom tomato salad, Neal’s Yard goat curd, white
anchovies, aged balsamic, micro basil. The Austrian oxtail
bouillon, chervil, bone marrow dumplings, is a hearty and
authentic nod to Puck’s central European roots.  The steaks are as fine as any you will find in London. They
are right up there with Hawksmoor and Goodman: Not better but
more refined -- posh and almost ladylike in their elegance. If
you want a bit of spice, the Armagnac and green peppercorn sauce
will give you a little body heat. If you’re feeling more butch,
the house-made steak sauce is as assertive as a drunk in a pub.  The seasoning is so assured, you’ll need to ask for salt or
pepper (if you must) and the meat arrives well charred and as
pink as you like in the middle. Over five meals, the seasoning
was spot on, dish after dish. (I found the Dorset crab & Lobster
cocktail starter a little too polite but I’m not a lady.)  Melting Meat  On your behalf, I also tried the top-priced New York steak
6 ounce Australian Wagyu, Black Angus. This is soft and buttery
and might melt your heart as well as your wallet, though I
personally prefer my red meat a tad rougher.  The sides of tempura onion rings are brilliant -- crisp as
a cash-machine fiver -- the French fries with herbs are
exemplary, and the wild field mushrooms, Japanese shishito
peppers are tops. If you are served a kobe beef slider as an
amuse bouche, your life may be complete. The desserts are big
and American and inventive.  The wine list offers the best American options I have come
across in London and they are not all expensive. Vanessa Cinti
is a sommelier I would trust with my wallet. She’s a Puck
veteran, as are most of the chef’s team. The kitchen in London
is headed by  David McIntyre , who was over in the U.K. cooking
the dishes for months before serving them to a paying customer.  I’m not crazy about the room and CUT hasn’t yet captured
the best London style of service, which combines professionalism
with a hint of informality. The music -- Elton,  Pink Floyd ,
 David Bowie  -- is intrusive and may not be to everyone’s taste.  When it comes to the food, I almost wish I had five stars
to hand out. In terms of sensual pleasure, it’s “When Harry Met
Sally.” Yes, yes, yes.  Cut is at 45 Park Lane, W1K 1QA. Information: +44-20-7493-
4554 or  http://www.45parklane.com/cut-at-45-park-lane .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? 100 pounds a head and counting.  Sound level? An obtrusive 75 decibels.  Inside tip? Don’t forget the sauces.  Special feature? Feel the love.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes, yes, yes.  Rating? ****.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 