-- 
Chemical M&A Grinds to Slowest Pace Since 2009 on Growth Concern

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-10-09T23:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/chemical-m-a-grinds-to-slowest-pace-since-2009-on-growth-concern.html
The pace of mergers and acquisitions
in the $3.1 trillion  chemical industry  slumped to the slowest
since 2009 in the third quarter, quashing earlier predictions
that the year may be a record.  The value of global chemical transactions announced in the
three months through September fell 64 percent to $6.46 billion
from the second quarter and slumped from $48.5 billion in the
year-earlier period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest volume since the fourth quarter of 2009, the
data show. The average transaction size fell 59 percent to $89
million from the preceding period.  Europe ’s debt woes have led to a pause in multi-billion-
dollar deals.  BASF SE (BAS) , which announced a $5 billion bid for Ciba
the day  Lehman Brothers  collapsed in 2008 and paid $3.8 billion
for Cognis last year, is focusing on debt reduction. The
quarterly drop may be a blip as CEOs have more robust balance
sheets and are still keen to do deals, said Ariel Levin, a
partner at Valence Group. Asian companies are among those
hunting for assets in the west, he said.  “The private equity and mega deals are going to be put out
for a little bit,” said Levin. “CEOs feel much more confident
that then they did during the 2008 crisis period.”  Morgan Stanley headed the advisers’ league table for the
third quarter, working on three transactions for a total value
of $2.31 billion, including the largest deal announced,  Lonza
Group AG (LONN) ’s planned purchase of  Arch Chemicals Inc. (ARJ)  for $1.35
billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which led in the first half, now
holds the No. 3 spot for the first nine months, behind Credit
Suisse Group AG and second place Morgan Stanley.  IPOs Delayed  An initial flurry of deals set the stage for a potential
record this year. The tally in the first half approached the
pace of the same period in 2007, when deals rose to a high of
$131 billion for the full year. Among this year’s biggest
transactions are  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .’s purchase of  Lubrizol
Corp. (LZ) , an engine additives maker, for about $9 billion. DuPont
Co. acquired food-ingredients maker Danisco A/S for $7.1 billion
in January.  A drop in equity markets, caused by concern that Europe is
struggling to contain a debt crisis, is also weighing on
sentiment among those companies seeking to go public. Evonik
Industries AG, which had planned to carry out  Germany ’s biggest
initial public offering in a decade by now, has delayed its
share sale until markets improve. Refractory metals and
chemicals maker HC Starck GmbH also shelved a planned IPO.  Thrifty Lanxess  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. has had to make a renewed push to
sell its Belgian amine derivatives maker Taminco after failing
to agree on a $1.3 billion deal with German specialty chemicals
maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , four people familiar with the situation said
last month.  Lanxess has strict internal guidelines on finding takeover
targets and is determined to maintain financial discipline and
not overpay for assets, CEO Axel Heitmann said on Aug. 11.  “Transactions may have been thwarted but postponing is not
walking away,” said Wolfgang Falter, a managing director
overseeing chemical transactions at consultancy AlixPartners.
“One can assume this is just deals being put off rather than a
general structural shift in strategy.”  Deal flow is set to continue as there is pressure on
companies to divest businesses in areas where they lack
leadership positions and valuations of targets are also being
dragged down by the market slump, said Levin, one of a group of
former Bear Stearns investment bankers that went on to found
Valence Group. Valence has advised on about 11 transactions in
almost as many months.  Cash Pile  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  is among those hunting for
assets, as are European chemical companies Royal DSM NV, Lanxess
and  Symrise AG. (SY1)  TFL Holding GmbH, a German maker of chemicals
for the leather industry, hired Swiss investment bank Leonardo &
Co. to find a buyer for the company that may be worth at least
200 million euros ($277 million), three people familiar with the
situation said Sept. 9.  In Europe alone, chemical companies were sitting on about
29 billion euros in cash at the end of the second quarter, up
from 16.5 billion euros two years earlier, Bloomberg data show.  “Very few CEOs that were considering acquisitions six
months ago are showing less appetite now,” said Valence’s Levin.
“CEOs feel much more confident that then they did during the
2008 crisis period. Heading into 2012 we’re bullish.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  