-- 
Highest Quality, Lowest Prices in Hong Kong

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-10-10T09:18:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/chinese-know-highest-quality-comes-with-lowest-prices-in-hong-kong-retail.html
Pan Jingdan traveled more than 40
miles to shop in  Hong Kong  during China’s Golden Week holiday.
Unlike the thousands of Chinese tourists who lined up outside
 luxury goods  stores, she stuffed her bags with shampoo,
cosmetics and Unilever’s Dove shower gel.  “It’s so much cheaper here, especially if you buy at the
local pharmacies,” said Pan, a 23-year-old property agent from
the southern Chinese city of Dongguan who regularly visits Hong
Kong’s Sheung Shui district. “The quality is also better. China
is a country full of fakes.”  Hong Kong retail sales, boosted by mainland Chinese
tourists, surged 26 percent to HK$264 billion ($34 billion) in
the eight months through August. Visitors from the mainland,
whose spending power has been boosted by the yuan’s climb,
account for 67 percent of the city’s tourists and are also the
biggest group of spenders, James Tien, chairman of the Hong Kong
Tourism Board, said Oct. 7.  “Mainland Chinese would also stock up on lower-value items
like toothpaste and shampoo, because just like luxury products,
they’re significantly cheaper in Hong Kong,”  Matthew Marsden ,
director of consumer and retail research at Daiwa Capital
Markets, said in an interview. “They’re also more assured of
quality and authenticity when they shop here.”  Sales for Hong Kong’s merchants may grow 15 percent to 20
percent during China’s weeklong holiday that began Oct. 1,
compared with the same period last year, said Caroline Mak,
chairman of the  Hong Kong Retail Management Association .  Cheaper Chanel  “Even if there’s a hold back, there will still be healthy
growth,” Raymond Yeung, a senior economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in an interview. He also
predicted sales growth of about 20 percent during Golden Week.  Hong Kong’s economy in the second quarter shrank 0.5
percent from the previous three-month period as export growth
slowed. Morgan Stanley and Daiwa Capital Markets say gross
domestic product may also have contracted in the third quarter,
meeting the technical definition of a recession.  Zhang Zuoru said it was worth waiting in line in the Tsim
Sha Tsui tourist district of the former British colony. She
bought a bag in the Chanel store on Canton Road for 33,000 yuan
($5,190), at least 20 percent less than she would pay in
mainland China, she said.  “I go to Beijing often -- there are no lines there but
it’s very expensive,” said Zhang, 23, who traveled more than a
thousand miles from  Inner Mongolia  with her parents.  Biggest Spenders  The yuan has gained more than 7 percent since June 2010,
when China ended a two-year peg to the dollar. Hong Kong’s
currency is pegged to the dollar and the city doesn’t impose
taxes on luxury goods, while mainland China does.  China’s growth is slowing after the central bank raised
 interest rates  and as the government cools the  property market 
to reduce the risk of a bubble. The expansion was 9.5 percent in
the second quarter of this year, compared with 10.3 percent in
the same period in 2010.  Sincere Watch HK Ltd.’s sales this year are lower than for
the same holiday period in 2010, partly because of the “market
turmoil,” Vice Chairman Kevin Chau said in an Oct. 7 interview.  “Sales of watches priced at more than HK$1 million have
dropped,” he said. “Tourists are still buying the HK$10,000
watches and even the hundred-thousand dollar ones.”  Chinese tourists are the biggest shoppers in Hong Kong,
spending an average of HK$7,800 a trip, according to Tien of the
 tourism board , and  China ’s growth remains the fastest of any
major economy.  The currency’s advance also benefits Belinda Hong, a 25
year-old housewife who lives in Shenzhen, which adjoins Hong
Kong and was China’s first special economic zone.  Medicine, Hair Dye  “I feel more assured about products here,” Hong said,
standing with a group of friends, each with a rolling suitcase
in tow. She bought cosmetics, milk powder, chocolate and
biscuits.  Chen Chao, 34, traveled more than 60 miles from Guangzhou
to buy medicine and hair dye in  Mong Kok , north of Tsim Sha
Tsui. Similar products over the border can cost 20 percent more
and are of inferior quality, said Chao, who added he may also
visit a Louis Vuitton store.  Chinese visiting Hong Kong to buy luxury goods can also
purchase daily necessities “to use up spare luggage capacity in
their new Samsonite suitcases,” Daiwa’s Marsden said.  Samsonite International SA raised $1.25 billion in an
initial public offering in Hong Kong this year, joining
companies such as L’Occitane International SA in taking
advantage of growth in China, where rising affluence is
bolstering spending on foreign products.  Jewelry Sales  Chow Sang Sang Holdings International Ltd. (116) , the biggest
Hong Kong-listed jewelry maker and retailer, said revenue in the
first six days of Golden week rose more than 50 percent.  Wellcome, the grocery chain run by Hong Kong’s second-
biggest retailer  Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd. (DFI) , had
“satisfactory growth” during this year’s Golden Week,
according to an e-mailed statement. Mainland Chinese shopping at
its stores bought shampoo, toothpaste, medicine, chocolate and
cookies, it said.  The number of visitors from China to Hong Kong for the
first five days of Golden Week rose 13 percent from a year
earlier, Tien said. Hong Kong received an average of 117,008
daily arrivals from mainland China from Oct. 1 to Oct. 6,
according to government  data .  Visitors accounted for 34 percent of retail sales in Hong
Kong last year, with mainland Chinese comprising 76 percent of
tourist spending, ANZ’s Yeung estimated.  Apple Laptops  Shoppers from China also come to Hong Kong for better deals
on products from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which opened its first store in the
city last month. “We’re buying three laptops to bring home,”
Kang Qunxia, 25, said, sitting at the bottom of the store’s
spiral staircase with three Louis Vuitton shopping bags at her
feet. She was waiting for her fiance who was perusing computers
on the floor above.  “We were planning to spend about 60,000 to 70,000 yuan
this trip and we’ve already spent 30,000 this morning and
probably another 30,000 here,” Kang said.  Mainland Chinese need to get  permits  to visit Hong Kong as
well as endorsements from public security officials, according
to the Hong Kong Immigration Department website.  The tourism board is expecting 10 percent more visitors
during Golden Week from a year earlier compared with its initial
forecast of 8 percent, Tien said. “Tourism was up 16 percent
for the first nine months of the year, but our forecast had to
take into account the market environment.”  The last day of Golden Week this year falls on a Friday,
which may boost retailers’ sales, Tien said. “Usually they all
leave by the last day. But this year, the last day is on a
Friday, which means many may stay through the weekend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  