-- 
China Companies Evading Rule With U.S. Listings Stump Regulators

-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-10-09T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/china-companies-evading-rule-with-u-s-listings-stump-regulators.html
A common corporate structure that
has allowed dozens of Chinese companies to get listed on U.S.
exchanges is drawing increased scrutiny from American audit
regulators.  Chinese Internet companies such as Sina Corp. and Baidu
Inc. have used so-called variable interest entities, or  VIEs , to
work around Chinese restrictions and seek foreign investors
since 2000. Now, the Securities and Exchange Commission is also
asking questions about the structure, said Paul Boltz, a Hong
Kong-based partner at Ropes & Gray LLP, who cited comment
letters the agency sent to six companies since December. Judith
Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The heightened attention may add to investors’ caution
regarding Chinese stocks trading in North America.  Sino-Forest
Corp. (TRE)  among other companies has been buffeted this year by
allegations of accounting abuses and fraud, burning investors
including  John Paulson , the billionaire whose hedge fund said in
June it lost $468 million on Sino-Forest. The company, which
doesn’t use a VIE, has denied the allegations.  The VIE structure, which allows firms to set up contractual
relationships that mimic equity ownership, may carry its own
risks, according to Joseph St. Denis, director of research and
analysis at the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board . The
PCAOB, which oversees auditors of U.S. public companies, has
begun to look at VIEs’ audit implications.  “China has blocked our inspections of firms in their
region, but we think VIEs are a risk area,” St. Denis said.
“We can’t know, without going to inspect, how much risk they
represent.”  Yahoo’s Dispute  Yahoo! Inc. shareholders learned about some of the VIE-
related risks this year. The Sunnyvale, California-based
Internet media company, which owns more than 40 percent of Hong
Kong-based Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., disclosed in May that the
Chinese company had transferred its online payment business,
Alipay, to a company controlled by Alibaba founder Jack Ma.
Yahoo, which said in a news release that the move hadn’t been
approved by Alibaba’s board, declined 15 percent in four days
amid concern that its Alibaba stake would lose value.  Alibaba responded that the change was in the best interest
of the company and its shareholders and said its directors were
told about the change in July 2009. The companies settled their
dispute in July.  Last month, the Chinese government signaled it may create
new rules for VIEs, which have helped enable the boom in
overseas listings of Chinese stocks.  Reverse Mergers  PCAOB has begun to look at the audit implications of VIEs
because of their common use in reverse mergers, sometimes called
reverse takeovers or RTOs, according to St. Denis. More than 400
Chinese businesses have used the maneuver -- buying public shell
companies to gain stock market listings in  North America  while
avoiding the scrutiny of an initial public offering. The SEC in
June  cautioned  investors about buying stakes in such companies,
saying they may be prone to “fraud and other abuses.”  Under a VIE arrangement, a Chinese company that wants to
sell shares in the U.S. usually sets up a holding company, often
in the  Cayman Islands , for that purpose. Then, through a wholly
owned onshore firm in China, the new company creates contracts
with a VIE owned by the founders or their designees.  While the holding company extracts profit from the VIE
through agreements to provide services such as consulting and
technical support, its U.S. shareholders don’t own any part of
the VIE. The structure avoids Chinese restrictions on direct
investment by foreigners in sectors including
telecommunications, steelmaking, education and agriculture.  ‘Variable Interest Entity’  Under U.S. accounting rules, the company in  China  is
considered a “variable interest entity” in which the U.S.-
listed firm’s interest derives from the contractual
relationship, not  voting rights .  The risk in the setup is twofold -- first, VIE structures
have been tolerated, but never openly approved by Chinese
authorities, said Paul Gillis, a visiting professor at the
 Guanghua School of Management  at  Peking University  in Beijing.
Second, a VIE’s ownership differs from the publicly listed
holding company’s, he said. Most often, VIEs are owned by the
founders of the Chinese company, and in other instances by
family members or employees, he said.  “Will the regulators shut them down?” says Gillis. “Will
shareholders steal them? We’ve seen cases of both.” He
estimates that at least 42 percent of Chinese businesses listed
on the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq as of 2009 used VIE
arrangements. Gillis said he made a presentation on the subject
to the PCAOB last month.  Operating Licenses  In many Internet businesses, the VIE holds operating
licenses and other parts of the firm that cannot be foreign
owned, Gillis said. Functions such as advertising, warehousing
and fulfillment operations can be done by other units owned by
the holding company. In other cases, the entire Chinese
operating company is a VIE, he said.  “The less risky ones try to minimize what’s in the VIE,
the riskiest ones put the entire business in the VIE,” Gillis
said.  In comment letters since December, the SEC asked for more
explanation of the VIE structures at  Shanda Interactive
Entertainment Ltd. (SNDA) , a gaming company;  Kongzhong Corp. (KONG) , which
provides games and content for wireless devices;  Fushi
Copperweld Inc. (FSIN) , a wire maker; and  Sino Assurance Inc. (SNAS) , a seller
of project guarantees. Boltz of Ropes & Gray said his firm is
handling two more such requests to Chinese firms that have not
yet been made public.  Taking More Time  Sino Assurance is not aware of any outstanding questions
from the SEC regarding its VIE structure, attorney Gary Joiner
of Frascona, Joiner, Goodman & Greenstein P.C. wrote in an e-
mail. Lawyers listed as contacts on the SEC comment letters for
Shanda and Fushi declined to comment. The lawyer listed for
Kongzhong did not respond to an e-mail and a telephone message
requesting comment.  SEC attention may increase the time it takes for companies
to get U.S. listings, according to Rocky Lee, Hong Kong-based
Asia managing partner for Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP.  “The SEC is now more concerned about VIE structures and
are asking more questions,” said Lee. “This can mean that the
U.S. listing process will take more time, subject to more
extensive review from the SEC. It’s plausible that existing
listed VIE companies will be required to provide further
disclosure.”  The dispute between Alibaba Group and Yahoo reflects some
of the uncertainty surrounding VIEs. Ma, Alibaba’s founder, said
the company had to restructure its Alipay unit to get a needed
permit and Chinese regulators would not accept foreign
ownership, according to an Aug. 10  memo  published by Cadwalader.  Settled Differences  Alibaba and Yahoo settled their differences in July, with
an agreement giving Alibaba, and Yahoo through its stake, a
share of Alipay revenue and as much as $6 billion if Alipay
sells shares to the public.  As a result of the episode, “the validity of the use of
the VIE structure in the online payment sector has been brought
into question,” the memo said.  Financial software maker Longtop Financial Technologies
Ltd., which disclosed that it may face SEC civil claims related
to accounting abuses and whose U.S. shares have lost more than
99 percent of their value this year, used a VIE structure. The
company is conducting an independent investigation into
allegations made by its auditor, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA
Ltd. The auditor resigned in May, saying Longtop’s chairman had
admitted there was fake revenue and cash on the company’s books.  Other Users  China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME) , a provider of advertising
on buses in China that is being sued for fraud by Starr
International Co., used the structure as well. The company has
denied allegations of fraud. The structure is also used by Rino
International Corp., which makes pollution-control equipment and
in November disclosed that some of its previous financial
statements “should no longer be relied on.”  “U.S. markets were seen as the paradise for VIEs, that was
the place to go because the U.S. regulators didn’t scrutinize
the VIE too hard,” said Boltz. “The driver of the SEC’s
interest is perhaps the meltdowns that have happened in some of
these companies. It’s embarrassing for the SEC, so that makes
them scan the horizon to look for where are the other
sensitivities.”  In March,  Buddha Steel Inc. (AGVO) , a company incorporated in
 Delaware , withdrew a public offering registration after
officials in  Hebei province  said its VIE structure conflicted
with policies on foreign-invested enterprises.  Battling for Control  GigaMedia Ltd. (GIGM) , which makes online gaming software, has
battled for more than a year to regain control of a VIE. When
GigaMedia tried to replace its China head last year, he refused
to step down or turn over the VIE documents and assets necessary
for GigaMedia to run its business in China, according to SEC
filings. Parts of GigaMedia’s VIE agreements weren’t properly
registered with the Chinese government, making it unlikely the
company will be able to enforce them through a Chinese court,
according to Cadwalader’s August memo.  The U.S. listing of Tudou Holdings Ltd., a Chinese online
video company, was delayed by a dispute over the ownership of
the VIE that accounts for almost all its revenue. The company
filed a registration statement in November. In April, it
disclosed a lawsuit in which the ex-wife of founder Gary Wei Wang claimed a share in 76 percent of the VIE’s equity.  ‘Personal Disputes’  In June, Tudou said the lawsuit had been settled. The
prospectus for its August listing cautioned prospective buyers
that “the shareholders of our VIEs may be involved in personal
disputes with third parties that may have an adverse effect on
their respective equity interests in the relevant VIE and the
validity or enforceability of our contractual arrangements with
the relevant VIE and its shareholders.”  While companies already disclose risks associated with VIEs
in SEC filings, Boltz says the recent cases should make
investors and lawyers write VIE contracts with more details to
handle such things as family disputes.  “The VIE structure in fact depends on individuals, so
real-life issues which happen every day -- like death, divorce,
family disputes, can impact listed companies with large market
caps,” he said. “It’s a reminder to think ahead when using
VIEs.”  In a flawed VIE structure, the owners’ interests may not be
aligned with the shareholders of the listed company, according
to Lee. Low share valuations, which mean Chinese entrepreneurs
aren’t getting much benefit from their U.S. listings, bring that
difference to the fore.  ‘Tempted to Walk’  “One concern some of the legal practitioners have is that
with very low public company valuation, entrepreneurs might be
tempted to walk away from the VIE structure,” Lee said.  China’s Ministry of Commerce, or Mofcom, is considering new
rules for VIEs, spokesman Shen Danyang said last month.  “There are currently no laws or regulations to regulate
VIE,” he said at a regular briefing in Beijing on Sept. 20.
“Mofcom and other related government agencies are studying ways
to regulate such investment.”  While Chinese regulators are unlikely to disrupt companies
that have already made the jump to the U.S., the uncertainty
affects the market, according to Lester Ross, a Beijing-based
partner at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP.  “Unless the authorities take steps to disavow those who
want to do away with it, skepticism in the market about VIE
structures will increase,” said Ross. “In other words, the
legal fragility of the structure risks hampering capital
formation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dune Lawrence at   dlawrence6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 