-- 
Jiang Zemin Appears in Public Three Months After Media Reports of Death

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-09T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/china-former-president-jiang-zemin-appears-at-beijing-event-xinhua-says.html
Former Chinese President  Jiang Zemin 
made a public appearance yesterday three months after  Hong Kong 
media reported his death.  Jiang attended a ceremony at Beijing’s Great Hall of the
People to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the 1911
Revolution that was also attended by President  Hu Jintao  and
Premier Wen Jiabao, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.
 China Central Television  carried a live broadcast of the event.  Jiang, 85, China’s president from 1993 to 2003 and general
secretary of the Communist Party of China from 1989 to 2002, was
absent from a 90th anniversary of the party in July, sparking
speculation his health was failing.  Hong Kong’s Asia Television Ltd. reported July 6 that Jiang
had died, without saying where it got the information. The
television station the next day retracted its report and offered
apologies to Jiang and his family.  Overseas media reports that Jiang died from illness were
“pure rumor,” Xinhua said at the time. Jiang is suffering from
cancer, the Standard reported July 7, citing an unidentified
person. Jiang has diabetes and may have died from a heart
attack, the Oriental Daily had reported, without citing anyone.  The party, scheduled to have a new leadership in 2012, last
year named  Xi Jinping , 58, to the highest military body,
solidifying his status as the country’s leader-in-waiting to
succeed Hu.  1911 Revolution  The 1911 Revolution, led by Sun Yat-sen, ended the last
Chinese imperial dynasty and brought about the founding of the
Republic of China in 1912.  The Republic of China’s government has been confined to
 Taiwan  since Mao Zedong’s communists took over the mainland and
established the People’s Republic of China in 1949, sparking
decades of tension that began to ease when Ma Ying-jeou took
office as Taiwan’s president in 2008 and made conciliatory
overtures toward China.  Hu, speaking at yesterday’s ceremony, urged the mainland
and Taiwan to work together to boost cross-strait relations and
oppose “Taiwan independence.”  Rejuvenating  China  is the “cherished goal” pursued by Sun
and other pioneers of the 1911 Revolution, and should be the
“common aspiration of all compatriots on both sides of the
Taiwan Straits,” Xinhua cited Hu as saying.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  