-- 
China Shares May Rise as Hong Kong Stocks Surge Most Since 2008

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-10-09T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/china-shares-may-rise-as-hong-kong-stocks-surge-most-since-in-three-years.html
The biggest two-day rally in the
Hong Kong-traded shares of Chinese companies since 2008 signals
mainland stocks may rise after a one-week holiday on speculation
inflation is slowing and the European debt crisis may be
contained.  The MSCI China Index, which mostly tracks shares of Chinese
companies listed in  Hong Kong , advanced 10 percent on Oct. 6-7,
the most since December 2008. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of so-called H shares surged 9.7 percent. The
 iShares CSI 300 A-Share Index ETF (2846) , a Hong Kong exchange-traded
fund that tracks yuan-denominated A shares, jumped 6.9 percent.  Stocks globally have climbed the past two trading days,
driving the MSCI All-Country World Index up by 3.1 percent, as
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said Oct. 6
the ECB will resume covered-bond purchases and reintroduce
yearlong loans for banks. Data due on Oct. 14 may show China’s
inflation rate slowed for a second month.  Having missed a week of trading, China’s A shares “are
going to go up,”  Todd Martin , a Hong Kong-based Asia equity
strategist for  Societe Generale , said in an Oct. 7 phone
interview. “We have been having good macro data and new
information since China has been closed.” He expects shares to
rise “at least 2-3 percent” and favors building and consumer
stocks.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.3 percent
to 2,359.22, its lowest close since April 2009, on Sept. 30
before it closed for the Golden Week holiday. The gauge trades
for 10.9 times estimated profit, a record low, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The MSCI BRIC Index of Brazilian, Russian,
Indian and Chinese stocks, is valued at 8 times.  Inflation Policies  The Shanghai index has tumbled 16 percent this year as
Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government sought to defuse the fastest
gains in consumer prices since 2008 without a collapse in
 China ’s growth, the strongest among the major economies. The
People’s Bank of China has raised  interest rates  five times and
banks’ reserve requirements nine times in the past 12 months.  China’s statistics bureau may report this week that
inflation cooled to 6.1 percent last month, according to the
median of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg as of Oct. 7.
Prices rose 6.5 percent in July from a year earlier, the most in
three years, before easing to 6.2 percent in August.  Economists surveyed also expect data on Oct. 13 to show
exports grew 20.8 percent in September. A purchasing managers’
index for China’s non-manufacturing industries rose to 59.3 from
57.6 in August, driven by retail spending, the China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing said  on its website  on Oct. 3. The
pickup may ease concern the world’s second-largest economy is
slowing.  Slowing Economy  The  MSCI China (MXCN)  Index’s two-day surge erased a 9 percent
decline on Oct. 3-4. Hong Kong’s markets were shut on Oct. 5 for
a holiday.  Weekly gains in global equities were capped after  Fitch
Ratings  cut its credit grades on Spain and  Italy  on Oct. 7. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks retreated 0.8 percent
following the downgrades, trimming its weekly advance to 2.1
percent.  Twelve percent of global investors in a quarterly Bloomberg
poll predicted growth in China will slow to less than 5 percent
within a year, a pace unseen in the past two decades. Economic
growth slowed in the three months ended June 30 to 9.5 percent,
the second consecutive quarterly decline. Third-quarter gross
domestic product data is due Oct. 18.  Any stock rally in China “will be short-lived without
meaningful signs of an easing in monetary or fiscal policy,”
 Clive McDonnell , Singapore-based head of emerging-market equity
strategy for Standard Chartered Plc, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions on Oct. 6.  Golden Week  Premier Wen said the economy is “good” and “stable,”
while initial progress has been made in containing inflation,
Xinhua News Agency reported on Oct. 5.  Chinese property shares surged in Hong Kong last week as
Deutsche Bank AG analysts wrote in an Oct. 5 report they saw
“emerging” value in developers.  Evergrande Real Estate Group
Ltd. (3333) , China’s second-largest developer by sales, and  Agile
Property Holdings Ltd. (3383)  jumped more than 11 percent last week.  Mainland retailers may advance on speculation consumer
spending is holding up.  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) , the retail
partner of Swatch Group AG in China, surged 11 percent on Oct. 7
after James Tien, chairman of the Hong Kong Tourism Board, said
tourism numbers in the first five days of the month increased by
13 percent from a year ago due to Chinese visitors.  Chinese shares will “definitely rise,” Khiem Do, Hong
Kong-based head of multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees about $10 billion. “The Golden
Week spending in China seems to be much better than the bearish
people had expected, so stocks will reflect that as well.”  Citic Securities Co., China’s biggest brokerage by market
value, may be active in  Shanghai . The company’s Hong Kong shares
slumped 6.8 percent in their first trading days on Oct. 6-7.
Citic raised HK$13.2 billion ($1.7 billion) in Hong Kong’s
biggest public stock offering in more than three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  