-- 
Corporate Profit Rebound Slows in ‘Grind-It-Out’ Economy

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-10T20:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/corporate-profits-set-for-slowest-growth-since-2009-with-forecasts-dimming.html
This year’s rebound in corporate
earnings is losing steam as slower economic growth and greater
strain on consumers threaten sales and profit margins at
companies from  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  to  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Earnings per share for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 , excluding
financial companies, rose 14 percent in the third quarter, the
smallest gain since the end of 2009, analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with 19 percent in the
second quarter and 20 percent in the first. Analysts have begun
reducing forecasts for the current quarter and beyond.  Chipmaker Texas Instruments and air conditioner maker
Ingersoll Rand Plc are among companies that have lowered their
guidance because of faltering demand. With U.S. unemployment
stuck above 9 percent, political squabbling about the government
debt ceiling and a downgrade of the nation’s credit rating,
confidence has been sapped, said  Matt McCormick , who helps
manage $4 billion with Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in Cincinnati.  “What started in August as a crisis of confidence hasn’t
been resolved,” McCormick said. “This is a grind-it-out
economy. We’re in a situation where it’s still going to take
several years to rebuild our economic house.”  S&P 500  earnings excluding financials are forecast to slow
to 12 percent growth in the fourth quarter and 9 percent in the
first quarter. The  U.S. economy  will expand 1.6 percent this
year after growing 3 percent in 2010, according to the average
of 66 economist forecasts.  Consumer spending  slowed in August to
0.2 percent as incomes dropped for the first time since October
2009, and the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed the worst
quarterly performance in more than two years.  Global Equities  Global equities have lost about $6 trillion in value since
Aug. 5, when S&P stripped the U.S. of its top AAA credit rating.
The S&P 500 tumbled 14 percent in the three months ended in
September, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 17 percent and the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index plunged 16 percent, their biggest
quarterly drops since the peak of the financial crisis in 2008.  The S&P 500 last week rose from the threshold of a bear
market on optimism Europe will tame its debt crisis and after
U.S. economic data improved. The index rose 3.4 percent to
1,194.89 today.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, will report
earnings tomorrow after U.S. markets close, the first company in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to do so for the third quarter.
While aluminum has declined from 2011 peaks, average prices rose
in the past year, helping drive profit to what analysts say will
be 23 cents a share, from 9 cents a year earlier.  Low-Grade Recession  “Good corporate earnings or surprisingly better-than-
expected earnings would really be a win in this market, which
seems to be selling at a level that has at least built in a low-
grade recession,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment
strategist for Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
which manages $54 billion.  Existing earnings estimates may not provide much use to
investors, said Gary Flam, who helps manage $6.5 billion for Bel
Air Investment Advisors LLC in Los Angeles. Expectations for S&P
500 profit growth had been ratcheted down from 16 percent at the
end of July, making it easier for companies to meet or beat
estimates even as demand cools, Flam said.  As of Oct. 7, 174 companies had lowered third-quarter
earnings outlooks among the 436 that had provided guidance for
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least 59
had raised, with the remainder primarily standing pat. More than
looking at this past quarters’ earnings, investors want
companies to give them a peek into the future, Flam said.  ‘Heightened Uncertainty’  “In a time of heightened uncertainty, people are trying to
get some clarity and conviction and that’s going to come from
what management is saying about the outlook,” Flam said. “It’s
not necessarily what you did in the third quarter. It’s what
does the future hold.”  Texas Instruments, the largest producer of analog chips for
medical devices and e-book readers, lowered the top range of its
third-quarter earnings forecast to 60 cents a share from 65
cents on Sept. 8. Sami Kiriaki, who runs the Dallas-based
company’s power-management unit, later cited a slowdown “across
many products, many markets and many customers.”  Intel Corp. (INTC) , whose processors run more than 80 percent of
the world’s personal computers, may also have suffered last
quarter as consumers pushed off laptop purchases or turned to
alternative devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  “We’re seeing weak demand across so many market
segments,” said Chris Caso, a New York-based analyst for
Susquehanna International Group. He has a “neutral” rating on
Intel’s stock and said he doesn’t own any of the shares.  Euro-Area Economy  Flagging U.S. purchases of air conditioners, golf carts and
security systems forced Swords, Ireland-based company Ingersoll
Rand to reduce the top range of its earnings forecast for the
third quarter by 15 cents to 80 cents and its sales outlook by
$200 million to $3.95 billion.  The euro-area economy has also lost momentum with growth in
the 17-nation bloc slowing to 0.2 percent in the second quarter
from 0.8 percent in the first. Earnings per share for Stoxx
Europe 600 companies are projected to have gained 5.8 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since
2009 and down from an 18 percent average in the second quarter.  Royal Philips Electronics NV, the Amsterdam-based maker of
lighting equipment and consumer electronics, may say net income
fell to 84 million euros ($112 million) from 524 million euros
when it reports Oct. 17. Sales likely slipped to 5.4 billion
euros from 6.16 billion euros, the survey of analysts showed.  Siemens, Lufthansa  Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering
company and a Philips competitor, has said that growth will come
down in the second half as industrial customers cut back.  Airlines  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  in Germany and  Finnair Oyj (FIA1S) 
in Finland cut their profit forecasts in the past month as
results fell short of expectations and forward bookings sagged.
U.K.-based  Flybe Group Plc (FLYB) , Europe’s biggest regional airline,
said Oct. 5 that first-half revenue missed its forecast.  In the U.S.,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  have said they are worried that  travel demand  may
weaken at the end of this year and leading into 2012 if the
economy worsens, and they’re trimming capacity to lower costs.  European leaders have been meeting to discuss ways to
fortify undercapitalized banks and stem sovereign-debt woes,
which broke out in Greece in late 2009. U.S. President Barack
Obama last week called the European debt crisis “the biggest
headwind” to his nation’s economic recovery.  Greece, Portugal  In response to the debt crisis, spending cuts have been
pursued in Greece, Portugal and Ireland, damping economic
outlooks. In the U.K.,  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  reported its worst domestic
sales performance in at least six years. Children’s retailer
 Mothercare Plc (MTC)  and  Premier Foods Plc (PFD) , the U.K.’s largest
foodmaker, have said they would miss forecasts.  The three biggest luxury carmakers --  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Volkswagen AG’s
Audi -- are reporting a cooling in sales growth after a first-
half boom that has nudged them toward all-time sales highs.  Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s largest automaker and the owner of
Chrysler Group LLC, has scrapped its 2011 domestic car sales
forecast, with Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne saying
the “Italian market hasn’t been so weak since the 1980s.”  Scania AB, the Soedertaelje, Sweden-based truckmaker
controlled by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said today it plans to lower
production at European factories by as much as 15 percent
beginning next month as demand for commercial vehicles drops.  “Government financial problems in Europe and the U.S. have
now begun to affect economic activity and have led to hesitation
among customers,” the company said in a statement.  Financial Companies  Financial companies may be a drag on earnings growth as
well because the market for initial public offerings has dried
up, acquisition activity has slowed and fixed income has been
hurt by low yields, said Luschini of Janney Montgomery.
Analysts’ forecasts for S&P 500 earnings-per-share growth that
includes financials have dropped to 12 percent this month from
18 percent in July, according to Bloomberg data.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other
banks that rely on trading and investment-banking may report
lower earnings compared with the second quarter because deal
volume fell and investors fled riskier assets to protect against
Europe’s debt crisis and the specter of another U.S. recession.
 Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , which last month said fiscal third-quarter
fixed-income trading plunged 85 percent from the second quarter,
called August “outright brutal.”  “European concerns have extended beyond the periphery,”
driving down trading profits, Guy Moszkowski, an analyst in New
York with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , said in a Sept. 26 note.  Wells Fargo, GE  Companies with mortgage-banking units may fair better as
efforts by the Federal Reserve to keep borrowing costs low
prompt more lending, Richard Ramsden, an analyst at Goldman
Sachs in New York, said in a Sept. 28 note.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
the biggest U.S. home lender, may post adjusted earnings per
share of 72 cents on Oct. 17, compared with 70 cents in the
second quarter, according to the average of estimates.  General Electric Co. (GE)  should post an earnings rise of 2
cents a share to 31 cents, led by higher profit at the
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s finance unit.  The economy still is expanding and profit margins are still
benefiting from cost reductions, said  Tobias Levkovich , chief
U.S. equity strategist for Citigroup Inc. in New York.  “We’re looking at an uneven patch of growth,” Levkovich
said. “I don’t expect to see really bad earnings here.”  McDonald’s, Toyota  As the economy slows, investors are seeking companies that
sell basic goods and pay high dividends, said McCormick of Bahl
& Gaynor. Oak Brook, Illinois-based  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  benefits
when consumers turn to restaurants that can save them money, he
said. The world’s largest restaurant chain is forecast to report
earnings per share rose to $1.42 in the quarter from $1.29.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s largest carmaker, may boost
profit as it ramps up production that was disrupted by Japan’s
March earthquake. The company may report net income of about 103
billion yen ($1.3 billion) in the quarter ended Sept. 30,
compared with 98.7 billion yen a year earlier.  “Toyota has rebounded from the quake, and what will be
important for the carmaker now is to keep up with demand,” said
Issei Takahashi, a Credit Suisse Securities Japan Ltd. analyst.  Microsoft, Google  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest maker
of mobile phones, is counting on its Galaxy mobile devices with
Google’s Android operating system to boost revenue as profit
from its chips and flat-screen panels falls. The Suwon, South
Korea-based company, Apple’s closest competitor in smartphones,
gave preliminary results on Oct. 7 that showed operating profit
in the three months ended in September fell to 4.2 trillion won
($3.6 billion), down from 4.86 trillion won a year earlier. Full
results will be reported later this month.  Apple, whose founder Steve Jobs died Oct. 5, is defying the
consumer slowdown with higher sales of iPhones and iPads. The
Cupertino, California-based company’s adjusted earnings per
share for its most recent fiscal quarter is forecast to jump to
$7.23 from $4.64 a year earlier, analysts’ estimates show.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  sales are projected by analysts to rise 7
percent to $17.3 billion, as corporate purchases of Office
software and server programs make up for weaker consumer demand
for personal computers.  While Google is benefiting from gains in the search-engine
market, the industry is showing signs of a slowdown. Spending on
U.S. search advertising rose 7 percent in the third quarter,
down from 12 percent growth in the second quarter, according to
IgnitionOne Inc., an online marketing company.  ‘Consumer Strain’  “The data shows consumer strain in response to perceived
weaker economic conditions,” Jordan Rohan, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in New York, said in an Oct. 5 research note in
which he downgraded Google to “hold” from “buy.”  Analysts project Google to have third-quarter earnings
minus some items of $8.76, up 15 percent from the $7.64 reported
a year earlier. Fourth-quarter earnings should also rise 15
percent to $10.07. That’s a slowdown from 36 percent growth in
the second quarter and 20 percent in the first.  With demand slowing, earnings this quarter will give
investors a good idea which companies are better equipped to
face a downturn, McCormick of Bahl & Gaynor said.  “When you look at what has happened since August --whether
it be the debt negotiations, the downgrade, the continued mess
in Europe and the volatility -- it’s logical to conclude that
that will have an impact on economic activity and earnings,”
McCormick of Bahl & Gaynor said. “I think you’re going to see
stronger companies begin to separate themselves from their
weaker competitors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  