-- 
Danish Bank Crisis Killing Business as Recovery Outlook Dims

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-10-10T08:55:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/danish-bank-crisis-killing-business-as-recovery-prospects-fade.html
Denmark ’s bank crisis is taking its
toll on the economy’s recovery prospects as companies struggle
to find lenders willing to provide loans, the Confederation of
Danish Industry warned.  Banks in the worst-performing Scandinavian economy have
been slow to respond to government efforts to shore up the
industry through consolidation. That may deepen a crisis that’s
dragged on since Amagerbanken A/S in February triggered the
European Union’s first senior creditor losses in a resolution
framework. This weekend, Max Bank A/S became Denmark’s first
insolvent lender to be bought under the government’s takeover
bill, narrowly escaping a bail-in.  The country’s banking crisis is choking lending and
stifling business. The Confederation of Danish Industry, which
represents 10,000 companies, expects to release a survey this
week showing lending tightened in the third quarter from the
second as banks deleverage, said Klaus Rasmussen, the group’s
chief economist. Denmark’s economy will grow only 1.4 percent
this year, less than a third the 4.5 percent expansion rate in
neighboring  Sweden , the two countries’ central banks estimate.  Businesses in Denmark “cannot make the investments they
want, maybe they simply can’t survive,” Rasmussen said in an
interview. “It is frustrating that you set up new rules that
should help getting the necessary mergers, and you don’t see
them.”  Cut Off  The government last month passed Denmark’s fourth bank
rescue package since 2008. The bill seeks to spur consolidation
and help banks sidestep the country’s bail-in laws by
subsidizing takeovers before a troubled lender collapses. The
specter of senior creditor losses has cut off most of Denmark’s
roughly 120 banks from international funding markets. About 75
regional lenders need either to be wound down or bought up,
according to Henning Kruse Petersen, the chairman of the
Financial Stability Company.  Max Bank (MAX)  was yesterday bought by regional peer Sparekassen
Sjaelland A/S in a last-minute arrangement. The acquiring bank
will be able to subsidize its purchase by tapping Denmark’s
Depositor Guarantee Fund.  Still, there’s no guarantee that the consolidation bill can
be deployed successfully again in future, said Joergen A. Horwitz, the director of the Danish Bankers Association, in a
note.  Bank Shares  An index of Danish bank shares lost 0.5 percent today at
10:46 a.m. in Copenhagen. That compares with a 0.6 percent loss
in the 46-member Bloomberg index of European financials.  A quarter of Danish companies surveyed for a June report by
the confederation said they had limited, or no, financing
options in the second quarter. Lending to businesses has slumped
25 percent since the start of the credit crisis in 2008, the
confederation said.  Banks tightened credit standards in the third quarter as
writedowns rose and lenders forecast more losses through the end
of the year, the central bank said in a quarterly survey
published today.  To survive the credit drought, Denmark’s farming council
said last month it will create a fund to try to avert a collapse
in the agricultural industry. The fund plans to go directly to
institutional investors and raise start capital of as much as 1
billion kroner ($180 million) to avoid a “complete crash” of
the industry, said Lone Saaby, a director at the Danish
Agriculture and Food Council Business.  Bank Ratings  Banks have cut off lending to businesses as they themselves
struggle to generate funds. Moody’s Investors Service lowered
the ratings of Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s largest lender, and
five other banks in May, citing an absence of state support.
Lenders are also under pressure to pay back about 158 billion
kroner in state-backed loans coming due by 2013, forcing the
industry to dump assets and deleverage to stay afloat.  “It has a negative impact on the Danish economy if healthy
firms are restricted because the banks have to cut down on
lending,” Rasmussen said. Businesses may be forced to cut jobs
and even close as credit dries up, he said.  Industrial production  fell 4.3 percent in August from a
month earlier, led by declines in the manufacture of capital
goods and export orders, the statistics agency said last week.
The number of bankruptcies has risen 4 percent since January to
466 in September, the statistics office estimates, citing
seasonally-adjusted figures.  Europe ’s Debt  A worsening debt crisis in Europe has exacerbated the
funding freeze in Denmark, Morten Frederiksen, a director at the
Danish Bankers Association, said in an interview last week.  “You really can’t issue senior debt,” he said.  If Denmark’s latest bank rescue fails to spur mergers, the
crisis is likely to deepen, Rasmussen said.  “The problem is, it sends a very bad signal when a bank is
going down, so it should go into a merger before being driven
out of the market,” he said.  A number of Danish banks continue to hold “vulnerable
loans” on their books and face “large” writedowns, Denmark’s
financial watchdog, the Financial Supervisory Authority, said
last month. A 400-billion-krone liquidity line announced by the
central bank last month won’t help banks that face solvency
problems because of deteriorating asset quality, an official at
Moody’s said, declining to be identified by name because of
company policy.  While the liquidity lifeline is helpful, Denmark’s banking
crisis won’t ease until there is consolidation in the industry,
according to Rasmussen.  “We haven’t seen very much merger activity, and that would
be the best thing,” he said. “What we need is a healthier
banking sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Frances Schwartzkopff in
Copenhagen at   fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tasneem
Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or Angela
Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  