-- 
Dexia Agreement Reached by France, Belgium as Bank’s Board Meets

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-10-09T14:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/dexia-agreement-reached-by-france-belgium-as-bank-s-board-meets.html
France and Belgium reached an accord
on  Dexia SA (DEXB)  as the lender’s board meets to approve the
proposals, paving the way for a dismantling of the French-
Belgian bank.  “The suggested solution, which is also the result of
intense consultations with all partners involved, will be
submitted to Dexia’s board of directors for approval,” Belgian
Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  and French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said in a joint statement today. Details weren’t
disclosed.  Dexia’s board was due to begin meeting at 3 p.m. in
Brussels. While France and Belgium rushed to protect their local
units, they wrestled over responsibility for assets hit by the
crisis that caused the bank’s short-term funding to evaporate.
Dexia’s troubled assets are being folded into a “bad bank” and
could amount to as much as 190 billion euros ($254 billion),
according to Bloomberg calculations based on company reports.  Rescuing Dexia -- the first victim of the debt crisis at
the core of  Europe  -- has become critical to preventing
contagion in the region’s banking industry. Dexia’s balance
sheet, with total assets of about 518 billion euros at the end
of June, is about the size of the entire banking system in
 Greece  and larger than the combined assets of financial
institutions bailed out in Ireland in the last 2 1/2 years.  Not ‘Isolated Problem’  “Dexia is not an isolated problem,” said Cor Kluis, an
Utrecht, Netherlands-based analyst at Rabobank International who
rates Dexia “reduce.” “The question for all investors in
Europe is how politicians are going to handle this, and what
they want to see is a coordinated and professional solution.
That would be a good opportunity to restore calm.”  Paris- and Brussels-based Dexia has retail branch networks
in two European Union founding nations --  Belgium  and Luxembourg
-- and is a former world leader in municipal lending.  The 18-member board, equally split between France and
Belgium, may review a plan under which Dexia would set up a bad
bank for its troubled assets, hive off its French municipal loan
book into a venture with state-owned La Banque Postale and
Caisse des Depots et Consignations, and seek buyers for units
such as its Belgian bank, Denizbank AS of  Turkey  and its asset-
management division.  The board meeting is the third in less than a month, after
those on Sept. 27 and Oct. 3. Among sticking points for Belgium
and France have been which assets to put in the bad bank and
what share of borrowings each government should guarantee.  ‘Complex’ Situation  “The situation is more complex than one where you have one
bank, one country, one regulator,” said Kluis.  French weekly Le Journal du Dimanche reported today that
 France  and Belgium may have agreed on splitting the burden of
Dexia’s bad bank, which will hold 120 billion euros of risky
U.S., Italian, Spanish, and Belgium loans. Belgium and France
may guarantee 60 percent and 40 percent, respectively, of the
refinancing of these loans, the newspaper said, without saying
where it obtained the information. Proceeds of the sale of
Dexia’s profitable assets such as its Belgian retail bank will
go to the bad bank to mitigate its losses, the newspaper said.  Separately, CDC will take 74 billion euros of other loans
to local governments, of which 10 billion euros are considered
“risky,” and France will assume part of the potential losses in
the future, the newspaper said.  Stress Tests  Dexia dropped 17 percent in Brussels on Oct. 6 before being
suspended, and will resume trading tomorrow. The stock fell 42
percent last week on concern that the breakup will leave
shareholders with little of value. It has plunged more than 90
percent since a 2008 bailout.  “Once you go on this road, it won’t end well for
shareholders,” said Kluis. “Governments aren’t there to save
shareholders.”  Standard & Poor’s  on Oct. 6 downgraded the credit ratings
on three units, Dexia Credit Local, Dexia Bank and Dexia Banque
Internationale a Luxembourg, citing the group’s limited access
to wholesale funding markets. The ratings are on credit watch
with “developing implications,” S&P said.  France and Belgium are coming to Dexia’s rescue three
months after it got a clean bill of health in European Union
stress tests, and three years after they providing capital to
save the company during the 2008 credit crunch.  In 2008, after injecting 6 billion euros, the governments
gave Dexia guarantees of as much as 150 billion euros. Belgium
covered 60.5 percent of the guarantees, France 36.5 percent and
 Luxembourg  3 percent.  Ratings at Risk  Belgium’s Aa1 local- and foreign-currency ratings were
placed under review for a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service
because of rising funding risks for euro-area nations with high
levels of debt and additional bank support measures that are
likely to be needed.  The review will focus on the vulnerabilities of Belgian
public debt in the current euro-area sovereign crisis and
potential costs and contingent liabilities that the government
may incur in supporting Dexia, Moody’s said in a statement on
Oct. 7. Moody’s will also assess how the risks for the growth
outlook of the economy and the government’s fiscal and economic
plans may impact the country’s debt trajectory.  A large chunk of the troubled assets are on the balance
sheet of Dexia Credit Local, a French unit. Dexia Credit Local
carries most of the bank’s 95 billion-euro bond portfolio, which
includes 21 billion euros of Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish
and Irish sovereign debt. Dexia’s municipal lending units in
Italy and  Spain , which it agreed to dispose of to win European
Commission approval for its 2008 bailout, are also on the French
unit’s balance sheet.  Local Units  “The fair distribution of the burden is a very sensitive
and crucial element in the negotiations,” Leterme said on RTL
radio on Oct. 6. “To save Dexia, we need a fair division of
responsibility.”  Belgium plans to nationalize Dexia Bank Belgium NV, Leterme
told labor unions on Oct. 7, according to ACV-CSC, a workers’
union. Leterme has said he’ll do whatever it takes to safeguard
the bank.  Dexia said on Oct. 6 that an investor is interested in its
profitable retail and private banking unit in Luxembourg.
Belgian daily L’Echo reported that a Qatari sovereign wealth
fund was in discussions to buy the unit, Dexia Banque
Internationale a Luxembourg, for 900 million euros, without
saying where it got the information.  That announcement set off concern that Dexia’s most
valuable assets will be sold at fire-sale prices to
international buyers in response to a temporary funding squeeze.  Groep Arco, Dexia’s second-biggest Belgian shareholder,
said on Oct. 6 that it “opposes a forced sale of good units of
the group at very low prices to foreign entities.”  In France, state-owned CDC and La Banque Postale may join
with Dexia to create a new company to take over the French
municipal lending arm, according to a statement on Oct. 6 from a
postal union, whose representatives attended a board meeting
where the plan was presented. Paris-based  La Poste , the parent
of Banque Postale, declined to comment, as did CDC and Dexia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at   fabiobv@bloomberg.net 
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  