-- 
Egyptian Shares Gain Most in Seven Weeks After 4.5% Drop, Global Advance

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-10-09T15:07:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/dubai-shares-rise-on-europe-debt-optimism-oil-rally-oib-surges-in-muscat.html
Egypt ’s shares soared the most since
August on bets last week’s drop was overdone given the outlook
for earnings and after global markets rallied amid optimism
European leaders will tame the debt crisis.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, advanced 2.5 percent and
 Egyptian Financial Group-Hermes Holding (HRHO)  advanced the most in
almost two weeks after they were raised at AlembicHC. The EGX 30
Index rallied 1.9 percent, the most since Aug. 17, to 4,028.71
at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The measure slumped 4.5 percent
last week. Egypt’s stock market was closed Oct. 6 for a holiday.
The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  gained 0.5 percent.  “The selling was definitely overdone,” said Wafik Dawood,
director of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments
Securities. “But this is classic in times of uncertainty; the
global backdrop was not helping.”  The ruling military council made statements last week that
may exonerate former President  Hosni Mubarak , increasing the
risk of unrest. Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report dated
Oct. 7 that it sees attractive opportunities in Egypt amid the
country’s instability. Egypt is due to hold parliamentary
elections in November as Mubarak is being tried on charges of
corruption and involvement in the killing of protesters during
the uprising that ended his three-decade rule.  ‘Bottom-Up Stories’  Egypt’s measure is valued at 1.1 times book value, or
assets minus liabilities, while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
trades at 1.5 times.  Commercial International Bank gained the most since Aug. 22
to 22.94 Egyptian pounds. The bank was raised to “overweight”
from “underweight” with a price estimate of 28.8 pounds at
AlembicHC. EFG-Hermes, the biggest publicly traded investment
bank in Egypt, added 0.6 percent to 12.56 pounds. AlembicHC
increased the shares to “neutral” from “underweight” with a
15.9-pound price estimate.  Orascom Construction Industries, down 28 percent this year,
rallied 3.7 percent to 206.2 pounds, while  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH) 
retreated 0.3 percent. Both companies were mentioned by Credit
Suisse analyst Ahmed Badr as “attractive bottom-up stories.”
The bank reiterated its “bearish top-down view on Egypt.”  Global stocks rose last week, with the STOXX Europe 600
Index rallying 2.6 percent, after European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet announced a bond-purchase program
to tackle the debt crisis and European Commissioner Olli Rehn
said there is an “increasingly shared view” that the region
needs a coordinated approach. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  jumped
2.1 percent in the week as a report showed U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly accelerated in September.  Oil Gains  Crude for November delivery surged 4.8 percent to $82.98 a
barrel last week. Gulf Arab oil exporters, including the U.A.E.
and  Saudi Arabia , supply about a fifth of the world’s oil. Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.3 percent today.  Oman International Bank SAOG jumped the most since February
2009, rallying 7.1 percent to 0.285 rial after the country’s
fifth-biggest bank by assets said it is in early-stage talks
about a merger of its business with the Oman operations of HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Kuwait’s measure advanced 0.5 percent,  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  and DFM General Index gained 0.2 percent, while
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rose 0.3 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index
slipped 0.1 percent. Israel’s TA-25 Index lost 1.4 percent.  Israeli  government bonds  fell, with the yield on the
benchmark 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit notes due January 2022
rising three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.57
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  