-- 
Dubai Shares Rise on Europe Debt Optimism, Oil Rally

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-10-09T10:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/dubai-shares-rise-on-europe-debt-optimism-oil-rally-correct-.html
(Corrects share move of DFM in second paragraph.)  Dubai’s shares rose to the highest in
almost a week, led by  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , after oil rallied
amid optimism European leaders will tame the region’s debt
crisis and as U.S. economic data improved.  Emaar, the developer of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai,
climbed as much as 1.6 percent. Dubai Financial Market PJSC, the
only Gulf Arab stock market to sell shares to the public, rose.
The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  gained 0.4 percent to 1,400.74, the
highest intraday level since Oct. 4, at 10:53 a.m. in Dubai.
Oman International Bank SAOG surged the most in two years as it
said it’s in early stage talks to merge its business with HSBC
Holdings Plc’s Oman operations.  “United Arab Emirates equity markets are trading
positively in line with the global markets last week,” said
Sherif El Zeneiny, head of equity trading at National Bank of
 Abu Dhabi  PJSC. Oil’s gain is also helping boost Gulf markets,
he said.  Global stocks rose last week, with the STOXX Europe 600
Index rallying 2.6 percent, after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  announced a bond-purchase program
to tackle the debt crisis and European Commissioner Olli Rehn
said there is an “increasingly shared view” that the region
needs a coordinated approach. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  jumped
2.1 percent in the week as a report showed U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly accelerated in September.  Third-Quarter Earnings  Crude for November delivery on the New York Mercantile
surged 4.8 percent to $82.98 a barrel last week. Gulf Arab oil
exporters, including the U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia , supply about a
fifth of the world’s oil. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
increased 1.4 percent yesterday.  “All eyes will be on third-quarter numbers, which should
provide direction in the short term, but the European debt
crisis is not over, which can still affect sentiment
negatively,” National Bank of Abu Dhabi’s El Zeneiny said.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co., a unit of Saudi Basic
Industries Corp., said today third-quarter profit doubled on
higher product prices, beating analysts’ estimates.  Qatar
National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Persian Gulf country’s biggest bank by
assets, reported a 31 percent surge in third-quarter profit last
week on higher income from lending.  Emaar, which may report quarterly results on Oct. 26, rose
to as much as 2.61 dirhams before trading at 2.58 dirhams.  Dubai
Financial Market (DFM)  increased 1.9 percent to 1.05 dirhams, headed
for the biggest increase since Aug. 25.  Oman International soared 7.9 percent, the most since June
2009, to 0.287 rial. The bank said it isn’t discussing buying
HSBC’s business in Oman. Oman’s gauge climbed 0.6 percent.  Kuwait’s measure advanced 0.1 percent, Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.3 percent and Qatar’s QE Index rose 0.5
percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index was little changed. The
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  advanced less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  