-- 
Egypt May Be Forced to Seek $3 Billion IMF Loan It Rejected: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-10-10T10:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/egypt-may-be-forced-to-seek-imf-loan-it-rejected-arab-credit.html
Egypt , grappling with sectarian
violence, labor strikes and the highest borrowing costs since
2008, may be forced to ask the  International Monetary Fund  for
the $3 billion loan it spurned in June.  The yield on the government’s one-year treasury bills
soared 328 basis points, or 3.28 percentage points, to 13.86
percent since the Jan. 25 revolt that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak , the highest since November 2008. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Egyptian debt instead of U.S.
Treasuries rose 160 basis points for the period to 421,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s data. Middle East spreads
climbed 128 basis points on average to 437, the data show.  “They must go to the IMF and the World Bank,”  Mona Mansour , co-director of research at Cairo-based investment bank
CI Capital, said in a telephone interview. “The government will
resort to foreign borrowing because this can’t continue.”  Returning to the IMF risks a backlash from the activists
who led this year’s revolt and objected to loans from the fund
and the World Bank on the grounds that they endorsed Mubarak’s
policies, said Raza Agha, an economist at Royal Bank of
 Scotland . Egypt is in talks with Saudi Arabia and the  United
Arab Emirates  for $5 billion in loans to finance the  budget
deficit , which the government aims to reduce to 8.6 percent of
economic output in the fiscal year through June 2012. The gap
was 9.5 percent in the previous 12 months.  Cairo Clashes  “If they can’t get the money from the Gulf neighbors, then
they could well be forced to go to the IMF again,” London-based
Agha said in an e-mailed answer to questions on Oct. 6. “That
could lead to another confrontation with pro-democracy groups.”  Egypt is also grappling with violent public outbursts eight
months after Mubarak’s Feb. 11 departure. Coptic Christian
protesters clashed with security forces in Cairo yesterday,
killing at least 24 people and injuring 272, the state-run
 Middle East   News Agency  reported, citing the health ministry.  Prime Minister Essam Sharaf said in a televised speech that
the clashes were “unjustified violence” that “raised fear and
concerns about the future of this homeland” and the country’s
transition to democracy. The clashes sent the benchmark EGX 30
stock index tumbling as much as 5.2 percent. The measure lost
2.5 percent, falling to the lowest level since March 2009, at
12:41 p.m. in Cairo.  Economic Policies  The government and the military have blamed violence and
labor strikes for the country’s economic slowdown. Critics say
the government hasn’t taken a “single meaningful economic step
toward meeting the demands of the revolting Egyptians,”
columnist Wael Gamal wrote in the daily Al Shorouk newspaper
Oct. 2, citing the lack of progress on removing energy subsidies
for companies.  Protests against the government’s economic policies and the
planned IMF loan contributed to the departure of Finance
Minister  Samir Radwan  after the interim military rulers forced
him to turn down the IMF and trim the deficit target by reducing
investments. The IMF and Radwan denied that a loan would have
come with stringent conditions.  Egypt hasn’t asked the fund for a loan, Deputy Prime
Minister Hazem El Beblawi and IMF spokesman  David Hawley  said
last week.  ‘Fairly Embarrassing’  Going to the IMF would be “fairly embarrassing politically
given that they got the agreement and turned it down,” said
Richard Fox, the London-based head of Middle East and Africa
Sovereigns at  Fitch Ratings . “There’s no shortage of money
being pledged, particularly from the Gulf Cooperation Council,
and one of the problems is that it’s quite difficult to know
precisely what is likely to materialize.”  The rating company cut Egypt’s credit rating one level, to
BB, on Feb. 3, leaving it two levels below investment grade.
 Saudi Arabia  has given $500 million in budget support.  Egypt has no “inhibitions” about IMF suggestions to aid
the country, El Beblawi, who is also the finance minister, said
in Sept. 22 interview in  Washington . Public “apprehension”
about foreign borrowing is forcing the government to rely on
domestic banks instead of tapping international markets “though
economically speaking it might be wise,” he said.  The nation’s gross external debt is equivalent to 15.2
percent of gross domestic product, while the country’s gross
domestic debt is 68 percent of GDP, according to data on the
Ministry of Finance website.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond due April
2020 fell 2 basis points on Oct. 7 to 5.96 percent. That’s down
from this year’s high of 7.07 percent on Jan. 31. Egypt’s
default risk rose 5 basis points to 465, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted in the privately negotiated market.  19th Century Loans  Some of the misgiving from borrowing abroad can be traced
to an accumulation of debt in the 19th century to finance public
spending. According to F.  Robert Hunter  in ‘The Cambridge
History of Egypt,’ of the total amount received by rulers such
as Khedive Ismail, the “greater part was recycled to  Europe  in
the payment of principal and interest charges.” The experience,
still taught at local schools, cost the country its stake in the
 Suez Canal  before the 1882 British invasion.  “It’s part of the culture in Egypt that foreign borrowing
is associated with the loss of sovereignty and a negative impact
on the economy,” Mohamed Abu Basha, Cairo-based economist at
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank, said by e-mail.  ‘Cheapest Sources’  The argument still has some resonance today. Repayments of
$24.6 billion on external debt between 2000 to 2009 show that
Western loans “act to extract wealth from Egypt’s poor and
redistribute it to the richest banks in  North America  and
Europe,” Adam Hanieh, lecturer at the School of Oriental and
Africa Studies at the  University of London , wrote in May in
Jadaliyya, an online magazine specialized in Middle East
studies.  Still, borrowing from institutions such as the IMF “is
likely to take place,” EFG-Hermes’ Abu Basha said. “The IMF
and the  World Bank  are among the cheapest sources of financing
and they are more reassuring. It gives a positive message.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  