-- 
England Plans ’Robust’ Review of Its Failed Campaign at Rugby World Cup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-09T05:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/england-plans-robust-review-of-its-failed-campaign-at-rugby-world-cup.html
Rob Andrew, operations director at
the Rugby Football Union, will head a review of  England ’s failed
World Cup campaign before deciding whether  Martin Johnson  should
continue as team manager.  England, which reached the past two finals and won the Webb
Ellis Cup in 2003, exited the tournament in the quarterfinals
yesterday with a 19-12 loss to  France .  “We need to look at this review in a very robust manner
over the next few weeks,” Andrew said today at a news
conference in Auckland. “We have to take stock, not overreact
one way or another.”  England’s elimination to a France team that had limped into
the last eight after two straight losses fell short of its
target of making at least the semifinals and followed on and
off-field controversies at the tournament in  New Zealand .  Johnson reprimanded three players for making inappropriate
comments to a female hotel worker and also defended  Mike Tindall ’s conduct after a night out drinking with teammates that
attracted tabloid headlines. Johnson said any misleading
information that Tindall, who is married to Zara Phillips, the
granddaughter of  Queen Elizabeth II , gave as to his whereabouts
that night was a simple mistake.  Two of England’s assistant coaches also received a one-game
ban from the RFU for illegally switching a match ball during
England’s pool match victory over Romania. The RFU was forced to
act on the matter after tournament organizer  Rugby World Cup 
Ltd. opened a misconduct investigation.  Johnson, whose contract expires in December, said in his
post-match press conference that he would wait before
considering his options. He’s been in charge of England since
April 2008 and has a win-ratio of 56 percent from 38 Tests.  Emotions Raw  “Emotions are still very raw for everyone so you need to
step away from it,” Johnson, who captained England to its only
 World Cup  title eight years ago, said today. “We need to step
away now and get a bit of perspective on everything.”  Andrew, a former England fly-half, said the RFU would take
the next four to six weeks with Johnson reviewing the national
team’s performance.  “We said at the beginning that we would take this right
through with Martin to the World Cup,” Andrew said. “Now that
has happened we will look at what has gone on. The important
thing is we reflect and make a decision going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  