-- 
England Rugby’s Tuilagi Gets Fine, Police Warning for Auckland Ferry Jump

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-09T23:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/england-rugby-player-manu-tuilagi-fined-after-jumping-from-auckland-ferry.html
England  center Manu Tuilagi was
fined 3,000 pounds ($4,660) by the Rugby Football Union after
being detained by Auckland police for jumping from a ferry as it
was about to berth.  Tuilagi, who swam a short distance to a pier at the ferry
terminal, was taken to Auckland Central Police Station last
night, where he was “formally warned about the offense of
disorderly behavior then released,” New Zealand Police said.  “This was an irresponsible thing to do,” England team
manager  Martin Johnson  said in an e-mailed statement. “Manu has
been disciplined internally and I have warned him about his
future conduct.”  England was eliminated from the  Rugby World Cup  by  France 
in the quarterfinals two days ago and is scheduled to leave for
the U.K. today. The RFU will conduct a “robust” review of
England’s campaign before deciding whether Johnson should
continue in his role, Rob Andrew, operations director at the
London-based governing body, said yesterday.  England’s defeat to a France team that had limped into the
last eight after two straight losses followed on and off-field
controversies at the tournament.  Johnson reprimanded three players for making inappropriate
comments to a female hotel worker and also defended center  Mike Tindall ’s conduct after a night out drinking with teammates that
attracted tabloid headlines. Johnson said any misleading
information that Tindall, who is married to Zara Phillips, the
granddaughter of  Queen Elizabeth II , gave as to his whereabouts
that night was a simple mistake.  Ball Switch Ban  Two of England’s assistant coaches also received a one-game
ban from the RFU for illegally switching a match ball during
England’s pool match victory over Romania. The RFU was forced to
act on the matter after tournament organizer Rugby  World Cup 
Ltd. opened a misconduct investigation.  Samoa-born Tuilagi, 20, was earlier this month fined
NZ$10,000 ($7,693) by the International Rugby Board for wearing
an unapproved mouthguard carrying the name of a sponsor during
two matches in the pool phase.  Tuilagi, who became the youngest England player to feature
at a Rugby World Cup in the team’s tournament opener against
 Argentina , said he was “really sorry” for the ferry incident.
Tuilagi’s fine will be paid to the tournament’s Christchurch
earthquake appeal, the RFU said.  “It was a silly thing to do and I apologize to everybody
for any inconvenience,” Tuilagi said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  