-- 
Mercator Lines Plans to Add More Dredgers as India Expands Ports

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-10-09T18:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/mercator-lines-plans-to-add-more-dredgers-as-india-expands-ports.html
Mercator Lines Ltd. (MRLN) , India’s second-
largest shipping company, plans to buy more dredgers as it seeks
to benefit from the nation’s push to expand ports.  The shipping line is in talks to purchase “a couple of
more” dredgers to add to its fleet of five, Atul Agarwal,
managing director and chief financial officer, said in an e-mail
reply to Bloomberg News questions on Oct. 7. He didn’t say how
much money the company would spend on the acquisition.  State-controlled Dredging Corp. of India has also said it
will add four more vessels as the nation’s ports work to deepen
shipping channels to attract larger vessels amid a surge in
trade. Mumbai-based Mercator has diversified into coal mining
and offshore services to shield itself from cyclical downturns
in the traditional cargo business.  “It is a good strategy,” said Chetan Kapoor, an analyst
at IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd., who has a ‘buy’ rating on
Mercator. “There should be a good opportunity as there aren’t
many players active in dredging work in  India .”  India plans to spend as much as 2.87 trillion rupees ($58
billion) on its harbors in the 10 years ending 2020 as it aims
to boost the annual capacity at major ports to 1.6 billion tons
from 616 million tons, according to the shipping ministry.  Mercator rose 3.4 percent, the most in more than a week, to
23.05 rupees in Mumbai trading on Oct. 7. The stock has dropped
61 percent this year, compared with a 21 percent fall in the
BSE-200 index.  100 Billion Rupees  The nation may need to spend about 100 billion rupees for
dredging in the next five years, IDBI Capital’s Kapoor said.  Mercator’s dredging business has more than 4 billion rupees
of orders, and all its dredgers are contracted for the next one
to two years, according to Agarwal. Mercator earns as much as 8
percent of revenue from dredging.  The shipping line’s profit gained 77 percent to 940 million
rupees in the year ended in March 31, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales rose 56 percent to 28.2 billion rupees. The
company also operates eight tankers and 18 dry bulk carriers,
according to its  website .  “While existing major ports are going for expansion, new
private ports are also coming up,” Agarwal said. “ The Indian
government is planning to spend $60 billion on port development
by 2020 and is encouraging coastal shipping, which gives many
opportunities for dredging in the years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  