-- 
Erdogan’s Fighter Jets Challenge Cypriot Gas Exploration in Mediterranean

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-10-09T21:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/erdogan-s-gunboats-challenge-cyprus-gas-search-in-mediterranean.html
The four-decade clash between  Turkey 
and Cyprus has moved offshore, drawing warships into an area
where some of the past decade’s biggest natural gas fields were
found.  Turkey sent frigates and fighter jets to escort the seismic
ship  Piri Reis  when it set off last month. Days earlier, the
Greek Cypriot government, which Turkey doesn’t recognize,
authorized the start of drilling in the divided island’s waters.
Off nearby Israeli and Egyptian coasts, companies including BP
Plc and Noble Energy Inc. have found gas and are investing
billions of dollars.  The dispute adds to tensions fueled by Turkey’s feud with
 Israel  over the killing of activists aboard an aid ship, which
already led Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  to promise a
stronger naval presence in the Mediterranean. It may also hurt
the United Nations effort to speed up talks on reunifying
Cyprus, and Turkey’s bid to join the European Union, which
depends on their success.  “What we’re seeing now is a redrawing of the strategic
terrain of the eastern Mediterranean,” said James Ker-Lindsay,
a specialist on Turkey and Cyprus at the  London School of
Economics . Any confrontations stemming from drilling there
“would pretty much close Turkish hopes to become an EU
member.”  Gas finds further south have added to expectations of
success off Cyprus, raising the stakes.  The  U.S. Geological survey estimates  that the Levant Basin,
a triangular slice of the Mediterranean lying between Cyprus and
Israel, may hold 122 trillion cubic feet. That’s more than the
86.2 trillion cubic feet held by all EU countries combined,
according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  Biggest Discovery  Noble  says  its Leviathan field off Israel is the biggest
deep-water gas discovery of the past decade. The Houston-based
company says Leviathan and Tamar, another field it’s exploiting
with Israel’s  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , may hold 25 trillion cubic feet,
double the U.K.’s proven reserves in 2009.  “It increases the chances of finding something, given that
the findings on the sides validate the geology,” said Lionel Therond, head of oil and gas research at SBG Securities, a unit
of Standard Bank Group Ltd., in London. “That’s why Cyprus was
keen to license acreage and attract interest from the
industry.”  National Interest  Noble, which expects to start gas production in Israel next
year, won the  first gas exploration license  issued by the Cyprus
government in 2008. Cyprus says it may offer more licenses
within a year. Noble started drilling off Cyprus Sept. 18,
prompting the launch of the Turkish expedition five days later.  The southernmost point where the Piri Reis is exploring
overlaps with the area that Noble is drilling, said Huseyin Avni
Benli, head of the marine science and technology institute at
Dokuz Eylul University in western Turkey, which owns the ship.
The university is waiving more than $1 million in fees it would
typically charge because “the country’s interests are at
stake,” he said.  Dependence on imported energy has helped push Turkey’s
current account deficit to about 10 percent of gross domestic
product this year.  Turkey invaded Cyprus in 1974 in response to a coup by
supporters of union with  Greece . It’s the only country to
recognize a Turkish Cypriot administration in the island’s
north, where it keeps thousands of troops.  Talks Frozen  The diplomatic standoff has hobbled Turkey’s bid to join
the EU, which buys about half its exports. The bloc admitted
Cyprus in 2004 and has frozen sections of Turkey’s entry talks
because Turkey won’t recognize the Greek Cypriot government or
allow its ships to use Turkish ports. Cyprus takes over the EU’s
revolving presidency for six months in January.  Erdogan called Cypriot drilling a “provocation” that
could sabotage UN talks on Cyprus. UN Secretary General Ban Ki- moon has said he expects to push those negotiations forward this
month by meeting Turkish and Greek Cypriot leaders in  New York .  The gas dispute coincides with a shift in Turkey’s foreign
policy. Erdogan has this year downgraded ties with Israel, a
longtime military ally. Israel, meantime, has deepened ties with
Greece, Turkey’s historical rival, and the two countries have
discussed routes for exporting Israeli gas to  Europe .  Instead, Erdogan is pursuing ties with Arab countries. An
alliance between Turkey and  Egypt  would “form a force 150
million people strong,” he told a cheering crowd in Cairo on
Sept. 13. “We are virtually encircling the Mediterranean.”  Blacklist Threat  The premier has threatened to blacklist oil and gas
companies working with Cyprus. His energy minister,  Taner Yildiz , said last week that Turkey may shift resources from
energy exploration off its northern Black Sea coast to the
Mediterranean.  An energy find would help ease pressure on President
Demetris Christofias, who is struggling to avoid becoming the
latest European leader to seek a bailout, while resisting
opposition pressure to quit.  Cypriot two-year and 10-year bonds are trading at about 15
percent and 10 percent respectively, the highest in the EU bar
Greece and  Portugal . Opposition parties say Christofias should
resign over a July explosion at a munitions depot that knocked
out half the power supply.  Cyprus’s right to drill is “inalienable and non-
negotiable,” government spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  said last
week. Cyprus bases its claim to territorial waters on the UN
Convention on the Law of the Sea, concluded in 1982, which
Turkey hasn’t signed.  ‘Just Words’  A gas find may generate $5 billion, or one-quarter of
Cypriot gross domestic product, based on the reported size of
the field, Credit Suisse Group AG said in an Oct. 7 report.
Production probably wouldn’t begin before 2016, it said.  Erdogan has been praised by the EU for backing previous
efforts to reunify Cyprus, including a 2004 UN plan submitted to
a popular vote on both sides of the island. Turkish Cypriots
voted two-to-one in favor, Greek Cypriots three-to-one against.  The energy dispute may erode that credit, said Robert O’Daly, senior analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in
 London .  “Turkey is in danger of finishing on the wrong side of
this by being seen as the aggressive side,” though ultimately
Erdogan will avoid confrontation because his foreign policy is
“very pragmatic,” he said.  Still, such disputes always carry the risk of escalation,
the LSE’s Ker-Lindsay said.  “People like to think situations are manageable,” he
said. “They can have a nasty habit of spiraling out of
control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 