-- 
Merkel, Sarkozy Meet as Crisis Threatens Banks

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-10-09T14:45:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/merkel-to-meet-sarkozy-as-sovereign-debt-crisis-threatens-to-engulf-banks.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met in Berlin to discuss ways
to staunch the European debt crisis threatening to engulf the
region’s banks.  Merkel and Sarkozy may be nearing a compromise on a
possible Greek debt restructuring, greater flexibility for the
European bailout fund and recapitalizing European banks,  Welt am
Sonntag newspaper  reported, citing unidentified negotiators
involved in the talks. The two leaders are scheduled to give a
press conference at the Federal Chancellery at 5:30 p.m.  At their eighth bilateral summit in 20 months, the German
chancellor and French president will attempt to forge a
consensus on how to grapple with the crisis as it sends the euro
to its lowest level against the  U.S. dollar  since January. Any
compromise could still be foiled as the Slovak government
struggles to overcome differences to approve enhancements to the
bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.  Merkel may be more willing to accede to French proposals to
increase the flexibility of the EFSF in return for greater scope
for a Greek debt restructuring, Welt reported. European Union
leaders will also formulate a bank-recapitalization plan for the
region in time for an EU summit scheduled for Oct. 17 and 18,
the newspaper said.  Greek Haircut  Euro-area finance ministers are discussing a Greek debt
haircut of as much as 60 percent,  Deutsche Presse-Agentur 
reported today, citing unidentified officials familiar with the
negotiations.  Investors are demanding a premium of 21.5 percentage points
to hold Greek 10-year bonds over benchmark German bunds of
similar maturity. The euro has declined 6 percent against the
dollar since the beginning of September as investors assessed
the risk of a European financial crisis. It traded at 1.3378,
down from a May 2 high of 1.4830, as of Oct. 7.  BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s largest bank, and Societe Generale
SA denied a report in today’s  Le Journal du Dimanche  that they
may seek to raise billions of euros to shore up their capital as
part of a Europe-wide plan. The newspaper also reported that
Merkel and Sarkozy will seek to reassure markets by setting up a
timeframe for banks to reach equity goals in coming weeks.  A BNP Paribas spokeswoman, Carine Lauru, said today the
bank planned to reach a Tier 1 capital ratio of 9 percent under
Basel III rules by the start of 2013 without a capital increase.  Germany ’s Deutsche Bank AG on Oct. 4 scrapped its profit
forecast and announced 500 job cuts and further writedowns on
Greek bond holdings, while the board of French-Belgian bank
 Dexia SA (DEXB)  is meeting at 3 p.m. in Brussels today to study options
to dismantle the lender.  EFSF Roadblock  Slovakia’s junior government coalition member, the Freedom
and Solidarity party, won’t back the overhaul of the EFSF after
Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova  rejected its conditions for
approval, according to a lawmaker from the party, Jozef Kollar.
The party insists its three coalition partners agree to two
conditions before it supports the enhancement in a parliamentary
vote Oct. 11, Kollar said in a debate on state Slovak Radio
yesterday.  Slovakia and Malta are the only countries that haven’t yet
ratified the key element in the European Union’s plan to prevent
the region’s debt crisis from spreading. The Slovak row risks
sinking the EU plan, which needs the unanimous consent of all 17
euro members to come into force.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  