-- 
Euro Leaders Target Bank Capital in Crisis Plan

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-10T09:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/merkel-sarkozy-pledge-bank-recapitalization-in-crisis-plan-due-this-month.html
Angela Merkel  and  Nicolas Sarkozy 
turned their crisis-fighting focus to banks, promising a
recapitalization blueprint this month that will overtake a 12-
week-old rescue plan that has yet to be put into place.  “We will recapitalize the banks,” the French president
said in Berlin yesterday at a joint briefing with the German
chancellor without providing details. “We’ll do it in complete
agreement with our German friends because the economy needs it,
to assure growth and financing.”  Facing rising pressure to defuse turmoil that’s raged for
19 months and growing concern Greece is headed to a default,
Merkel said European leaders will do “everything necessary” to
ensure that banks have enough capital. Sarkozy said they would
deliver a plan by the Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit.  Searching for what each called a “durable” solution for
 Greece ’s debt load shows they have moved beyond a July 21 plan
that Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker called the “final
package, of course.” Their approach may spike a debt swap now
being negotiated that would impose a 21 percent write-off and
suggests investors take a bigger share of the losses, reflecting
the deterioration of the  Greek economy .  “There is a big difficulty with respect to the Greek
situation because it is looking as if the July 21 agreement just
isn’t sufficient and that’s been increasingly recognized in
Greece and the rest of  Europe ,” Julian Callow, chief European
economist at  Barclays Capital  in London, said today on Bloomberg
Television’s On the Move with Francine Lacqua.  The euro strengthened to the highest this month, adding as
much as 1.5 percent to $1.3583 at 11:45 a.m. in Berlin. Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index futures rose.  ‘One Step Behind’  “Maybe they’re still running one step behind, but they are
at least discussing the right things,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Group in Brussels.  Underscoring the urgency, directors of Franco-Belgian  Dexia
SA (DEXB)  began dismantling the lender, the first victim of the debt
crisis at the core of Europe. Belgium announced early today it
would pay 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) to take over the local
consumer-lending unit as part of the process.  “By the end of the month, we will have responded to the
crisis issue and to the vision issue,” Sarkozy said. While the
heads of Europe’s two biggest economies reiterated their
intention to keep Greece in the euro region, they left it to
international auditors, known as the “troika,” to guide the
next steps. Sarkozy didn’t repeat the line he used 10 days ago
that “we can’t let Greece fail.”  Greek Restructuring  The focus on banks signals a willingness to accept a Greek
debt restructuring, an outcome Sarkozy has resisted, according
to  Jacob Kirkegaard , a research fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in  Washington .  “In the end, Merkel and the slowing euro-area economy
checkmated Sarkozy and forced him to choose between standing
behind Greece or his own banks,” Kirkegarrd said in an e-mail.
“Unsurprisingly, he chose the latter.”  After their eighth bilateral summit in 20 months, the two
leaders unveiled no new agreement on what role should be played
by the bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility,
amid reports that they differed on how to use it.  A strengthening of the EFSF was part of the July 21
package, which has yet to be ratified by all 17 euro governments
as Slovakia’s ruling coalition struggles to back it.  ‘Great Risk’  European leaders are bracing for the consequences of a
Greek default. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
 Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung  that euro governments may
have come up short on the scale of Greek debt writedowns when
they reached the agreement in July. He cited a “great risk”
that the crisis could spread further.  European banks need as much as 200 billion euros of
capital, Antonio Borges, the International Monetary Fund’s
European department head, said last week.  Merkel said a report from a team of inspectors from the
IMF, the European Union and the  European Central Bank  later this
month will help determine the next step to keep Greece in the
17-nation  euro zone .  “On Greece, we are waiting for the troika report,”
Sarkozy said. “Here, too, we are on the same line: we will take
the appropriate decisions.”  The Greek debt load will climb to 172.7 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 -- about double  Germany ’s -- as the
economy contracts for a fifth year, the  Finance Ministry  said.  “The decision for a single currency was a path-breaking
decision and therefore we’ll defend it with all possible
strength,” Merkel said alongside Sarkozy. Sarkozy repeated
several times that the two leaders agreed “on everything.”  “The typical German-French experience over the last 20
months is that almost every time they really had to agree when
time was running out, they agree,” said  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  