-- 
Euro Leaders Determined to Support Banks, Merkel Says

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-09T18:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/euro-leaders-to-do-all-necessary-to-support-banks-merkel-says.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
European leaders will do “everything necessary” to ensure that
banks have adequate capital, joining French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to persuade investors they can stamp out the debt crisis
roiling global markets.  At a joint press conference in Berlin, Sarkozy set a
deadline of the Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit to deliver a response
that addresses the immediate crisis in  Greece  and what he called
the structural defects in the 17-nation euro area. No details
were provided today.  “By the end of the month, we will have responded to the
crisis issue and to the vision issue,” Sarkozy said. “We’re
determined to do everything necessary to ensure the
recapitalization of our banks,” Merkel said.  While the heads of  Europe ’s two biggest economies
reiterated their intention to keep Greece in the euro, they left
it to international auditors known as the “troika” to guide
the next steps, with Sarkozy avoiding the line he used nine days
ago that “we can’t let Greece fail.” The urgency to act was
underscored as the board of French-Belgian  Dexia SA (DEXB)  met today to
begin dismantling the lender, the first victim of the debt
crisis at the core of Europe.  European leaders are coming under increasing pressure from
international counterparts to end the debt contagion that
President  Barack Obama  said last month was “scaring the
world.” He dispatched Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to
a finance ministers’ meeting in  Poland  last month.  Bailout Fund  The two leaders unveiled no new agreement on what role
should be played by the European bailout fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility, amid reports that they differ on
the scope of the mechanism.  Welt am Sonntag newspaper  had
reported that Merkel and Sarkozy were nearing a compromise.  “We’re not going into details today -- we’re looking to
introduce an entire package,” Merkel said.  European leaders are bracing for the consequences of a
Greek default. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
 Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung  that euro-area
governments may have come up short on the scale of Greek debt
writedowns when they reached an agreement required in July. He
cited a “great risk” that the crisis could spread further.  Merkel said a report from a team of inspectors from the
 International Monetary Fund , the European Union and the  European
Central Bank  later this month will help provide a “durable
solution” for Greece to remain within the euro zone.  “On Greece, we are waiting of the troika report,” Sarkozy
said. “Here, too, we are on the same line: we will take the
appropriate decisions.”  Greek Debt  The Greek debt load will climb to 172.7 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 -- about double  Germany  -- as the
economy contracts for a fourth year, the  Finance Ministry  in
 Athens  said Oct. 3.  “The decision for a single currency was a path-breaking
decision and therefore we’ll defend it with all possible
strength,” Merkel said alongside Sarkozy. Sarkozy repeated
several times that the two leaders agreed “on everything.”  Investors are demanding a premium of 21.5 percentage points
to hold Greek 10-year bonds over benchmark German bunds of
similar maturity. The euro has declined 6 percent against the
dollar since the beginning of September as investors assessed
the risk of a European financial crisis. It traded at 1.3378,
down from a May 2 high of 1.4830, as of Oct. 7.  Dexia  Paris- and Brussels-based Dexia became the first victim of
the debt crisis, which has caused the evaporation of short-term
funding to what used to be the world’s largest municipal lender.
The French, Belgian and Luxembourg governments said today they
backed management’s plan paving the way for dismantlement.  Any accord could still be foiled as the Slovak government
struggles to overcome differences to approve enhancements to the
EFSF. Slovakia’s junior government coalition member, the Freedom
and Solidarity party, won’t back the overhaul of the EFSF after
Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova  rejected its conditions for
approval, according to a lawmaker from the party, Jozef Kollar.  The party insists its three coalition partners agree to two
conditions before it supports the changes in a parliamentary
vote scheduled for Oct. 11, Kollar said in a debate on state
Slovak Radio yesterday.  Slovakia and Malta are the only countries that haven’t yet
ratified the key element in the European Union’s plan to prevent
the region’s debt crisis from spreading. The Slovak row risks
sinking the EU plan, which needs the unanimous consent of all 17
euro members to come into force.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  