-- 
Yen, Dollar Decline as U.S. Stock Futures Climb, Damping Safe-Haven Demand

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-10-10T07:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/euro-maintains-declines-as-sarkozy-merkel-fail-to-reassure-on-debt-crisis.html
The yen and dollar fell against most
of their major counterparts as speculation that  Europe  can
contain its debt crisis spurred gains in U.S. equity futures,
damping demand for haven currencies.  The euro rose after French and German leaders pledged to
deliver a plan in three weeks to recapitalize banks and
reiterated their intention to keep Greece in the euro.
Australia’s dollar gained for a fifth day against the greenback
before data this week that may show employment in the South
Pacific nation increased. Malaysia’s ringgit advanced versus the
dollar on speculation global funds will invest more in the
nation’s assets as the economy sustains its recovery.  “The reason for the weakness in the yen and dollar is just
generally there’s been a slight improvement in risk appetite,”
said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy in  Hong
Kong  at Credit Agricole CIB. “Expectations or hopes for some
sort of concrete solution for euro-zone debt problems have also
helped to support risk appetite.”  The yen weakened 0.7 percent to 103.37 per euro at 7:55
a.m. in  London  from 102.66 in  New York  on Oct. 7. It was little
changed at 76.70 per dollar. The euro climbed 0.7 percent to
$1.3469. Australia’s dollar strengthened 0.7 percent to 98.34
U.S. cents.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures advanced 1.1 percent.
Japanese financial markets and U.S. Treasuries trading are
closed today for national holidays.  European Response  French President Nicolas Sarkozy, speaking yesterday at a
joint briefing with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, set a
deadline to deliver a response that addresses  Greece ’s immediate
difficulties and what he called the structural defects in the
17-nation euro area. He said European leaders would deliver a
plan by the Group of 20 summit on Nov. 3.  Merkel said Europe’s leaders will do “everything
necessary” to ensure banks have enough capital to weather the
region’s debt crisis.  A reason “for the bounce in euro is that at least they’re
doing something,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney
at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
interdealer broker. “It’s a big change from even a couple of
weeks ago, where people were confused as to how united European
leaders were. I think the euro will see a modest bid.”  The euro also strengthened on speculation it may be poised
for a rebound, according to  Sean Callow , a senior currency
strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp.,  Australia ’s
second-largest lender.  ‘Very Short Euro’  “A lot of the people who are gloomy on Europe have already
sold their euros,” Callow said. “The market seems to be
already very short euro, so that’s working in its favor.”  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other speculators on a drop in the euro compared with those on a
gain climbed on Oct. 4 to the most since June 2010, figures from
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission
showed.  The euro extended gains after  Belgium  agreed to buy the
local consumer-lending unit of Dexia SA, ending a 15-year cross-
border experiment with  France  after the European debt crisis
deepened. Belgium will pay 4 billion euros for the division and
guarantee 60 percent of a so-called bad bank to be set up for
Dexia’s troubled assets, Finance Minister Didier Reynders said
at a press conference today in Brussels.  “The fact that the French and Belgian governments are
starting to deal with it is obviously as well seen to be
positive” for the euro,  Credit Agricole ’s Kotecha said.  Australia, Malaysia  Australia’s dollar was set to complete a five-day gain
against the U.S. currency, the longest advance in a month.  The nation’s employers probably added 10,000 jobs in
September, after cutting 9,700 positions in August, the
statistics bureau will say on Oct. 13, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The so-called Aussie has climbed 1.6 percent in the past
week, the best performer among 10 developed nation peers tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The Malaysian ringgit gained for a fifth day against the
dollar, poised for its longest winning streak since Aug. 15,
before reports forecast to show signs of economic recovery.  Investment inflows “will be good as economic growth is
projected to be better,” said Akira Banno, a treasury adviser
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in  Kuala Lumpur .  Government data due tomorrow will show  Malaysia ’s
industrial output rose 0.4 percent in August from a year earlier
after declining 0.6 percent in July, another Bloomberg survey of
economists shows.  The ringgit appreciated 0.7 percent to 3.1370 per dollar.
It earlier reached 3.1310, the strongest level since Sept. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  