-- 
Fiona Shaw Stuffs Figaro, Rock Anthems, Spooks: London Stage

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-10-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/fiona-shaw-stuffs-figaro-rock-anthems-spooks-london-stage.html
You can tell when a director
doesn’t trust the material. She pumps a staging full of props.  Fiona Shaw’s stab at Mozart’s “The Marriage of Figaro,” at
 English National Opera  in London, is as busy as Times Square.
Servants move about behind the singers, doing bits of business.
There are projections above the stage. The cast scampers through
the rooms of the revolving set so often it’s a wonder the poor
things don’t get dizzy.  It’s not action. It’s distraction. And crucially for a
comedy, it’s not funny.  Then there are the props, the endless telegraphic props.
Shaw’s principal idea is that Count Almaviva is a woman-
devouring Minotaur whose palace is a maze of corridors. To this
end, the count frequently appears holding a pair of bull’s
horns. He licks them. He jabs Susanna with them. He scratches
his back with them. He fondles them. He puts them on his head
when he thinks he’s being cuckolded.  It’s like one of those improv sessions favored by student
actors. Find 10 things to do with a chair. Create 17 uses for a
brick. Pretend these horns are a metaphor.  Almaviva isn’t the only one. Bartolo picks at a shaving
brush: He hates Figaro, who’s a barber. Marcellina waves a fly
swatter: It tells us she’s waspish. Figaro toys with a bleached
animal skull: He’s cunning, a hunter.  It’s like an endless classroom session of show-and-tell.  Bright Voices  That’s a shame because much of the singing is lovely. Devon
Guthrie (Susanna) has a bright, refreshing sound. Iain Paterson
is an authoritative Figaro, with a good ringing top register.
Elizabeth Llewellyn (replacing an indisposed Kate Valentine as
the countess) has impressive phrasing.  Roland Wood (Count Almaviva) struggles against the demands
of the production. When he’s not jabbing bull’s horns at his
female colleagues, he’s in his underwear chasing them around the
stage. It’s a difficult look to pull off. One minute he pretends
to hide his tumescence, the next he seems to forget it’s there.
Maybe the director should give him another prop.  Designer Peter McKintosh creates a maze of rooms and
corridors out of rectangles of opaque corrugated plastic, and he
dresses the cast in a mix of rococo and modern styles. It’s as
dispiriting as Paul Daniel’s ho-hum conducting, which rarely
gets under the skin of the notes.  Perhaps it wasn’t such a great idea for ENO to have
entrusted the hardest operatic comedy in the repertoire to a
director with just two productions under her belt, one of them a
small chamber piece. Rating:*.  Rock and Thongs  Another production in  London  creates a similar “what? how?
why?” response.  “Rock of Ages”  features the pretty talent-show
star Shayne Ward, and comes into the U.K. capital blazing the
logo “Broadway’s Guilty Pleasure.”  When advertisers resort to calling the pleasures they offer
“guilty,” you can almost hear the bottom of the adjective barrel
being scraped.  The whole shebang is an excuse for a juke-box trawl through
1980s rock ballads. Some of them, like “I Want to Know What Love
Is” and “Any Way You Want It,” were hits in the U.K. way back
when. Plenty more, alas, never quivered the needle of popularity
this side of the pond.  The tone is as unstable as a two-legged table. It veers
from parody to social protest to silliness.  When the female protagonist is forced to work in a strip
club, we’re supposed to feel sorry for her. Since most of the
members of the female ensemble have been stretching their legs
in tiny thongs for most of the evening, it’s hard not to feel
the sleaziness of the hypocrisy. The whole show feels like a
glorified female fleshmarket, parody or no.  With few great songs to redeem it, that doesn’t add up to a
lot of reasons to rock along to the Shaftesbury Theatre.
Rating:*.  Ghost Story  Irish playwright Conor McPherson is best known for his
evening of ghost stories called “The Weir.” He brings more
supernatural spookery to “The Veil,” now playing at the  National
Theatre .  Set in a dilapidated grand Protestant house in Ireland in
1822, it tells the story of Hannah, a young girl about to be
married off to a wealthy English peer. When Hannah reveals that
she has been hearing voices, her steely mother Madeleine tries
to ignore her. Their family friend Reverend Berkeley, a
defrocked priest with a taste for Hegelian philosophical
speculation, attempts to employ Hannah as a medium to contact
the spirit world.  The opening is promising. There are echoes of Chekhov in an
atmosphere of entrapment, the desire for escape, and the faded
grandeur.  Then the echoes become quotes. Repeated business with off-
stage gunshots is too close to “Uncle Vanya” for comfort. When
the play strays into dense monologues about German metaphysics,
and when the early plot elements begin to meander without focus,
it all feels too much like an undercooked Irish stew.  The performances are entertaining, especially Fenella
Woolgar as Madeleine. And Rae Smith’s period drawing-room set is
gorgeous. By no means a failure, it’s still not quite a must-
see. Rating: **.  “The Marriage of Figaro” is in repertoire at the Coliseum
through Nov. 10. Information:  http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-911-
0200. “Rock of Ages” is at the Shaftesbury Theatre,
 http://www.rockofagesmusical.co.uk  or +44-20-7379-5399. “The
Veil” is in repertoire at the National Theatre,
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  +44-20-7452-3000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 