-- 
Galileo Filly Sold for 2011 Top Price $2.8 Million at Tattersalls Auction

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-09T23:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/galileo-filly-sold-for-2011-top-price-2-8-million-at-tattersalls-auction.html
A slow-down in breeding and
increased demand from international buyers including Dubai ruler
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum boosted prices for top
young race horses at Europe’s biggest auction by 32 percent.  In the final hours of the three-day auction in Newmarket,
eastern  England , a filly by Derby winner  Galileo  was sold for
1.7 million guineas ($2.8 million). That’s the top price for a
yearling filly paid this year in  North America  and Europe and
the highest at Tattersalls since 2007. The horse was sold to
Nurlan Bizakov, a businessman from  Kazakhstan  who recently
bought Hesmonds Stud in England.  “To stage a record-breaking sale is always something to
celebrate, but to do this in the current economic climate is
truly remarkable and a welcome boost for the bloodstock
industry,” Edward Mahoney, chairman of Tattersalls, said on the
auctioneers’ website. The auction finished late on Oct. 7.  The average price paid for a yearling - a one-year-old
untrained racehorse - was 141,852 guineas, compared with 107,445
guineas last year at  Europe ’s premium thoroughbred auction. The
guinea, no longer in use and equivalent to 1.05 pounds, was the
unit of currency often paid to artists and professionals.  “The real feature of the sale has been the number and
diversity of buyers active throughout the three days and
particularly significant has been the contribution from new or
relatively new overseas participants at all levels of the
market,” Mahoney said.  Turnover rose 7 percent to 51.6 million guineas, while the
median price paid for a yearling increased by 30,000 guineas to
100,000 guineas.  Top Buyer  Accompanied by his chief buyer John Ferguson, Sheikh
Mohammed was the top buyer at Tattersalls, spending 6 million
guineas, almost double last year. Irish millionaire  John
Magnier , whose Coolmore operation owns Galileo, was the second-
biggest spender with 5.4 million guineas.  Top young racehorses have also become more expensive as
breeding slowed amid the global economic downturn. There were
508 thoroughbreds in the auction this year, compared with 689
horses during last year’s sales.  “There is actually a decline in the numbers of animals
being produced,” Tattersalls marketing director Jimmy George
said in an interview at the sales last week. “So we can tighten
up the catalogue and you get supply and demand coming more in
line, and that’s what everybody needs. Breeding thoroughbreds
sadly is not a process you can just stop. Last year was the last
of the pre-recession foal crop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Newmarket through the London
newsroom on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  