-- 
Green Europe Imperiled as Crisis Triggers Carbon Collapse

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-10-10T10:43:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/green-europe-imperiled-as-debt-crisis-triggers-46-carbon-market-collapse.html
The European sovereign debt crisis
that’s spread from  Greece  to  Italy  and is roiling the region’s
banks now has another potential victim:  energy policy .  European Union emission permits, needed by polluters from
utilities to cement makers for each ton of the carbon dioxide
they put in the atmosphere, slumped to their lowest price in 2
1/2 years on Oct 4. An auction of permits by Greece, trying to
avoid the euro area’s first default, worsened a glut of the
allowances, UBS AG analyst Per Lekander said last week.  Lower carbon prices discourage European utilities including
EON AG and GDF Suez SA from investing in wind farms and solar
plants that don’t need permits. The industry needs to spend as
much as 900 billion euros ($1.3 trillion) by 2020 to meet a
target of getting 20 percent of power from renewable sources,
Citigroup Inc. estimates. The economic slowdown is adding to
carbon-permit supply as manufacturers and generators sell
allowances not needed by idle factories and  power plants .  “The thing that will most kill renewable development is
low carbon prices,” said  James Cox , an analyst at energy
consultant Poyry in Oxford. “If the Eurozone crisis continues,
that will lead to an extremely low carbon price and it makes it
difficult to invest in low-carbon generation.”  Price Drop  EU carbon permits for delivery in December fell to 9.82
euros a metric ton last week, the lowest price since February
2009 and a 46 percent decline from May’s year-to-date high. That
compares with the 16-pound (18.44-euro) price floor the U.K. has
suggested is necessary to ensure investment in low-carbon
generation. EU permits rose 2.2 percent to 10.69 euros a ton as
of 11:26 a.m. today on  London ’s ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  The “price level does not encourage investments in low-
carbon energy generation capacities,” Georg Oppermann, a
spokesman for EON, said by phone from Duesseldorf. “Companies
will only invest if they can expect higher prices in the
future.”  The EU cap-and-trade system, which puts limits on more than
11,000 utilities and manufacturing companies across the union’s
27 members, began in 2005 and is now in a second phase that ends
in 2012. In the third stage starting in 2013, the majority of
power plants will be required to purchase all their permits.  The program is the cornerstone policy to meet a binding
target to cut  carbon emissions  20 percent from 1990 levels by
2020. The EU may seek to cut carbon release by as much as 95
percent by 2050.  Adjust the System  “We have seen similar price developments during the first
wave of the economic crisis in 2008,” Daniel Kluge, a spokesman
for  Germany ’s BEE renewable energy lobby, said in a telephone
interview. “The emissions-trading system needs to be adjusted
to be able to react better to the expansion of renewables and
short-term economic developments.”  The U.K. is one country looking at ways to remove carbon-
price uncertainty from investment decisions. Britain, which
plans to install more than 8,000 offshore  wind turbines  by 2020,
has proposed measures including the 16-pound carbon floor price
starting in 2013, rising to 30 pounds by 2020.  “The current volatility of the price of carbon is
indicative of wider issues within the  electricity market  that
need to be addressed,” Electricite de France SA’s U.K. division
said in an e-mailed statement. The price floor will “begin to
restore the carbon price signal to what was originally intended
by creation of the EU emissions-trading scheme.”  Urgent Action  Europe must take “urgent action” to prevent further
declines in carbon prices, according to Graeme Sweeney,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s vice president of Future Fuels and CO2. He
recommended withholding some carbon permits in the next phase of
the program to ensure prices are high enough to encourage low-
carbon investment.  A program to fund carbon-capture and storage projects that
bury emissions underground may run afoul of the plunge in carbon
prices, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said. The EU plans to help
finance carbon-capture sites and other renewables investments
with money raised from the sale of 300 million permits from a
reserve in the next phase of the carbon trading system.  The drop in carbon prices means the storage projects, more
expensive than most renewables investments, may not get the
funding they need, said Jonathan Grant, London-based assistant
director of sustainability and climate change at PwC, the
 management consultant .  Add Supply  Once the  European Investment Bank  starts selling permits
from the reserve this year it will add more supply to the
market. As well as governments, companies are getting rid of
permits to shore up balance sheets in the face of tighter credit
markets, acccording to Barclays Capital analyst  Trevor Sikorski .  European countries have 93 million permits from the so-
called new entrant reserve that they can sell by the end of
2012, according to researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
Sales such as those undertaken by Greece last week may add to
the market’s volatility, BNEF analyst Konrad Hanschmidt said
last month.  Jean-Francois Cirelli, the president of Europe’s largest
utility,  GDF Suez (GSZ) , said in September that the EU is “not a
stable political environment” and utilities will struggle to
raise the money needed for new plants. “It is unimaginable it
will be financed easily.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 