-- 
Informa Open to Company Sale, Not Seeing Economic Rebound

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-10T16:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/informa-ceo-rigby-open-to-company-sale-sees-economic-woes-into-next-year.html
Informa Plc (INF) , the publisher of
Lloyd’s List, is open to a sale of the company and is biding its
time on buying and selling assets with the weak economy unlikely
to improve next year, its chief executive officer said.  Informa would consider a takeover by another company in the
data-aggregation and events business, Peter Rigby said in an
interview. While Informa said in February that it aimed to sell
non-core assets such as a U.S.-based computer-program management
business, potential buyers aren’t willing to pay enough to make
it worthwhile, Rigby said.  “There’s not been much action since the summer really
because everybody is petrified about what’s going to happen
next,” Rigby, 56, said in Bloomberg’s London office on Oct. 7.
“There is no sign that 2012 will be a better year than 2011.”  The company’s board spurned a 1.9 billion-pound ($3
billion) takeover bid from buyout firms led by Providence Equity
Partners Ltd. in 2008. Informa hasn’t been approached since
2008, Rigby said. Zug, Switzerland-based Informa’s shares, down
17 percent this year, trailed peers such as  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) ,
owner of the LexisNexis database, and  Pearson Plc. (PSON)   “A potential cost-savings-driven merger with Springer
Science+Business Media GmbH should not be ruled out,” Johnathan Barrett, an analyst at Singer Capital Markets Ltd., wrote today
in a note, referring to Rigby’s comments. “It would appear that
the cash generation points to solid trading.” Barrett
recommends buying Informa shares and has a price target of 522
pence.  Shares Advance  Informa rose 3.3 percent to close at 350.1 pence in London
trading, valuing the company at 2.1 billion pounds. The FTSE 250
Index, which includes Informa, advanced 1.8 percent, while  Reed
Elsevier  climbed 0.7 percent.  In December 2009, Informa said it had ended talks to
acquire Springer Science, a German academic publisher.  Informa’s events unit, which hosts conferences such as the
Monaco Yacht Show, is its biggest division, accounting for
almost half of the company’s revenue in the first half. Informa
also generates sales from the academic and professional
information businesses, which publish text books and software to
train workers and students, and from maintaining databases
including financial and legal information.  Debt Target  Informa will probably end this year with a ratio of about
two times net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the lower end of its forecast,
said Rigby. Cash and cash equivalents rose 80 percent to 36.7
million pounds in the 12 months ended June 30 and the company
obtained a 625 million-pound credit facility this year.  Rigby said Informa has no immediate plans to return its tax
base to the U.K. from  Switzerland . If the U.K.’s Controlled
Foreign Corporation tax regulations are amended, the company may
reconsider its position, depending on how it affects earnings
from other countries, he said.  “We don’t get taxed twice on profits” in Switzerland,
Rigby said. Currently, a move to the U.K. would hurt profit, and
by being based in Zug “we’re saving cash,” he said.  Informa bought two events businesses in  Brazil  for about 81
million pounds in the first half, and is expanding in emerging
markets where companies rely on trade shows for networking and
information not provided elsewhere. Future acquisitions will
probably be similarly modest, Rigby said.  “I don’t know if you would necessarily buy anything right
now if you didn’t need to,” Rigby said. “There’s quite a lot
available, but the answer is it doesn’t necessarily meet our
criteria. It’s too expensive for now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  