-- 
Infratil May Sell Glasgow Prestwick Airport After Ryanair Reduces Flights

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-10-10T04:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/infratil-may-sell-glasgow-airport-as-ryanair-reduces-flights.html
Infratil Ltd. (IFT)  may sell Glasgow
Prestwick Airport following flight cuts by  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,
the airfield’s largest operator of scheduled passenger services.  “Glasgow isn’t performing,” Marko Bogoievski, chief
executive officer of Wellington, New Zealand-based Infratil,
said in an Oct. 5 interview. “It’s a difficult asset to see in
the portfolio in the long term.”  Combined passenger numbers at Prestwick and Infratil’s
other U.K. airport, Manston, tumbled 33 percent in April through
August, predominately because of Ryanair paring flights at its
Glasgow hub. Infratil may use the proceeds from selling
Prestwick for investments in other airports or to boost its
portfolio of  energy assets  in  Australia  and New Zealand, which
offer more reliable earnings, Bogoievski, 49, said.  Investments with strong cash flows “are easier for
investors to get their head around and easier for bankers to
bank,” he said. “We’ve rebalanced to that sort of asset.”  Infratil has also sold a 90 percent stake in  Germany ’s
Luebeck Airport and its shares in  Auckland International Airport
Ltd. (AIA)  over the past two years. In March 2010, it joined with the
New Zealand Superannuation Fund to buy Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s
fuel-retailing assets in the country.  Wellington Airport  Still, Infratil has no plans to shed its 66 percent stake
in Wellington International Airport Ltd., even as investor
Utilico Investments Ltd. calls for a sale, Bogoievski said.
London-based Utilico, which owns about 15 percent of Infratil,
said last month the stake should be sold because the investment
is mature in nature and unlikely to jump in value.  “They’re an investor and entitled to their view,”
Bogoievski said. The company will retain the Wellington stake as
earnings are growing and because passenger numbers will probably
double by 2030, he said.  Infratil  said on Oct. 7 that first-half earnings will
likely be in line with full-year guidance as it benefited from
higher electricity prices and increased demand for bus rides in
 New Zealand  because of the Rugby  World Cup .  The shares fell 0.5 percent to NZ$1.83 at the 5 p.m. close
in Wellington trading, extending the stock’s decline this year
to 5.7 percent. The benchmark New Zealand NZX 50 index has
gained 1.9 percent.  Elvis Visit  Prestwick, Scotland’s busiest cargo airport, and Manston,
east of  London , handled 560,289 passengers in the five months to
Aug. 31. The Scottish airport, about 32 miles (50 kilometers)
south of Glasgow, was the only place in the U.K.  visited  by
 Elvis Presley . The singer stopped off there in 1960 while flying
back to the U.S. following military service in Germany.  Glasgow’s larger airport, Glasgow International, or
Edinburgh Airport,  Scotland ’s busiest, may also go on sale soon
as the U.K.’s competition commission has ordered BAA Ltd. to
shed one of the two facilities. BAA, the owner of London’s
Heathrow, is appealing the ruling.  Prestwick and Manston made a combined operating loss of
NZ$11.3 million ($9 million) in the year ended March 31,
prompting Infratil to cut their value to NZ$101 million from
NZ$138 million a year earlier. The airports’ passenger numbers
fell 9.4 percent in the year ended March, while freight volumes
tumbled about 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  