-- 
Israel Launches Partnership Competition for Fiber Optic Network Project

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-10-09T12:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/israel-launches-partnership-competition-for-fiber-optic-network-project.html
Israel  is seeking a company to
partner with Israel Electric Corp. to build a fiber-optic
network that can provide fast internet and television service
and compete with existing fixed-line companies.  The competitive process will be completed in about six
months, the Israel’s finance, communications, and national
infrastructure ministers said in a press release today. The
winner will be offered a 51 percent stake in a communications
infrastructure company, the government said.  Israel wants “an information highway that will lead to
every home and office,” Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said
in a press conference today. “We want to be among the first
countries in which a fiber-optic network will reach the
majority of homes.”  The government is introducing competitors into the
country’s telecommunications market by granting additional
licenses to mobile phone operators and allowing Israel Electric
and its partner to offer fixed-line services. The new network
will compete with Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. and  Hot
Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)   The network will aim to bring fast internet to two-thirds
of homes within seven years, Steinitz said. It will eventually
cut internet and television fees from “hundreds of shekels” a
month to “tens of shekels,” Communications Minister Moshe
Kahlon said at the press conference.  Bezeq Must Invest  “The impact on Bezeq over the years could be significantly
negative,” Gilad Alper, an analyst at Excellence Nessuah
Investment House in  Ramat Gan , Israel, said in a telephone
interview. “Bezeq will have to make a  capital investment 
to upgrade its infrastructure to level the technological
playing-field.”  The impact on Hot will be even greater because it’s a
“weaker company” that will find it “harder to maintain market
share,” Alper said.  Israel’s TA-COM index of telecommunications companies has
declined by about 36 percent in the past six months, compared
with a 22 percent drop in the TA-25 benchmark index.  Bezeq was down 1.3 percent to 6.94 shekels as of 2:22 p.m.,
extending its six-month decline to 33 percent. Hot fell 1.3
percent to 44.90 shekels, for a six-month drop of 31 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 