-- 
Israel Inflation Expectations Plunge as Government Approves Plan

-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 
2011-10-09T15:54:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/israel-inflation-expectations-increase-as-cabinet-debates-prices.html
Israeli inflation expectations
declined to the lowest level in more than three weeks after the
cabinet approved proposals from the government-appointed
Trajtenberg committee to address cost-of-living complaints.  The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects market
expectations for inflation over the period, slid six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 173 at the 4:30 p.m. close
in Tel Aviv, the lowest since Sept. 15. That implies an average
annual inflation rate of 1.73 percent. Inflation-linked bonds
due June 2013 rose, pushing the yield down three basis points to
1.09 percent.  The Cabinet approved the panel’s recommendations, including
easing import restrictions and boosting the supply of affordable
housing, by a 21 to eight vote today, according to a text
message from the office of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .
The panel led by economist Manuel Trajtenberg drafted the
proposals in response to social protests that drew hundreds of
thousands of Israelis to the streets this summer to protest the
high cost of living and lack of affordable housing.  “The Trajtenberg proposals will lower prices modestly over
the medium term,”  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based economist
for HSBC Holdings Plc, said by telephone today. “More than
anything, the social protests that are putting pressure on the
chain stores have had more of an impact on lowering food
prices.”  Dairy Prices  The demonstrations and boycotts, which started in June over
the cost of cottage cheese, prodded Tnuva Food Industries
Agricultural Co-Op In  Israel  Ltd., which controls about 70
percent of the dairy market, to cut recommended selling prices
by as much as 15 percent last week. Competitor  Strauss Group
Ltd. (STRS)  followed with reductions of 12 percent on some of its  milk
products . Strauss shares declined 2.1 percent.  Food costs fell 0.2 percent in August after declining 0.6
percent in July, according to the  Central Bureau of Statistics .
Consumer prices in September will be unchanged from August,
according to the median estimate of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Katz, forecasts an 0.1 percent increase. Annual
inflation will slow to 3.2 percent from 3.4 percent, according
to the survey. The statistics bureau will release the figures
Oct. 14.  On Hold  Israel’s benchmark government bonds declined for a second
day before a planned  Finance Ministry  auction of 1.55 billion
shekels ($417 million) of debt tomorrow. The yield on the 5.5
percent Mimshal Shiklit bond due January 2022 increased three
basis points to 4.57 percent.  “People aren’t buying today, waiting for tomorrow’s
sale,” Assaf Rosenberg, head of fixed-income sales at
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan , Israel,
said by telephone. A decline in  tax revenue  and rising Treasury
yields also are continuing to have an affect on bond prices, he
said.  Israel posted a budget deficit of 1.6 billion shekels in
September as direct taxes, which have shown a “declining
trend” since June, slid 2 percent from a year earlier, the
Finance Ministry said Oct. 6.  Tomorrow’s bond auction will include 200 million shekels of
2.75 percent inflation-linked bonds due in 2041, according to
Finance Ministry data posted on Bloomberg. The government plans
to raise 6 billion shekels from debt sales this month.  Rate Cut  The Tel-Bond 40 index of corporate bonds declined 0.3
percent.  The shekel weakened the first time in four days on Oct. 7,
slipping less than 0.1 percent to 3.7165 per dollar. Two-year
 interest-rate  swaps, an indicator of investor expectations for
rates over the period, were unchanged at 2.68 percent.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  cut the benchmark
interest rate by a quarter point to 3 percent on Sept. 26 as
inflation slowed, growth eased and  Europe , one of the country’s
key export markets, grappled with its debt crisis.  “We see a stable rate in November and a cut for December
to 2.75 percent,” Ron Eichel, chief economist at Meitav Mutual
Fund Management in  Tel Aviv  said by telephone today.  Goldman Sachs said Sept. 27 the benchmark lending rate may
decline to 2.5 percent by year end, while Citigroup Inc. has
forecast another quarter-point cut this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  