-- 
Israel Cabinet Approves Proposals to Raise Taxes, Cut Prices

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-10-09T16:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/israel-cabinet-approves-proposals-to-raise-taxes-cut-prices-1-.html
Israel ’s Cabinet voted today to adopt
a government panel’s recommendations to raise taxes on companies
and on individuals who earn more than about $130,000 a year, and
open markets to increased competition.  The Cabinet approved the report by a vote of 21 to 8,
according to a text message from Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office. The recommendations will be passed to
Cabinet subcommittees as the first step in bringing the plans to
parliament for approval.  The panel, appointed by Netanyahu in response to protests
over the cost of living, proposed that corporate taxes be
increased to 25 percent next year and 26 percent in 2013 from 24
percent this year. It said the top rate of personal income tax
should be raised to 48 percent, that the country must increase
its stock of affordable housing and local markets should be more
open to imports to boost competition and lower prices.  The report’s approval “will allow us to submit detailed
decisions to the Cabinet in order to lower the cost of living,”
Netanyahu told ministers at their weekly meeting in  Jerusalem ,
according to an e-mailed statement. “A combination of these
steps will lower the prices of goods and marketing in the
economy.”  Inflation Expectations  Inflation expectations declined to the lowest level in more
than three weeks after the Cabinet decision. The two-year
breakeven rate, which reflects market expectations for inflation
over the period, slid six basis points, or 0.6 percentage point,
to 173 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv , the lowest since
Sept. 15. That implies an average annual inflation rate of 1.73
percent. Inflation-linked bonds due June 2013 rose, pushing the
yield down three basis points to 1.09 percent.  Netanyahu tapped the panel, led by economist Manuel Trajtenberg, to come up with proposals after street protests
were held across the country to call for lower prices and more
affordable housing.  The proposed tax increases would raise 30 billion shekels
($8 billion) over five years, and the money should mostly be
spent on education, the panel said when it presented its
recommendations on Sept. 26. It also proposed cuts to the
 defense budget .  Israel’s TA-25 Index fell 1.4 percent to 1,035.08 at the
4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.  Clal Industries and Investments Ltd. (CII)  and its cement unit,
Nesher Israel Cement Enterprises Ltd., would be
“significantly” affected should the panel’s recommendations be
implemented, Clal said in a statement on Sept. 27. Nesher, which
controls 90 percent of domestic cement production, was cited in
the Trajtenberg report as “illustrating the variety of tools
against competition available to local industrial groups.”  Clal Industries dropped 1.3 percent to 16.19 shekels in Tel
Aviv today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 