-- 
Japan Says Abu Dhabi Responds ‘Positively’ to Oil Talks

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-10-09T15:47:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/japan-says-abu-dhabi-responds-positively-to-oil-talks-1-.html
Japan  received “positive responses”
from  Abu Dhabi  regarding the renewal of oil concessions in the
 United Arab Emirates , Japan’s minister of energy, trade and
industry said during a trip to the Persian Gulf nation.  “We discussed concession extensions and new investments,
including oilfields which have not been developed and onshore
blocks,”  Yukio Edano  told reporters in Abu Dhabi today. “I
talked specifically about Japanese requests in terms of
concession renewals and the financial terms Japanese companies
were given, and the U.A.E. responded in a positive manner.”  The Japanese minister met Nasser al-Suwaidi, director
general of Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., and Salem al-Dhaheri,
director general of the Supreme Petroleum Council, which decides
oil policy for Abu Dhabi. He also met Khaldoon Mubarak, chief
executive officer of state-owned investor Mubadala Development
Co. Edano plans to meet tomorrow with Saudi Arabian Oil Minister
Ali al-Naimi in  Riyadh , according to a statement from the
Japanese ministry.  Japan, which gets more than 50 percent of its oil from the
U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia , wants to increase ties with its main
suppliers of energy. Japan Oil Development Co., a unit of Tokyo-
based  Inpex Corp. (1605) , owns 12 percent of Adnoc’s  Abu Dhabi Marine
Operating Co.  The stake expires in 2018.  “We would like to continue these concessions,” the trade
minister said. “Oil from Abu Dhabi is important and will
continue to be important going forward.”  Japan Loan  Japan agreed to lend $3 billion to Abu Dhabi last year in
anticipation of new contracts and a renewal of existing ones.
Adnoc, as Abu Dhabi National Oil is known, agreed in January to
a 30-year extension of oil rights held by a unit of Japan’s
Cosmo Oil Co. after they end in 2012, Hiroaki Wada, a spokesman
for Japan’s former Trade Minister Akihiro Ohata, said at the
time. Abu Dhabi Oil Co., a part of Cosmo Oil, has rights to the
Mubarras, Umm Al Anbar and Neewat Al Ghalan oil fields.  Abu Dhabi increased the amount of liquefied natural gas it
sends to Japan by 840,000 tons to replace nuclear power supplies
that dropped after the disaster in March at Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s plant in Fukushima, Edano said. Abu Dhabi offered to help
with Japan’s reconstruction efforts, he said.  Abu Dhabi plans to spend as much as $60 billion over the
next decade to expand its oil and gas industry and boost crude-
production capacity to 3.5 million barrels a day from the
current level of about 2.8 million barrels.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA are
among shareholders of  Abu Dhabi Co. for Onshore Oil Operations ,
an Adnoc unit that aims to raise its output to 1.8 million
barrels a day from 1.4 million barrels. These concessions expire
in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  