-- 
Netanyahu Presses Cabinet to Pass Proposals on Taxes, Prices

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-10-09T10:56:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/netanyahu-presses-cabinet-to-pass-proposals-on-taxes-prices.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  again asked the Cabinet to approve the recommendations
of a government panel that proposed raising taxes on companies
and on individuals who earn more than about $130,000 a year.  An initial Cabinet vote on the proposals was put off last
week after Netanyahu failed to garner sufficient support from
ministers at an Oct. 3 meeting.  “Approving the report will allow us to submit detailed
decisions to the Cabinet in order to lower the cost of living,”
Netanyahu told the Cabinet at its weekly meeting in  Jerusalem 
today, according to a statement posted on his office’s web-site.
“A combination of these steps will lower the prices of goods
and marketing in the economy.”  Netanyahu tapped the panel, led by economist Manuel Trajtenberg, to come up with proposals after mass street
protests across the country calling for lower prices and more
affordable housing. The committee proposed that corporate taxes
be increased to 25 percent next year and 26 percent in 2013 from
24 percent this year. It said the top rate of personal income
tax should be raised to 48 percent, and that the country must
increase its stock of affordable housing and open its markets to
more imports.  The proposed tax increases would raise 30 billion shekels
($8 billion) over five years, and the money should mostly be
spent on education, the panel said when it presented its
recommendations on Sept. 26. It also proposed cuts to the
 defense budget .  The Trajtenberg report has been criticized by ministers
from two parties in Netanyahu’s Likud-led ruling coalition,
Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman’s Yisrael Beitenu and the
religious Shas faction, who said it does not do enough to
provide solutions for impoverished Israelis.  Editors: Louis Meixler, Andrew J. Barden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 