-- 
No U.S. Recession as Forecasts Improve

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-10-10T10:34:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/no-recession-for-u-s-as-economists-improve-forecasts-to-weakest-expansion.html
The U.S. has likely dodged a
recession for now, even though it’s too early to sound the all-
clear for the economy.  A string of stronger-than-projected statistics -- capped by
the news on Oct. 7 of a 103,000 rise in payrolls last month --
has prompted economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC to raise their growth forecasts for
third quarter growth to 2.5 percent from about 2 percent. That’s
nearly double the second quarter’s 1.3 percent rate and would be
the fastest growth in a year.  “The  U.S. economy  doesn’t look like it’s double-dipping at
all,” said  Allen Sinai , president of Decision Economics Inc. in
New York. “But it is a crummy recovery.”  That recovery still faces what economist  Chris Rupkey  in
New York calls “a lot of headwinds.” These range from the
sovereign-debt crisis in the euro zone -- and increasing
likelihood of a recession there -- to political gridlock in the
U.S. over the budget.  “We can skirt a recession,” said Rupkey, chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “But if
headlines worsen in Europe and cause a major stock-market rout,
it could lead to a loss of confidence here on the part of
businesses and consumers and make forecasts for a recession a
reality.”  Crisis Plan  European stocks and the euro rose after German and French
leaders pledged to devise a plan to stem the debt crisis in
three weeks. U.S. stock futures also gained.  The unsettled outlook may push U.S. Treasury bond yields
back down as investors seek safety in the debt of the world’s
largest economy. The yield on the 30-year bond remains on course
to fall to about 2.5 percent, according to Christopher Hine,
vice president of technical analysis at Credit Suisse Securities
in  London .  “The bull trend is still there,” he said in an Oct. 7
conference call with clients.  The long bond ended trading at 3.017 percent in New York on
Oct. 7, after touching 2.69 percent Oct. 4, the lowest since
January 2009. Yields rose as concerns about a recession ebbed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will face difficulty
trading above 1,200 in the next few weeks as investors seek to
determine the impact of the European crisis on U.S. corporate
earnings, Sinai said. Business with Europe represents about 20
to 25 percent of operating profits for companies in the S&P,
Sinai said.  Futures Rise  S&P 500  futures added 1.4 percent as of 11:24 a.m. in
London, while the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.6 percent,
extending a three-day, 6.7 percent jump. The S&P 500 had climbed
as much as 0.6 percent on Oct. 7 on the back of the jobs numbers
before being erasing gains after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the
foreign and local currency long-term issuer default ratings for
Spain and Italy.  The euro advanced 1.6 percent against the dollar and
strengthened 1.5 percent versus the yen after German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said European leaders will do “everything
necessary” to ensure that banks have enough capital.  Exceeded Forecasts  The 103,000 gain in September payrolls announced by the
Labor Department was more than economists had forecast and
followed an upwardly revised gain of 57,000 for August. Private
employment climbed 137,000 and included the return of 45,000
striking workers at Verizon Communications Inc.  “The continued forward momentum in private job growth
should ease concerns that the U.S. will slip into recession in
the second half of this year,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York .  The latest numbers bring the jobs data in line with what
other statistics are suggesting: Gross domestic product is
growing “very slowly,” not contracting, he said.  Construction spending rebounded in August, propelled by the
biggest jump in state and local government outlays in more than
two years. Manufacturing accelerated in September, helped by
gains in exports and production.  “For the first time in eight months, we revised upward our
forecast of GDP growth over the second half, to just shy of 2.5
percent,” economists at St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers
said in a report last week. In September, they were predicting
second-half growth under 2 percent.  The drags on the economy in the first half of the year --
higher gasoline prices and supply-chain disruptions from the
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  -- are dissipating, giving
growth a lift, Feroli said.  Upward Revision  The average price for unleaded gasoline fell almost 20
cents, or 5.4 percent, in September to $3.43 a gallon, according
to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring group.  The automobile industry has been an obvious beneficiary.
Car and truck sales rose to a seasonally adjusted annualized
rate of 13.1 million in September, according to Autodata Corp.
That’s the highest since April’s 13.2 million, when lost output
caused by the tsunami started restraining supply.  With vehicle production and inventories recovering for
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co., the fourth quarter may
be the year’s strongest,  Al Castignetti , Nissan Motor Co.’s vice
president of U.S. sales, said in an Oct. 3 telephone interview.  “People who have been sitting on the fence are likely to
get back in the market,” he said.  While the U.S. is “shaking off” the first-half drags, it
faces risks from events at home and overseas, Feroli said.  ‘Edge of Recession’  The debt crisis in Europe will “likely slow the economy to
the edge of recession by early 2012,”  Andrew Tilton , senior
economist at Goldman Sachs in New York, said in note last week
to clients. He sees growth falling to a half percent in the
first quarter of 2012.  A mild recession in the  euro zone  could shave as much as a
half percentage point off U.S. expansion, said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist in Lexington, Massachusetts, at IHS
Inc. The direct effect on trade likely would be small, he said.
U.S. exports to the euro area were equivalent to less than 2
percent of GDP last year.  Greater consequences could come from the financial links
between the two economies and the impact of the crisis on the
U.S. stock market and general confidence.  “Europe is so large and so closely integrated with the
U.S. and world economies that a severe crisis in Europe could
cause significant damage by undermining confidence and weakening
demand,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Oct. 6 in
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee. That would pose a
“significant risk to global recovery.”  Confidence  Policy makers in Europe aren’t the only officials on the
spot, according to  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow
Financial Inc. in Chicago. Authorities in the U.S. also need to
act, she said. If a Congressional supercommittee can’t come up
with the more than $1 trillion in budget savings required by
November, “that further undermines confidence in our own
government,” she said.  The U.S. also faces a big fiscal squeeze in 2012 from the
scheduled expiration in December of a payroll-tax cut, extended
 unemployment benefits  and a business-tax credit.  “We have a very big tightening on track for next year,”
Feroli said. He put the amounts involved at about $350 billion,
or the equivalent of about 2 percent of GDP.  President Barack Obama has offered a $447 billion jobs plan
that includes an expansion of the payroll-tax cuts in 2012 and
an extension of the unemployment benefits. It faces resistance
in the House of Representatives, where Republicans hold the
majority and oppose the tax increases Obama proposed to pay for
the program.  “We’re still laboring under the fallout from the bursting
of the housing and credit bubble,” Jan Hatzius, chief economist
for Goldman Sachs in New York, told Bloomberg Television on Oct.
7. “In the aftermath of that, unfortunately, you’re often in a
weak position for a long time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  