-- 
Norske Skog to Sell Assets to Avoid 93% Certain Default: Corporate Finance

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-10-10T09:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/norske-skog-to-sell-assets-to-avoid-93-certain-default-corporate-finance.html
Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG) , the
second-largest newsprint producer, is planning to sell assets
and issue debt backed by its accounts receivable to stave off a
default that credit markets judge is a 93 percent certainty.  The Norwegian papermaker is in talks with potential buyers
of at least 200 million kroner ($35 million) of assets it
considers non-core and plans to raise as much as 125 million
euros ($169 million) from the securitized debt transaction,
Norske Skog Chief Financial Officer Audun Roeneid said in a
telephone interview.  “We are continuing the program we have on fixed-cost
reduction,” Roeneid said. “We are continuing the sale of non-
core assets. We are running a project to improve  cash flow . We
are also working on additional financing to have even more
liquidity.”  Norske Skog is grappling with an 8.4 billion-kroner debt
burden amid too much supply in the newsprint market, competition
from online media and rising raw-material prices that forced
NewPage Corp., the largest North American maker of coated
papers, to file for the year’s biggest bankruptcy last month.
Lysaker, Norway-based Norske Skog risks losing the ability to
tap a revolving credit if it doesn’t meet the facility’s
conditions, which may put a 655 million-kroner bond repayment in
March 2012 in jeopardy.  Loan Covenants  The terms of Norske Skog’s undrawn 140 million-euro
revolving credit line arranged in May capped debt at 6.5 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda. The limits tightened to 5.75 times debt to cash flow
on Sept. 30 and will be 5.5 times by year-end, according to the
bond offering memorandum. Norkse Skog’s debt was 5.99 times
cashflow as of its last quarterly report on Aug. 4.  “It’s a high risk that they may come into breach of those
covenants,” Maria Granlund, a credit analyst at ABG Sundal
Collier in Oslo, said. “The problem is that the results are so
weak.”  The price of newsprint has risen 2 percent over the last
three years, while the cost of wood pulp surged 22 percent and
recycled newspaper increased 33 percent, according to  FOEX
Indexes Ltd.  data. Norske Skog’s stock has plunged 47 percent
since the day before it reported second-quarter Ebitda of 248
million kroner on Aug. 4, the lowest since 2008.  Credit-default swaps insuring Norske Skog’s debt cost 4.6
million euros in advance and 100,000 euros a year, signaling a
93 percent chance of default within five years, according to CMA
prices. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Bonds Plunge  Norske Skog’s 150 million euros of 11.75 percent bonds due
2016 have fallen by almost half to 56.25 percent of face value
since they were priced in June, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices
show. The securities yield 29.6 percent.  Norske Skog, which means Norwegian forest, was established
in 1962 and has mills in more than 10 countries from  Europe  to
 Asia . It plans to lay off 56 staff and halt one of its three
paper machines until the end of October, it said last month.  The company can honor its loan covenants and March 2012
bond maturity solely through a turn-around in fourth-quarter
income and asset sales, and the deal to package accounts
receivable into debt sold to investors would provide an extra
cushion, Roeneid said.  Demand typically increases in the fourth quarter for
products including Christmas catalogs, Roeneid said. Prices for
European newsprint are expected to increase 5 percent for the
second half of 2011, the company said in August.  ‘In Compliance’  “With the guidance we have given we should be able to be
in compliance with the covenants,” Roeneid said.  Talks have begun with potential buyers of the company’s
assets, he said, declining to identify the assets or bidders.  Of the securitized debt issue, “according to our timeline,
we should conclude that by the end of this year, if we are doing
it,” he said.  Norske Skog’s ratings are at risk of falling further below
investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  said Sept. 20 it may cut its
B- rating, citing a “material risk” of a covenant breach in
the next two quarters. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the
company by two steps in August to Caa1. High-yield bonds and
loans are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  The company’s forecasts for the fourth quarter are too
optimistic, according to Alexandre Dray, a Lyon, France-based
analyst at Spread Research Ltd., who warned of a covenant breach
on the revolving credit in a Sept. 1 note to clients.  Companies looking to cut costs will reduce their marketing
budgets first, “and what will happen is they will use less
paper to send to clients or prospects,” Dray said. “The
rebound expected in the second half will be less substantial
than the company expects,” he said.  NewPage Bankruptcy  NewPage of Miamisburg,  Ohio  filed for bankruptcy on Sept.
7, six years after being bought by Cerberus Capital Management
LP. The company had $3.4 billion in assets and $4.2 billion of
debt as of June 30, according to the Chapter 11 filing. It has
been unprofitable since 2006.  Investors are avoiding European high-yield issuers such as
Norske Skog amid speculation a Greek default will plunge Europe
into a recession and make it harder for companies to pay their
debts. Redemptions from junk bond funds in Europe the week of
Sept. 30 were $1.49 billion, representing 2.3 percent of assets,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “We are talking about a very distressed security at the
moment,” said Teemu Perala, a  fund manager  at Alfred Berg Asset
Management in Helsinki, while adding that Norske Skog should be
able to meet loans and bonds until 2014. Alfred Berg holds about
1.13 percent of the company’s shares, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net 
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  