-- 
Oil Gains a Fourth Day After European Pledge to Contain Debt

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-10-10T12:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/oil-near-83-a-barrel-in-new-york-after-biggest-weekly-gain-since-march.html
Oil climbed for a fourth day in  New
York  as investors bet that fuel demand may increase after a
pledge by European leaders to contain the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  Futures rose as much as 2.1 percent after the biggest
weekly gain in seven months. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  gave themselves three weeks to
stamp out the European crisis, causing the euro to gain against
the dollar. U.S. employers added more workers in September than
forecast, a report showed Oct. 7. OPEC is likely to keep oil
output targets unchanged when it meets in December, Mohammad Ali Khatibi, an Iranian representative to the group, said yesterday.  Crude is rising on “high hopes for an imminent Eurozone
bailout,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a London-based analyst at VTB
Capital, said in an e-mail. “Policymakers in the EU have few
options and no one wants 2008 all over again.”  Crude for November delivery advanced as much as $1.77 to
$84.75 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $84.33 at 1:32 p.m. in London. West Texas
Intermediate last week gained 4.8 percent, the biggest gain
since the five days ended March 4. Prices are down 7.2 percent
this year.  ‘Broken Clear’  Oil’s moving average convergence-divergence, a technical
indicator, showed positive price momentum on Oct. 7 for the
first time in almost three weeks. Investors typically look for
positive momentum to sustain buying of contracts.  “Technically, it’s starting to look quite interesting,
because it looked as though we were going to return in West
Texas terms to that $72 to $80 zone,”  Michael McCarthy , a chief
market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty Ltd. in
Sydney, said by phone today. “We’ve now broken clear of that
and it’s suggesting a bounce on the charts at least up into the
low $90s a barrel.”  Brent oil for November was at $107.44 a barrel, up $1.56,
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract was at a premium of $22.58 to New York crude,
compared with a record of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Merkel and Sarkozy said in Berlin yesterday that they will
deliver a plan by Nov. 3 to recapitalize banks, get  Greece  on
the right track and fix  Europe ’s economic governance. European
leaders will do “everything necessary” to ensure that banks
have adequate capital, Merkel said. A weaker dollar raises the
appeal for assets used to protect against inflation, such as
crude.  “The positive news during the weekend that Merkel and
Sarkozy agreed on a bank recapitalisation spread encouraging
signs across the markets,” Myrto Sokou, a London-based analyst
at Sucden Financial Ltd. said in an e-mail. “The weaker  U.S.
dollar  is certainly supportive for the oil market.”  Saudi Output  U.S. payrolls rose by 103,000 after a revised 57,000 gain
in August, the Labor Department said Oct. 7. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists called for an increase
of 60,000. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent. Reports last
week showed growth accelerated in  China ’s services industries.  The U.S. employment data “reduced the fear of recession,”
Ole Hansen, senior manager of trading advisory at Saxo Bank A/S
in Copenhagen said by phone. He expects Nymex crude to target
resistance at $85 a barrel.“A break of that could find another
$5 to the upside,” he said.  Oil producers and consumers are satisfied with the current
price level for crude, said Ali Khatibi,  Iran ’s governor to the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, according to
Shana, the Iranian Oil Ministry’s news website. OPEC is
responsible for 40 percent of global oil output.  There’s no excess supply in world oil markets and  Saudi
Arabia  has been adjusting output to match fluctuating demand
over recent months, Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi said Oct. 8. The
kingdom is OPEC’s biggest producer.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil for a third week as
concern that slowing economic growth will reduce fuel demand.
The funds and other large speculators reduced wagers on rising
prices by 5.5 percent in the week ended Oct. 4 to the lowest
level since Aug. 23, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on Oct. 7.  On ICE, money managers’ bets that prices will rise, in
futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
29,093 lots in the week ended Oct. 4, the exchange said in its
weekly Commitment of Traders report. Net-long positions fell by
17,934 contracts, or 38 percent, according to bourse data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  