-- 
Pakistan Stocks Rally After Bigger-Than-Forecast Policy Rate Cut

-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-10-10T04:41:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/pakistan-stocks-may-rally-after-bigger-than-forecast-rate-cut.html
Pakistan stocks gained after the
central bank cut the benchmark  interest rate  by a bigger-than-
forecast 1.5 percentage points, joining emerging markets from
 Russia  to  Brazil  in lowering borrowing costs to spur investment.  The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index, which has climbed 1.3
percent this year, rose 2.8 percent to 12,186.64 at 9:33 a.m.
local time, headed for its highest since Aug. 1. Oil & Gas
Development Co., the biggest fuel explorer, rose 3.5 percent to
140.65 rupees and Fauji Fertilizer Co., the biggest urea maker,
rose 5 percent, the daily limit, to 178.96 rupees.  The  State Bank of Pakistan  reduced the discount rate to 12
percent from 13.5 percent, according to a statement in Karachi
on Oct. 8. Three of five economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted a 1 percentage point cut, and the remainder forecast a
0.5 percent reduction.  Acting Governor Yaseen Anwar had room to act after
 Pakistan ’s inflation rate dropped 2 percentage points in the
past three months. A rate cut might support an economy that’s
seen growing less than half the pace of fellow South Asian
nations  India ,  Bangladesh  and  Sri Lanka  this year.  “With the level of the rate cut, today’s jump was
expected,” said Habib ur Rahman, who oversees 7 billion rupees
($80 million) in stocks and bonds at Atlas Asset Management Ltd.
in Karachi. “I can see the market continuing to gain till
December because high-yielding stocks are attractively priced.”  Global funds sold $47.1 million worth of Pakistani stocks
in July and August compared with net buying of $95.6 million
last year, according to central bank data.  Government Bonds  Pakistan’s 10-year government bond yields are trading at
12.6 percent, the highest level after Greece and  Venezuela ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee has declined
1.9 percent this year and dropped to a record low on Sept. 16,
prompting the central bank last month to conduct what it called
a “calibrated intervention” to stabilize the currency.  Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government is
aiming to boost economic growth to 4.2 percent in the fiscal
year ending June 30, from 2.4 percent in the previous year, one
of the lowest expansions in the past decade, as the country
struggled to cope with floods and militant attacks.  Floods in August forced more than one million people from
their homes and damaged crops in parts of southern Pakistan
still recovering from last year’s worst ever monsoon inundation
that devastated the region. Terror attacks in the South Asian
nation have killed at least 35,000 people since 2006, according
to government estimates.  Stimulating Investment  The central bank decided to slash its policy rate for a
second straight meeting because of a “high probability” of
meeting the inflation goal for fiscal 2012 and to stimulate
investment, according to central bank’s statement. The  State
Bank  is targeting an average inflation of 12 percent in the year
ending June 30, 2012.  Consumer prices rose 10.46 percent in September from a year
earlier, after climbing 12.43 percent in July, according to the
 Federal Bureau of Statistics .  “If the rate cut is backed by other positive factors like
an ease in inflation and a pickup in growth activity, we can see
the index around 14,000 points by June 2012,” said Mohammad Shoaib, who oversees the equivalent of 32 billion rupees in
Pakistani stocks and bonds at Al-Meezan Investment Management
Ltd. in Karachi.  The government named Anwar, a deputy governor since March
2007, as the central bank’s acting chief after Shahid Kardar
quit on July 12. The State Bank unexpectedly cut rates in the
July 30 policy decision, almost three weeks after Kardar
resigned blaming state spending for fanning prices.  Anwar cited the government’s commitment to “zero
borrowings” from the central bank as one of the reasons for
reducing rates in July. The federal government paid back 33
billion rupees to the central bank this fiscal year against 238
billion rupees borrowing in the same period a year ago,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 fsharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  