-- 
Persian Gulf Stocks: Aldar, Dar Al Arkan, Oman International

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-10-09T14:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/persian-gulf-stocks-aldar-dar-al-arkan-oman-international.html
The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose for a
second day, gaining 0.2 percent at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai.
 Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  also advanced 0.2 percent and
Oman’s gauge gained 0.5 percent.  The following shares were active in the Persian Gulf
region. Stock symbols are in parentheses.  Agility (AGLTY)   surged to the highest level since June,
gaining 6.9 percent to 385 fils. The Kuwaiti storage and
transport company may post better financial results in the third
quarter compared with the first and second quarters, Al-Anba
reported. Agility has been approached about possibly competing
for a contract to supply logistics for a Canadian base in
Kuwait, the newspaper said. The shares are up 26 percent the
past four trading days.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)   advanced for a second day,
rising 0.9 percent to 1.12 dirhams. The Abu Dhabi developer that
has had three chief executive officers in four years said Chief
Financial Officer Shafqat Ali Malik resigned.      Separately,
the company awarded a contract to Six Construct to build a mall
on Yas Island.  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co. (ALARKAN)  
rallied the most since Sept. 4, gaining 3.3 percent to 6.35
riyals. Saudi Arabia’s biggest property company by assets said
it will receive 4 billion riyals ($1.1 billion) from the Public
Investment Fund to finance a Jeddah project.  Oman International Bank SAOG (OIBB)   rose the most since
February 2009, surging 7.1 percent to 0.285 rial. The country’s
fifth-biggest bank by assets said it’s in talks about a merger
of its business with the Oman operations of  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)   retreated for the first time
in three days, falling 2.9 percent to 77.7 fils. The investment
bank controlled by Dubai’s ruler named former Credit Suisse
Group AG board member Michael Philipp as chief executive
officer, replacing Sameer Al Ansari. The bank’s head of
brokerage and research Walid Shihabi also left the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  