-- 
Polish Premier Faces Budget-Deficit Challenge After Winning Second Term

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-10-10T11:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/polish-premier-faces-budget-deficit-challenge-after-likely-election-win.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk,
who won yesterday’s general election, must focus on cutting the
budget gap to reverse a zloty plunge as investors shy away from
the European Union’s biggest eastern country.  Tusk’s Civic Platform is set to win 206 seats in the 460-
seat parliament after getting 39 percent of the vote, based on
results from 99.5 percent of precincts reporting, the  Electoral
Commission  said today. The Peasants Party, Tusk’s coalition
partner for the last four years, would take 28 seats with 8.4
percent support, giving the two parties a majority.  The government pledged to narrow the deficit to 2.9 percent
of gross domestic product next year, counting on 4 percent
economic growth to boost revenue. Slowing economic growth and
the euro region’s debt crisis may derail the plan unless the
government takes “more drastic” measures, Fitch Ratings said
today.  “The incoming Polish government needs to reassess the
country’s fiscal consolidation plan in light of slower growth if
Poland wants to remain on target to meet the” criteria for euro
adoption, Jeremy Carter, managing director at  Fitch Ratings ,
said in a statement from  London  today.  Zloty, Bonds Gain  The zloty traded at a three-week high of 4.315 per euro at
1:30 p.m. in Warsaw. The currency has slumped about 9.5 percent
against the euro this year as investors shy away from emerging
markets on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will slow growth.  Polish bonds rallied with a yield on a benchmark 10-year
note falling. The yield on bonds maturing on October 2021
dropped 11 basis points to 5.63 percent.  A Tusk win may help bolster confidence in Poland’s ability
to deal with potential spillover from the euro area’s debt
crisis, according to Anders Svendsen, chief economist at Nordea
Bank in Copenhagen.  “The PO victory and the lower risk of a messy coalition
should be good news to the markets,” Svendsen said in an e-
mailed note. “The zloty is likely to strengthen on the news
that the Platform won the elections and that a three-party
coalition seems to have been avoided.”  The Platform’s main rival, Law & Justice, is set for 157
seats after winning 30 percent of the vote, returning as the
largest opposition party, the Commission said.  Greatest Challenge  Controlling public finances will be the greatest challenge
for the administration that emerges from today’s election, Jan Amrit Poser, chief economist at Bank Sarasin, said at a
conference in Warsaw on Oct. 7. The general government deficit
soared to 7.9 percent of GDP in 2010, exceeding the EU’s 3
percent limit for a third consecutive year.  The  International Monetary Fund  is forecasting 3 percent
growth and Citigroup Inc. is predicting a 1.9 percent expansion
in Poland, the only member of the 27-nation EU to avoid
recession during the global financial crisis.  The  budget deficit  soared to 7.9 percent of GDP last year
and public debt is near the threshold of 55 percent of GDP, a
level that would trigger mandatory austerity measures.  The zloty’s pre-election tumble sent local-currency
 government bonds  down 15.7 percent in dollar terms last quarter,
the third-worst returns worldwide after Greece and  Hungary ,
according to indexes of debt due in more than one year compiled
by the European Federation of Financial Analyst Societies and
Bloomberg.  ‘Twice as Hard’  “The next government will have to work twice as hard as in
the previous four years since the country faces even bigger
challenges,” Tusk told a celebrating crowd of supporters at the
party’s campaign headquarters yesterday.  President Bronislaw Komorowski must designate a new prime
minister within 14 days of dismissing the outgoing government.
The prime minister then has 14 days to present this new
cabinet’s program to parliament and win a confidence motion with
at least 231 votes in the lower chamber.  The Peasants Party is “the most proven and credible” ally
for the next government, Presidential Minister Slawomir Nowak
said on private radio station RMF today. The Peasants Party will
give “serious consideration” to its coalition options as the
results present several possible scenarios, its leader Waldemar
Pawlak said yesterday.  Palikot, Democratic Left  Two other parties won enough support to exceed the 5
percent threshold to gain seats in parliament. The Palikot
Movement, founded by former ruling-party politician Janusz
Palikot, received 10 percent of the vote, which would give it 40
seats, and the Democratic  Left Alliance  won 8.3 percent of the
vote, or 27 seats, according to the preliminary results.  Palikot, a former vodka distiller, clashed with Tusk last
year. He urges a quicker overhaul of public finances by cutting
spending on bureaucracy, the Catholic church and pensions.  Poland, a country of 38 million people, was the biggest net
recipient of EU funding in the bloc’s 2007-2013 budget, getting
67 billion euros ($97 billion) in aid to iron out differences
between richer and poorer states.  The funding, which helped the Polish economy grow 4.4
percent a year in 2007-2010, may be cut if the country doesn’t
reduce its deficit to within the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP
next year from 7.9 percent in 2010.  ‘Being Boring’  The EU aid has added an average of 1.5 percentage points to
economic growth each year, according to  Poland ’s Regional
Development Ministry, and remains essential for economic
expansion as budget cuts may limit consumer demand and public
investment.  Tusk may be the first Polish prime minister to be returned
to power since the fall of communism in 1989. According to
Andrew Michta, head of the German Marshall Fund’s Warsaw office,
that shows the Poles have matured politically over the last two
decades.  “If the numbers hold, this is in my book a vote for
continuity,” he said. “I guess there is something to be said
about being ‘boring’ in the case of Poland.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net ;
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  