-- 
Republican Candidates Dismiss Criticism of Romney as Mormon ‘Cult’ Member

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-10-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/republican-candidates-dismiss-criticism-of-romney-as-mormon-cult-member.html
Republican presidential candidates
dismissed a Baptist minister’s criticism of their party
frontrunner Mitt Romney’s Mormon faith, saying his religion
shouldn’t be a campaign issue.  “This is so inconsequential as far as this campaign is
concerned,” Representative  Michele Bachmann , of  Minnesota , said
on CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “To make a big issue
out of this is ridiculous.”  Businessman  Herman Cain  said “I’m not running for
theologian-in-chief” when asked about Romney’s religion on the
CNN program yesterday. “I am not going to do an analysis of
Mormonism versus Christianity for the sake of answering that,”
he said, adding “it’s not going to boost this economy.”  Robert Jeffress, a Baptist minister from  Dallas , told
reporters at a “Values Voter Summit” in Washington last week
that Romney, a Mormon, is “a good, moral person, but someone
who is part of a cult.” Jeffress supports Romney’s rival  Rick Perry , the  Texas  governor, and introduced Perry at the meeting.  Romney responded that religious differences shouldn’t
divide Republicans and urged civility in the party’s 2012
presidential nomination process.  “Poisonous language does not advance our cause,” Romney,
a former Massachusetts governor, said at the values voter event,
which is held by evangelical Christians, an important voting
bloc in the Republican nominating contests. “Decency and
civility is a value, too,” he said.  Not a Cult  Perry “does not believe Mormonism is a cult,” spokesman
Mark Miner said in a statement.  The annual evangelical gathering focuses on efforts to
“champion traditional values,” limit government and cut
federal spending. Self-described evangelicals accounted for 44
percent of Republican primary voters in the 2008 campaign,
according to exit polling.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who is also seeking the
Republican nomination, said the minister’s comments about
Mormonism were “inappropriate,” speaking yesterday on the CBS
“Face the Nation” program. On “Fox News Sunday,”  Rick Santorum , a former Pennsylvania senator, said he doesn’t think
Mormonism is a cult and that “every Mormon I know is a good and
decent person.”  “I believe they believe they are Christians based on their
definition, but getting into whether or not they’re more
Christian than another group, I don’t think that’s relevant to
this campaign,” Cain said on the CBS program.  Ron Paul  Wins  Representative Ron Paul of Texas, also seeking the 2012
Republican nomination, won a straw poll held at the summit with
37 percent of the votes cast, according to Paul’s campaign. Cain
received 23 percent of the votes, followed by Santorum with 16
percent, and Perry and Bachmann each with 8 percent. Romney won
the  2007 straw poll  with 27.6 percent of the votes, according to
the Family Research Council, which organizes the summit.  Republican candidates on the Sunday talk shows focused on
the ailing economy, criticizing President  Barack Obama ’s
proposal to impose a surtax on millionaires.  “It’s a very bad idea, because remember, that’s on top of
all of the other tax increases that President Obama is putting
on this same group of people who are the job creators in this
country,” Bachmann said on CNN.  Economy and Jobs  At the evangelical summit, Romney also focused most of his
comments on the economy and jobs, criticizing Obama’s economic
stimulus program. Perry at the same event spotlighted his call
for lower taxes on businesses and a freeze on pending government
regulations, as well as promoting Texas’s job-growth record
during his almost 11 years as governor.  Perry has dropped in opinion polls after drawing attacks
from his Republican opponents in recent debates. A  Washington 
Post-ABC News poll of Republicans and Republican-leaning
independents taken Sept. 29-Oct. 2 gave Perry 16 percent, a
decline of 13 percentage points since early September. Romney
led the Republican field with 25 percent. Perry was tied for
second in the survey with Cain.  Cain chastised the “Occupy  Wall Street ” protests at the
summit. He said the demonstrators are “anti-capitalism” and
“anti-free-market.”  “We know that the unions and certain union-related
organizations have been behind these protests,” Cain said on
CBS yesterday. “It’s coordinated to create a distraction so
people won’t focus on the failed policies of this
administration.”  Taking Somebody’s Cadillac  He also said the protesters are “jealous” Americans who
“play the victim card” and “want to take somebody else’s
Cadillac.”  Bachmann said she saw “a lot of signs” from the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees when she
went to a protest in Washington last week.  “I don’t know how spontaneous these protests are, but they
should be directed at the White House,” she said on CNN.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said on ABC’s “This
Week” yesterday that passing Obama’s jobs bill is the best way
to improve the economy and reduce the joblessness that is
prompting the protests.  “It’s really important that President Obama get out there
very strongly, very clearly, about what this jobs bill does and
what it means to kitchen-table concerns of the American
people,” said Pelosi, a California Democrat.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , speaking on
NBC’s “Meet the Press,” said Obama’s jobs ideas “have already
proven to fail.”  “He’s running around this country campaigning on a bill
that he knows won’t pass,” said Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  