-- 
Retail Sales Likely Rose in September

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-10-09T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-increased-in-september-by-most-in-six-months.html
U.S. retail sales increased in
September at the fastest pace in six months, providing a sign of
optimism for some merchants heading into the holiday shopping
season, economists said before a report this week.  The projected 0.7 percent gain would follow no change in
the previous month, according to the median of 69 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey ahead of Commerce Department figures on
Oct. 14. The  trade gap  widened in August, other data may show.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  are among retailers adding
more workers than last year in anticipation demand will hold up
even amid limited job growth and stock-market volatility that’s
left Americans more pessimistic. President  Barack Obama ,
lawmakers and the Federal Reserve face pressure to spur the
employment gains needed to support household spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  “The consumer thus far has remained fairly resilient to
the worries of  Wall Street ,” said  Russell Price , a senior
economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . “Retailers
right now are still pretty much treading water. They’ve managed
their inventory and staffing levels very, very well to maintain
profit levels.”  Retail purchases excluding automobiles rose 0.3 percent
last month after a 0.1 percent increase in August, economists
said.  September light-vehicle deliveries climbed to a seasonally
adjusted annualized rate of 13.1 million, according to  Woodcliff
Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata Corp. The rate is the highest
since April’s 13.2 million, when lost output caused by  Japan ’s
earthquake and tsunami began crimping supply of cars and parts.  Same-Store Sales  Same-store sales at retailers, excluding Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., rose 5.5 percent in September compared with a year
earlier, according to the  International Council of Shopping
Centers .  At the same time, slower job growth, the real-estate slump
and a volatile stock market will limit retail sales growth to
2.8 percent during the holiday season this year, according to
the  National Retail Federation .  The gain to an estimated $465.6 billion in November and
December sales compares with a 5.2 percent jump last year and
the 10-year average of 2.6 percent, the  Washington  based NRF
said last week. Stores may hire 480,000 to 500,000 seasonal
employees, in line with the 495,000 added last year, the group
said.  “Households have been very cautious in their spending
decisions,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 in
congressional testimony. “Probably the most significant factor
depressing  consumer confidence , however, has been the poor
performance of the job market.”  Labor Market  The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent in September even as
employers added more payrolls than forecast. The Labor
Department said Oct. 7 that payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers
after a revised 57,000 increase the prior month that was more
than originally estimated. The figures reflected the end of a
strike at Verizon Communications Inc. that brought 45,000 people
back to work.  The White House last month submitted a $447 billion jobs
bill to Congress that economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
would help avoid a return to a recession by maintaining growth
and pushing down the  unemployment rate  next year. The
legislation faces Republican opposition.  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain, is
increasing hiring of mostly part-time workers by 4 percent for
the holiday season to match sales growth in its stores and
online. Kohl’s, the fourth-largest U.S. department-store chain,
said last week it may hire more than 40,000 holiday workers, a 5
percent increase from 2010.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index is
little changed this year, while the broader  S&P 500 Index  has
declined 8.1 percent during the same period.  Companies may have started preparing for the  holiday
shopping season  by ordering more imported merchandise in August.
The  U.S. trade deficit  probably widened to $46 billion from
$44.8 billion in July, economists said ahead of an Oct. 13
report from the Commerce Department.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  