-- 
Trichet Throws Away Script, Reminds U.S. Euro Built to Last

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-10-10T13:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/trichet-throws-away-script-as-he-reminds-u-s-euro-built-to-last.html
Jean-Claude Trichet stood on a stage
at Washington’s Willard Hotel, leafed through his prepared
speech, and cast it aside.  The reason for the European Central Bank president’s Sept.
23 ad-libbing: a desire to rebut what he called the
“particularly gloomy” economic outlook of the previous panel
featuring former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  and
Pacific Investment Management Co. Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed El-Erian.  “The overall picture when you look at the euro area as a
whole is very, very different from the perception,” Trichet
told the conference organized by the Bretton Woods Committee.  Taking on American economists and investors has become a
regular feature of Trichet’s final days atop the ECB. Since mid-
June he has delivered three speeches in the U.S. defending his
17-nation economy against critics who say it’s riddled with
fault-lines threatening the single currency he helped build in
three decades of policy making. His tenure ends Oct. 31.  Trichet says that the euro-area’s strengths are too often
“overlooked,” as are its similarities with the U.S., and he
suggests the region’s monetary and fiscal policies are
misunderstood. His argument resonates because naysayers were
taking potshots at the euro even before it began trading in
1999.  U.S. Skepticism  “There is widespread skepticism toward the euro in the
U.S.,” said  Jacob Kirkegaard , a research fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington. “As far
back as the 1990s there was talk the euro wouldn’t happen and
wouldn’t work, but it did.”  The euro and European stocks rose today after German and
French leaders pledged to devise a plan to stem the debt turmoil
within three weeks. Commodities gained for a fourth day.  Among the euro skeptics was Harvard University Professor
 Martin Feldstein , who wrote in a 1998 paper that monetary union
would prove an “economic liability” because divergent
economies couldn’t fit under one monetary roof.  Milton Friedman ,
the Nobel laureate who died in 2006, said “it’s highly unlikely
that it’s going to be a great success,” and would splinter as
soon as the “global economy hits a real bump.”  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  disclosed in
the German version of his 2007 memoir that he had doubted the
euro would happen. Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  warned its
economy may be dogged by deflation.  Figuring It Out  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is also
pressuring Europe, saying Oct. 6 its crisis poses a
“significant risk to global recovery.” He and Trichet will
this week attend a Group of 20 finance chiefs meeting in Paris.  Even as the debt crisis roils markets and threatens to tip
the world back into recession, the euro is stronger than the
average value during its lifetime, evidence that investors agree
with Trichet about its survival. Six of the euro’s 17 members
still have AAA ratings at  Standard & Poor’s , which the U.S. lost
on Aug 5.  “The Europeans will figure it out,” Citigroup Chief
Executive Officer Vikram Pandit told Bloomberg Television on
Sept. 29. “They’ll get through the debt crisis and get to the
other side being fully committed to the euro and the euro
zone.”  Nevertheless, the 19-month debt turmoil is hardening the
opinions of doubters. Feldstein told Bloomberg Television on
Sept. 2 that the euro has proved a “failure” and  Greece  should
take a “holiday” from it. Krugman wrote in his Sept. 12 New
York Times column that the euro could collapse in “a matter of
days.”  Likely to Shrink  Pimco’s El-Erian said at the September Willard Hotel event
that the rot has reached  Europe ’s “core,” at least one euro
member will restructure its debts, and that politicians needed
to choose between a fiscal union or smaller euro zone. Summers,
who in 1997 said there are “serious economic challenges that
will have to be overcome” if the euro is to succeed, complained
of “grudging, incrementalist” policy decisions in Europe and
urged leaders to fix the continent rather than focus on Greece.  “In a three to five year horizon I would expect there is a
good probability the euro zone is going to be smaller than the
current size of it,”  Nouriel Roubini , chairman of Roubini
Global Economics LLC, said in an Oct. 3 interview.  This is the chorus that Trichet is seeking to silence, even
as he acknowledges some European governments behaved
“improperly” by disregarding fiscal discipline and says
leaders must accelerate efforts to beat the crisis and take
steps to avoid a repeat. He also wants banks to reinforce their
balance sheets.  Growth Argument  ECB officials “are not blind and we are not hiding,”
Trichet said Sept. 23.  One of his arguments is that critics miss the euro zone’s
strengths. In an Aug. 27 speech to fellow central bankers in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming he estimated that the region has logged
per-capita growth of around 1 percent a year since 1999, just
below the U.S.’s 1.1 percent, and that the figures match once
adjusted for population growth. During that time, the euro-area
has created 14 million jobs, six million more than America, he
said.  Four weeks later in  Washington , he noted the euro-area will
run a budget deficit of about 4.5 percent of gross domestic
product this year and its current account is broadly in balance,
better than “other advanced economies.” The  International
Monetary Fund  predicts a U.S. budget shortfall of about 10
percent this year and a current account deficit of 3 percent.  Parallel Lines  Geithner acknowledged last week that U.S. policy makers
must “recognize that we caused enormous damage to our
credibility” in causing the credit crisis. That means they
should assume a “position of extraordinary humility” when
offering guidance to other countries, he said.  Europeans “welcome the advice, although they like to
remind people that the U.S. has lots of challenges,” he said.  To refute the charge that the economy he oversees is too
diverse to corral, Trichet tasked his economists with drawing
parallels and differences between the 17 euro nations and 14
U.S. metropolitan areas. The study found that prior to the
financial crisis which began in 2007, regional growth rates for
both areas differed by about 2 percent, while inflation diverged
by 1 percent.  ‘Wrong Track’  The economists found similarities in pockets of boom and
bust, as well as territories facing long-term structural
challenges. Spain and Ireland are mirrored by Nevada and Florida
as locales where  house prices  outpaced the averages of
neighbors. Onetime manufacturing U.S. powerhouses Michigan and
Ohio have suffered below-average growth like Portugal.  It is “often assumed that the  U.S. economy  would be
significantly more homogenous than the economy of the euro
area,” Trichet said in Jackson Hole. “Looking more closely at
the regional dispersion across U.S. regions and euro area
economies does not confirm this.”  Honors may be even, said  Allen Sinai , president of New
York-based Decision Economics Inc., who attended recent speeches
by Trichet. He says the Frenchman is right to defend the central
bank’s work, yet wrong to argue the euro area cannot fracture.  “ Jean-Claude Trichet  has been a man on a mission dedicated
to the political unification of Europe, but Europe is on the
wrong track,” said Sinai. “As a central banker, he is a
hero.”  Roubini, Krugman  Countering criticism from Roubini and Krugman that the ECB
is too focused on inflation and was wrong to raise its benchmark
 interest rate  twice this year, Trichet says delivering price
stability is the best thing the ECB can do for its economy and
notes it has done that for a decade. To ease the financial
system, the ECB was the first central bank to respond to the
credit crisis in 2007 and has kept pumping banks with liquidity
since then, he said in Washington.  The ECB left its key interest rate at 1.5 percent on Oct.
6, yet Trichet announced it will offer one-year loans to banks
and resume purchases of covered bonds from next month.  While acknowledging the economic policy errors of European
governments, Trichet also defends their need to observe
democracy by taking time to win parliamentary approval for the
crisis-fighting measures they agreed July 21, adding that
sovereigns outside his continent also over-spent. It took two
votes of Congress to pass the Troubled Asset Relief Program in
2008, while the U.S.-led push to “spend, spend, spend” during
the recession was not the best advice for all, he says.  ‘Less Optimistic’  Critics may also be underestimating the will of politicians
to hold the euro together given it partly evolved from the
desire to avoid another war. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said yesterday after talks with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
that the region’s two main economies would defend the single
currency “with all our strength” and turn it into a
“stability union.”  The leaders gave themselves three weeks to devise a plan to
recapitalize banks, get Greece on the right track and fix
Europe’s economic governance.  Americans cite Europe’s lack of labor mobility and cross-
border fiscal transfers as undermining its claims to construct
an optimal currency zone, according to a January 2010 paper co-
written by Lars Jonung, a professor at Sweden’s Lund University,
when he was a European Commission adviser. The lack of a Federal
Reserve-like unemployment goal also prompts criticism.  Now while he says he is “less optimistic” about the
future of the euro than he was when he wrote the paper, Jonung
says neither Trichet nor his opponents are right.  “U.S. economist were critical of the euro, but nobody
mentioned Greece was cheating and under-reporting deficits,” he
said. “Trichet of course has to defend the project, but he has
to be optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  