-- 
Russia Proposes Talks Between Assad and Syrian Opposition

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-10-09T12:33:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/russia-proposes-talks-between-assad-and-syrian-opposition-1-.html
Russia offered to host talks between
Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad’s government and the opposition in
Moscow, after blocking a Western-backed  United Nations 
resolution that threatened sanctions against Syria’s regime.  “Our main message is that all the problems which have
accumulated in Syria over many years can’t be resolved through
force or confrontation,” Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said in an  interview  with state news service RIA
Novosti released today. “In our view there is no alternative to
broad-based political dialogue.”  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  on Oct. 7 said that Assad
must implement political changes or leave office, though he
added that such a decision was for the Syrian people and
leadership alone to make, and not for Western powers.  Russia, which has multibillion-dollar arms contracts and a
naval base in Soviet-era ally  Syria , has vowed to block any UN
resolution aimed at regime change after the overthrow of Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi . The United Nations says at least 2,900
people have died during seven months of protests in Syria.
Opposition leaders on Oct. 2 said they created a council to
coordinate efforts to end Assad’s rule.  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem said today his
government would retaliate with “severe” measures if any
country formally recognizes the opposition umbrella group.
Syrian opposition leaders are lobbying  Egypt  and other countries
to recognize them as Syria’s representatives.  The Russian Foreign Ministry on Oct. 11 in Moscow will
receive a delegation representing different Syrian opposition
groups, Bogdanov said.  Russia  will propose to hold negotiations
in Moscow between Assad’s regime and his opponents.  Dialogue  “We have decided to offer the Syrians, the authorities and
the opposition, to choose a place outside Syria to hold a round
of dialogue,” said Bogdanov. “This place could be Moscow.”  A Syrian opposition leader, Faruk Tayfur, on Oct. 7 accused
Russia and  China  of putting their economic interests first and
showing “hostility” toward the Syrian people by blocking the
resolution.  China and Russia vetoed a European draft resolution put to
a vote in the UN Security Council on Oct. 4. The measure would
have condemned the violence and threatened UN sanctions in the
event the Assad regime’s attacks on protesters continued.  On Oct. 5, gunmen fired on the offices of a Russian
pipeline builder, OAO Stroitransgaz, in the Syrian city of Homs,
without causing any casualties, the Foreign Ministry said late
yesterday.  “We view this incident as evidence that hard-line Syrian
opposition elements, seeking to overthrow the country’s regime
by force, have started to use terror tactics against the
civilian population and organizations helping to safeguard
normal life, including foreign ones,” the ministry said.  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , whose country
has repeatedly criticized Assad’s crackdown, said Oct. 5 that
 Turkey  will enact its own sanctions against Syria after the
failure of UN measures.  Al-Muallem told a press conference in Damascus today that
Syria’s hands are not “bound” and that it would retaliate
against any Turkish moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  