-- 
Sinopec Buys Canada’s Daylight for $2.1 Billion to Gain Shale-Gas Assets

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-10-10T19:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/sinopec-agrees-to-buy-daylight-energy-for-2-1-billion-to-meet-fuel-demand.html
China  Petrochemical Corp., the
nation’s biggest refiner, agreed to buy  Daylight Energy Ltd. (DAY)  for
C$2.2 billion ($2.1 billion) in cash, gaining Canadian oil and
shale-gas reserves in its largest acquisition this year.  The state-owned company known as Sinopec Group offered
C$10.08 a share, Calgary-based Daylight said in a statement
yesterday. That’s 70 percent higher than Daylight’s average
price during the past 20 trading days and more than double the
average 32 percent premium for comparable cash bids for North
American energy explorers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The takeover would give the Beijing-based company access to
more than 300,000 acres of land in areas rich with oil and
natural gas, adding to its expansion outside  Asia  after falling
crude prices made valuations attractive. Sinopec Group and  Cnooc
Ltd. (883)  are among Chinese companies that have bought almost $30
billion of Canadian assets in the past five years to meet energy
demand in the world’s fastest-growing major economy and gain
access to drilling methods to help unlock Asian resources.  “Sinopec made a number of oil-sands acquisitions, and this
is probably the most gas they’ve acquired in western Canada,”
 Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said by telephone today.  The oil and gas industry accounts for the second-biggest
volume of mergers worldwide this year after telecommunications,
with $127 billion in transactions, Bloomberg data show.  Daylight’s Assets  Two other energy deals were announced today.  Superior
Energy Services Inc. (SPN) , a U.S.-based oilfield services provider,
will pay $2.6 billion in cash and stock for Complete Production
Services Inc. In Australia, Everyday Mining Services Ltd. said
it will merge with Hughes Drilling Pty Ltd.  Daylight’s proven and probable reserves rose 46 percent to
the equivalent of 174 million barrels of oil at the end of 2010,
the company said March 1. Beveridge values Daylight’s reserves
at $16.70 per barrel of oil equivalent, saying Sinopec Group is
paying a “fair price” for those assets.  Sinopec Group will join rival China National Petroleum
Corp. and Cnooc in seeking technology through partnerships as
China, estimated to hold more gas trapped in shale rock than the
U.S., opens new areas to exploration. The world’s biggest energy
user, which currently doesn’t produce any shale gas
commercially, has brought in foreign partners including Exxon
Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp. to assess
its potential.  Chinese Shale  China has an estimated 1,275 trillion cubic feet of
technically recoverable shale gas, more than the estimated
reserves in the  United States  and Canada combined, according to
an April  report  by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  The U.S. and Canada produced 26.2 trillion cubic feet of
gas in 2009 compared with 2.9 trillion cubic feet in China,
according to EIA data.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , Sinopec Group’s Hong
Kong-listed unit, fell 4.4 percent to close at HK$7.16. Daylight
closed at C$4.59 on Oct. 7 in Toronto. The company’s shares have
declined 56 percent this year. Canadian markets were closed
today because of a national holiday.  Collaboration with overseas companies will help boost the
search for shale-gas resources, and “future growth will mainly
come from unconventional gas,” Chairman Fu Chengyu said Aug.
30. China Petroleum finished drilling its first shale-gas well
in Hubei province July 15, Sinopec Group said July 26.  Increasing Canadian Investments  The company will increase its investments in Canada as part
of its global expansion, Sinopec Group said in an e-mailed
statement.  Asian buyers may spend $150 billion by 2016 to secure
energy resources for their faster-growing economies, according
to Sanford C. Bernstein Co. Targets may include Tullow Oil Plc,
Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. and Kosmos Energy Ltd., the research
firm said.  Sinopec paid $4.65 billion last year to buy a stake in
Syncrude  Canada  Ltd., while Cnooc on July 20 announced it would
spend $2.1 billion to acquire Opti Canada Inc.  PetroChina Co. walked away from a C$5.4 billion ($5.25
billion) joint operating agreement with Encana Corp. in June
that would’ve given the Chinese company a 50 percent stake in
about 1 trillion cubic feet of Canadian natural gas.  More foreign investment in Canada’s resources may involve
some risk, such as when the Canadian government blocked BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion hostile bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.,  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
PFGBest in  Chicago , said in an e-mail today.  ‘Proceed With Caution’  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said last month the
nation will “proceed with caution” as it considers opening its
doors to more foreign takeovers, making sure they don’t lead to
a loss of head-office jobs.  Canadian regulators probably won’t have issues approving
the Daylight takeover, said Robert Mark, an analyst at
MacDougall, MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto.  “This stock has been in free fall for the past few weeks,
so shareholders should be firmly behind this bid, which is very
good value considering the company’s debt and the market
uncertainty,” Mark said in an e-mail today.  More investment in Canada by international companies such
as Cnooc or  India ’s Reliance Industries Ltd. may be imminent due
to the relatively low prices of energy stocks, Michael Tims,
chairman of investment bank Peters & Co. Ltd. in Calgary, said
by telephone.  Daylight was advised by Canaccord Genuity Corp. and CIBC
World Markets Inc. Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP is Daylight’s
legal counsel. Barclays Plc is Sinopec’s financial adviser and
Vinson & Elkins LLP and Bennett Jones LLP are its legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net . 