-- 
Slim Poised for Deal in Africa With Mexico Sales Growth Slowing: Real M&A

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-10T21:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/slim-poised-for-deal-in-africa-with-mexico-sales-growth-slowing-real-m-a.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  may have to
look 6,000 miles away for acquisitions if he wants to use a
mounting cash pile to rejuvenate sales at America Movil SAB.  America Movil, the wireless carrier 42 percent controlled
by Slim and his family, will increase revenue 6 percent this
year and next, the slowest rate in its history, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The largest mobile-
phone company in the Americas may spend some of its cash from
operations, which is projected to reach a record $12.6 billion
next year, on takeovers to help boost sales, said Stifel
Nicolaus & Co.  With America Movil already owning networks  across Latin
America , the Mexico City-based company may look for purchases as
far away as Africa where much of the population has yet to adopt
mobile phones, according to Corp. Actinver SAB. While  Greenwood
Capital  says Slim may instead opt to ramp up share buybacks and
dividend payouts, the world’s richest person could also find
bargain telecommunications purchases in Central America or the
Caribbean, said Stifel Nicolaus.  “America Movil has a huge amount of cash and strong cash
flow,” Tim Ghriskey, who oversees $2 billion as chief
investment officer of Solaris Group LLC in  Bedford Hills ,  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “They will continue to use
their cash to make acquisitions. At some point, they would have
to look beyond Central and South America for expansion. Even
Africa might be an enticing geography given the low cell-phone
penetration.”  An America Movil official who can’t be named under company
policy declined to comment on potential acquisitions.  Slowing Revenue Growth  America Movil’s revenue will only increase 6 percent this
year to about 645 billion pesos ($48 billion), based on
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, as  Latin America ’s
mobile-phone market becomes saturated.  Brazil , Latin America’s
largest economy, and  Argentina , the fastest growing in the
region, already have more mobile devices than people.  Expansion into the land-line phone business with the
purchase of Telmex Internacional SAB, announced in January 2010,
is also curbing growth as customers cut off home phone lines in
favor of mobile devices. In 2009, when America Movil’s networks
were almost entirely wireless, revenue was up 14 percent.  America Movil held $7.5 billion in cash at the end of June,
the most of any non-financial company listed in  Mexico ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has since raised
$3.1 billion selling bonds and is generating between $2 billion
and $3 billion in cash every quarter, according to Stifel
Nicolaus. Even after it spends about $6.5 billion next month to
buy full control of Telefonos de Mexico SAB, known as Telmex,
the company’s cash from operations will still increase to an
all-time high of $12.6 billion next year, estimates Chris King,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus in Baltimore.  Billions in Cash  “They’re generating billions of dollars in cash,” Martin Lara, a telecommunications analyst at Actinver in Mexico City,
said in a phone interview. “They could be interested in assets
in any part of the world.”  America Movil, spun off from Telmex in 2001, eclipsed its
former parent by buying up wireless airwaves and operators
throughout Latin America to take advantage of surging demand for
mobile devices. It now operates in 18 countries and represents
about 62 percent of the $57.2 billion in publicly disclosed
holdings of Chairman Emeritus Slim, 71, and his family, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Slim, who  Forbes magazine  estimated had a net worth of $74
billion as of March, also owns retail, mining, banking and
construction companies in Mexico, plus stakes in  New York Times
Co. (NYT)  and Saks Inc. in the U.S.  Decade of Acquisitions  America Movil created its pan-Latin American network
country by country during the last decade with more than $80
billion in acquisitions of companies and assets, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It spent $1.3 billion in 2003 on takeovers to
move into Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, El Salvador and
 Nicaragua . In the next two years, it paid almost $1 billion to
buy companies and licenses in Chile, Peru, Paraguay and Uruguay.  Now Slim may be able to expand by acquiring companies such
as Luxembourg-based  Millicom International Cellular SA (MIC) , which
operates in countries including Bolivia, where America Movil has
no mobile-phone network, said Stifel Nicolaus’ King. The company
had 14.1 million subscribers in Central America as of June.
Emily Hunt, a spokeswoman for Millicom, didn’t respond to phone
and e-mail messages seeking comment.  With a market value of $10.8 billion as of Oct. 7, Millicom
also has networks in  seven African countries  from  Rwanda  to
 Chad , offering America Movil the chance to enter the continent
with an established network, King said. Millicom shares were
little changed at 675 koronor today in Stockholm.  Africa  Expansion  Fewer than 70 percent of people in several African
countries, including Ivory Coast and Cameroon, have cell phones,
said Lara of Actinver.  “Africa has always been discussed,” Lara said. The
mobile-phone “penetration levels are still very low.”  America Movil Chief Executive Officer Daniel Hajj, Slim’s
son-in-law, said in an interview in March that the company
wouldn’t rule out acquisitions in  Europe , Africa or  Asia .  “We’re open to review whatever type of operation that
could come up in some other part of the world,” he said. “The
important thing is that it makes sense for us.”  While America Movil may eventually expand into Nigeria,
 South Africa  or Kenya, it may make more sense to continue to add
networks in Latin America or pursue  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  as a
“cheap” opportunity, Brian Barish, Denver-based president of
Cambiar Investors LLC, which oversees about $8 billion, said in
a phone interview.  Backyard Bargains  Tomas Lajous, a UBS AG analyst in Mexico City, said a move
into the U.S. telecommunications industry is unlikely given the
size of the companies and AT&T Inc.’s approximately 9 percent
stake in America Movil. Sprint had a market value of $7.3
billion and traded at a 78 percent discount to its sales as of
Oct. 7.  Slim may also be able to find potential bargains in his own
backyard in the Caribbean, said Stifel Nicolaus’ King. He may
look at closely held Digicel Group Ltd., the Kingston, Jamaica-
based company with  mobile networks  in 32 markets in the
Caribbean, Central and South America and the South Pacific.
America Movil is already acquiring Digicel’s operations in
 Honduras  and El Salvador. Antonia Graham, a spokeswoman for
Digicel, declined to comment.  Share Buybacks  Still, America Movil’s best use of cash may be buying back
its own shares, said  Walter Todd , who helps manage about $950
million at Greenwood Capital in Greenwood, South Carolina. The
shares had dropped 18 percent this year before today, compared
with a 14 percent decline in Mexico’s benchmark IPC index,
giving America Movil a market value of 1.13 trillion pesos
($83.7 billion). The company’s U.S.-listed shares have declined
25 percent this year.  “Given that the stock is down so much this year, probably
the best use of money with the least risk is to buy back its own
stock -- and buy back in a big way,” Todd said in a phone
interview. “If the alternative is go buy a company in a
continent that I have no presence in or buyback stock and pay a
dividend, that’s a no-brainer to me.”  America Movil rose 2.6 percent to 14.91 pesos today in
Mexico City, the biggest gain in four weeks.  After weighing acquisitions of telecommunications carriers
in Serbia and Poland and ultimately pulling out of the bidding,
America Movil instead increased its share repurchase fund in
March by 50 billion pesos ($4.18 billion), adding to the 35
billion pesos already available, according to company filings.  Investing During Turbulence  With the MSCI AC World Index of developed and emerging
nations falling into a bear market last month as the European
sovereign debt crisis threatens to push the global economy into
a recession, America Movil may have an easier time finding
affordable deals, said Andrew Campbell, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Sao Paulo.  America Movil entered Argentina in 2003 with an acquisition
as the country began emerging from an economic crisis and bought
up assets in Brazil a decade ago during the telecommunications
industry’s collapse. Slim’s penchant for investing during times
of turbulence mirrors his father, who bought real estate in
downtown Mexico City in the aftermath of the nation’s 1910
revolution.  “They benefit from the strong balance sheet they have and
the cash position they have,” Campbell said in a phone
interview. “If there were to be some distressed assets outside
of Latin America, if they saw an opportunity for value creation,
they wouldn’t rule out taking look at it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 