-- 
Slovakia to Make Final Push to Back Euro Bailout Fund

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-10-13T17:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/slovak-ruling-parties-to-make-final-attempt-to-back-bailout-fund.html
(Corrects spelling of Nicolas in fifth paragraph of story
published on Oct. 10.)  Slovakia’s ruling coalition will
make a final attempt today to end a dispute over participation
in a euro-area bailout mechanism to avoid a government collapse
and further delays in shoring up budgets across  Europe .  The leaders of four governing parties in the euro region’s
second-poorest member began a meeting at 4 p.m. in the Slovak
capital Bratislava to discuss conditions demanded by Freedom and
Solidarity, a junior coalition member, in return for its support
of the bailout system. Party Chairman Richard Sulik has said his
lawmakers will reject the related legislation in a vote tomorrow
if conditions aren’t met.  “Our position” on the bailout mechanism “is known, and
we won’t change it,” Sulik, who is also parliamentary speaker,
told reporters before the meeting.  The euro has lost more than 5 percent in the past month as
Europe struggles to contain the debt crisis that’s spread across
the continent over the last year from  Greece . Slovak approval of
enhanced powers of the European Financial Stability Facility,
the temporary bailout fund, is crucial for adopting the key
element of Europe’s strategy. Malta is the only other country in
the 17-member euro bloc that has yet to ratify the measures
agreed by EU leaders in July.  Bank Recapitalization  As the crisis continues to engulf the euro region and
threatens its lenders, German and French leaders at a meeting
yesterday pledged to devise a plan to recapitalize banks, help
Greece and strengthen Europe’s economic governance. German
chancellor  Angela Merkel , after meeting French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy , said Europe will do “everything necessary” to ensure
that banks have enough capital.  The euro gained 2 percent to 1.365 against the dollar as of
3:11 p.m. London time.  Sulik said SaS, as his party is known, is ready to make
unspecified concessions in its demands, which were rejected last
week by Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova . Radicova’s party, the
Slovak Democratic and Christian Union, supports approval of the
EFSF.  “For protection of the  euro zone , for protection of bank
deposits of our citizens, the mechanism is absolutely
necessary,” Mikulas Dzurinda, a foreign minister and the
chairman of Radicova’s party, told reporters before the
coalition meeting.  Without votes from SaS lawmakers, the EFSF package is
destined for rejection tomorrow as the two opposition parties
have said they won’t support it. This would further deepen the
row within the four-party coalition and may lead to a collapse
of the government.  Opposition Offer  Smer, the larger of the opposition pair with 62 lawmakers
in the 150-seat assembly, has offered to back an enhanced rescue
fund in an eventual repeated vote if the current coalition steps
down.  Radicova has said she wants to have the legislation
approved before a summit of EU leaders originally scheduled for
Oct. 18. European leaders today said they pushed the meeting
back by a week. By setting the start of the debate preceding the
vote for tomorrow, the government left itself room for further
talks and a repeat of the balloting before the meeting.  The euro is losing its gloss for the currency group’s
newest members, whose less-indebted, faster-growing economies
stand for what the region was supposed to be rather than what it
has become.  Salary Comparisons  With average salaries still below those in Greece, it’s
getting tougher to garner support among the poorest euro
citizens for further aid to their Mediterranean partners.  Germany  has committed the biggest share to the rescue of
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . It’s the largest country in the
expanded EFSF with guarantees totaling 27 percent of the 780
billion-euro ($1.04 trillion) fund. Slovakia is guaranteeing 7.7
billion euros for the facility, or 1 percent.  SaS wants to create an inter-party committee in which each
member would have a right to demand the ability for the country
to veto individual EFSF disbursements. It is also demanding that
the country doesn’t participate in the European Stability
Mechanism, a permanent rescue vehicle set to come into force in
2013.  Different Approach  Sulik, whose party seeks lower taxes and less regulation
for business, has said repeatedly he thinks European leaders
must find a more sustainable way of saving the euro area than
continuing to inject money into budgets in the form of loans and
revenue enhancements.  The expanded powers of the 440 billion-euro ($589 billion)
EFSF would allow the fund to buy the debt of stressed euro-area
nations, aid troubled banks in the region and offer credit lines
to governments. The EFSF’s current role is to sell bonds to
finance rescue loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ; Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ; Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  