-- 
South African Winery Boosts $28 Rembrandt White, Jazzy Shiraz

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-10-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/south-african-winery-boosts-28-rembrandt-white-jazzy-shiraz-elin-mccoy.html
“In  South Africa , we’re redefining
ourselves socially, politically, vinously,” Mark Solms says,
pouring vibrant reds and whites in the garden dining room of a
friend’s Upper East Side townhouse on a recent  New York  visit.  A decade ago, the South African brain researcher and
psychoanalyst left London for home, and took over a derelict
wine farm belonging to his family in idyllic Franschhoek Valley.
Now he’s producing some of the Western Cape’s most cutting-edge
blends at Solms-Delta winery, an ambitious land-reform project
that makes you even more gratified to drink them.  As I sip and spit, he leans forward, brushing back longish
gray-white hair, telling a tale of new grapes, the past’s legacy
and a vineyard technique called strangulation. Vines arrived in
South Africa about 350 years ago with Dutch, then French
Huguenot settlers, who planted grapes based on nostalgia, not
suitability for Franschhoek’s rocky soil and hot, windy climate.  The 50-year-old Solms, like many contemporary winegrowers,
believes Rhone varietals such as shiraz and Portuguese touriga
nacional do better.  The winery’s top  Solms-Delta  line includes a velvety all-
shiraz 2010 Africana ($33) with the depth and power you find in
Italian Amarone. The secret to its concentration is nipping the
stems with pliers so the grapes desiccate on the vine, an idea
borrowed from ancient  Greece .  Lemony 2010 Amalie ($28), a white named for a Solms
ancestor painted by Rembrandt, is a rich blend of viognier,
roussanne and vine-desiccated grenache blanc.  Traditional Grapes  The good value $20  Solms-Astor  labels are new takes on
traditional South African grapes.  Easy-drinking 2010 Vastrap is a bright, fruity mix of
chenin blanc, semillon and riesling. The 2007 Langarm pinotage-
based red blend is smoky, spicy, exuberant. NV  Cape Jazz Shiraz 
is festive, sweetly fruity, Italian Lambrusco-like.  As with all South African wine stories, there are deep
political and social dimensions to the wines and the land from
which they come. Solms left South Africa during the apartheid
era and spent 14 years in  London , becoming internationally known
for his work in the field of neuro-psychoanalysis.  Drawn back post-apartheid “out of homesickness and
guilt,” he envisaged making partners of the farm’s black
workers, whose seven families had lived on the land in a feudal-
type relationship for generations. At first they were
unresponsive and Solms found himself falling into the
traditional role of the Afrikaans “baas.”  Tapping Archaeology  His psychoanalytic training kicked in. For the workers to
feel they had a stake in the farm, he realized, they needed to
understand its true history. Solms brought in archaeologists and
oral historians to help.  “The wine industry was built on slavery,” he says. “We
had to tell our stories so we could learn what went wrong and
how to put it all right.” A museum on the estate displays the
findings, a constant reminder.  Giving workers training in the skills they needed to run
things was another step. Fifty percent of the managerial
positions at Solms-Delta, which also operates a successful
restaurant, are now held by blacks.  “My own privilege was tied to their poverty,” says Solms.
“It’s the right thing to do, and it results in better wines.”
Enter Solms’ friend and, since 2007, business partner, British
philanthropist Richard Astor, whom Solms persuaded to buy an
adjacent wine farm. They used the two farms as collateral for a
third, now owned by a farm workers’ trust. Of the combined
Solms-Delta estate, Solms, Astor and the trust each own a third.  Mandela’s Visit  Over lunch, Astor, the quiet side of the duo, downplays his
role to “investor and enthusiastic supporter.” His father
David, who was editor of “The Observer” newspaper, championed
the anti-apartheid movement. Astor met  Nelson Mandela  and Oliver Tambo in London as a child.  Unlike his ancestor Nancy, a famous teetotaler, Astor
enjoys wine. “But the art form I most relate to,” he says,
“is music.” (Cape Jazz Shiraz was his idea.) That passion
partly inspired a project to rediscover the tradition of Cape
music among the farm workers which, in turn, spawned a
performance-filled annual harvest festival that attracts 3,500
visitors. The farm has three bands and a CD.  What’s happening at Solms-Delta contrasts sharply with the
appalling labor conditions described in  Human Rights Watch ’s
recent  report , “Ripe with Abuse: Human Rights Conditions in
South Africa’s Fruit and Wine Industries.”  While acknowledging that some abuse exists, the nonprofit
industry group Wines of South Africa said the report was biased
and misleadingly suggested these practices were commonplace.
Naturally, they’re worried about the effect on exports.  Cultural Terroir  Solms says the industry faces challenges in owning up to
the past and charting a progressive path to the future, but
believes they can be met, winery by winery.  On the Solms-Delta Africana label is a drawing of a 7,000-
year-old Bushman stone tool found 20 feet from Solms’s front
door by farm worker Benny Pietersen, who told him, “You see,
professor, my people were here before yours.”  That history and the people who’ve lived on the land for
generations, Solms says, are South Africa’s cultural terroir.
Without doing right by them, “you can’t make honest wine, much
less great wine.”  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 