-- 
Springboks Coach Peter De Villiers Steps Down After Rugby World Cup Exit

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-10-09T11:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/south-africa-rugby-coach-peter-de-villiers-will-step-down-from-role.html
South Africa  coach Peter  de Villiers 
signaled he would step down after the Springboks’ Rugby  World
Cup  defense ended in a quarterfinal defeat to  Australia .  “It was a brilliant journey,” De Villiers said at a news
conference in Wellington yesterday following his team’s 11-9
loss to the Wallabies. “There’s a time to come and a time to go
and I think the journey for me is over.”  De Villiers, 54, was appointed as the first black coach of
the Springboks in January 2008, replacing Jake White, who
steered the national team to its second World Cup title in 2007.  During his tenure, the Springboks won 30 of 48 games
including a 2009 series victory over the touring British & Irish
Lions and three straight wins over  New Zealand  the same year to
secure South Africa’s first Tri-Nations championship since 2004.  It was often his public comments that gained him
international attention. He escaped sanction from southern
hemisphere rugby’s umbrella governing body 14 months ago for
suggesting that New Zealand was being favored to boost the All
Blacks’ popularity and sell more World Cup tickets.  In 2009, he defended Springboks flanker  Schalk Burger  over
an eye-gouging incident during the series against the Lions.  “Why don’t we go to the nearest ballet shop, get some nice
tutus, get a great dancing show going, no eye-gouging, no
tackling,” de Villiers told reporters at the time. Burger was
given an eight-week ban for making contact with the eye area of
an opponent.  Springboks captain  John Smit , who lifted the World Cup in
2007 under White’s tenure, credited De Villiers with helping
lift team spirits with his approach to the job.  “He was not the mold of coach we were used to,” Smit,
whose international career also came to an end with yesterday’s
loss, told reporters. “He’s been a great man and he’s helped us
enjoy these four years. It’s disappointing to end it like
this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  