-- 
Stevens Rate Cut Seen Smallest in Two Months on Europe: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-10T04:32:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/stevens-rate-cut-bets-smallest-in-two-months-australia-credit.html
European efforts to avert a banking
crisis are reducing expectations for lower  interest rates  in
Australia, bond market measures show.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  suggested
less than a week ago he’s willing to lower the developed world’s
highest benchmark rate of 4.75 percent as Greece’s struggle to
avoid default damps investor confidence and growth. As markets
rallied last week after the  European Central Bank  said it will
give banks access to unlimited cash, bond investors pared bets
the RBA will repeat the series of cuts that followed Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008.  “The market has now got it into its head that there’s
going to be some sort of solution,”  Matthew Johnson , a
strategist at UBS AG in Sydney, said in a telephone interview on
Oct. 7. “There are some serious headwinds playing out there, so
I don’t really see the market moving away from pricing in rate
cuts because the RBA is now talking about it as well.”  The implied yield on the December cash-rate future closed
on Oct. 7 at 4.17 percent, the highest since Aug. 4, signaling a
cut of 58 basis points, or 0.58 percentage point, down from
wagers for more than 125 basis points of reductions on Aug. 9.
The future’s implied yield declined to 4.155 percent as of 2:42
p.m. in Sydney. Over the next 12 months, the RBA will lower its
key rate by 140 basis points, a Credit Suisse AG index based on
swaps showed, compared with 161 on Oct. 4.  Capital Injections  Yields on benchmark 10-year bonds rose for a fourth-
straight day, gaining five basis points to 4.29 percent. The
rate is 221 basis points more than  U.S. Treasuries  of similar
maturity. Australian 10-year yields fell 15 basis points in
September, completing nine-straight monthly declines for the
longest such stretch since at least 1978, Bloomberg data show.  Yields on all Australian benchmark government bonds due
until 2023 have been less than the RBA’s key rate since Aug. 9.  The ECB said Oct. 6 it would reintroduce purchases of
covered bonds and yearlong loans for banks to support markets
rattled by the region’s sovereign debt crisis. The  Bank of
England  boosted its asset-purchase program by more than a third
to 275 billion pounds ($428 billion) in a bid to avert a
recession in the U.K.  Dexia Plan  Underscoring the urgency, the board of Dexia SA met
yesterday to begin dismantling the French-Belgian lender.
Dexia’s breakup, three months after it got a clean bill of
health in European Union stress tests, brought the region’s
banking crisis from the continent’s periphery to its center.  “The RBA’s central case is not a disruptive financial
crisis,” Johnson said. “If that occurs they’ll do emergency
monetary policy like every central bank.”  European Union leaders are under pressure from investors to
rescue the region’s banks before a Group of 20 summit in
November.  “By the end of the month, we will have responded to the
crisis issue and to the vision issue,” French president Nicolas
Sarkozy said in Berlin yesterday at a joint briefing with the
German chancellor  Angela Merkel  before they dined at her office.  Under rising pressure to defuse turmoil that’s raged for 18
months, and facing growing concern  Greece  is headed to a
default, Merkel said European leaders will do “everything
necessary” to ensure that banks have enough capital.  Aussie Rallies  Last week’s moves bolstered investor confidence, spurring
rallies in global markets. The Australian dollar, the world’s
fifth-most traded currency, rose 0.5 percent to 98.18 U.S. cents
in recent trading, extending a 1.1 percent climb in the five
days ended Oct. 7 that was its first weekly gain in a month.  The Aussie has appreciated 40 percent since Dec. 31, 2008,
the most among more than 150 currencies Bloomberg tracks against
the  U.S. dollar .  “There are clearly risks, but there’s no hard evidence to
suggest the Australian economy has felt anything in real terms
from developments in Europe,” Gavin Stacey, chief interest-rate
strategist at  Barclays Capital  in Sydney, said in a telephone
interview Oct. 7.  Australia ’s economy will expand 1.8 percent this year,
accelerating to 3.3 percent in 2012, International Monetary Fund
staff said in a report Oct. 7, reiterating forecasts made last
month. Bolstered by Asian demand for commodities, the outlook
“remains favorable, despite global financial market volatility
in recent months,” it said.  RBA Forecasts  Stevens cut the cash rate from 7.25 percent to 3 percent
between September 2008 and April 2009 to counter a global credit
freeze. The RBA then lifted the cash rate by 175 basis points
after credit markets started thawing in 2009, giving Stevens
scope to lower borrowing costs if Europe’s crisis threatens the
global economic recovery.  “It will take more time for evidence of any effects of the
recent European and U.S. financial turbulence on economic
activity in other regions to emerge,” Stevens said Oct. 4 after
leaving the benchmark unchanged for an 11th straight month. “An
improved inflation outlook would increase the scope for monetary
policy to provide some support to demand, should that prove
necessary.”  Three of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict
the RBA will lower rates to 4.5 percent at the next policy
meeting on Nov. 1. Eighteen expect no change. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut its 2012 growth forecast for Australia to 3
percent from 3.8 percent on Oct. 4, saying expansion in  China 
and the Asia-Pacific region would be curtailed by  Europe  and a
weakening economy in the U.S.  Fitch Downgrades  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Italy and  Spain  Oct. 7 on concern
they will struggle to improve their finances, while Moody’s
Investors Service put  Belgium  on review for a possible cut.  “It appears the European governments are kicking the Greek
can down the road up until the point that they’ve been able to
ring fence Italy and Spain and also ring fence the banks,”
Barclays’ Stacey said.  Australia’s economy is being driven by a mining boom and
record prices of exports relative to import costs spurred by
China’s demand for commodities including  iron ore  and coal.  The nation’s exports surged to a record A$28.4 billion
($27.9 billion) in August on coal shipments, and the A$3.1
billion trade surplus was the second-widest on record, the
Bureau of Statistics said Oct. 4. Retail sales rose more than
economists forecast for a second-straight month in August, data
the following day showed.  Credit-Default Swaps  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer prices
will rise an average of 2.43 percent for the next five years,
down from 2011’s peak of 3.14 percent on May 6.  Australian corporate bond risk reached the highest since
May 2009 last week, credit-default swaps show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index closed at 215.6 basis
points on Oct. 7 after surging as high as 239 on Oct. 4, CMA
data show. The average cost of insuring senior debt of the four
biggest banks rose as high as 243, from a low this year of 99 on
March 9, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian dollar-
denominated corporate bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt rose to 249 as of Oct. 6, the highest since
August 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
Average spreads fell one basis point to 248 on Oct. 7, according
to the index.  “Credit investor sentiment is fragile and the outlook for
Australian companies is definitely getting weaker, with slower
growth and lower profits ahead,” Nick Bishop, a portfolio
manager in Sydney at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said in a
telephone interview on Oct. 7. “On top of that, the systemic
European bank risk fears add an element of hysteria to spreads.
There is no road map for what Europe is grappling with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net .
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  