-- 
Cap on Franc Pushes Switzerland Closer to Repeating 1980s Housing Bubble

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-10-10T11:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/swiss-home-prices-surge-as-record-low-rates-spark-risk-of-bubble.html
Switzerland ’s push to tame its
soaring currency may worsen a jump in  home prices  as record-low
interest rates lure buyers into a market already surging from
increasing immigration.  A rise in real-estate prices is among the greatest threats
to Switzerland’s economy, Swiss National Bank Chairman Philipp Hildebrand said in June. He made the remarks less than two
months before the bank lowered rates to zero, after warning more
than a year ago about the possibility of a bubble.  “As interest rates have fallen, many people who could not
afford it before can buy a house,”  Alexandre Ziegler , an
assistant professor of finance at the University of Zurich,
said. “This has fueled demand and  house prices , and could
eventually result in a real-estate bubble.”  In August, the SNB cut  interest rates  from an already
record-matching low of 0.25 percent. The Swiss franc’s record
ascent against the euro prompted policy makers to impose a
currency ceiling on Sept. 6. A similar cap in the 1970s sparked
a decade of high inflation followed by a housing bubble in the
1980s.  The average price for a mid-size Swiss apartment has risen
12.5 percent since the end of 2009, according to a study by
Zurich-based research consultant  Fahrlaender Partner AG . In the
cantons of Zurich and Geneva, prices jumped 13.7 percent and
14.5 percent, respectively.  Too Expensive  After looking to buy in Zurich for more than two years,
Markus Boesch and his wife Conny decided it was too expensive
and risky. They opted to rent a four-bedroom apartment at 3,000
francs ($3,275) a month. The median price of a mid-sized family
home in the city was about 1.9 million francs and for a medium-
sized apartment it was 1.2 million francs, according to property
consultant Wuest & Partner AG.  “We debated buying, but that just wasn’t attractive,”
said Boesch, 32, who works in art installation and construction
and has two children. “The smallest house, if it has a bit of
charm, isn’t sold for under 1 million francs, and quite often
these are out-of-repair.”  Rising immigration is among factors boosting home prices,
according to the Swiss Federal Housing Office. With an economy
largely insulated from the euro zone’s worsening sovereign-debt
crisis, Switzerland’s appeal as a haven is drawing an influx of
professionals and highly skilled workers.  Foreign Buyers  Citizens from 17 European Union countries were given
freedom to immigrate to Switzerland in 2007. The country is home
to companies including  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food
maker, and Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-largest
reinsurer. Switzerland’s financial-services industry, which
includes more than 300 banks and employed about 212,000 people
last year, accounted for 11.2 percent of gross domestic product,
according to government figures.  Well-paid workers in industries like banking and health
care typically resettle in cities such as Geneva, Zurich and
Zug, according to a study by the housing agency published in
July.  Demand for owner-occupied properties in Zurich last year
outpaced supply while the number of foreign households grew 4.61
percent, the Housing Office study said. Of the about 480,000
households that have bought a property in Zurich, the agency
estimates more than a quarter are foreign.  Homebuilding was at a 15-year high at the end of 2010 with
67,000 units under construction, according to the study. This
year, about 14,000 housing units had been produced in Zurich
alone at the end of the second quarter compared with 12,800
units in the same period last year, Christoph Enzler, who worked
on the report, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Exploding’  The only place Swiss native Moritz Aregger said he could
afford to build his 1.3 million-franc family home was a small
village about 30 kilometers (19 miles) outside of Zurich.
Aregger, 34, a technology consultant for Zurich-based  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said he would have preferred to buy inside the
city to avoid a daily commute.  “It was impossible finding something decent for an
affordable price,” Aregger said. “Prices are exploding.”  Record low borrowing costs could cause homes to become
overvalued, particularly if Switzerland were to slip into a
recession and demand collapses, according to Daniel Kalt, chief
Swiss economist at Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest
bank.  “We’re halfway toward the bubble,” said Kalt. “Local
hotspots are causing concern, including the bays of Lake Geneva,
Lake Zurich and Lake Zug and certain tourism destinations.”  Mortgages Rising  Switzerland’s banks saw mortgage volume rise 4.6 percent
last year to 760 billion francs. That total was surpassed within
seven months this year, with 783 billion francs in volume by the
end of July, according to  statistics  by the  Swiss National Bank .  Zuercher Kantonalbank, the biggest of Switzerland’s
publicly owned cantonal banks, said it provides five-year
mortgages at an interest rate of 1.9 percent and 10-year
mortgages at 2.49 percent. The bank’s mortgage volume rose 6.2
percent to 62 billion francs last year, and 2.4 percent to 63.5
billion francs in the first half of this year, according to ZKB.  The franc rose against all of its 16 major peers tracked by
Bloomberg today as optimism that  Europe ’s leaders are forming a
plan to recapitalize their banks sapped demand for the dollar as
a haven. The Swiss currency appreciated 2 percent to 90.86
centimes per dollar at 11:29 a.m. in  London , the biggest one-day
gain since Aug. 9.  Janwillem Acket, chief economist for  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) 
in Zurich, said there’s a risk that Switzerland could end up in
a situation similar to the subprime borrowing crisis in the U.S.
that sparked a global recession and prompted central banks
around the globe to slash interest rates.  “People who shouldn’t be borrowing are now seriously
considering entering the housing market,” Acket said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 