-- 
U.K. Finance Chiefs Least Optimistic Since 2009, Survey Shows

-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 
2011-10-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/u-k-finance-chiefs-least-optimistic-since-2009-survey-shows.html
Optimism among chief financial
officers of major U.K. companies fell to its lowest in 2-1/2
years in the third quarter, amid growing concern about the
global economic outlook, according to a survey by Deloitte LLP.  Forty-three percent of CFOs surveyed think Britain will
fall back into recession, up from 33 percent last quarter, the
survey showed. Risk appetite fell at its fastest rate since
Deloitte conducted the first such survey in 2007 and, for the
first time in a year, cost-control is CFOs’ top priority. The
financial industry showed the least risk-appetite and consumer
goods and technology companies the most, the survey showed.  “This quarter’s CFO Survey shows that uncertainty and
weaker growth have had a marked effect not just on corporate
sentiment but also on priorities,” said Margaret Ewing, a
senior Deloitte partner and former CFO of airport operator BAA.
“The world has become riskier and more uncertain for
corporates. Most think that a period of margin expansion is
drawing to an end. CFOs are responding with a renewed focus on
cost-control.”  The  Bank of England  announced last week its biggest
stimulus since the depths of the recession, citing
“vulnerabilities” related to euro-area turmoil. Governor
 Mervyn King  said the move, the first loosening of U.K. monetary
policy since 2009, was a response to what may be the worst-ever
financial crisis. Britain’s economy grew less than initially
estimated in the second quarter, with gross domestic product up
0.1 percent, rather than the 0.2 percent previously published,
data last week showed.  Most CFOs expect hiring and investment to decline and
profit margins to narrow during the next 12 months, according to
the survey. They see the greatest opportunities for growth
outside Britain.  The Deloitte survey was conducted between Sept. 14 and
Sept. 28. A total of 114 CFOs participated, including those of
30 companies in the benchmark FTSE 100 Index and 41 in the FTSE
250 Index. The rest are with other U.K. listed companies, large
private companies and U.K. subsidiaries of major companies
listed overseas.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Tim Farrand at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  