-- 
Rupiah Slide May Force Indonesia to Delay Interest-Rate Cut

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 
2011-10-10T02:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/tumbling-rupiah-may-force-indonesia-to-delay-interest-rate-cut.html
Indonesia will probably leave
 interest rates  unchanged for an eighth month, after a tumble in
the nation’s currency curbed scope for lower borrowing costs to
bolster expansion as global economic growth weakens.  Bank Indonesia  will keep its benchmark  reference rate  at
6.75 percent, according to all 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of a decision due in Jakarta tomorrow.  Indonesia’s rupiah slid about 4 percent against the dollar
in the past month as the Jakarta Composite Index of stocks
slumped the second-most in Asia during the period. While Bank
Indonesia has signaled it may join emerging markets such as
Brazil and Turkey in lowering rates if inflation moderates
further, a cut risks eroding the appeal of the currency.  “The currency’s fall is the reason they will leave the
benchmark rate unchanged,” said Anton Hendranata, an economist
at Bank Danamon Indonesia in Jakarta. “But Bank Indonesia will
have room to cut in December. We need low interest rates to
support growth next year because the problems in the U.S. and
 Europe  may affect Indonesian exports.”  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has fallen 13.8 percent in the
past month, the most in Asia after Thailand’s SET Index, as
Europe’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. economy cloud the
outlook and prompt investors to pare bets on emerging markets.
The rupiah weakened 0.3 percent today to 8,965 per dollar as of
9:31 a.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Easing Inflation  Bank Indonesia has room to lower rates if inflation
“behaves,” Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said on Sept. 14.
Officials can move toward monetary policy “loosening” if price
gains slow and economic growth disappoints, Perry Warjiyo, the
central bank’s director of economic research, said last month.  Consumer prices in Southeast’s  Asia  largest economy rose
4.61 percent in September from a year earlier, matching July’s
reading, which was the slowest pace in 14 months.  Asian central banks from  China  to the  Philippines  have left
rates unchanged in recent weeks, opting to protect expansion as
the global slowdown threatens to intensify.  The reduced likelihood of rate rises may curb demand for
Asian currencies. Bank Indonesia said Sept. 23 it will intervene
to support the rupiah. The currency’s weakness may fan import
prices and impede the moderation in inflation in the world’s
fourth-most populous nation.  “If the central bank cuts rates this month, the rupiah may
continue to depreciate and it won’t be good for our economy amid
global market conditions,” said Harry Su, head of research at
PT Bahana Securities in Jakarta.  Growth Target  Bank  Indonesia  has refrained from boosting its key rate
since raising it by a quarter of a percentage point in February.  Indonesia is one step away from its first investment-grade
 credit rating  in more than a decade, as President Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono targets growth of as much as 6.6 percent on average
through the remainder of his term ending in 2014.  He plans to double spending on roads, ports and airports to
$140 billion by then. Toyota Motor Co. and Unilever NV are among
companies investing in the $707 billion economy.  Gross domestic product rose 6.49 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier. HSBC Holdings Plc this week cut its
estimate for the nation’s 2011 growth to 6.4 percent from 6.5
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Manish Modi in  New Delhi  at 
 mmodi6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  