-- 
Baseball Still Reigns Supreme as the American Game: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-10-09T15:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/hunt-baseball-still-reigns-supreme-as-the-american-game.html
Baseball is no longer America’s
national pastime. It still embodies the nation’s soul and spirit.  Football is more popular and has more money; basketball
attracts more young sports fans. All Major League Baseball
ballparks display the number 42 to commemorate  Jackie Robinson ,
who blazed the trail for racial integration of the game 64 years
ago; today, the percentage of African-American players in the
league is smaller than in the population at large.  Yet baseball’s magic, on view in the playoffs, excites and
rejuvenates an angry and dispirited American citizenry as almost
nothing else -- even killing Osama bin Laden -- can.  “Baseball is an allegorical play about America, a poetic,
complex, and subtle play of courage, fear, good luck, mistakes,
patience about fate, and sober self-esteem,” observed the late
 Saul Steinberg  of the New Yorker. Even in the game’s formative
phase, more than a century and a half ago, the great American
writer Walt Whitman predicted in the Brooklyn Daily Eagle that
it would be “the American game. It will take our people out-of-
doors, fill them with oxygen, give them a larger physical
stoicism.”  Yet these days the  National Football League  is the crowd-
pleaser. That’s because football is a much more appealing
television sport. Recently, in Wisconsin, a regular season game
of the Green Bay Packers got more than twice as many local
viewers as a baseball playoff contest featuring the Milwaukee
Brewers. The Brewers’ opponents, the Arizona Diamondbacks, did
worse with home state fans: In Phoenix, the game had almost four
times fewer viewers than the NFL’s Cardinals. Even a pre-game
NFL television program got higher ratings than any of the
baseball post-season games.  Attendance Renaissance  Still, under the oft-maligned commissioner Bud Selig,
baseball has enjoyed a renaissance in the past few decades.  Even with the most prolonged economic downturn since the
Depression,  Major League Baseball  attendance has soared; this
year, 73.4 million fans showed up to cheer the 30 teams. That
was the fifth-highest turnout ever.  The smallest showing was in Oakland, with a little less
than 1.5 million; 40 years ago, more than half the Major League
teams had smaller attendances than that, and one-third had less
than 1 million.  The price of tickets to sporting events, driven by
astronomical players’ salaries and owners’ profits, has
skyrocketed. Baseball remains more affordable. A parent can take
a kid to a Major League game, get good seats, buy a couple hot
dogs, a beer and soft drink for less than $60. The same package
for a football game is three or four times more expensive.  Inner-City Sports  Ironically, baseball has flourished in parks in the city
centers, while the number of black players has declined. A
quarter-century after Robinson integrated the game, 27 percent
of Major League Baseball players were black; today it’s only 8.5
percent.  It isn’t discrimination; the sport has far more black
administrators and managers and coaches than before. Baseball
has become less popular among young  American blacks , who often
make other choices; the  National Basketball Association  is
overwhelmingly black and the NFL is increasingly dominated by
African-Americans.  At the same time, baseball has gained many more Hispanics -
- both U.S.-born and from Latin America -- who now account for
more than a quarter of the Major League rosters. Baseball is
hugely popular south of the border.  Venezuela  and the Dominican
Republic have well-developed winter leagues and increasingly are
feeders to the American majors; no club is without a Latin
American scouting team.  Popular in  Japan   In  Asia , baseball is popular in Japan, South Korea and
 Taiwan . It never caught on in  Europe , though there’s a fledgling
movement in  Germany .  In the U.S., football’s popularity notwithstanding, a
community’s identity is more likely to be associated with
baseball. Philadelphia’s inferiority complex, sandwiched between
 Washington  and  New York , and the usually woeful Philadelphia
Phillies, with more losses than any other Major League team --
deserved each other. Now that the Phillies have become one of
the great franchises in baseball the entire city has been
uplifted, as chronicled in a delicious piece in Sports
Illustrated. (Even the disappointing playoff loss last week to
the St. Louis Cardinals doesn’t dim the luster much.)  In  Detroit , both the NFL Lions and the baseball Tigers
enjoyed spectacular Septembers. After defeating the hated  New
York Yankees  in the first post-season series last week, it’s the
Tigers that seem to have most energized this depressed town.  Boston  Curse  It cuts the other way, too. In 1919, the  Boston Red Sox 
traded the greatest player in the game, Babe Ruth, and for the
next 85 years didn’t win a  World Series ; natives called it “the
curse of the Bambino.” That streak ended when Boston won the
championship in 2004 and 2007. This season, the club blew a huge
lead in the final month and missed the playoffs. At the water
coolers and saloons in Beantown it’s as if 2004 and 2007 never
occurred.  Then there’s Washington, which endured without a baseball
team from 1971 to 2005, and became a pro football town,
viscerally attached to the Redskins. That could change.  The perpetually bad Nationals finished the season on a roll,
and in the final weekend home stand, with nothing at stake for
them, cost the Atlanta Braves the playoffs by winning two out of
three games. That performance drew more than 100,000 fans and
the future looks bright.  On any given night at the new Nationals Park, you might see
the speaker of the House, John Boehner -- perhaps sneaking
behind the stands for a smoke -- and liberal Democratic
Representative Ed Markey of  Massachusetts . When the  Chicago
White Sox  come to town, President Barack Obama is there to root
for his hometown team; Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito can be
seen cheering for his  Philadelphia Phillies . The man in jeans
and baseball cap in the lower deck on the right field line is
the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Ben Bernanke.  Here’s a hard-to-imagine dream: Baseball brings some
civility and comity to Washington.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 