-- 
Vettel, 24, Becomes Youngest Driver to Win Two Straight Formula One Titles

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-10-09T15:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-09/vettel-24-becomes-youngest-driver-to-win-two-straight-formula-one-titles.html
Sebastian Vettel yesterday became
the youngest ever two-time Formula One champion, securing the
drivers’ title with four races of the season remaining.  The 24-year-old  Red Bull  driver, who only needed one point
to guarantee the defense of his title, finished third in the
Japanese Grand Prix at Suzuka.  “This year we’ve always been one step ahead,” the German
told reporters after the race. “In a way the hardest thing is
after winning last year to go out and do it again.”  Vettel has an unassailable 114-point lead over McLaren’s
 Jenson Button , the 2009 world champion, who won yesterday’s race
with  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari in second.  Vettel started in pole position for the 12th time this
season, underscoring the superiority of his Red Bull car over
Ferrari and McLaren. He was, though, unable to take his 10th race
victory of 2011 at a circuit where he won the past two seasons.  Drink-maker Red Bull GmbH spent $675 million on bankrolling
the team between 2005 and 2009, according to filings by the
team’s parent company based in  Milton Keynes ,  England . Since
then it has been rewarded with two straight driver’s titles and
is closing on another constructors’ championship with a 130-
point lead over McLaren.  Team Principal Christian Horner said there is more to come
from Vettel.  “It’s phenomenal what he’s achieved in such a short space
of time,” Horner told the British Broadcasting Corp. “He is
continuing to get stronger and to evolve as a driver and a
person.”  Tough Start  The German, who last season became the youngest winner in
the series, which was first staged in 1950, had to defend a move
from Button at the start of the race. As he cut across to defend
the position it prompted his McLaren rival to question whether
Vettel should receive a penalty.  Button claimed the lead on lap 21 following the second
round of tire stops for him and Vettel, emerging ahead of the
Red Bull driver on exiting the pit lane.  The safety car was deployed soon after, but Button was able
to push out his lead as racing restarted. Following a third pit
stop, the Briton was third and did not regain the lead until 12
laps remaining.  Alonso, a two-time world champion, pressed Button in the
final stages and finished only 1.16 seconds back, with Vettel
also close behind.  Mark Webber , in the other Red Bull, was fourth, ahead of
McLaren’s Lewis Hamilton and Mercedes driver  Michael Schumacher 
-- the record seven-time Formula One champion.  Hamilton, who passed Button early on, suffered a puncture
which prompted an early pit stop on lap eight. He later had a
clash with Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa , but avoided a penalty unlike
two weeks ago in  Singapore  when the two drivers also collided.  Race for Second  Button’s win gives him 210 points in the standings, eight
more than Alonso, as they battle to finish behind Vettel, who
suggested his run to the title has not been easy.  “It was extremely tight this year, perhaps tighter than
some people thought,” Vettel said. “These guys know how to
drive.”  Vettel has never qualified lower than third on the grid in
2011 and only failed to finish on the podium once -- at his home
Grand Prix in  Germany .  He is the ninth driver to take back-to-back titles, the
first since Alonso’s second triumph in 2006. This season’s
success is more comfortable than last year when Vettel won the
final race to seal the title.  Vettel and Horner said they don’t plan to ease off in the
last four races.  “There is a lot of pressure falling off but there is a lot
of pressure on us because naturally we want to win,” Vettel
told the  BBC . There is another chance to win “in the next races
and those chances we want to use.”  The season continues in Yeongam,  South Korea  next weekend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  