-- 
Al-Qaeda Dealt Blow by Death of East Africa Commander

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-12T04:37:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/al-qaeda-commander-in-east-africa-is-killed-clinton-says.html
Al-Qaeda has been dealt a
“significant blow” by the death of its suspected leader in
East Africa, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  Fazul Abdullah Mohammed was probably killed last week at a
checkpoint in Mogadishu, Somalia, according to a U.S. official
who spoke on condition of anonymity because he isn’t authorized
to speak to the media. The U.S. had offered a $5 million dollar
reward for information leading to the arrest or conviction of
Mohammed, who was wanted for his alleged involvement in the 1998
U.S. embassy bombings in Kenya and  Tanzania .  “It is a just end for a terrorist who brought so much
death and pain to so many innocents in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam
and elsewhere -- Tanzanians, Kenyans, Somalis, and our own
embassy personnel,” Clinton said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday in  Dar es Salaam , where she is on an official visit.  Osama bin Laden , al-Qaeda’s leader, was killed last month
when U.S. commandoes raided a house in Abbottabad, near
 Pakistan ’s capital, Islamabad. President  Barack Obama ,
announcing his death on May 2, said the fight against terrorism
would continue and there was “no doubt” that al-Qaeda would
continue to pursue its attacks.  The near-simultaneous bombings of the U.S. embassies in Dar
es Salaam and Nairobi on Aug. 7, 1998, killed 224 people,
including 12 U.S. citizens. Mohammed was indicted by a New York
district court for his alleged involvement, according to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s  website  listing the most
wanted terrorists.  African Union  The  African Union  is investigating unconfirmed reports from
“internal East African intelligence sources” that Mohammed is
dead, Paddy Ankunda, spokesman for the African Union Mission in
Somalia, or Amisom, said by phone from Mogadishu yesterday.  Mohammed and one other man were killed by Somali forces
when the pickup in which they were traveling failed to stop at a
checkpoint after straying into a government-controlled district
of Mogadishu,  Agence France-Presse  reported, citing security
officials.  The incident happened on the night of June 7-8, Somali
security officials told AFP. DNA tests subsequently confirmed
the suspect’s identity, the news service reported.  Al-Shabaab, a regional grouping affiliated to Al-Qaeda,
acknowledged Mohammad’s death, AFP said, citing a leader of the
organization who asked not to be named.  Mohammad was traveling with a South African passport,
$40,000 in cash and several mobile phones, AFP reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Lusaka, Zambia at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 