-- 
Weiner Takes Leave to Seek Treatment After E-Mailing Suggestive Photos

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-12T15:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/anthony-weiner-takes-leave-of-absence-from-congress-to-enter-treatment.html
New York  Representative Anthony Weiner is seeking a leave of absence to seek treatment as top
Democrats called for his resignation for sending suggestive
photos of himself and messages to women he met online.  Weiner’s publicist, Risa Heller, said in an e-mailed
statement that the married New York Democrat “will request a
short leave of absence” from the House “so that he can get
evaluated and map out a course of treatment to make himself
well.”  Weiner “departed this morning to seek professional
treatment to focus on becoming a better husband and healthier
person,” Heller said yesterday.  The statement came as Democrats including House Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  called for his resignation, capping
escalating pressure from fellow Democrats for him to step aside.
Pelosi had called for an ethics investigation the day Weiner,
46, apologized for sending the photos and messages.  The New York Times reported earlier yesterday that Weiner
acknowledged, through Heller, exchanging online messages with a
17-year-old Delaware girl. Weiner maintains that “his
communications with this person were neither explicit nor
indecent,” Heller said in an e-mail.  Hacker’s Prank  The House is scheduled to return to Washington tomorrow
from a one-week recess and Weiner was certain to have faced
continued questioning by Washington reporters, whom he
previously told he had been the victim of computer hacker’s
prank.  “He should resign,” Republican Representative  Paul Ryan 
of  Wisconsin , chairman of the House Budget Committee, said today
on  CBS News ’ “Face the Nation” program. “We’ve got important
work to do and this is just a ridiculous distraction.”  Weiner admitted June 6 in New York that he engaged in
“inappropriate conversations” with six women over the last
three years, including by e-mail, on Facebook and Twitter, and
on the telephone with one of the women. He was quoted by the New
York Post on June 9 as saying he had no plans to give up his
House seat.  Pelosi was joined in asking for Weiner’s resignation
yesterday by the head of the  Democratic National Committee ,
Debbie Wasserman Schultz, New York Representative Steve  Israel ,
who heads the House Democratic campaign effort, and Maryland
Representative  Chris Van Hollen , ranking member of the House
Budget Committee.  Assistant Democratic Leader Jim Clyburn of  South Carolina 
said the Democratic caucus “should address this issue when we
meet next week.”  Judicial Process  “Any judicial process is going to take time. I really
don’t know that we have that time,” Maryland Representative
Steny Hoyer, the Democratic Whip, said on “Face the Nation.”
Hoyer said Weiner should reflect on how he would continue with
his Congressional career. “I don’t see how he can proceed,”
Hoyer said.  Pelosi issued her call for Weiner’s resignation after she
learned the lawmaker would seek a leave of absence for
treatment, according to a Pelosi aide who spoke on condition of
anonymity. Pelosi’s statement said Weiner “has the love of his
family, the confidence of his constituents, and the recognition
that he needs help.” The California Democrat urged Weiner “to
seek that help without the pressures of being a member of
Congress.”  Public Trust  Van Hollen , former head of the Democratic campaign effort
and an assistant to Pelosi when she was House speaker, also
called for Weiner’s immediate resignation because his “repeated
violation of the public trust is unacceptable.”  The married lawmaker’s “inappropriate behavior has become
an insurmountable distraction to the House and our work,”
Israel, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee, said in a statement.  “The behavior he has exhibited is indefensible,”
Wasserman Schultz, the national party chairman who is also a
Florida congresswoman, said in her statement. “This sordid
affair has become an unacceptable distraction.”  Weiner, who is married to Huma Abedin, a top aide to
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , “takes the views of his
colleagues very seriously and has determined that he needs this
time to get healthy and make the best decision possible for
himself, his family and his constituents,” Heller said in the
e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  