-- 
Arizona Wildfire Spreads, Threatens Power Systems

-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-06-11T20:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/arizona-wildfire-expands-as-high-winds-fan-flames-threat-grows.html
El Paso Electric Co. (EE)  said the threat
posed by an Arizona wildfire that spread overnight remains as
winds gusts as high as 30 miles (48 kilometers) per hour fan the
flames today.  The Wallow fire is  burning  in the White Mountains of
eastern Arizona about 15 miles from a high-voltage transmission
line that delivers 40 percent of the electricity used by the
customers of  El Paso Electric , Teresa Souza, a company
spokeswoman said in an interview. The line delivers power from
Palo Verde, the largest U.S. nuclear plant, to 371,000 homes and
businesses in West Texas and southeastern  New Mexico .  Firefighters had contained 5 percent of the blaze as of
11:55 a.m. local time today, according to a government  incident
report . The  Arizona  towns of Eagar, Springerville, Sunrise,
Greer, Blue River, Alpine and Nutrioso were ordered evacuated as
the fire expanded by 21,284 acres (8,613 hectares) to a total of
430,171 acres, according to the latest report. Located east of
Phoenix, the blaze has destroyed 29 homes and threatens 2,700
more, as well as 473 commercial properties, the report showed.  “The winds are expected to increase later this afternoon,
and that can cause spotting of other blazes because the fuel is
so incredibly dry,” said Terri Wildermuth, a spokeswoman for
the teams that are battling the fire, in a telephone interview.  Along with steady winds of 15 mph to 25 mph and stronger
gusts, the relative humidity of the area will be low, said Ken
Daniel, a meteorologist with the  National Weather Service  in
Flagstaff, Arizona.  Smoke Danger  The eastern edge of the fire is about 8 miles away from
 transmission lines  connecting Tucson, Arizona, to two power
plants, and has not advanced in several days,  UniSource Energy
Corp. (UNS) , owner of Tucson Electric Power, said in a  statement 
today. “Firefighters have staged burnouts” in the area to
establish a perimeter, the statement said.  TEP’s transmission towers are unlikely to burn, although
“thick, billowing smoke” creates an alternate path for
electric current and may “cause the lines to short circuit,”
the utility said.  UniSource is bringing backup power supplies online,
starting local natural gas-fueled plants that don’t always run
because it costs more to produce power from those units than it
does to get electricity over the threatened transmission lines,
Joe Salkowski, a TEP spokesman, said yesterday. TEP also is
coordinating with other utilities to provide additional sources
of electricity if needed, he said.  Air quality in the area around the fire is considered
“extremely hazardous,” according to the state of Arizona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  