-- 
Bunds Advance as Greek, Portuguese Bonds Decline

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-13T07:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/bunds-advance-as-greek-portuguese-bonds-decline-on-debt-crisis.html
(Corrects bonds’ weekly gain in first paragraph.)  German  government bonds  rose as
policy makers clashed over a solution to the euro-region’s
funding crisis and traders pared back bets on when the  European
Central Bank  will increase borrowing costs.  Greek, Portuguese and Irish bonds slumped as German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  stepped up his calls for bondholders
to assume a “fair” share of further Greek aid, pitting him
against the European Central Bank, which rejects any direct
participation in a second bailout. The ECB said on June 9 that
inflation is unlikely to rise above 2.3 percent in 2012,
trimming a previous forecast for 2.4 percent and prompting
investors to cut bets on the pace of rate increases.  “By both the fundamentals and the debt crisis, bunds are
really well supported,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income
analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,  Germany . “We had a more
benign view on 2012 inflation and you have a stand-off between
the ECB and Schaeuble over what the role of private investors in
any sort of Greek restructuring will be. Those two things, taken
together, have caused bunds to rise.”  The two-year German note yield fell 11 basis points to 1.58
percent as of 3:13 p.m. in London. It reached 1.57 percent
yesterday, within one basis point of the least since March 18.
Ten-year yields fell eight basis points to 2.98 percent.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on June 9 that
the ECB intends to lift its benchmark rate in July after keeping
it at 1.25 percent this month. The central bank’s policy makers
are concerned about oil-driven inflation feeding into wage
demands. Higher borrowing costs may exacerbate the sovereign-
debt crisis that’s pushing  Greece  toward a default and leading
to contagion to other high debt and deficit nations, including
Ireland and  Portugal .  Interest-Rate Bets  Euribor futures rose, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in March 2012 down nine basis points to 1.93
percent, indicating fewer bets on higher ECB interest rates.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yields climbed 65 basis points to a
euro-era record of 10.45 percent, the biggest weekly gain since
the five days ending April 1. Greece’s 10-year yields climbed 78
basis points to 16.72 percent, while Ireland’s increased 44
basis points to 11.25 percent.  The cost of insuring against default on government debt
sold by Greece, Portugal and Ireland rose to records, according
to traders of credit-default swaps.  The yield difference, or spread, between 10-year German
bunds and Portuguese securities of a similar maturity widened 70
basis points to 745 basis points, the most since at least 1997
when Bloomberg began collecting the data.  Slowing Inflation  Bunds may rise next week should data confirm inflation in
the 17-nation euro region slowed in May. Consumer-price
inflation decelerated to 2.7 percent from 2.8 percent in April,
according to the median estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg
survey before the June 16 report. April’s reading was the
fastest since October 2008.  German government bonds have returned zero this year, while
U.S. Treasuries have returned 3.1 percent, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Greek bonds handed investors a loss of 14
percent in the same period, while Irish bonds have lost 8.3
percent and Portugal’s declined 15.5 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 