-- 
Venezuela’s Chavez Has Unscheduled Surgery in Cuba for a Pelvic Abscess

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-06-11T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/chavez-undergoes-unscheduled-surgery-for-pelvic-abscess-during-cuba-visit.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
underwent unscheduled surgery for a pelvic abscess in Cuba and
will remain on the Caribbean island for “several days” to
recover, Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro said.  Chavez, who had been recovering from a knee injury
sustained on May 10 before traveling to  Brazil ,  Ecuador  and Cuba
this week, had tests that revealed the abscess during his
official visit to the socialist nation and was operated on
yesterday, Maduro said on state television, citing an  official
statement .  “Diagnostic exams revealed the existence of the pelvic
abscess which prompted the immediate decision from Chavez to
proceed with surgery,” the statement said. “The operation was
satisfactory and Chavez has begun the recovery process in
company of his family, doctors and part of his cabinet. His
medical team believes that in a few days the president will be
in a condition to return safely to  Venezuela .”  An abscess is a collection of pus or purulent matter formed
by a morbid process in a cavity of the body, according to the
Oxford English Dictionary.  Chavez, a 56 year-old self-professed revolutionary
socialist, has strengthened ties with Cuba since taking office
in 1999 and currently sends about 100,000 barrels of oil a day
to the island in exchange for Cuban doctors who work in poor
neighborhoods in Venezuela. Chavez wasn’t operated on for his
knee, which he said was injured while jogging and may have been
a reoccurring injury from his history as a paratrooper and
amateur baseball player.  During his foreign visits this week Chavez used a small
metal crutch to walk to relieve pressure on his knee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  