-- 
Roubini Says ‘Perfect Storm’ May Threaten Global Economy

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-06-13T03:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/china-economy-at-risk-of-hard-landing-after-2013-nouriel-roubini-says.html
A “perfect storm” of fiscal woe in
the U.S., a slowdown in  China , European debt restructuring and
stagnation in Japan may converge on the global economy, New York
University professor Nouriel Roubini said.  There’s a one-in-three chance the factors will combine to
stunt growth from 2013, Roubini said in a June 11 interview in
Singapore. Other possible outcomes are “anemic but OK” global
growth or an “optimistic” scenario in which the expansion
improves.  “There are already elements of fragility,” he said.
“Everybody’s kicking the can down the road of too much public
and private debt. The can is becoming heavier and heavier, and
bigger on debt, and all these problems may come to a head by
2013 at the latest.”  Elevated U.S. unemployment, a surge in oil and food prices,
rising  interest rates  in  Asia  and trade disruption from Japan’s
record earthquake threaten to sap the world economy. Stocks
worldwide have lost more than $3.3 trillion since the beginning
of May, and Roubini said financial markets by the middle of next
year could start worrying about a convergence of risks in 2013.  The MSCI AC World Index has tumbled 4.9 percent this month
on concern recent data, including an increase in the U.S.
unemployment rate to 9.1 percent in May, signal the global
economy is losing steam.  U.S. Treasuries  rose last week, pushing
two-year note yields down for a ninth week in the longest
stretch of decreases since February 2008, on bets the  Federal
Reserve  will maintain monetary stimulus.  Bond Market ‘Revolt’  World expansion may slow in the second half of 2011 as
“the deleveraging process continues,” fiscal stimulus is
withdrawn and confidence ebbs, Roubini also said.  Easing growth may spur demand for dollar assets as a “safe
haven,” he said in response to questions after a speech in
Singapore today. The Dollar Index, which gauges the U.S.
currency’s value against a basket of six counterparts including
the euro, yen and British pound, rose 0.1 percent as of 11:35
a.m. in Singapore, bound for a fourth straight daily increase.  Roubini is among analysts who predicted the global
financial crisis of 2007-2009 that was triggered by a collapse
in the value of U.S. mortgage securities.  Some of his other predictions haven’t panned out, including
his call on July 4, 2010, for “market surprises on the
downside” in ensuing months and a weakening in economic growth.
The MSCI World Index rallied 23 percent in the second half of
last year, while U.S. gross domestic product gains accelerated
to 2.6 percent in the third quarter and 3.1 percent in the
fourth quarter from 1.7 percent in the April-to-June period.  U.S. Bonds  Roubini said two days ago that in the U.S., a failure to
address the  budget deficit  risks a bond market “revolt.”
President  Barack Obama ’s administration has been negotiating
with Republicans, who control the  House of Representatives , over
cutting the federal government’s long-term shortfall and raising
the debt ceiling.  “We’re still running over a trillion-dollar budget deficit
this year, next year and most likely in 2013,” Roubini said in
a speech in Singapore on June 11. “The risk is at some point,
the bond market vigilantes are going to wake up in the U.S.,
like they did in  Europe , pushing interest rates higher and
crowding out the recovery.”  In Europe, officials need to restructure the debt of  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal , and waiting too long may result in a
“more disorderly” process, Roubini also said.  European officials are racing to find a plan to stem
Greece’s debt crisis by June 24 while sharing the cost of a new
rescue with bondholders. Saddled with the euro area’s heaviest
debt load, Greece is seeking additional loans after last year’s
110 billion-euro ($159 billion) bailout.  Japan ’s Contraction  Japan’s economy, the world’s third-largest, slid into a
recession last quarter, using the textbook definition of
consecutive quarterly declines in GDP, after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami and ensuing nuclear crisis. The
government is spending an initial 4 trillion yen ($50 billion)
to clean up from the disaster, which is estimated to have caused
as much as 25 trillion yen in economic damage.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on June 1
that supply constraints are easing faster than expected as
companies rush to repair their facilities. The risk in Japan is
“if growth fizzles out after a short-term reconstruction
stimulus,” leading to a renewed struggle to maintain expansion
around 2013, Roubini said.  China’s economy  may face a “hard landing” after 2013 as
government efforts to boost growth through investment cause
excess capacity, Roubini told reporters after his June 11 speech.  ‘Overcapacity’ in China  “China is now relying increasingly not just on net exports
but on fixed investment” which has climbed to about 50 percent
of GDP, he said. “Down the line, you are going to have two
problems: a massive non-performing loan problem in the banking
system and a massive amount of overcapacity is going to lead to
a hard landing.”  A record $2.7 trillion of loans were extended in China over
two years, pushing property prices to all-time highs even as
authorities set price ceilings, demanded higher deposits and
limited second-home purchases.  The nation’s current challenge is to maintain growth and
curb price gains ahead of a leadership change next year, Roubini
said. Officials may use administrative steps and price controls,
as well as raising rates further and allowing currency
appreciation, if inflation becomes a bigger problem, he said.  Political Transition  “The policy challenge through next year, where you have a
delicate political transition of the leadership, is to maintain
growth in the 8 to 9 percent range while pushing inflation below
what it is right now,” said Roubini, the co-founder and
chairman of New York-based Roubini Global Economics LLC.  After next year, the bigger challenge in China is “to
reduce fixed investment and savings and increase consumption.
Otherwise after 2013, there will be a hard landing,” he said.  The risk of “outright” deflation and the probability of
another recession in the U.S. are lower now than a year ago, and
output in Japan could rebound in the second half of the year,
Roubini said two days ago. “High-grade” corporations have “very
strong” balance sheets, he said.  Roubini in July 2006 predicted a “catastrophic” global
financial meltdown that central bankers would be unable to
prevent. The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008
sparked turmoil that led to the worst financial crisis since the
1930s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  