-- 
Christie Trailing Romney Hurts Pawlenty by Entering Primary, Survey Says

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-11T09:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/christie-trailing-romney-hurts-pawlenty-primary-survey-shows.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
would tie for second with Sarah Palin should they both make a
bid for the Republican presidential nomination, a poll shows.  Christie, who has said he won’t run for president in 2012,
and Palin, the 2008 vice presidential nominee, would both trail
 Mitt Romney . The former Massachusetts governor was the first
choice of 27 percent of Republican voters surveyed when Christie
and Palin weren’t on the list, according to a PublicMind poll
released today by Fairleigh Dickinson University.  Nine percent of respondents said they would favor Christie
when he was part of the list, compared with 29 percent for
Romney. The inclusion of Christie, 48, leads to drops in support
for former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  and U.S.
Representative  Michele Bachmann , the poll shows.  “So long as he’s polling well, and the base hasn’t
solidified behind anyone else, they’ll keep on trying to pull
him in,” Dan Cassino, a pollster with the university and a
professor of politics, said in a statement with the survey.
“These results show the strength of Christie’s current position
with the Republican electorate.”  The nationwide telephone survey of 509 Republican voters
was conducted June 1-7, a day after Christie traveled by state
police helicopter to his son’s high school baseball game.  $2,500 Flight  The governor, who has asked workers to give up benefits as
part of “shared sacrifice” in cutting the cost of government,
said June 2 that he and the Republican State Committee would
reimburse taxpayers for the $2,500 cost of that flight as well
as one to another game on May 27.  Christie, who has become a rising star among Republicans
nationwide, trailed President  Barack Obama  in a head-to-head
match-up, 34 percent to 50 percent, in a PublicMind poll
released yesterday. The first-term governor’s voter approval in
his state declined to its lowest level in a  May 24 poll  by the
Madison, New Jersey, school. An equal number, 44 percent,
approved and disapproved of his performance, compared with 51
percent approval to 41 percent disapproval in April.  Christie’s May 31 helicopter flight included a trip from
his son’s game to the governor’s mansion in Princeton for a
meeting with Iowa Republicans, who sought unsuccessfully to
persuade him to run for president.  Unsettled Field  The New Jersey governor’s name was included in the list of
possible candidates for half of the voters in the PublicMind
survey, allowing pollsters to determine the effect he would have
on other candidates. The same was done with Palin, who like
Bachmann hasn’t said she’s running.  When Christie was included, Pawlenty’s support dropped by
half to 3 percent from 6 percent, and Bachmann’s fell to
5 percent from 9 percent, the poll said. With Palin listed,
support for  Newt Gingrich , the former Speaker of the U.S. House
of Representatives, fell to 5 percent from 12 percent.  “Any election contest is a zero-sum game: When someone new
gets in, it’s sure to hurt someone else,” Cassino said. “This
field is by no means settled. If Christie or Palin decides to
run, it shakes up the whole group -- and the leader among
Republicans is still ‘I don’t know.”  Twenty-seven percent of the respondents said they didn’t
have a preference among the candidates. When Christie’s name was
included, 8 percent named him as their second choice.  The margin of error for the poll was plus or minus 4.5
percentage points, according to PublicMind.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in  New Jersey  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  