-- 
Clinton Chastises China on Internet, African ‘New Colonialism’

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-11T19:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/clinton-chastises-china-on-internet-african-new-colonialism-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , sharpening her criticism of  China , said the world’s
second-biggest economy was doing everything to “stifle the
Internet” and displaying traits of “new colonialism” in
Africa.  Asked today during the recording of a television program in
Lusaka, Zambia about whether China was a role model for
governance, Clinton answered: “In the long-run, medium-run,
even short-run, no I don’t.”  Acknowledging that China, the world’s biggest energy user,
has extended its influence across Africa, the top U.S. diplomat
said she recognized that while its size accounted for its
presence in the continent, she had reservations about its reach.  “We saw that during colonial times, it is easy to come in,
take out natural resources, pay off leaders and leave,” Clinton
said. “And when you leave, you don’t leave much behind for the
people who are there. We don’t want to see a new colonialism in
 Africa .”  Referring to China, Clinton said “I believe we are
beginning to see a lot of problems that you are going to pay
more attention to in the next 10 years.” The audience present
during the recording clapped when she concluded by saying
“young people will not accept to be told what to do.”  Departing Zambia, Clinton landed later in the day in
Tanzania for the second leg of a five-day tour in Africa that
ends in  Ethiopia .  In a sign of the growing importance of sub-Saharan Africa
to the U.S., Clinton is the first secretary of state to have
visited Zambia, a former British colony, in more than three
decades.  First Since Kissinger  The last was  Henry Kissinger  in 1976, when he called the
colonial era in southern Africa a “thing of the past.”  The U.S. is “concerned that China’s foreign assistance and
investment practices in Africa have not always been consistent
with generally accepted international norms of transparency and
good governance,” Clinton said yesterday at a news conference
in Lusaka after meeting Zambian President Rupiah Banda.  “Our country has been with a close relationship with China
as early as before our independence” in 1964, Banda told
reporters. “We work closely with the Chinese, as with any other
country that supported our desire to be independent.”  On her Zambian visit, Clinton addressed the failings of the
African Growth and Opportunity Act, which gives 37 African
countries trade preferences with the U.S. for an array of goods
such as textiles. It is primarily used for oil trading, though,
doing little to diminish Africa’s reliance on crude as a fuel.  The  U.S. Congress  will vote on whether to renew the law,
which was signed in May 2000 and is set to expire in 2015.  U.S. trade with sub-Saharan Africa still accounts for about
3 percent of total U.S. imports and 1 percent of U.S. exports, a
sign that the agreement hasn’t been as successful in fostering
more business as the U.S. had hoped. Oil makes up more than 90
percent of the $44 billion generated by U.S. imports from the
 AGOA countries .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Lusaka, Zambia at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  