-- 
Dana Holgorsen Becomes West Virginia Coach After Bill Stewart Resigns

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-11T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/dana-holgorsen-becomes-west-virginia-coach-after-bill-stewart-resigns.html
Offensive coordinator Dana Holgorsen
was promoted to head football coach at  West Virginia  University
after Bill Stewart resigned, Athletic Director Oliver Luck said.  Holgorsen, 39, who became the Mountaineers’ 33rd head coach
yesterday, came from Oklahoma State University, where he was
offensive coordinator in 2010. In December, West Virginia said
he would become head coach at the end of the 2011 season.  Stewart was under investigation for attempting to undermine
Holgorsen, the Charleston, West Virginia, Gazette reported
yesterday.  “Let me make this clear, the university has not
substantiated any allegations of wrongdoing on the part of Coach
Stewart or his wife, Karen Stewart,” Luck said on the
Morgantown, West Virginia-based school’s website.  Stewart, 59, had a 27-12 record in three seasons with the
Mountaineers. He never earned a Bowl Championship Series berth.  “He respects the Mountaineer program and the student-
athletes he coaches too much to let any conflict and any
perception of disorder continue to be a distraction to the
staff, team and fans,” Luck said. “We both agree that the
program’s energy and focus should be on the upcoming season.”  Holgorsen’s contract provided for the assistant coach to be
given a prorated share of his 2012 head coaching salary of $1.4
million if he was promoted before or during the 2011 season, the
Gazette reported.  The university was probing a Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
reporter’s statement during a radio show that Stewart had asked
him and another reporter to “dig up dirt” on Holgorsen.  Stewart was chosen head coach in January 2008 after the
Mountaineers defeated  Oklahoma  in the Fiesta Bowl. He was acting
as interim coach following Rich Rodriguez’s departure to
 Michigan .  “As I said on the day I was appointed head coach, what is
best for WVU is my first priority,” Stewart said in a statement
issued by Luck. “Today I am doing what I believe to be in the
best interest of the Mountaineer Nation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  