-- 
Turkey Votes as Erdogan Seeks Third-Term Mandate to Rewrite Constitution

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-11T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/erdogan-seeks-election-mandate-to-change-turkey-s-constitution.html
Turkey will vote today to decide
whether Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  should get a mandate
to reshape the secular constitution amid an economic boom that
contrasts with upheavals to the east and west.  Voting stations open at 7 a.m. in rural eastern Turkey and
an hour later in Istanbul and elsewhere in the predominantly
Muslim country of 73.7 million people. About 50 million citizens
are registered to vote, and they will elect 550 deputies to the
parliament in Ankara.  Erdogan’s priority for the new term, which could make him
the longest-serving leader since Turkey’s founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is to replace the constitution drafted after a 1980
coup. That would cement his victory over generals who accuse him
of imposing Islamic values. Erdogan also pledges to lift Turkey,
currently the world’s 16th-biggest economy after annual growth
of more than 5 percent under his government, into the top 10 by
2023 when the republic celebrates its centenary.  “This election is different from the previous two, the
first one was in the aftermath of a financial crisis and the
last one was after a serious spat with the military,” said
 Wolfango Piccoli , a London-based analyst at the Eurasia Group,
which monitors political risk. While Erdogan will win, “what’s
more important is the distribution of seats,” he said. “The
parliamentary mathematics will be crucial.”  Opinion Polls  Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party  or AKP may win 49
percent of the popular vote, almost double the 26 percent
backing the main opposition  Republican People’s Party , according
to the average of four surveys by researchers Pollmark, Sonar,
Konsensus and Genar. The studies were carried out between May 17
and May 31. The AKP came to power with 34 percent of the vote in
2002 and won 47 percent four years ago.  Erdogan’s plan for a new constitution has been a central
campaign issue. He argues for shifting from the current
parliamentary system to a presidential one, in which he himself
would be the leading candidate for the top job.  Erdogan would need 330 votes in the  550-member parliament 
to put a new constitution to a public vote, and 367 to pass it
straight into law.  The premier said June 5 he would “find it unnecessary” to
hold a referendum if he wins a big enough majority to change the
constitution without one. He currently holds 331 seats and would
win 338 based on the four-poll average, according to an
 application  that simulates election outcomes developed by the
 Ari Movement , an Istanbul think-tank.  ‘Best Outcome’  “If AKP remains slightly below 330 seats that would be the
best outcome from a market point of view,” Eurasia’s Piccoli
said in a telephone interview. “It will force the party to try
to seek a compromise on the constitution, and possibly to
actually shelve the constitutional plan, which means they’re
going to have more time, more focus on economic matters.”  On the $740 billion economy, Erdogan’s third-term
challenges will include a widening trade gap that threatens an
abrupt halt to Turkey’s boom. The current account deficit
ballooned to more than $60 billion, or about 8 percent of gross
domestic product, in the 12 months through March, compared with
a government forecast of $42 billion for the year.  Still, Erdogan can point to a record of economic growth and
improving public finances.  Standard & Poor’s  increased its
 credit rating  four times since he came to power.  IMF Loans  That’s a contrast with the European Union countries,
including Turkey’s neighbor  Greece , that have been forced to
take International Monetary Fund loans in the past three years
as their economies unraveled amid a debt crisis.  In the  Middle East , where popular revolts have swept away
longtime leaders this year, Erdogan’s political success and
Turkey’s economic progress have been cited as a model by
opposition parties including  Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood.  Recalling earlier elections, Hatem Ete of the Ankara-based
Foundation for Political, Economic and Social Research says the
key difference this time is that parties are offering long-term
projects.  “All the general elections in  Turkey ’s recent past were
held to overcome a crisis,” he said in a telephone interview
from his office in the capital. “This time, it’s about how to
build the country’s future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 