-- 
Euro Drops for First Time in Month on a Reduced ECB Interest Rate Outlook

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-11T04:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/euro-drops-for-first-time-in-month-on-a-reduced-ecb-interest-rate-outlook.html
The euro fell versus the dollar for
the first time in almost a month after the  European Central Bank 
revised its inflation forecast, signaling the pace of interest-
rate increases this year may slow.  The shared currency depreciated this week as ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  resisted calls for Greek bondholders to
contribute to financial aid for the nation. The dollar rose for
the first time in four weeks against its six major trading
partners and the yen gained against the greenback for a third
week as stocks and commodities fell, driving investors to haven
assets. Retail sales in the U.S. may have dropped in May,
according to a survey before the report next week.  “The dollar is gaining on the euro, in general, because of
 risk aversion ,” said  John Doyle , a strategist in  Washington  at
currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc. “Trichet said that
he was not in favor of haircuts on Greek debt, which is playing
into the euro weakness.”  The euro dropped 2 percent to $1.4347 per dollar, from
$1.4635 on June 3. It weakened 1.9 percent to 115.24 yen, from
117.48. The dollar was little changed at 80.32 yen.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the greenback against the euro, yen, pound, Canadian
dollar, Swedish krona and Swiss franc, strengthened 1.4 percent
to 74.833 from 73.783 last week.  Futures Shift  Net dollar short positions against the euro, yen, pound,
Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc rose for a
second week and reached 163,309 in the five days ended June 7,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission figures
released yesterday and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro fell after Trichet signaled June 9 the central
bank may raise  interest rates  in July while reiterating that
inflation will fall below its 2 percent limit next year. The ECB
said inflation next year will accelerate between 1.1 percent and
2.3 percent, compared with an earlier forecast of 1 percent to
2.4 percent.  Euribor futures rose, pushing the implied yield on the
March 2012 contract down four basis points to 1.93 percent
yesterday, as traders reduced bets policy makers will boost
rates. Investors now expect the central bank to increase
interest rates by 70 basis points over the next year, down from
81 on June 7, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based
on swaps.  ECB Watch  “Because Trichet did not give the market any further
indication of a series of rate hikes or that inflation had
become such a problem he would have to step up the frequency,
the market was disappointed to a certain extent,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. “There was nothing really to provide the
stimulus for further euro buying.”  Trichet also said the central bank is not in favor of
restructuring or losses with regard to Greek bondholders and
wants to avoid any credit event or default. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a speech June 9 that
bondholders should assume a “fair” share of further Greek aid.  The yen rose against the dollar after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech this week that the
central bank should maintain record monetary stimulus to boost a
“frustratingly slow” economic recovery.  Bernanke and his fellow policy makers plan this month to
complete a $600 billion bond purchase program, and they’re
discussing the tools they’d use to withdraw stimulus, according
to minutes of their meeting in April. The Fed’s target rate for
overnight lending between banks has been held at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Shopping Guide  Retail sales in the U.S. fell 0.5 percent in May, the first
drop since June, according to the median estimate of 63
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The Commerce Department
will release the report June 14.  Japan ’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said in  Tokyo  June
6 that he’s monitoring the yen’s appreciation while conceding
that the market’s view on the  U.S. economy  was likely behind its
moves. It was the first time in a month Noda said he’s watching
the markets, a comment that Japanese officials have made in the
past as a signal they may intervene in the  currency market . The
yen reached 79.70 June 8, the lowest level since May 5.  New Zealand ’s dollar reached a record versus its U.S.
counterpart after the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand said interest
rates will rise within two years. The central bank left its
benchmark rate unchanged at 2.5 percent, a decision that was
predicted by all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Investors now expect the central bank to increase the
benchmark rate by 63 basis points over the next 12 months, up
from 56 basis points June 9, according to a Credit Suisse Index.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.2 percent, dropping
for a sixth straight week, matching a stretch of losses ending
in July 2008. Oil dropped 0.9 percent this week to $99.29 a
barrel.  Sweden’s krona and  Norway  krone were the worst performing
currencies among the 16 majors this week. The krona dropped 3.2
percent to 6.3273 per dollar and Norway’s krone fell 2.9 percent
to 5.4852 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  