-- 
Greek Bailout Bondholder Role Needs ECB Assent

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-11T15:20:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/greek-bailout-bondholder-role-needs-ecb-assent.html
A bailout for  Greece  must include
“voluntary” investor participation and meet the approval of
central bankers, Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said, seeking
to narrow a dispute over the second Greek rescue in two years.  “There must be a participation of private creditors,”
Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said in an interview on Radio Berlin-Brandenburg today. “It
must be voluntary.”  Luxembourg’s prime minister is trying to bridge the gap
between German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who has
called for Greek bondholders to extend the maturities of their
debt by seven years, and European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet, who says imposing losses on creditors would be
akin to a default. European officials are racing to find a plan
to stem Greece’s debt crisis by June 24 while sharing the cost
of a new rescue with bondholders.  “We cannot push through private investor participation
without, or against, the ECB,” Juncker said. “A default would
mean the ECB would have to end its accompanying programs. A
default would mean we have reached the end of the line.”  Schaeuble, in a June 6 letter to Trichet and fellow euro
finance ministers, called the seven-year extension to give
Greece more time to cut its debt and budget deficit.  Default Warning  Forcing losses on creditors may also hurt confidence,
Commerzbank AG Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said in
an interview with  Welt am Sonntag . Investors had been told they
wouldn’t need to join any efforts before 2013, and reneging on
that pledge would “not exactly help build trust in the
markets,” Blessing said, according to the newspaper.  Governments aim to reach an agreement on a new aid package
by a European Union summit on June 23-24. The  International
Monetary Fund  has threatened to withhold its share of what
remains of Greece’s original 110 billion-euro ($158 billion)
bailout until governments guarantee that the country’s financing
needs for the next 12 months are covered. The IMF was due to
turn over 3.3 billion euros this month.  “We cannot accept an uncontrolled bankruptcy of a
country,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today in her
weekly video message. Such an event may endanger the recovery of
 Germany ’s economy, she said.  European governments and the IMF would lend as much as an
extra 45 billion euros to Greece under a new bailout plan that
also includes roughly 30 billion euros in asset-sale proceeds
and about 30 billion euros in rollovers by creditors, two people
with direct knowledge of the talks said earlier this week.  While a debt rollover has been gaining support among EU
officials, credit analysts at Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have indicated that pressure
on private investors to participate would prompt a default
rating on Greek debt, a view echoed by European Central Bank
Governing Council member Nout Wellink today.  “The desire to involve private investors is
understandable,” Wellink said on Dutch broadcaster Radio 1.
“We do note that fulfilling that desire by a non-voluntary
contribution would lead to a default situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net . 