-- 
Microsoft’s Gates, Baidu to Start Global Health Alliance

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-11T06:08:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/microsoft-s-gates-and-baidu-to-start-global-health-alliance.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman  Bill Gates 
and Robin Li, chief executive officer of China’s most popular
search engine Baidu Inc., said they will form a global alliance
for public health.  The first initiative by the alliance, between the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation , the world’s richest charitable fund,
and the Baidu Charitable Foundation, will be a program
encouraging smokers to quit the habit, the foundations announced
at a press conference in Beijing today.  “When we think of the creativity and the connection to so
many people that Baidu has, that may be a real asset in getting
out these health-related messages,” Gates said at the briefing.
“We’re hoping that other people will join in, but there’s no
one I’d rather be partnering with than Robin Li and the Baidu
Foundation.”  It’s the second charity trip to  China  for Gates in nine
months after a September visit in which he and  Warren Buffett 
met with 50 Chinese leaders in business and philanthropy to
discuss charitable giving. Gates, 55, is pressing the world’s
rich to give away more of their money.  Gates started the  Giving Pledge  last June with Buffett for
billionaires who agree to commit half their fortunes to charity.
The two traveled to  India  in March to discuss giving with
business leaders there.  Gates co-founded Microsoft in 1975 after dropping out of
 Harvard University  and since then the company has become the
world’s largest software maker. He retired from active
management of the company in 2008 to run the Gates Foundation,
which was founded in 2000.  Second-Richest Man  Gates was ranked the world’s second richest man in March by
Forbes magazine, with a net worth of $56 billion.  Carlos Slim  of
 Mexico  topped the list with estimated assets of $74 billion,
according to Forbes.  Gates and Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan met in Beijing
this week and exchanged views on charity work and reducing
poverty, according to a statement on the Chinese Ministry of
Foreign Affairs’ website.  Gates today said he first got to know Li a year ago and the
two began discussing philanthropy. Li, who started the Baidu
Foundation last year, said Gates has been an inspiration to him
since before he founded Baidu.  ‘Role Model’  “When I graduated from university and started work, the
first book I bought was a biography of Bill Gates,” Li said
today. “You are truly a role model for all of us.”  Baidu’s Li, 42, was ranked the richest person in China,
excluding  Hong Kong , by Forbes in March. His assets of $9.4
billion ranked 95 on the global Forbes list.  The alliance with the Gates foundation will start with
helping smokers quit and raising awareness of the harm from
second-hand smoke, Li said. The alliance will undertake further
public health initiatives in the future and will use China’s
large online community to spread health messages, he said.  While China has more than 300 million smokers, the even
greater number of  Internet users  provides an easy way to raise
awareness of the dangers of smoking, Li said. China is the
world’s largest Internet market with 477 million users.  The public health alliance between the foundations will be
“open-ended” and will operate both in China and around the
world, the organizations said in a statement.  Li, the fourth of five children born to factory-worker
parents in Yangquan, received his bachelor’s degree from  Peking
University  in 1991, and got a master’s in computer science from
the  State University of New York  at Buffalo in 1994.  In 1996, he received a patent related to link analysis, a
way to rank search listings by the number of incoming links to
sites and he decided to use the research to build a search
engine for the China market.  --Edmond Lococo. Editors: Paul Tighe, Jim McDonald  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  