-- 
IMF State-Backed Cyber-Attack Follows Hacks of Lab, G-20

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-14T00:31:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/imf-computer-system-infiltrated-by-hackers-said-to-work-for-foreign-state.html
The  data theft  from International
Monetary Fund computers by hackers said to be linked to a
foreign government follows incidents against companies and
governments that illustrate the growth of cyber-attacks as an
espionage tool.  The IMF hack resulted in the loss of a “large quantity”
of data, including documents and e-mails, according to a person
familiar with the incident, a security expert who declined to be
identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak on the subject.
This year, the Group of 20 and Oak Ridge National Laboratory
have also come under cyber-attack.  The person said the intrusion was state-based, without
saying which government is thought to be behind it. The
Washington-based IMF approved a record $91.7 billion in
emergency loans last year and provides a third of bailout
packages in  Europe .  “The value of what’s being lost in these cyber-attacks is
increasing at a very fast rate,” Sami Saydjari, the founder of
Cyber Defense Agency in  Wisconsin  Rapids, Wisconsin, said in an
interview this year before the latest attacks. “There are two
perpetrators that are most concerning. One is organized crime,
the other is nation-states, and they are both quite serious.”  Chinese-based hackers gained access to private Gmail
accounts of senior U.S. officials and journalists this month,
according to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Defense contractor  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  was hacked in May. Computers at Hopkinton, Massachusetts-
based EMC Corp.’s RSA Security division were infiltrated in
March by hackers who stole technology used to protect other U.S.
government and corporate networks.  Vocational School  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , traced the
breach of Gmail accounts to the city of Jinan in Shandong
Province, the site of a vocational school associated with the
Chinese military. Kevin Kempskie, an RSA spokesman, didn’t
specify who was linked to the RSA attack.  The same attackers used data stolen from RSA to gain access
to Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin’s computer network,
RSA said this month. The pattern of the attacks against RSA and
Lockheed Martin confirmed RSA’s suspicion that the hackers were
seeking national security information and weren’t out for
financial gain, according to RSA.  David Hawley, an IMF spokesman, on June 11 declined to
discuss details of the attack on the fund.  Fund employees were alerted about hackers this month and
“strongly requested not to open e-mails and video links without
authenticating the source,” according to a copy of a staff memo
provided to Bloomberg News.  ‘Phishing Activity’  An e-mail from the IMF’s chief information officer,
Jonathan Palmer, warned employees of “increased phishing
activity.” Phishing is the practice of obtaining information
such as computer user names or passwords under false pretenses.
Palmer instructed employees on how to detect and respond to
cyber-attackers, warning them not to divulge their passwords or
open “unexpected documents.”  According to one IMF memo, the fund’s network connection to
the  World Bank  was severed “as a precautionary measure.”  On June 1, the IMF’s information technology department sent
an e-mail to employees with the subject line “Important Notice:
Virus Attacks.” It warned of attempts to hack into the system.  “Staff are strongly requested NOT TO OPEN e-mails and
video links without authenticating the source,” the e-mail
said.  Anup Ghosh, chief executive officer of Invincea Inc., a
Fairfax, Virginia-based cyber-security company, said the warning
suggests computer worms were downloaded into the IMF’s networks
through so-called spear phishing, which involves sending e-mails
that appear to come from colleagues or other officials. He said
the technique is associated with directed attacks for espionage.  The warnings to employees suggested that the IMF believes
efforts to penetrate the organization’s computer networks are
on-going, Ghosh said.  Oak Ridge   In an attack on the Oak Ridge National Laboratory this
year, a malicious program was downloaded through an e-mail
purporting to come from the human resources department. Ten
percent of the 570 recipients clicked on a link, infecting of
several machines connected to the lab’s network, Ghosh said.  The Tennessee-based lab was founded in 1943 to support the
Manhattan Project and works with the U.S. Energy Department.  In February,  France ’s budget minister,  Francois Baroin ,
said the  finance ministry  was targeted in a cyber-attack aimed
at stealing files on the G-20 summit in Paris. The attack was
traced to Internet addresses in China, while there was no
evidence it was directly linked to the Chinese government, the
French publication Paris Match said at the time.  Several countries are known to use hacking as a tool in
espionage, including  China , according to Mike Hayden, a former
director of the Central Intelligence Agency.  ‘Very Aggressive’  “China is a state that is very aggressive at collecting
intelligence through these means,” Hayden said in an interview
with Bloomberg News in February. “They are not bashful at
all.”  This month’s hacking of Gmail accounts originated in the
same city as an operation against Google computers and the
computers of at least 20 other major U.S. companies in 2009 in
what was known as Operation Aurora. Leaked U.S. diplomatic
cables published by WikiLeaks said that attack was directed by
high-level officials in the Chinese government security
apparatus.  Wang Baodong , a spokesman for the Chinese embassy in
 Washington , didn’t respond to a request yesterday for comment.  “Our species has never put as much of its knowledge into
the electromagnetic spectrum as it has now,” Hayden said.
“Everything important exists out there in ones and zeroes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 