-- 
Fischer’s Age Is Hurdle in Last-Minute Quest to Be IMF Managing Director

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-06-12T15:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/israel-s-fischer-joins-imf-managing-director-race.html
Bank of Israel  Governor Stanley Fischer, who helped the International Monetary Fund end crises
in  Mexico ,  Russia  and Southeast Asia, faces the dual hurdles of
age and nationality in his quest for the lender’s top job.  Fischer, 67, the IMF’s first deputy managing director from
1994-2001, joins French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  and
Mexican central bank chief Agustin Carstens in the race to
succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who resigned last month after he
was charged with attempted rape, as managing director. Strauss-
Kahn has pleaded not guilty.  “An exceptional and unplanned opportunity has crossed my
path, one that may never again present itself, to run for the
head of the IMF,” Fischer said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “After much deliberation, I have decided to pursue
it, despite the fact that it is a complicated process and
despite the possible obstacles.”  Israel ’s central bank said in a statement that the IMF will
have to decide whether to amend its by-laws, which stipulate
that its managing director be less than 65 years at the time of
selection, or reject his candidacy. The fund’s members would
also have to end an informal agreement under which the head is
always a European, while an American heads the World Bank.  Seen as American  Fischer is getting a late start in a race that has seen
Lagarde lock up support among European Union nations. While the
U.S., the fund’s single biggest shareholder, hasn’t announced
backing for anyone, favoring a non-European could mean
relinquishing control of the  World Bank  -- an outcome that
members of Congress who decide on funding for development banks
have said they oppose.  Fischer holds both U.S. and Israeli citizenship. He was
born in an area of northern Rhodesia that is today part of
Zambia and holds a Ph.D in economics from the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology .  He “would be a fine candidate, but despite his African
upbringing and Israeli experience, Fischer is seen first as a
U.S. citizen because of his tenure as deputy managing director
at the fund,” Bessma Momani, a professor at the University of
Waterloo in  Canada  who specializes in the IMF, said by e-mail.  Fischer earned his undergraduate and master’s degrees at
the London School of Economics. He then won a scholarship from
MIT, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , where he studied under future
Nobel laureate economists Paul Samuelson and Robert Solow. He
later joined the faculty at MIT, serving as the thesis adviser
to  Ben S. Bernanke , now the Federal Reserve chairman.  ‘Beyond All Else’  Lagarde has benefited from the failure of emerging markets
to coalesce around a candidate from their own ranks after vowing
to end a six-decade European lock on the position. She has tried
to turn attention away from her nationality by focusing on her
gender and her role in European efforts to head off a Greek
sovereign-debt default.  Lagarde has secured  Egypt ’s backing for her candidacy to
head the IMF, the Arab country’s state-run Middle East News
Agency reported today, citing Foreign Minister Nabil El-Arabi.  Lagarde said today Bahrain supports her candidacy to run
the  International Monetary Fund . She said other Mideast nations
also have expressed support for her bid, though she did not
identify them by name, in speaking at a Cairo press conference
today.  The fund has said it plans to make a choice by the end of
the month.  Integrity  “Fischer has already proven that when there are important
challenges, he can meet them,”  Jacob Frenkel , chairman of
JPMorgan Chase International and a former Bank of Israel
governor said in an interview with  Army Radio  today. “His
integrity is above and beyond all else.”  Fischer, who emigrated from the U.S. to Israel in 2005 to
take up the Bank of Israel governorship, described the top IMF
position as a “terrific” job in a May 25 interview. He said
the euro-region’s debt crisis doesn’t make it necessary for the
fund to elect a European candidate. The IMF approved a record
$91.7 billion in emergency loans last year and provides a third
of bailout packages in  Europe .  In August 2009, Fischer became the first central bank
governor to reverse course in response to signs of a financial
recovery when he raised the benchmark interest rate by a quarter
point. He was given a second five-year term last year and was
named central bank governor of the year for 2010 by Euromoney
magazine in October.  Buying Dollars  In 2008, Fischer -- in an effort to save Israel’s export-
driven economy -- ordered the Bank of Israel to buy dollars to
drive down the value of the shekel. Since March 2008, he has
more than doubled foreign currency reserves to $76.8 billion.  The purchase program helped weaken the shekel against the
dollar by 22 percent during two quarters of economic
contraction, assisting companies such as Petah Tikva, Israel-
based  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest
maker of generic drugs. The currency weakened 0.7 percent
against the dollar to 3.4080 on June 10.  Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said that Fischer’s
chances of getting the job “aren’t great” due to the age
requirement.  ‘Win-Win’  “It’s a win-win situation for us,” Steinitz said in an
interview with Army Radio. “If he wins, it brings honor to the
State of Israel, and he will also be working on our behalf on an
international level. And we would also welcome his remaining
with us.”  Israel’s 10-year government bond yields climbed to the
highest level in more than two weeks on bets inflation
accelerated in May. The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit
note due January 2020 rose one basis point to 5.1 percent at the
4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.  The TA-25 benchmark slid 1.25 percent today to close at
1204.19, the lowest since September.  “Everyone is sitting on the fence and waiting for
something to happen. It may be related to the fact that his
chances of getting the job don’t look huge right now. They
aren’t taking it seriously yet,” Uriel Goren, head of the
international clients desk at DS Securities & Investments, said
by phone.  Israel recovered from the global recession faster than many
other developed economies, with growth of 4.7 percent in the
first quarter of last year and 7.6 percent in the fourth. The
economy is likely to expand 5.2 percent this year and 4.2
percent in 2012, the central bank said in a June 1 forecast.  Northern Rhodesia  Fischer’s father, Philip, migrated in 1926 to Northern
Rhodesia, modern-day Zambia, and ran a general store in a small
village. Fischer’s mother, Ann, was the daughter of Lithuanian
immigrants who had moved to  South Africa . The couple raised
Stanley and his younger brother in Northern Rhodesia.  Fischer’s parents moved to Southern Rhodesia -- now
 Zimbabwe  -- when he was 13, and he completed high school there.
In the last year of high school, he switched his specialization
to economics from science. Fischer also joined Habonim, a
Zionist youth group, along with Rhoda Keet, his future wife,
with whom he now has three sons.  In the early 1960s, Fischer spent six months on a kibbutz
on Israel’s Mediterranean coast, where he combined learning
Hebrew with manual labor. He now conducts his official business
in Hebrew with an accent that divulges his upbringing in
southern  Africa .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 