-- 
Karzai, Pakistan’s Gilani Inaugurate Reconciliation Body for Afghanistan

-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-06-12T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/karzai-gilani-inaugurate-reconciliation-council-for-afghanistan.html
Pakistan backed Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai ’s moves for reconciliation in  Afghanistan  that
include trying to bring the  Taliban movement  to peace talks.  Karzai and Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani 
joined the first meeting yesterday of an Afghan-Pakistani
commission that will help work for reconciliation, held during a
visit by the Afghan leader to Pakistan’s capital, Islamabad.  “We have extended unequivocal support to the
reconciliation process in Afghanistan with the provision that it
has to be Afghan-owned and Afghan-led,” the state-run
 Associated Press of Pakistan  cited Gilani as saying after he
hosted talks with Karzai.  Karzai has appointed an Afghan peace council that includes
former members of the Taliban and has opened contacts with the
guerrillas. U.S. government officials say the Afghan Taliban
receives support from within  Pakistan ’s army as they attack U.S.
and Afghan government troops from strongholds in Pakistan’s
border areas.  Pakistan and Afghanistan will improve their intelligence
and military cooperation as they work to counter terrorism that
has “held the progress of our two countries hostage for
years,” Gilani said June 11. After the leaders met, twin bomb
blasts at a market in  Peshawar , northwestern Pakistan, killed at
least 37 people, Mujahid Khan, a spokesman for the Edhi
ambulance service, said in a phone interview.  Mutual Trust  Karzai said his meetings in Islamabad were “very
important” and will enhance Afghan-Pakistan relations, APP
reported. The countries must “move forward from mutual trust
and reassurances to practical steps,” Karzai said, according to
APP.  The inauguration of the commission, headed by the chairman
of the Afghan Peace Council, Burhanuddin Rabbani, is a
“milestone in bilateral cooperation and a manifestation of
desire to work closely with Afghanistan for peace in that
country,” Gilani said.  Karzai’s trip comes as U.S. concern over rising American
debt has helped increase calls in Congress for the White House
to withdraw a substantial number of U.S. troops from Afghanistan
beginning next month, when President  Barack Obama  has said he
will announce the first reductions. Obama has pledged to fully
transfer security duties to the Afghan government by 2014.  No peacemaking can succeed without the approval of
Pakistan’s military, especially its  Inter-Services Intelligence
Directorate ,  Nur ul-Haq Uloomi , a former top Afghan army general,
said last week.  Pakistan’s Influence  “In any peacemaking with the Taliban, Pakistan can bring
them to negotiations” because of the intelligence agency’s
longtime sponsorship of the group, said Uloomi, who helped lead
similar reconciliation efforts in the 1980s between
Afghanistan’s then-communist government and guerrillas backed at
the time by Pakistan and the U.S.  “Karzai is in a weak position,” with no means to force
Pakistan into pressing the Taliban to make concessions for peace,
Uloomi said in a phone interview. “Only pressure from the
international community will be able to do that,” he said.  U.S. officials have been critical in recent months of what
they called Pakistan’s support for the Afghan Taliban who are
fighting and killing U.S. troops.  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin  said
last month that the U.S. should threaten to curtail economic aid
to Pakistan unless its military reverses its support for what
may be the Taliban’s most potent military faction, commanded by
Jalaluddin Haqqani.  Such calls in Congress have grown since the killing last
month of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in Pakistan and were
amplified with the release on June 8 of a report by the  Senate
Foreign Relations Committee  that almost $19 billion in U.S. aid
to Afghanistan has failed to build a sustainable government and
has promoted corruption.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  