-- 
Obama Says Private Sector Must Lead U.S. in Creating Jobs, Not Government

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-06-11T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/obama-says-private-sector-must-lead-u-s-in-creating-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
private sector must take the lead in creating jobs as the
economy recovers, with the government assisting by making sure
workers have the necessary skills.  “Government is not, and should not be, the main engine of
job-creation in this country,” Obama said in his weekly  address 
on the radio and Internet. “That’s the role of the private
sector.”  Obama said the government can work as a partner with
businesses to enhance training and education for the jobs that
are available. With the nation’s unemployment rate at 9.1
percent in May, up 0.1 percent from the previous month, the
administration is focusing on measures that can encourage
hiring.  On June 8 Obama visited a community college outside of
Washington to highlight a program where students are being
prepared for manufacturing jobs in a $2 billion government
program to train about 500,000 workers over the next five years.  On June 13 Obama will meet in  North Carolina  with
executives who are on his Jobs and Competitiveness Council to
talk about proposals to encourage private-sector hiring without
additional  government spending .  In today’s address, Obama said a good education is “a
prerequisite for success” in the workplace, so he is pushing
states to improve schools.  Industries of Future  The president also said that the government needs to
continue to spend on clean energy technology to help create the
industries of the future.  “These are steps we know will make a difference in
people’s lives,” he said. “Not just 20 years from now, or 10
years from now, but now, and in the months to come.”  In the Republican  address , Representative Adam Kinzinger of
 Illinois  said the president is continues to pursue a “failed
agenda” that hasn’t helped the economy recover from the worst
recession in more than 80 years.  None of the promises made by the administration about the
stimulus passed in 2009 have panned out, he said.  Kinzinger said the government needs to get “out of the way
and let our economy grow and get back to producing jobs,” and
that the first steps to enacting new policies can come when
Congress this year debates raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  He said Republicans won’t support increasing the $14.3
trillion debt limit without spending cuts or budget reforms.  “It is high time that we cut up the government’s credit
cards and draw a hard line to stop the government from
overspending, which is hampering our economy’s ability to grow
and thrive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in  Washington  at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  