-- 
Qantas, Jetstar Cancel 88 Flights on Chile Volcanic Ash

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-12T05:46:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/qantas-cancels-13-flights-because-of-volcanic-ash-cloud-in-southern-chile.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s
biggest-carrier, and its Jetstar budget brand canceled 88
flights because of an ash cloud created by an volcanic eruption
in the Andes Mountains in southern Chile.  “It is always safety before schedule,” Sydney-based
spokeswoman  Olivia Wirth  said in an e-mailed response to
questions. The airline canceled all flights to and from Tasmania,
Australia, and some  New Zealand  services today. Jetstar has
stopped 66 flights, affecting 8,600 passengers, spokeswoman
Jennifer Timm said by telephone.  Airlines canceled about 320 flights in and out of two
international airports in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on June 9
after the eruption that started eight days ago, according to the
terminals’ operator, Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 SA. New Zealand
airspace may be affected for  at least a week , the country’s
Civil Aviation Authority said yesterday.  The Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex previously had
major eruptions in 1921-22 and 1960, according to the
Washington-based Smithsonian Institution. The volcano may erupt
for an additional 10 days, Chilean Mining and Energy Minister
 Laurence Golborne  said on June 8.  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA)  will cancel three services to New
Zealand today because of the ash cloud, Melissa Thomson, a
Brisbane-based spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Sand Blasting’  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR) , the country’s state-controlled
carrier, doesn’t expect delays or cancelations, a spokeswoman
said in an e-mailed statement. The airline is operating with
changed flight paths and altitude levels where necessary, the
statement said, citing Chief Pilot Captain David Morgan.  “They’re pretty fine particles that can cause damage to
the windscreen of the aircraft and to the fuselage,” Bill
Sommer, a spokesman for the Civil Aviation Authority of New
Zealand, said in a telephone interview today. “It can also
cause problems to engines and has been known to get into
hydraulic systems. It’s almost like sand-blasting.”  In 1982, all four engines on a British Airways Boeing Co.
747 stalled when the plane encountered ash spewed from Mount
Galunggung in  Indonesia . The plane fell for almost four miles
before the pilot was able to restart three engines and make an
emergency landing in Jakarta.  The eruption of Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull volcano in April
2010 caused the cancellation of more than 100,000 flights amid
concern that glass-like particles formed when lava was cooled by
ice might melt in aircraft engines and clog turbines.  “Qantas has significant experience in managing and
assessing the impact of volcanic ash on flight operations,”
Qantas spokeswoman Wirth said. “This includes managing services
to  Europe  during the Icelandic volcano.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  