-- 
Treasuries Gain After Bernanke Says Economic Recovery ‘Frustratingly Slow’

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-06-11T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/treasuries-gain-after-bernanke-says-economic-recovery-frustratingly-slow-.html
Treasuries rose, pushing two-year
note yields down for a ninth week in the longest stretch of
decreases since February 2008, on bets the  Federal Reserve  will
maintain monetary stimulus to boost a stalling economy.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes touched their lowest
level this year after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June
7 that the U.S. recovery is “frustratingly slow.” The central
bank will continue reinvesting proceeds from agency and
mortgage-backed holdings into Treasuries after its $600 billion
program of debt buying ends this month.  “Bond market participants are embracing that we are in a
low-yield environment,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest
rate strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of 20 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed. “The realization that the
data has been poor has taken a couple of weeks to sink in.
Bernanke rubber-stamped it by saying it’s weaker than we
expected.”  Yields on two-year notes dropped three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, on the week to 0.4 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.5 percent security maturing
in May 2013 increased 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount,
to 100 6/32.  The two-year yields dropped on June 8 to 0.37 percent, the
lowest level since Nov. 8. Yields on 10-year notes decreased two
basis points this week to 2.97 percent after touching 2.92
percent on June 9, the lowest level since Dec. 3.  Drop in Stocks  U.S. debt  advanced as economic pessimism discouraged demand
for higher-yielding assets. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
for a sixth straight week, dropping 2.2 percent. Futures on
crude oil slid 1.1 percent to $99.11 a barrel.  “People are nervous about economic growth going forward,”
said Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank
AG’s private wealth management unit in New York. “As a result,
the Fed will be on hold for a very long time, so the best place
to be now is in U.S. Treasuries.”  Record monetary stimulus is still needed to boost a
“frustratingly slow” recovery, Bernanke said this week in
Atlanta, reiterating that accelerating inflation is likely to
prove temporary.  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke said. At the same time, the Fed “will
take whatever actions are necessary to keep inflation well
controlled,” he said.  The Fed will buy $50 billion of Treasuries through the end
of the month, when a second round of quantitative easing to
support the economy concludes. Policy makers are due to meet in
 Washington  on June 21-22.  Fed Rate Outlook  Futures contracts showed yesterday the likelihood of an
increase in the Fed funds target by the March 2012 meeting fell
to 19 percent, from 24 percent the previous week. The Fed’s
target rate for overnight lending between banks has stayed at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Concerns about the economic recovery bolstered demand at
this week’s note auctions. The $32 billion sale of three-year
debt June 7 drew the highest demand from a group including
foreign central banks since January, while the $21 billion sale
of 10-year notes the next day produced a yield of 2.967 percent,
the lowest at a sale of the maturity since November. Demand at
the $13 billion auction of 30-year bonds on June 9 was below
average.  Treasuries have returned 3 percent this quarter, the most
since the second quarter of last year, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  Dudley’s View  While  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said
yesterday he expects “a moderate economic recovery to be
sustained,” he also said “the recent disappointing data
suggest that downside risks to the outlook” have increased.  The economy will probably recover from recent weakness in
part because a surge in commodity prices, the March earthquake
in  Japan  and “severe weather” in the U.S. are transitory,
Dudley said in  Brooklyn , New York. He expects “disappointing”
economic growth to improve, even as “downside risks” such as
higher commodity prices have increased.  Retail sales in the U.S. dropped 0.4 percent in May after a
0.5 percent increase in the previous month, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey before a report next
week. The consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent last month
after a 0.4 percent gain in April, according to a separate
Bloomberg News survey.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities of similar maturity, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt known as the break-even rate, dropped this week to 2.16
percentage points, the narrowest since January.  “There’s a lot of bad news being priced into the market,”
said Dan Mulholland, a Treasury trader in New York at Royal Bank
of Canada, a primary dealer. “We’re setting the bar low for an
upward surprise in the data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  