-- 
Saudi Shares Slide to Lowest Since March as Crude, Global Markets Retreat

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-06-11T13:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/saudi-shares-tumble-to-lowest-since-march-on-oil-global-retreat.html
Saudi Arabian shares plunged to the
lowest level since March after data from the U.S., India and
China fueled concern that global economic growth is slowing.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest publicly traded lender
by market value, led the decline.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) ,
the world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, slid 0.2 percent and
 National Industrialization Co. (NIC)  fell for a fourth straight day.  The 146-member  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  dropped 0.5 percent
to 6,509.48 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, the lowest since
March 28, bringing its three-day retreat to 2.2 percent. Three
shares dropped for every two stocks that rose.  “Investors fear a slow global economy will lower demand
for Saudi petrochemicals,” Turki Fadaak, an analyst with
AlBilad Investment Co., said in Riyadh.  China yesterday reported a $13.1 billion trade surplus in
May, missing the $19.3 billion median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey, as export growth slowed.  India  reported that output at factories, utilities and
mines rose 6.3 percent in April from a year earlier after an 8.8
percent gain in March. China and India are the world’s second-
and fourth-biggest oil-consuming countries.  Saudi Arabia  holds
one-fifth of the world’s proven oil reserves.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  On June 8, U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said the “uneven” and “frustratingly slow” economic recovery
warrants continued monetary stimulus. Even so, he gave no
indication that he plans a third round of asset purchases known
as quantitative easing.  “The Saudi market is reacting to the U.S. and global
markets ending the week on a negative note,” said Fuad Aghabi,
investment director at Ajeej Capital in  Riyadh . “Weak
international economic data and the global stock price movements
last week are probably giving the local investor indicators that
the global economy maybe hitting a soft patch in its road to
recovery.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index slid 1.4 percent
yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.4 percent
and the Stoxx Europe 600 index slumped 1.3 percent. Oil in New
York dropped 2.9 percent to $99.29 a barrel.  Al Rajhi  dropped 1 percent to 72.75 riyals, the largest
loss in a week. Petrochemicals maker Sabic lost as much as 2.2
percent to 100.50 riyals, before closing 0.2 percent down at
102.50 riyals, the lowest price since March 28.  Samba Financial
Group (SAMBA) , the kingdom’s second-biggest lender by market value,
slumped 1.9 percent, the steepest loss in three months, to 50.50
riyals. National Industrialization, the petrochemicals maker
known as Tasnee, declined 0.7 percent to 41.40 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  