-- 
Sudan Closes Southern Kordofan Airport as Fighting With North Continues

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-11T17:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/sudan-closes-southern-kordofan-airport-as-fighting-with-north-continues.html
Northern Sudanese authorities closed
the main airport in Southern Kordofan state as fighting between
the northern and Southern Sudanese armies in the border region
entered its seventh day, the  United Nations  said.  The clashes, which broke out on June 5 in northern Sudan’s
only oil-producing state, have caused an “unverifiable number
of casualties,” UN spokesman Kouider Zerrouk said today by
phone from Sudan’s capital, Khartoum. “Localized fighting with
sporadic artillery fire and continuing military build-up were
reported during the last 24 hours in the state.”  The remaining residents of the state capital, Kadugli, are
fleeing the town, Zerrouk said. As many as 40,000 of the
estimated 60,000 population of the city had left their homes as
of June 9, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs said yesterday.  Clashes along the border have raised concern about a
resumption of the two-decade civil war that ended with a 2005
 peace agreement  between the north and the south. While the two
sides are still negotiating the border, President Umar al- Bashir’s forces occupied the disputed region of Abyei on May 21
and stepped up their attacks on what it describes as rebels in
Southern Kordofan.  Al-Bashir and Salva Kiir, the president of Southern  Sudan ,
which is scheduled to become an independent country on July 9,
will meet June 12-13 in the Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa , to
discuss issues including the withdrawal of the northern Sudanese
Armed Forces from Abyei, the  African Union  said today.  African Mission  The two sides will discuss the deployment of “an African-
led international mission” in the disputed region of Abyei, the
AU said in an e-mailed statement. Former South African President
 Thabo Mbeki , the head of the AU High-Level Implementation Panel,
and the Ethiopian Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi  will attend the
meeting, the statement said.  Representatives from the Sudanese government, which the UN
says is strengthening its control over the state, and  Southern
Sudan ’s ruling party, the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement,
will also meet in Addis Ababa to discuss ways to end the
fighting in Southern Kordofan, the AU said.  The closure of the Kadugli airport by the northern Sudanese
army “will dangerously hamper the UN humanitarian operations in
Southern Kordofan,” where the people displaced by the fighting
“are in urgent need of emergency assistance,” Zerrouk said,
urging authorities to allow “unconditional use” of the airport
by UN flights.  Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled’s phone was
switched off when he was contacted for comment.  Abuses  Northern Sudanese Armed Forces and northern-allied militias
were engaged in “widespread abuses” in Southern Kordofan, as
they “carried out house-to-house searches and set up
checkpoints, where they stopped civilians trying to flee the
violence and killed some of them,”  Human Rights Watch  said
today, citing witnesses.  The forces were targeting civilians suspected of being
members of Southern Sudan’s ruling party, the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement, the rights group said.  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels of
oil at independence. The crude is pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and
India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  The state pumps about 115,000 barrels per day, according to
Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 