-- 
Syrians Cross Flaming Fields to Escape Into Turkey From Assad’s Soldiers

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-11T08:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/syrian-assaults-push-villagers-across-flaming-fields-to-turkey.html
Syrians fleeing President Bashar Al- Assad’s assault against northern towns resisting his rule tell
stories of troops setting fields aflame and opening random fire,
the chief of a Turkish village hosting refugees said.  Assad’s violence against his own people is straining the
relationship with one of his closest allies, Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who is bracing his country for a
flood of Syrian refugees.  Erdogan promised yesterday to approach Syria “very
differently” after Turkish elections on Sunday, as thousands
abandon their homes to seek safety in makeshift camps across the
Turkish border. Attacks on protesters have escalated since the
U.S. and European Union placed sanctions on senior officials in
Assad’s regime last month.  From the Turkish border town of Guvveci last night, at
least 15 vehicles could be seen lining up on the Syrian side to
move another 1,000 Syrians across the border, village chief
Cemil Utanc said. The number living in Turkish refugee camps is
almost 4,000, Turkish state media says.  The latest influx comes from Syrian villages that were set
aflame by advancing Assad forces, Utanc said by mobile phone
from the border area. Utanc is acting as a translator for
Turkish troops picking up the refugees. Turkish village children
who cross the porous border with  Syria  daily said as many as
10,000 people were lining up to cross the mountains into Turkey.  ‘Very Different Way’  “Let’s get these elections out of the way, see what the
picture looks like, and then I’ll talk with the Syrians in a
very different way,” Erdogan said in an interview with NTV
television yesterday.  Assad’s forces killed at least 36 people as they advanced
on northern towns including Jisr al Shughour, activists cited by
 Al Arabiya  said. More than half of Jisr al Shughour’s almost
45,000 residents have fled, Mahmoud Merhi, Damascus-based head
of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Syrian state television said the offensive on the town was
directed against “rebels” who ambushed and killed 120 security
personnel. The opposition says the forces were shot by Assad’s
police for refusing to fire on protesters.  ‘Visiting Relatives’  Syrian state television director Reem Haddad told the
British Broadcasting Corp. that the thousands of Syrian refugees
in  Turkey  were visiting relatives. “It’s a bit like having a
problem in your street, so you go and visit your Mum for a
bit,” she said. “A lot of them find it easy to move across
because their relatives are there.”  Some of the refugees told a different story.  At one of three camps set up by the Turkish government and
the Turkish Red Crescent at an abandoned tobacco warehouse in
the town of Altinozu, hundreds of displaced Syrians staged an
improvised demonstration, with children holding signs in Turkish
thanking Erdogan for “saving” them from “Assad’s torture.”  “Down with Assad, long live Erdogan!” they chanted.  Celebrations also broke out at the largest of the Turkish
camps in the border town of Yayladagi as an unfounded rumor
spread that Assad had been killed or resigned, Turkey’s state-
run Anatolia news agency said.  The Turkish government has refused access to the refugee
camps, citing security concerns for their inhabitants.
Information comes from local officials, bus drivers, medics and
residents on the border.  Border Towns  Turks living in towns near the border share close relations
with Syria. Among themselves, residents speak Arabic, not
Turkish, and many have family on the other side.  In Guvecci, groups of Syrian boys came over for bread given
out by the local municipality, passing a Turkish military
outpost, then returned to the other side. In the fields beyond,
minibuses lined up to transfer citizens to camps. Syrian cars
pull up, drop off passengers, who are then met by Turkish troops
or ambulances. The wounded are shuttled to hospitals, while the
rest are transferred to minivans and brought to camps.  The point where most of the transfers are taking place is
not an official border crossing.  Outside the camp in Altinozu, resident Hasan Kaplan showed
reporters video of protesters being fired on apparently at
random with machine guns as they demonstrated on a road near the
town of Idleb. He said the video was taken about two weeks ago.  “People across Syria are being tortured,” he said.
“They’re opening fire randomly on protesters. These people have
left everything and come here to save their lives. There is no
security left.”  At least 11 people were killed yesterday in Idleb,
according to Syrian human rights activists. Kaplan said all of
his relatives in Syria may make the trip across to Turkey.  Outrageous Violence  Since the protest movement erupted in Syria in March,
Erdogan has backed Assad, calling him a “close friend,”
pushing him to make democratic reforms that would satisfy the
protesters’ demands and saying he believed that most Syrians
supported him. That tone has begun to change in recent days.  “Four or five days ago I talked with Bashar Assad and
explained the situation very clearly,” Erdogan said in an
interview with ATV television yesterday. “Despite that, they’re
taking this issue very lightly.”  He said the violence would be taken up by the U.N. Security
Council.  Syrian security forces have killed more than 1,100 people
since protests began in mid-March, human rights groups estimate.
Erdogan has promised not to close the border to Syria, saying it
was a moral imperative to keep it open.  “We can’t close our doors on those fleeing for their lives
and seeking refuge in Turkey, but how long is this going to
continue?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Yayladagi, Turkey at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 