-- 
Syria on Dangerous Path, U.S. Says as Government Deploys Troops in North

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-06-11T01:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/syria-on-dangerous-path-u-s-says-as-government-deploys-troops-in-north.html
Syria  is heading down a “dangerous
path,” the U.S. said after the government sent troops to the
north of the country as protesters intensify demands for an end
to the rule of President Bashar al-Assad.  The U.S. strongly condemns the government’s “outrageous
use of violence” and calls for an immediate end to attacks on
anti-government protesters,  Jay Carney , the White House press
secretary, said in a statement from  Washington  late yesterday.
“The Syrian government is leading Syria on a dangerous path.”  Syria sent troops to Jisr al-Shughour yesterday, saying
they were targeting gangs that terrorized the northern town.
Human rights groups say the deployment is part of a crackdown to
quell anti-government protests. At least 21 people died
yesterday, mostly in Maarat al-Numan, also in the north, after
Syrian forces shelled the town, the  Associated Press  reported.  Syrian security forces have killed more than 1,100 people
since protests began in mid-March, human rights groups estimate.
About 2,400 Syrians have fled the north since violence erupted
there last week and are seeking shelter in neighboring  Turkey ,
Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said on June 9.  Another 1,000 Syrians are still trying to flee the turmoil
and cross into Turkey, Cemil Utanc, chief of the border village
of Guvecci, said in an interview. Turkey is preparing to
accommodate as many as 1 million Syrian refugees, the Istanbul-
based Sabah newspaper reported on June 9.  Death Toll  “We have five confirmed deaths,” and the number is
expected to increase, Mahmoud Mehri, Damascus-based head of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights, said yesterday by phone.
Heavy artillery was used by government forces in the assault on
Maarat al-Numan, he said. The Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights estimated 11 people died in yesterday’s clashes.  Attacks on protesters have escalated since the U.S. and
European Union placed sanctions on senior officials in Assad’s
regime last month.  “In response to the call for help by inhabitants of the
Jisr al-Shughour region, units of the Syrian army started
pursuing the organized armed groups and arresting some of their
members,” Syrian state television said yesterday. The gangs
have “terrified” residents, burned public and private
buildings, and attacked members of the army and security forces,
mutilating their bodies, according to the report.  The government said 120 security personnel were killed in
an ambush in Jisr al-Shughour. The opposition said the troops
were shot by Syrian police for refusing to fire on protesters.  Navi Pillay, the  United Nations  high commissioner for human
rights, earlier this week called on Syria’s government to comply
with the UN Human Rights Council’s April 29 request for access
for a fact-finding mission. The government hasn’t responded, she
said.  Britain, France, Germany and  Portugal  urged the UN Security
Council on June 8 to adopt a resolution condemning the Syrian
government’s crackdown on protesters, which Carney said the U.S.
also supports. Russia and  China  have signaled they may veto the
measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 