-- 
Syrians Cross Flaming Fields to Turkey

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-12T17:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/syrians-cross-flaming-fields-to-escape-into-turkey-from-assad-s-soldiers.html
Syrians fleeing President Bashar Al- Assad’s assault against northern towns say troops are torching
fields and opening fire at random, the chief of a Turkish border
village hosting refugees said.  Assad has justified the offensive by saying 120 members of
his security forces were killed by “armed gangs” in the town
of Jisr al Shughour on June 7. Residents say the forces defected
after refusing to fire on pro-democracy protesters and were
killed for their subversion.  Bloomberg has been unable to independently verify the
claims. Most foreign journalists have been banned from  Syria  and
the government has restricted telephone and Internet access.  Army units rolled into Jisr al-Shughour today to “purify
it from members of armed groups,” according to Syrian state
television. A large number of gunmen have been detained and two
were killed, it said. Heavy shelling and shooting was heard in
the town during the morning, according to the website of the
 Syrian Observatory  human rights group.  A total of 1,289 civilians and 332 army and security forces
have been killed since pro-reform protests erupted in the
country in mid-March, the website said. Syria’s unrest has been
inspired by protests that ousted the longstanding presidents of
Tunisia and  Egypt , and threaten the leaders of Libya and Yemen.  Makeshift Camps  The incidents in Jisr al-Shughour sparked chaos in regions
near the Turkish border, with only 5,000 out of the population
of 45,000 remaining in the town, according to Mahmoud Merhi,
Damascus-based head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights.
Thousands of refugees have headed for makeshift camps set up
across the Turkish border and the majority have sought refuge in
safer areas in Syria, he said.  Syrians arriving in the past 48 hours in  Turkey  told of
Assad’s forces setting their fields and villages aflame and
opening fire randomly on residents, said Cemil Utanc, the chief
of the Turkish border village of Guvecci. About 5,000 Syrians
have already taken refuge in tent cities on the Turkish border,
according to figures provided by the Foreign Ministry yesterday.  Britain, France, Germany and  Portugal  urged the United
Nations  Security Council  on June 8 to adopt a resolution
condemning the Syrian crackdown on protesters. White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  said the U.S. supports the resolution.
Russia has opposed it.  Legitimate Grievances  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  urged the UN today to
issue “a clear statement” calling on Syria to respond to
legitimate grievances, to release prisoners of conscience and
reopen access to the internet. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday criticised Syria’s crackdown, calling the
actions of the regime “revolting.”  Assad’s assault against his own people is increasingly
straining the relationship with one of his closest allies,
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who is bracing his
country for a flood of Syrian refugees and a possible change in
Turkish policy toward its neighbor.  Erdogan is heading for a third term in office after winning
elections today. His  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, got
51 percent of the vote with almost 90 percent of ballots
counted.  “Let’s get these elections out of the way, see what the
picture looks like, and then I’ll talk with the Syrians in a
very different way,” Erdogan said in an interview with NTV
television on June 10.  ‘Disgusting Mental Images’  After the protest movement erupted in Syria in March,
Erdogan backed Assad, urging him to make immediate reforms and
offering Turkish assistance to the Syrian leadership in creating
a civil democratic society. The offers weren’t taken seriously
enough, he said. He called the Syrian government’s actions
“savagery” and said “disgusting” images of the dead were
making it impossible to justify continued support.  Shashank Joshi, an associate fellow at the  Royal United
Services Institute  in  London , said Assad appears to have made a
choice to sacrifice the Turkish relationship in order to do what
he thinks necessary to stay in power.  “Assad has deemed that he has no choice but to suppress
any kind of uprising or lose real control of these towns in the
north,” Joshi said. “Although Turkey is a friend, it’s also a
new friend; Syria has been an authoritarian country for many
decades without Turkish friendship, and I suppose Assad’s made a
calculation that it can be so again.”  Increased Trade  Relations between Turkey and Syria have deepened under
Erdogan as the two neighbors dropped visa requirements, started
joint military training exercises in 2009 and increased trade.
Imports from Syria have almost doubled since 2007 to $660
million, while exports rose by more than $1 billion over the
same period to $1.8 billion last year, according to Turkey’s
state statistics agency.  Aksa Elektrik Toptan Satis AS , a Turkish energy company,
signed a contract in March to sell as much as 500 megawatts of
electricity a year to Syria, Syrian Deputy Electricity Minister
Hisham Mashfej said at the time.  “Turkey exercises a certain degree of influence just by
nature of neighboring Syria and can influence the economic
situation in Syria, which is really perilous,” Joshi said.  The uprising has caused little damage to Syria’s $60
billion economy, central bank governor Adib Mayaleh said in an
interview on May 31. Deposits at Syrian private banks declined
about 7 percent in the first quarter, Abdul Qader Dweik, head of
the Syrian International Islamic Bank, the country’s largest
Islamic lender, said the same day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Yayladagi, Turkey at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  