-- 
British Gilts Jump, Pound Depreciates on Signs Economic Growth is Slowing

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-11T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/u-k-10-year-gilts-surge-for-a-ninth-week-on-slowdown-concern.html
Ten-year gilts rose for the ninth
successive week, the longest run since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1989, amid signs that growth is
weakening, reducing the case for higher U.K.  interest rates .  The pound fell for a second-straight week against the
dollar as reports showed factory output contracted more than
economists estimated in April and shop-price inflation slowed in
May. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  rejected calls
for a “Plan B” to scale back his deficit-reduction program if
the economic recovery stalls, while Moody’s Investors Service
said the U.K.’s Aaa credit rating may be at risk should the
government miss its debt-reduction targets.  “The data is turning down and forecasters are hopelessly
behind the curve,” said  Andrew Roberts , head of European
interest-rate strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. For gilts, “you have seen a pretty chunky
outperformance,” he said. “The bias is for lower yields.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell to 3.22 percent as of
3:48 p.m. in  London  yesterday, from 3.29 percent on June 3. The
two-year note yield fell to 0.82 percent, the lowest since Nov.
10, from 0.90 percent last week.  Sterling slid to $1.6234 from $1.6426 and was little
changed at 88.54 pence per euro from 89.10 pence per euro.  Slowing Growth  Bank of England officials are grappling with signs of
deteriorating economic growth as inflation exceeds policy
makers’ target rate. Investors pushed back bets that the bank
will next increase interest rates to May, forward contracts on
the sterling overnight interbank average show. As recently as
February, traders were betting on an increase as soon as last
month, data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. The bank kept its
benchmark interest rate at a record-low 0.5 percent this week.  A report next week may show consumer prices increased 4.5
percent in May from a year earlier, matching the pace in April,
which was the fastest since 2008, according to the median of 29
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gilts have handed investors 2.4 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds have
returned zero, while  U.S. Treasuries  made 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  