-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as Dow Has Longest Slump Since 2002 on Economy

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-06-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/u-s-stocks-decline-as-dow-average-has-longest-slump-since-2002-on-economy.html
U.S. stocks fell for the sixth
straight week, giving the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  its
longest slump since 2002, as investor concern that the global
economy is slowing intensified.  Technology stocks and consumer companies reliant on
discretionary spending led losses in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, dropping more than 2.7 percent as a group. PulteGroup
Inc., the nation’s biggest homebuilder, slumped 11 percent for
the largest retreat in the S&P 500.  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard
Inc. (MA)  decreased more than 3.6 percent after the U.S. Senate
rejected a six-month delay of a Federal Reserve rule capping
debit-card swipe fees set by the companies.  The S&P 500 lost 2.2 percent to 1,270.98, its lowest level
since March 16. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities has also
dropped for six consecutive weeks, the longest retreat since
2008. The Dow fell 199.35 points, or 1.6 percent, to 11,951.91.
Its last weekly slump of this length was in October 2002, the
start of a five-year  bull market  for equities.  “The market is still digesting that there’s been a
softening in economic growth in the U.S. and other parts of the
world,” said Nick Sargen, chief investment officer at Fort
 Washington  Investment Advisors in Cincinnati, which oversees
more than $38 billion. “That disappointing economic news has
caused investors to turn more cautious. They could shrug off bad
economic data in the first quarter. It’s harder to continue
doing it in the second quarter.”  $1 Trillion Lost  More than $1 trillion has been erased from American equity
markets since the  S&P 500 ’s peak on April 29. Equities slumped
this week amid weaker-than-expected economic reports, while Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that the U.S. recovery was
“frustratingly slow.”  The S&P 500’s 6.8 percent slump since the end of April has
cost the benchmark index the biggest rally in more than five
decades. The measure gained 102 percent between March 9, 2009,
and April 29 of this year, the largest advance over the same
period of time since 1955, according to  Howard Silverblatt  at
S&P. Now, it’s up 88 percent, the most since 1999.  Stocks extended their weekly decline yesterday after prices
of goods imported into the U.S. unexpectedly rose, U.K.
manufacturing dropped more than economists forecast and  China 
reported a less-than-estimated $13.1 billion  trade surplus  in
May as surging imports added pressure for higher  interest rates 
in the world’s second-largest economy.  ‘Uneven’ Recovery  Bernanke said on June 7 that the central bank should
maintain record monetary stimulus to boost an “uneven”
economic recovery, even as he gave no hint of a new round of so-
called quantitative easing as policy makers plan this month to
complete a $600 billion bond purchase program.  “It was a very ugly week,” said Andrew Ross, partner and
global equity trader at First New York Securities LLC, a New
York-based proprietary trading firm that bets on stocks,
commodities and derivatives. “Traders grappled with rising
macro concerns in the face of a  Federal Reserve  without the
political will to push forward on a new round of stimulus.”  A gauge of technology companies in the S&P 500 lost 3.3
percent this week, the most among 10 industries. Cisco Systems
Inc. slipped 5.6 percent to $15.12, the lowest price for the
largest maker of networking equipment since March 2009.  Companies most-tied to economic growth slumped. The Morgan
Stanley Cyclical Index dropped 2.2 percent as 26 of its 30
stocks retreated. The S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary Index
decreased 2.7 percent.  Banks Drop  Financial shares had the third-biggest decline within 10
industries in the benchmark index, falling 2.6 percent. The
group is the worst-performing of the 10 main industries in the
index this year, down 7.3 percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
biggest U.S. lender, fell 4.3 percent to $10.80.  Banks with at least $50 billion in assets will be required
to conduct annual exams to “ensure that institutions have
robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account
for their unique risks and that permit continued operations
during times of economic and financial stress,” the Fed said
yesterday in a statement in Washington.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the largest U.S. home lender, lost 2.2
percent to $26.28 after Rochdale Securities LLC’s  Richard Bove 
cut his recommendation to “sell” from “neutral,” citing a
poor economic environment, weak housing prices, slowing
manufacturing indicators and negative regulatory environment.  Visa, the world’s biggest bank-card network, dropped 5.6
percent to $74.69 and MasterCard, the No. 2 network, declined
3.6 percent to $267.03 after the  U.S. Senate  rejected a six-
month delay of a Fed rule capping debit-card swipe fees set by
the companies.  Bulls Stand Firm  The stock market’s six-week slump hasn’t reduced
bullishness among money managers and market strategists such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s David Kelly and Liz Ann Sonders of
Charles Schwab Corp., who say profit growth and below-average
valuations will lift equities this year, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its June 13 edition.  “The economy is still growing, albeit at a slow pace, and
sufficient for corporate revenues, corporate earnings and
corporate  cash flow  to advance,” said  Bob Doll , who helps
oversee $3.65 trillion at New York-based BlackRock Inc., the
world’s biggest money manager. “We’re at the end of the
recovery and the beginning of the expansion. That’s typically a
time when stocks still go up, just at a lesser pace.”  Lowe’s Cos. declined 4.9 percent to $22.26 this week. The
second-largest U.S. home-improvement retailer had its
recommendation cut to “neutral” from “overweight” at
JPMorgan, which said earnings risk is rising. PulteGroup tumbled
11 percent to $6.93.  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  slipped 15 percent to $4.60. Carson Block, the short seller whose assertions of financial
manipulation by Sino-Forest preceded a two-day plunge of 71
percent plunge in the forestry company’s shares last week, said
he will release more research “pretty soon.”  Sealed Air Corp. (SEE)  rallied the most in the S&P 500, gaining 7
percent to $23.42. Davis Selected Advisers, the company’s
largest stockholder, said it may oppose the packaging maker’s
proposed acquisition of Diversey Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  