-- 
Hyundai Motor Settles Dispute With Workers After Suicide

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-06-11T04:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-11/hyundai-motor-settles-dispute-with-workers-after-suicide-1-.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s
biggest automaker, settled a dispute with workers at its factory
in Asan, south of Seoul, early today before the start of annual
wage negotiations.  Work started at 6 a.m. at the plant after a 39-hour
stoppage, the Seoul-based company said in an e-mail, without
giving an estimate on how much production was lost due to the
disruption.  Staff at the plant stopped working on June 9 after an
employee committed suicide that day, according to a statement
posted on the   website  of the Hyundai Motor Workers Union. The
employee, with the family name Park, said in a note that he was
prevented by the company from carrying out his duties as a union
representative, according to the statement.  Hyundai agreed to provide compensation to Park’s family,
equivalent to the amount that would be paid for an industrial
accident, union spokesman Chang Kyu Ho said today. The company
and union plan to start talks soon on working terms, he said.  The suicide and ensuing stoppage came after Hyundai Motor
and subsidiary  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  suspended production of vehicles
in May due to a strike at a parts supplier.  The Asan factory, located about 100 kilometers (62 miles)
from Seoul, can build as many as 1,200 Sonata midsize sedans and
Grandeur premium sedans a day, and has an annual capacity of
240,000 vehicles, according to the company. The plant has about
4,000 employees working in two daily shifts, it said.  Hyundai has two other factories in South Korea, one in
Ulsan that has an annual capacity of 1.54 million vehicles and a
commercial-vehicle plant in Jeonju, which can produce as many as
70,000 trucks and buses a year.  Hyundai Motor’s share price has declined 3.7 percent since
June 8 in  Seoul  trading, outpacing a 1.8 percent drop in the
benchmark Kospi stock index during the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney   ptighe@bloomberg.net  