-- “Golden Egg’ Claim at Issue in Knoedler Counterfeit Suit
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-08T23:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/-golden-egg-claim-at-issue-in-knoedler-gallery-counterfeit-suit.html
A  Long Island , New York,  art dealer 
who sold the Knoedler Gallery undocumented paintings attributed
to  Mark Rothko  and  Jackson Pollock  threatened to stop if she
were questioned about her source, according to a filing in
 Manhattan  federal court.  “Don’t kill the goose that’s laying the golden egg,”
Glafira Rosales told Ann Freedman, the former director of the
now-closed Knoedler, according to Freedman’s sworn declaration
filed in court last week.  Domenico De Sole, chairman of Tom Ford International, and
his wife, Eleanore De Sole, sued Freedman, Rosales, the gallery
and its chairman,  Michael Hammer , earlier this year. The De
Soles bought a Rothko for $8.3 million in 2004 that they
discovered later was a fake, they said in their complaint.  Hammer, Knoedler and Freedman asked a judge in a Nov. 1
court filing to dismiss the complaint.  Anastasios Sarikas, Rosales’ lawyer, disputed that his
client made the “golden egg” comment. “Her English is so
limited and cautious,” he said in an interview. “My client is
incapable of making such an absurd statement.”  Previous Suit  Sarikas said Hammer made the comment, not Rosales, which
Freedman scribbled on a sheet of paper, a copy of which was part
of the court filing. As his source, Sarikas cited a July suit by
 John Howard , chief executive of Irving Place Capital, concerning
a Willem de Kooning for which he paid $4 million. The complaint
attributed the “golden egg” comment to Hammer. The Freedman
note was first introduced in a now-settled December 2011 suit by
hedge fund executive Pierre Lagrange.  Sarikas’s assertion contradicts Freedman’s sworn
declaration. Sarikas declined to say whether Rosales denied she
made the golden egg comment.  “You’re treading into privileged information,” he said.  Chris  Orlando , a spokesman for the gallery, said the note
isn’t connected to Hammer. “The attempt to include Mr. Hammer
in this matter is absolutely unsupportable, irresponsible and
simply an effort to sensationalize the case,” he said in an
e-mail.  From 1998 to 2008, the gallery sold almost 40 works from
Rosales, netting almost $40 million in profit, the De Soles said
in a filing.  ‘Lavishly’ Rewarded  “Hammer rewarded Freedman lavishly based upon Knoedler’s
outsized profits from selling the counterfeit works,” according
to the De Soles’ filing.  Luke Nikas, a lawyer with Boies, Schiller & Flexner who
represents Freedman, said in an interview that she sold no more
than 25 artworks from Rosales. Freedman told the De Soles that
an unnamed Swiss collector had bought the Rothko directly from
the artist and because the collector died, Knoedler was selling
it on behalf of the collector’s son, according to the complaint.  The gallery, which closed a year ago, bought the Rothko
from Rosales and relied on her word about provenance, the
complaint said. Freedman said in a letter to the De Soles’
daughter Laura that was filed in court that the painting was
viewed by a number of art experts. Whether each of the experts
viewed the painting, and how closely, is in dispute.  Freedman continued to push Rosales about the source of her
art, Freedman said in the court declaration.  “I never stopped investigating and pressing for every
possible piece of information about the works Rosales brought to
Knoedler,” Freedman said.  Protecting Source  Nikas said Freedman believes all the Rosales works she sold
were authentic. She didn’t disclose Rosales’s identity to
customers to protect her source.  “Other dealers would try to poach these works because of
the quality,” Nikas said.  Sarikas declined to say where Rosales got the artwork. He
cited a federal investigation into the sale of forged works.  “How can she defend herself in a civil case when she knows
everything she says can and will be used against her?” Sarikas
asked.  He added that Rosales never sold any works she knew to be
fake. “If any of those works turn out to be a forgery, my
client didn’t know it was so,” he said.  The case is De Sole v. Knoedler Gallery, 12-cv-2313, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York , (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 