-- L’Oreal Sees 35% Indonesia Sales Growth on Rising Middle Class
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-11-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/l-oreal-sees-35-indonesia-sales-growth-on-rising-middle-class.html
L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest 
cosmetics maker, expects to boost sales in  Indonesia  by as much
as 35 percent over the next five years as an expanding middle 
class spurs demand.  Annual revenue for this year and next will probably rise 
more than 30 percent in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy, Vismay 
Sharma, the company’s country chief, said in an Oct. 29 
interview. L’Oreal today inaugurates a new West Java plant that 
will be its largest factory globally.  L’Oreal, which lags global competitors Procter & Gamble Co. 
and  Unilever Plc (UNA)  in Indonesia, is investing in the country as 
economic growth topped 6 percent for eight quarters. The beauty 
and personal care market is expected to surge 86 percent by 2016 
to 54.1 trillion rupiah ($5.6 billion), according to 
London-based researcher Euromonitor International.  “If we had to compare with either Singapore or  Malaysia , 
these economies are more developed, the per capita consumption 
may be much higher but the overall size of the market is not 
that interesting,” Sharma said. “What’s very interesting for us 
from Indonesia is the size of the population and young 
consumers.”  The Paris-based cosmetics maker is investing 100 million 
euros ($128 million) in the new plant that will have capacity 
for as many as 500 million units, four times more than the first 
and its only factory set up in the country in 1986, Sharma said.  Market Share  L’Oreal, which entered the Indonesian market in 1979, 
ranked third in its beauty and personal care market with a 6 
percent share last year. Unilever NV ranked first with a 38 
percent share and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  second with 11 percent, 
according to Euromonitor data. The French company plans to 
increase its share to 15 percent by 2025, Sharma said.  A quarter of the goods made at the factory, mostly for the 
L’Oreal Paris and Garnier brands, will be for the local market 
with the rest for exports to other Southeast Asian countries, 
according to Sharma. He expects the proportion manufactured for 
the domestic market to increase over time as local sales rise.  Indonesia may surpass  Germany  and the U.K. by 2030 to be 
the world’s seventh-largest economy, generating $1.8 trillion in 
annual sales for agriculture, consumer and energy companies by 
that year, McKinsey & Co. said in September.  McKinsey estimates  consumer spending  in Indonesia’s urban 
areas will rise 7.7 percent a year to become a $1.1 trillion 
“business opportunity” by 2030, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  