-- ADM’s FCPA Probe, Citigroup, EU Winegrowers: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-07T13:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/adm-s-fcpa-probe-citigroup-eu-winegrowers-compliance.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s biggest corn processor, said in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that it is talking to the SEC
and the U.S. Justice Department about possible violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  In its quarterly filing on Nov. 5, ADM said that since
August 2008, it has been “conducting an internal review of its
policies, procedures and internal controls pertaining to the
adequacy of its anti-corruption compliance program and of
certain transactions” that may have violated U.S. and foreign
laws. The transactions, the company said, “primarily related”
to grain and feed exports.  The Decatur, Illinois-based company previously disclosed
its review to federal regulators in 2009 and has provided
periodic updates, according to the filing. ADM said it may face
criminal fines, civil penalties and be forced to give up profits
derived from contracts involving inappropriate payments.  ADM has “implemented comprehensive internal-control
enhancements recommended” by an independent auditor and has
“taken disciplinary action up to and including termination of
employees,” Jackie Anderson, a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail yesterday.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
company filing.  ADM said in its filing that any penalties are unlikely to
be material.  Compliance Action  Citigroup Says Singapore Authority Sought Data in Rate Probe  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
received requests for information from the  Monetary Authority of
Singapore  related to probes into the rigging of benchmarks used
to set interbank loan rates.  “Certain Citigroup subsidiaries have received additional
requests for information and documents from various domestic and
overseas regulators and enforcement agencies, including the
Monetary Authority of  Singapore ,” the New York-based company
said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Regulators worldwide are probing lenders about their roles
in setting the  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor, after
Barclays Plc was fined a record 290 million pounds ($463
million) for manipulating the rate for profit. Banks including
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have suspended some
traders in Singapore, where the central bank has broadened its
probe to include products tied to foreign exchange.  Citigroup said it continues to cooperate with all of the
investigations. Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for the New York-
based company, declined to comment on the Singapore request. The
bank has been in Singapore since 1902 and employs more than
9,500 people there, according to Citigroup’s  website .  RBS, Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, said last
week it expects to pay a fine in coming months to settle Libor
probes.  Japanese regulators in December banned Citigroup for two
weeks from trading in products tied to Libor and the Tokyo
interbank offered rate, or Tibor, after bank staff attempted to
influence the rates. Citigroup also said it has received
requests for information from a “consortium of state Attorneys
General” in the U.S. The bank previously disclosed that it
received data requests from the New York and Connecticut
attorneys general.  Compliance Policy  EU Winegrowers to Lobby Against More Plantings, Decanter Says  Winegrower associations from 15 European Union member
states are meeting in Brussels this week to lobby against a
planned reform by the European Commission which would permit
increased vineyard plantings, Decanter.com said.  The commission is considering introducing greater freedom
to plant vines starting in January 2016, and the proposals are
meeting resistance from growers in leading wine-producing
nations including France, Spain, Italy, Germany and Portugal,
Decanter magazine’s website said. Winegrowers are organizing
meetings with elected officials representing more than 50 wine
regions to resist the proposal, according to the website.  Bats Said to Seek U.K. Exchange License in Challenge to LSE  Bats Chi-X Europe plans to become the region’s first
alternative trading system to register as an exchange in a
renewed challenge to traditional bourses such as  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   The European unit of Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats Global
Markets Inc. has filed a proposal to become a Registered
Investment Exchange with the Financial Services Authority, the
U.K. regulator, according to two people familiar with the
situation. They declined to be identified as the information
isn’t public.  The company, currently deemed a Multilateral Trading
Facility, is seeking the license to attract business from retail
investors and fund managers who may be legally restricted to
trading on an exchange, the people said. It would also mean
firms could choose to list their shares on Bats Chi-X Europe.
Julia Streets, a spokeswoman for Bats Europe in London, declined
to comment.  The move would make Bats Europe the third exchange in the
U.K., after LSE, Europe’s oldest independent bourse, and  ICAP
Plc (IAP) ’s  Securities & Derivatives Exchange . Bats Europe is one of a
wave of alternative trading systems that opened after European
Union regulations introduced in 2007 opened the door to
competition with incumbent bourses.  Bats, the third-largest U.S. equity-exchange operator,
canceled its initial public offering on March 23 after errors on
its computer systems kept its own stock from trading and forced
a halt in Apple Inc. shares.  The firm, whose name stands for Better Alternative Trading
System, rose to prominence in tandem with the proliferation of
electronic firms that now dominate the buying and selling of
equities in the U.S. Bats’s owners include Morgan Stanley,
Credit Suisse Group AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Chicago-based Getco
LLC.  In the Courts  EU Regulator Can Seek Damages in Elevator Cartel, Court Says  The European Union’s antitrust regulator can seek damages
from elevator makers it fined for illegal price-fixing including
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Otis unit and  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the
EU’s highest court ruled.  EU law “does not prevent the commission from bringing an
action, on behalf of the EU, before a national court for
compensation for loss caused,” by a cartel, the  EU Court of
Justice  in  Luxembourg , said in a ruling. The decision is final
and can’t be appealed.  The European Commission sued Otis and ThyssenKrupp along
with rivals  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  and  Kone Oyj (KNEBV)  for 7.1 million
euros ($9.1 million) in Belgium because it said it purchased
elevators and escalators for EU buildings at increased prices.
The lawsuit is based on the EU’s own antitrust ruling that found
the companies colluded to raise prices.  The Brussels Commercial Court examining the commission’s
claim asked the EU tribunal whether regulators could represent
other EU institutions in a lawsuit and whether it could sue
companies it fined for cartel behavior.  The commission’s buildings -- including the Berlaymont, its
headquarters in Brussels with 45 elevators and 12 escalators,
and the European Union court buildings in Luxembourg -- had
equipment installed at “bloated” prices because of the
companies’ illegal price-fixing, the commission said in 2007.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker was fined 479.7
million euros, reduced last year to 320 million euros on appeal.
Otis was fined 224.9 million euros, Schindler 143.7 million
euros and Kone 142 million euros in 2007.  Karla Lindahl, a spokeswoman for Kone in Espoo,  Finland ,
declined to comment citing the pending litigation. Barbara
Schmidhauser, a spokeswoman for Hergiswil, Switzerland-based
Schindler, declined to comment because the company was still
analyzing the ruling.  Otis and ThyssenKrupp didn’t respond to e-mails and calls
seeking comment.  Antony Gravili, a spokesman for the commission, said
regulators welcomed the ruling.  The case is  T-199/11 , European Union, represented by the
European Commission v. Otis NV and Others.  Ex-UBS Banker Bagios Pleads Guilty in Tax Conspiracy Case  Christos Bagios, a former banker at UBS AG and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  arrested amid a U.S. crackdown on offshore tax
evasion, pleaded guilty yesterday to helping Americans cheat on
taxes from 1993 to 2009.  Bagios admitted in federal court in West Palm Beach,
 Florida , that he conspired with five Swiss bankers when he
worked at Zurich-based UBS, where he spent 15 years before
joining Credit Suisse in 2009. Bagios, a Greek citizen who lived
in Switzerland, was sentenced to time served. He spent 37 days
in custody after his arrest on Jan. 26, 2011, in New York.  “He’s relieved,” Bagios’s attorney, Matthew Menchel, said
after the hearing. “He’s excited to go home to be with his wife
and family.”  Bagios cooperated with prosecutors probing his former UBS
colleagues and customers. He pleaded guilty to a document known
as a criminal information, admitting he helped nine clients who
didn’t declare accounts to the Internal Revenue Service. One
married couple from California had an undeclared “black”
account and a declared “white” account.  Bagios is one of about two dozen foreign bankers, lawyers
or advisers charged since 2008 in the U.S. crackdown on offshore
tax evasion. Seven current or former Credit Suisse bankers were
indicted last year. Prosecutors also have charged about 50 U.S.
taxpayers. UBS, the largest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million, admitting it helped Americans cheat on
taxes, and turning over data on secret accounts.  At least 11 other banks are under criminal investigation.  The case is U.S. v. Bagios, 12-cr-60260, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  NML Capital Asks for Expedited Ruling on Argentine Bonds  Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital Fund asked a court
for an expedited ruling in a bid by creditors to collect on
defaulted Argentine bonds, claiming  Argentina ’s leaders “have
stated their intention never to comply” with a recent court
decision in the case.  A federal appeals court in New York ruled Oct. 26 that
Argentina can’t make payments on restructured sovereign debt
while refusing to pay holders of its defaulted bonds. The
decision caused Argentine bonds to drop the most in four months.
The appeals court sent the case back to a lower-court judge to
clarify how a payment formula is intended to work and to
determine how the court’s orders apply to intermediary banks and
other third parties.  In a letter to U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa yesterday,
NML asked for an expedited decision, citing press statements by
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and members
of her cabinet that, according to NML, show the country is
trying to evade the appeals court ruling.  “It is clear that Argentina now is in the process of
trying to render the equal treatment orders ineffective and will
employ and exploit any delay tactics necessary to evade this
court,” NML lawyer Robert A. Cohen said.  Jonathan Blackman, a lawyer for Argentina, declined to
comment on the letter.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
( Manhattan ).  Fairfield Greenwich Settles Claims of Madoff Investors  Fairfield Greenwich Group, the biggest operator of “feeder
funds” that channeled money into  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme,
agreed to a settlement that may pay defrauded investors as much
as $80.3 million.  The deal, to be funded by Fairfield Greenwich founder
Walter Noel and other individuals associated with the firm,
resolves claims by a class of investors who lost money to
Madoff’s fraud, according to documents filed yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan. Fairfield Greenwich placed about $7
billion with Madoff’s firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities Securities LLC.  The settlement, which needs a judge’s approval before
taking effect, provides $50.3 million to the class, which will
get an additional $30 million if that money isn’t used to
resolve other legal claims. A provision in the agreement allows
Fairfield Greenwich to cancel the settlement if too many
investors opt out of the deal to pursue individual claims.  Last year, a bankruptcy judge approved a $212 million
settlement between the trustee liquidating Madoff’s defunct firm
and Greenwich Sentry LP and Greenwich Sentry Partners LP, two
bankrupt funds related to Fairfield Greenwich.  The case is Anwar v. Fairfield Greenwich Group Ltd., 09-
cv-118, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Madoff Firm Liquidation Costs Rise to Almost $682 Million  The cost of liquidating the Bernard Madoff brokerage has
climbed to almost $682 million, including about $27 million for
the six months through Sept. 30, the trustee said in a federal
court filing in Manhattan.  Fees and expenses for trustee  Irving Picard ’s firm and
other lawyers and consultants since the confidence man’s
December 2008 arrest were about $646 million of the total.  Picard has paid the Ponzi scheme’s customers about $2.9
billion and the Securities Investor Protection Corp., which also
pays fees, has distributed almost $804 million, according to the
filing. Picard has estimated customer losses of principal at
about $20 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  