-- Aetna CEO Bertolini Sees Job Cuts With No Obama Debt Deal
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-11-07T17:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/aetna-ceo-bertolini-sees-job-cuts-with-no-obama-debt-deal.html
Aetna Inc. (AET)  Chief Executive Officer
Mark Bertolini said he may freeze hiring or reduce jobs at the
health insurer, and expects similar moves by other companies, if
President  Barack Obama  and Republicans don’t reach a deal to
avoid the “fiscal cliff” of tax increases and spending cuts.  Bertolini said he’s considering eliminating jobs at the
Hartford, Connecticut-based company, the third-biggest U.S.
health insurer, to guard against a potential recession should
Obama and Congress fail to reach an agreement. In a phone
interview, he said he is less optimistic after yesterday’s
election maintained divided power in  Washington .  “Because, the arithmetic in Washington hasn’t changed in
any great shape or form, we now face the issue of ‘Can this
president and this Congress come together to fix the debt?’”
Bertolini said. “To the degree we go over the cliff we’ll react
immediately and I’m sure a lot of us will as well.”  Voters yesterday re-elected Obama, a Democrat, to a second
four-year term, kept Republicans in control of the U.S. House of
Representatives and left Democrats in charge of the Senate.
Without a budget deal, the federal government faces $600 billion
in automatic taxes and cuts early next year that the
 Congressional Budget Office  has said could halt economic growth.  Bertolini said delays or cuts to Obama’s $1.2 trillion
health-care overhaul may be part of the solution as the U.S.
seeks a long-term fix to its  budget deficit . The overhaul’s
subsidies to help the uninsured buy coverage may be scaled back
or phased in, or their onset delayed past a scheduled 2014 start
date, he said.  Debt Fix  The health law would extend coverage to about 30 million
Americans over the next decade, according to the CBO. Including
taxes and fees, the overhaul is expected to reduce the deficit
by $109 billion in that time, the agency  said  in July.  Bertolini was among 80 CEOs in a “Fix the Debt” coalition
that called on Obama and the Republicans to compromise last
month. While the president’s relationship with the business
community has been “strained at best,” there’s widespread
support for reaching a deal, he said.  “There have been people working in a bipartisan way,” he
said. “It’s been a minority and the election’s gotten in the
way. Now would be the time for the president to convene the
group, set the agenda, and don’t let them out of the room until
they have a deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  