-- Agrium Earnings Miss Estimates as Potash Sales Talks Stall
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-11-07T21:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/agrium-earnings-miss-estimates-as-potash-sales-talks-stall-1-.html
Agrium Inc. (AGU) , a fertilizer maker and
the largest U.S. farm-products retailer, posted profit and
revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates after Asian sales talks
stalled and a plant restart took longer than expected. The
shares fell the most in three years.  Third-quarter earnings excluding environmental-remediation
and plant-closure costs were $1.34 a share, Calgary-based Agrium
said today in a statement, missing the $1.81 average of 24
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales dropped to $2.96 billion
from $3.14 billion, less than the $3.09 billion average of 17
estimates.  Potash fertilizer volumes declined 54 percent as plentiful
stockpiles undermined efforts by Agrium and other North American
miners to renew contracts with buyers in  China  and  India .  Agrium’s miss on earnings comes as it continues to fend off
demands from activist investor Jana Partners LLC, its largest
 shareholder , to separate the company’s network of farm-supply
stores. The fund also has urged Agrium to boost capital returns,
improve disclosure and reduce costs and working capital, Jana’s
Managing Partner  Barry Rosenstein  said Oct. 1 in an investor
presentation.  Agrium Chief Executive Officer Mike Wilson has resisted
Jana’s drive to force a breakup, saying that retaining the
company’s existing structure and strategy would be best for
shareholders.  ‘More Detail’  Wilson said today on a conference call that his company’s
earnings statement includes improved financial disclosure,
including data on returns on operating capital and profit
margins. Agrium also pledged to report same-store sales twice a
year, in the second and fourth quarters.  Agrium plunged 11 percent to C$95.03 at the close in
Toronto, the biggest decline since March 2, 2009. The shares
have increased 39 percent  this year .  “This quarter’s performance, and today’s share price
reaction, highlight that Agrium’s strong retail business remains
subject to the cyclicality of its commodity-driven wholesale
business, despite the absence of any quantifiable benefits to
shareholders from this combination,” Jana’s Rosenstein said
today by e-mail.  Rosenstein said Agrium refused “to engage with
shareholders in a real discussion about value maximization.”  ‘Flawed’ Analysis  “They’ve spent nearly six months making their case to our
board, to management and our shareholders and analysts,” Wilson
said of Jana today in an interview.  “It’s certainly not that we’re not willing to consider
their ideas, it’s that their analysis is flawed, their idea
about spinning off retail, which creates significant risk, will
ultimately destroy value rather than create it, ” Wilson said.
“And the majority of our shareholders agree with that
assessment.”  Wilson said he spoke with Rosenstein about three weeks ago
and no further contact is planned.  Agrium’s  net income  in the third quarter declined to $127
million, or 80 cents a share, from $293 million, or $1.85, a
year earlier. The company forecast fourth-quarter profit
excluding one-time items of $1.50 to $1.90 a share, less than
the $2.10 average of 23 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “India and China are integral to the global potash trade
and they’ve shut their doors, at least temporarily,”  John Hughes , a Toronto-based analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc.,
said today by telephone. “With Agrium guiding estimates lower
for the fourth quarter the question becomes, How right is the
street for 2013?”  The average of 28 estimates was for per-share earnings
excluding one-time items of $10.02 next year.  Potash agreements with China and India may come in the
first quarter of 2013, Wilson said today in the interview.  Agrium had an eight-week “turnaround” at its Vanscoy
potash plant during the third quarter related to an expansion
project, and said the subsequent restart took longer than
expected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  