-- Alstom First-Half Profit Beats Estimates as Train Sales Gain
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-11-07T09:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/alstom-first-half-profit-beats-estimates-as-train-sales-gain-1-.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the French maker of power
equipment and high-speed trains, reported first-half earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates as sales and orders for trains and
turbines climbed.  Income from operations in the six months ended Sept. 30
rose 12 percent to 703 million euros ($904 million), the
company, based in the Paris suburb of Levallois-Perret, said
today. Earnings exceeded the 689 million-euro average of six
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Net income rose 11
percent to 403 million euros, also beating estimates.  “Recovery of sales combined with strict cost control and
good execution of contracts enabled the operating margin to
improve to 7.2 percent,” up from 6.7 percent a year earlier,
Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron said in the statement. He
reiterated his forecast for sales and margin growth and positive
free  cash flow  over the next three years.  Kron is seeking to stem a cash outflow of almost 1.1
billion euros over the past two fiscal years as  the manufacturer 
added products and invested in faster-growing countries such as
 India ,  Russia , and  China  to tap rising infrastructure needs.
Alstom rose as much as 4.9 percent in Paris, the most in three
months.  Alstom had free cash flow of 101 million euros in the
fiscal first half, following an outflow of 914 million euros a
year earlier, the company said. That compares with 81 million
euros estimated by analysts. Alstom has cut  jobs  in  Europe  and
the U.S. to adjust to lower demand from local utilities and rail
operators.  Cash Flow  Free cash flow will be positive in the second half and in
each of the three fiscal years through March 2015, Kron said
today.  “Alstom’s depressed valuation reflects investors’ concerns
on the balance sheet,” said Gael de Bray, an analyst at  Societe
Generale  in Paris, in a research note today. “These concerns
should now diminish as free cash flow turned positive.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut Alstom’s long-term  credit
rating  by one level in January to Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade, and said there’s the possibility of another
reduction because of “material negative trends in working-
capital levels.”  Standard & Poor’s  also has a negative outlook
on Alstom’s BBB rating.  Alstom’s orders in the April-September period climbed 19
percent to 12.1 billion euros, led by demand for transport
equipment. Revenue rose 4 percent to 9.75 billion euros,
compared with 9.89 billion euros predicted by  analysts .  Sales will probably increase by more than 5 percent a year
through March 2015, helped by the backlog and rising capital
expenditure in  emerging markets , Alstom reiterated today. The
 operating margin  is likely to gradually improve to about 8
percent of sales from 7.1 percent in the last fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  