-- Americans Forget Disaster of Big Government 1970s
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-11-07T20:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/americans-forget-disaster-of-big-government-1970s.html
Do Americans suddenly like tax
increases and bigger government? Or did they simply forget what
happens when you raise taxes and make government larger?  These are questions to ask as we  analyze  the yesterday’s
election results to discern the fiscal consequences. Advocates
of higher taxes prevailed in the presidential and legislative
races, and resoundingly. Yet the outcomes for the many
propositions and initiatives on ballots across the country also
require review. These votes suggest Americans are indeed looking
at government and taxation differently.  The conventional wisdom before  election night  was that
ballot initiatives were separate. Voters may not mind voting for
a man or woman who might permit higher taxes down the road. But
the same citizens, we told ourselves, would hesitate to vote yes
when confronted directly with the prospect of a precise rate
increase on the page before them.  Tax  rebellions  tend to start at the state level -- think of
Proposition 13 in  California  a generation ago. Evidence of this
aversion to taxes was provided recently by the  National
Taxpayers Union . Looking at a sample year, 2011, the NTU found
that voters favored 60 percent of state initiatives that would
reduce the burden of government, while backing only 44 percent
of measures that would expand government. The NTU also found
that of 648 measures to raise taxes or expand budgets, 330
passed, slightly more than the number that failed -- not a
decisive outcome. But interestingly, 37 out of 46 local measures
to limit government or reduce taxes passed.  This “hesitation theory” suggested that voters this year
might reject big tax initiatives and endorse initiatives that
rejected taxes, such as the effort to amend the state
constitution of  New Hampshire  to ban an income tax in
perpetuity.  That’s not what happened. In  New Hampshire , for example,
voters not only chose Democrats in the congressional and
governor’s races but also failed to muster the two-thirds
majority necessary to support the income tax ban.  In California, two siblings from the powerful Munger clan
were testing the contention that voters tend to vote no on tax
increases. Philanthropist Molly Munger, daughter of billionaire
Charles Munger, bet tens of millions on a tax-increase
initiative, Proposition 38, that would have raised rates to
finance K-12 education. Her brother, Charles T. Munger Jr., for
his part, poured millions into defeating another version of a
tax increase, Governor  Jerry Brown ’s Proposition 30.  Molly Munger ’s Proposition 38 was indeed defeated and
soundly. Yet voters backed Brown’s increase, which raises the
already high top marginal rate on the income tax three
percentage points.  My own analysis is that this is a sea change, though not
quite the kind Democrats will advertise. It has been a long time
since Californians exploded with rage over property taxes and
since the economy struggled under the egregious interventions of
the Nixon, Ford and Carter administrations. Voters don’t really
recall the 1970s, or what a mess price controls and strange tax
regimes yielded.  So they aren’t really aware of the strong possibility that
the new mandate for tax increases and bigger government is
likely to yield similar economic challenges. It looks as if we
have to repeat history if we are going to remember it.  ( Amity Shlaes , a Bloomberg View columnist, is author of the
forthcoming “Coolidge” and director of the Four Percent Growth
Project at the Bush Institute.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 