-- Amyris Rises Most in Two Weeks After Reporting Narrower Loss
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-11-07T21:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/amyris-advances-most-in-two-weeks-after-reporting-narrower-loss.html
Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , the biotechnology
company part-owned by  Total SA (FP) , rose after reporting a narrower
third-quarter loss.  Amyris climbed 4.2 percent to $2.70 at the close in  New
York , after earlier gaining as much as 32 percent.  The net loss narrowed 54 percent to $20.3 million, or 34
cents share, from $43.7 million, or 97 cents, a year earlier,
Amyris said in a statement after the close of trading yesterday.
Sales dropped 47 percent to $19.1 million, in part reflecting
the decline in sales of ethanol produced by third parties and
ethanol-blended gasoline.  The company temporarily stopped production at two of its
three plants that are located at partners’ facilities during the
second quarter to address issues with fermentation yields, and
that strategy conserved cash as planned, according to Chief
Executive Officer John Melo. “The improvements to our cost
structure over the last several months are bearing fruit,” he
said on a conference call yesterday.  Amyris uses genetically modified microorganisms to convert
plant-sugars into farnesene, a hydrocarbon that can be processed
into fuels or specialty chemicals. Production issues experienced
by the company aren’t uncommon for fermentation-type businesses,
said  Pavel Molchanov , a Raymond James & Associates Inc. analyst.  “Industrial biotech scale-up is never a straightforward,
linear process, a point that may be overlooked amid an ultra-
risk-averse market,” Molchanov said today in a research note.
“The scale-up issues do not permanently condemn the technology
platform.”  Paraiso  The company’s first commercial plant, at a Brazil site
owned by Paraiso Bioenergia SA, is expected to begin production
in 2013 and reach its capacity within three years, Melo said on
the call. The company will operate two of the site’s six
fermenters “for most of the year” in 2013, though Amyris isn’t
projecting the amount of commercial production, he said.  Its next project, at a sugar mill owned by  Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3) ,
won’t realize revenue until 2015, Melo said.  Squalane and Diesel  Amyris produced about 60,000 liters (15,850 gallons) of
farnesene during the quarter, Steven Mills, the company’s chief
financial officer, said on the call. Its output during the
second quarter was 810,000 liters. The company sold two products
made from farnesene during the third quarter, the cosmetic
ingredient squalane and diesel fuel, Melo said. It’s developing
other applications such as fragrance oils, and partner Kuraray
Co. received its first order for a farnesene-derived polymer
that can be used to make rubber for tires, he said.  Amyris also has developed a “new generation” of yeast
strains that are performing better than its first generation
strains in lab scale, Melo said. “This breakthrough gives us
confidence that we can profitability produce our desired
molecule farnesene at scale for chemical applications and
provides visibility for longer term commodity fuels markets,”
he said.  Cellulosic Sugars  The company also has developed yeast strains capable of
utilizing so-called cellulosic sugars, from non-food sources,
with similar yields as conventional sugars.  “We have always said we seek to be feedstock agnostic, and
we have shown ability to produce farnesene from cellulosic
sugars at pilot scale at rates similar to conventional sugars,”
Melo said. “We will be ready for the day when cellulosic sugars
are cost competitive at scale with conventional sugars,” he
said.  Mills said that Amyris expects to become  cash flow  positive
in 2014 and intends to raise additional financing before 2013,
reiterating a goal stated last quarter. “To reaffirm what we
said on last quarter’s conference call, we will need to raise
cash in the fourth quarter in order to fund our operations,” he
said. Melo wouldn’t say how much financing his company is
seeking.  “We think that financing could push the stock higher
provided it is non-dilutive,” said Ben Kallo, a Robert W. Baird
& Co. analyst, in a research note.  Total,  France ’s largest oil producer, owns 21 percent of
Emeryville, California-based Amyris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  