-- Manchester City Close to Champions League Elimination
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-07T14:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/man-city-stays-winless-in-champions-league-malaga-porto-go-on.html
(Corrects home team in Braga- Manchester United  match in
fifth paragraph.)  Manchester City  moved a step closer
to early elimination from soccer’s Champions League for the
second straight time, as Porto and Malaga became the first clubs
to advance to the knockout stage.  Manchester City overcame a two-goal deficit to draw 2-2
with Ajax last night at the Etihad Stadium. Yaya Toure and
Sergio Aguero scored for the Premier League champion, which is
winless after four matches and sits at the bottom of Group D.  The top two teams from each of the eight groups progress to
the round of 16 in  Europe ’s elite club competition. City also
failed get out of the group stage last season.  “It’s finished,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  said of his
team’s chances on the club’s website. “I always believe in my
team but now I think it is very difficult.”  Malaga and Porto both tied on the road to guarantee a top-
two finish in their respective groups. Schalke also came from
two goals down to tie Arsenal 2-2, while Real  Madrid  and
Dortmund drew by the same score.  Among tonight’s eight games, defending champion Chelsea is
at home against  Shakhtar Donetsk , Celtic hosts  Barcelona  and
Manchester United visits Braga.  Ajax looked poised to repeat its 3-1 win over City two
weeks ago when Siem de Jong scored twice in the opening 17
minutes in Manchester. City pulled a goal back in the 22nd
minute when Toure sent a volley past goalkeeper Kenneth Vermeer.  City then tied the game in the 74th minute as Aguero got
the ball after  Mario Balotelli  flicked on  Joe Hart ’s clearance
and sent a shot from the edge of the area past Vermeer.  Late Decisions  Aguero put the ball into the net with two minutes left only
for the goal to be disallowed for offside. City also had a
penalty appeal denied in stoppage time by referee Peter
Rasmussen after Balotelli appeared to be dragged down.  “The referee and his staff were very poor,” Mancini said.
“I told the referee it was a goal. I didn’t see the last
situation with Mario for the penalty decision, but the players
told me it should have been.”  Mesut Ozil scored with an 89th-minute free kick to give
record nine-time champion Real Madrid the home draw with German
title-holder Dortmund.  Marco Reus gave Dortmund the lead in the 28th minute before
Pepe scored for Real six minutes later. The visiting team then
regained the lead in the closing seconds of the first half on an
own goal from Alvaro Arbeloa.  Dortmund leads Group D with eight points, one more than
Madrid. Ajax has four and City has two points.  Malaga Advances  Malaga, playing in the  Champions League  for the first time,
secured its place in the round of 16 by tying at seven-time
European champion AC Milan.  The Spanish club took a 40th-minute lead on a goal from
Eliseu. Alexandre Pato scored for Milan with 17 minutes left.  The draw ended Malaga’s perfect start to the group stage,
though gives it a five-point lead over Milan in Group C with two
matches left. With Milan and Anderlecht, which is third with
four points after beating Zenit St. Petersburg 1-0, still having
to play each other, Malaga will finish among the top two.  Although Porto’s perfect record ended in Ukraine, the draw
was enough to send the Portuguese team through. Porto leads
Group A with 10 points, one ahead of Paris Saint-Germain, which
routed Dinamo Zagreb 4-0.  Dynamo Kiev  is third with four points.  Schalke rallied from a two-goal first-half deficit to tie
Arsenal in Gelsenkirchen and keep the lead in Group B.  Theo Walcott and Olivier Giroud got goals for Arsenal in
the first 26 minutes. Klaas-Jan Huntelaar scored for Schalke
just before halftime and Jefferson Farfan pulled the German club
even in the 67th minute.  “It was a good point in the end,” Walcott, whose last-
second shot was saved by goalkeeper Lars Unnerstall, told  Sky
Sports . “It would have been a fantastic victory. We’ll try to
win our last couple of games and as long as we do that, we’ll
get into the next round.”  Schalke has eight points, Arsenal has seven and Olympiacos
has six after its 3-1 win against Montpellier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  