-- Man. United Must Pay $58 Million for Rodriguez: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-07T05:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/man-united-must-pay-58-million-for-rodriguez-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Rodriguez Fee  Manchester United  must pay 36 million pounds ($58 million)
if it wants to sign Porto’s James Rodriguez in January after the
Colombian winger’s renegotiated contract increased his transfer
valuation, the  Daily Mail reported .  When United last inquired about Rodriguez’s price, the Red
Devils were told they would have to pay 24 million pounds to buy
him out of his contract, the Mail said. United may try to use
Nani in a part-exchange proposal or sell the Portugal winger to
finance a move for Rodriguez, the Mail added.  Adkins Fears Axe  Southampton manager Nigel Adkins is said to be fearful that
he will lose his job before the Nov. 10 Premier League game
against Swansea City, the  Guardian reported .  Nicola Cortese, the club’s executive chairman, is
considering his options though will only remove Adkins if a
replacement can be secured quickly, the newspaper added.  Tottenham Target  Schalke striker Klaas-Jan Huntelaar is wanted by Tottenham
Hotspur and may be available for a fee of 7 million pounds, the
 Independent reported .  Huntelaar, 29, is out of contract at the end of the season
and has yet to sign a new deal, meaning he would be free in
January to sign a pre-contract agreement to join a club outside
 Germany  for the 2013-14 season, the newspaper added.  Chamakh’s Choice  Arsenal striker Marouane Chamakh may push for a return to
former club Bordeaux in January because his opportunities have
been limited with the Gunners, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “After  Robin van Persie  left, I thought I’d play more,”
the Mirror cited Chamakh as saying. “But in two or three
months, if nothing changes, I must make a decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  