-- Anti-Islam Filmmaker Gets Prison for Violating Probation
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/anti-islam-filmmaker-gets-prison-for-violating-probation.html
The  California  man linked to the
“Innocence of Muslims” YouTube video that sparked riots in the
 Middle East  and North Africa admitted to violating the terms of
his probation and was sent back to prison for a year.  U.S. District Judge Christina Snyder in Los Angeles
yesterday sentenced Mark Basseley Youssef after he confessed to
using a name other than his true legal one, which violated the
terms of his supervised release following a 2010 conviction for
bank fraud.  Youssef, as part of an agreement with prosecutors, admitted
to four allegations, including falsely telling his probation
officer that he hadn’t used the name Sam Bacile, the name
attached to the YouTube account that posted the video. Snyder
denied a request by Youssef’s lawyer, Steven Seiden, to sentence
him to home confinement.  “This was a serious breach of the court’s trust,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Dugdale said at yesterday’s
hearing. “It is essential that people on supervised release are
truthful with probation.”  Youssef, 55, was arrested Sept. 27 in  Los Angeles  and held
without bail on allegations that he used false names and had
lied to his probation officer about his part in making the 14-
minute video, purportedly a trailer for a movie. A U.S. citizen
of Egyptian descent, Youssef pleaded guilty to bank fraud in
2010 and was sentenced to 21 months in prison.  Fictional Attack  The video shows a fictional attack by Muslims on a
Christian family, followed by an account of the origins of Islam
depicting the prophet Muhammad as a womanizer.  Dugdale said Youssef deceived the actors and actresses who
were in the video by hiding his true identity and by dubbing in
the language that caused offense after they had filmed their
scenes.  “They had no idea he was a recently released federal
felon,” the prosecutor said. “They may have had second
thoughts” if they had known.  Google Inc.’s YouTube blocked access to the clip in  Egypt 
and  Libya  following protests at the U.S. embassy in Cairo and an
attack that killed the U.S. ambassador to Libya and three U.S.
personnel.  The case is USA v. Youssef, 09-cr-00617, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 