-- Apple, Vringo, MIPS, Twitter, AHA: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-07T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/apple-vringo-mips-twitter-aha-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  told a judge that Samsung
Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Note 10.1 device infringes its patents,
and sought to add the Android 4.1 Jelly Bean operating system to
an existing lawsuit against Samsung in  California .  Apple made the arguments yesterday to U.S. Magistrate Judge
Paul S. Grewal in federal court in San Jose. Apple’s bid to
expand the lawsuit follows Samsung’s Oct. 1 move to add patent-
infringement claims against the iPhone 5 in the same case. Apple
won a $1.05 billion jury verdict against Samsung on Aug. 24 in a
separate patent case in the same court.  Filings by both companies in their two cases before U.S.
District Judge Lucy Koh show no letup in their battle on four
continents to retain dominance in the $219 billion global
smartphone market.  Samsung in August began U.S. sales of the Galaxy Note 10.1,
equipped with a stylus -- a feature Apple’s iPad doesn’t offer,
and which builds on Samsung’s Galaxy Note 5.3, a similarly
stylus-equipped smartphone that came out earlier this year.
Jelly Bean is  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s latest version of the Android
operating system that runs on Samsung mobile devices as well as
Google’s Nexus 7 handheld computer, which was released in June.  Koh on Oct. 1 rescinded a ban on U.S. sales of Samsung’s
Galaxy Tab 10.1 that she imposed in June, deciding there were no
grounds for keeping the preliminary injunction in place after
jurors concluded in their Aug. 24 verdict that Samsung didn’t
infringe the Apple design patent that was the basis for the
injunction.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, contended the ban
should remain in place because the jury found the Galaxy Tab
infringed other patents at issue in the case.  Andrew Liao, an Apple attorney, told Grewal yesterday that
the Galaxy Nexus is the only phone with Jelly Bean that Apple
seeks to add to the patent complaint.  Victoria Maroulis, an attorney for Samsung, said the
company wants to add only one product, the iPhone5, to its
complaint. Maroulis said Samsung opposes the addition of
“stylus products in 17 new devices” to Apple’s claims.  “By adding the stylus, Apple is going to enlarge the case
significantly,” she said.  The case in which Apple added the Galaxy Note 10.1 and
Jelly Bean operating system is scheduled for trial in 2014.  The case is Apple v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-
cv-630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The previous case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  Vringo Awarded $30 Million in Trial Against Google, AOL  Vringo Inc. (VRNG) , owner of technology developed by the Lycos
Inc. search engine, said it was awarded about $30 million from
Google Inc. and some Google customers, including  AOL Inc. (AOL) , over
patented ways to generate advertising revenue.  The companies infringed two patents owned by Vringo, a
federal jury in Norfolk,  Virginia , decided yesterday. Vringo
said it was awarded a 3.5 percent continuing royalty rate on the
patents, which expire in 2016.  Vringo claimed Google’s Adsense program, which is also used
as the advertising platform for third-party companies and AOL
Search Marketplace, infringed the patents. The company had been
seeking $493 million, before U.S. District Judge Raymond Jackson
ruled that Vringo couldn’t collect any damages that might have
occurred before the suit was filed in September 2011.  “We remain confident that the patents here are invalid,
that we did not infringe them, and that we will ultimately win
this case,” Google attorney Catherine Lacavera said in a
statement.  Google was told to pay $15.9 million, AOL $7.9 million, and
IAC Search & Media Inc. $6.6 million, according to the
Virginian-Pilot newspaper.  Target Corp. (TGT)  was told to pay $98,800
and Gannett Co. $4,000, the Norfolk-based newspaper said. The
companies all use Google’s program to display ads based on
search results.  The court dispute is over filtering technology to determine
placement of advertisements on search results. Vringo also
claimed it was entitled to royalties going as far back as 2004,
when Google first implemented its Smart Ads system.  Google, which reported revenue of $11.3 billion in the
third quarter, denied infringing the patents and argued they
were invalid.  The case is I/P Engine Inc. v. AOL Inc., 11-cv-512, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  Imagination Buys MIPS Following Patent Sale to ARM Group  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG) , a U.K. maker of chip
technology for phones and tablets, agreed to acquire the
operating business of  MIPS Technologies Inc. (MIPS)  to bolster its
roster of semiconductor designs and licenses.  Imagination will pay $60 million in cash for the business,
which also includes patents and license rights to the MIPS
patent portfolio, the Kings Langley, England-based company said
in a statement yesterday.  “We have been working closely with MIPS for several years
now and have a number of mutual customers and partners,”
Imagination Chief Executive Officer Hossein Yassaie said in the
statement. “I believe that this transaction will be welcomed by
both companies’ customers and the electronics industry.”  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  said yesterday that it’s a leading member
of a group that has agreed to pay MIPS $350 million for 580
patents and patent applications for chip designs and related
technology. MIPS, based in Sunnyvale, California, was said to
have hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to find a buyer for its
business in April, people with knowledge of the decision said at
the time.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  acted as the financial adviser to
Imagination, the bank said in a separate statement.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Hamptons Chef Tourondel Settles Lawsuit by BLT Restaurant  Celebrity chef Laurent Tourondel settled a lawsuit filed by
his former employer, BLT Restaurant Group LLC, which claimed he
violated its trademarks with his new restaurant in  New York ’s
Hamptons.  The complaint brought by BLT was dismissed because of an
agreement between the parties to end the suit, U.S. Magistrate
Judge Michael Dolinger said in a Nov. 5 filing in federal court
in New York. No details of the deal were provided.  BLT said in the complaint filed in August 2010 that
Tourondel and his partner, Michael Cinque, had opened a
restaurant, LT Burger, in the Hamptons village of Sag Harbor
that “mimics plaintiff’s well-known line of restaurants.”
Tourondel had been executive chef of BLT.  BLT claimed that menu items such as its Grandma’s Treat
milkshake had been copied by LT Burger. LT Burger also has a
restaurant in Manhattan’s Bryant Park.  The case is BLT Restaurant Group LLC v. Tourondel, 10-6488,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Wolf Appliance Says American Range Infringes Trademark  Wolf Appliance Inc., the maker of high-end ranges that cost
as much as $8,000, sued a competitor for trademark infringement
over the red knobs on Wolf stoves.  American Range Corp. of Pacoima, California, is accused of
using red knobs on its stoves that infringe Wolf’s trademark,
which it registered in 2008. Wolf said American Range has
displayed infringing ranges and range-top products at industry
trade shows and on its website.  The use of red knobs confuses the public and may cause loss
of market share and damage to Wolf’s goodwill, the Madison,
Wisconsin-based company said in its pleadings.  It asked the court to bar further infringement of its
marks, and to order American Range to destroy all infringing
products and promotional materials.  American Range didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is Wolf Appliance Inc. v. American Range Corp.,
12-cv-00800, U.S. District Court, Western District of  Wisconsin 
(Madison).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Seattle Artist Dismisses Infringement Suit Against Twitter  An artist who creates photos of  miniature figures with
life-sized food  items has dismissed a copyright-infringement
lawsuit against Twitter Inc.  Christopher Boffoli , a  Seattle  resident, sued Twitter in
federal court in Seattle Sept. 10. He said that photos in his
“Disparity Series” were copied and distributed through
Twitter’s short message service without his permission.  He claimed in court papers that even though he filed
takedown notices under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act,
Twitter failed to remove the offending images. The company did
acknowledge receiving his infringement notices, Boffoli said.  The artist said he was harmed by Twitter’s failure to act,
and asked for a court order barring further infringement and
mandating the destruction of all copies of his work made under
Twitter’s control. He also sought awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  In an Oct. 25 filing,  Boffoli  dismissed the suit. He said
Twitter never filed a response.  The Twitter listing where Boffoli said his photos were
displayed without permission now  contains the notice  that “the
image has been removed in response to a report from the
copyright holder.”  The case is Boffoli v. Twitter Inc., 12-cv-01534, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  Washington  (Seattle).  AHA Respond to SSI Group’s Suit, Files Infringement Complaint  The American Hospital Association, a Washington-based
advocacy group for the health-care industry, sued a provider of
health-care claims processing for copyright infringement.  In the suit filed Nov. 4 in federal court in  Chicago , the
AHA accused SSI Group Inc. of Mobile,  Alabama  of infringing
copyrights related to its Data Specifications Manual, which is
used to create billing forms.  According to court papers, SSI violated a license with the
AHA for use of the manual. Although SSI had an agreement that
permitted it to print hard copies of the manual, the hospital
group said that the Alabama company exceeded the terms of its
license by making unauthorized derivative works. SSI’s ClickOn
Billing software contains infringing content, AHA claimed.  The hospital group and SSI tried to resolve the issue since
May, AHA said. SSI sued in federal court in Mobile Oct. 29,
seeking a declaration it didn’t infringe the hospital group’s
copyrights.  AHA said that while it had “hoped and intended” to reach
an accord with SSI, the Alabama company’s “race to the
courthouse” gave it no choice except to file the suit.  SSI didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The case against the Alabama company is American Hospital
Association v. SSI Group Inc., 12-cv-08833, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  The case against the hospital association is SSI Group Inc.
v. American Hospital Association, 12-cv-00684, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Alabama (Mobile).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 