-- VirnetX Soars After $368.2 Million Verdict Against Apple
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-11-07T21:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/apple-told-to-pay-368-2-million-to-virnetx-in-patent-trial-1-.html
VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC)  rose the most
in more than three years after a federal jury said  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
should pay $368.2 million for infringing patents for virtual-
private-network technology.  VirnetX rose $7.32, or 28 percent, to $33.61, its biggest
one-day jump  since  July 2009. The shares are up 35 percent  this
year  as investors bet the company can garner large patent fees
from Apple and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  The company, which reported
$36,000 in revenue from royalties in the first half of this
year, has a market value of $1.7 billion.  A federal jury in Tyler,  Texas , yesterday said Apple’s
FaceTime function, used on the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad as
well as Mac computers, infringed four VirnetX patents. VirnetX
had won a $200 million settlement from Microsoft Corp. in 2010
over the same technology and has claims pending against Cisco
scheduled for trial in March.  “This victory further establishes the importance of our
patent portfolio,” VirnetX Chief Executive Officer Kendall Larsen said in a statement.  The VirnetX patents cover the use of a domain-name service
to set up virtual private networks, through which a website
owner can interact with customers in a secure way or an employee
can work at home and get access to a company’s electronic files.
VirnetX had sought $708 million in damages.  Following the verdict, Doug Cawley, a lawyer with  McKool
Smith  in  Dallas  who represents VirnetX, said the company would
seek an order to block further use of its inventions. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said yesterday the company had
no comment. Apple can ask to have the verdict thrown out and,
barring that, have the case reviewed by an appeals court in
 Washington  that specializes in U.S. patent law.  Video Calls  The focus of the trial before U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis was on Apple’s  FaceTime , which lets people use Mac
computers to make video calls to an iPhone, iPod Touch or iPad.
The Cupertino, California-based company said it used a different
technology than what was covered by the VirnetX patents.  “Apple does not owe money to VirnetX,”  Danny Williams , a
lawyer with Williams, Morgan & Amerson in Houston who represents
Apple, told the jury. “VirnetX is not entitled to money for
things they did not invent. The VirnetX technology, if used, is
a small part of very large, complex products.”  The case has received so much attention that Davis ordered
the parties on Oct. 19 to tell their investors to stop calling
the court. He said in a court filing that his office is
receiving more than 10 calls a day.  CIA Work  The technology stemmed from work performed by  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  for
the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency to develop secure
communications, VirnetX has said. VirnetX, based in Zephyr Cove,
 Nevada , was formed by former employees of SAIC, which was named
as a party in the complaint though isn’t participating.
According to VirnetX regulatory filings, McLean, Virginia-based
SAIC may be entitled to a share of any verdict or settlement.  VirnetX has a separate patent case pending against Apple at
the U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington. It also
has claims against Cisco, Avaya Inc. and Siemens Enterprise
Communications GmbH that are scheduled for trial in March.
Siemens Enterprise is a venture by  Siemens AG (SIE)  and closely held
Gores Group.  The case at trial is VirnetX Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc.,
10cv417, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Dennis Robertson in Tyler, Texas.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  