-- Argentine Judge Orders Chevron Asset Seizure, Plaintiffs
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-11-07T22:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/argentine-judge-orders-seizing-100-of-chevron-argentine-assets.html
An Argentine judge ordered the
seizure of all  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s assets in the country, according
to Enrique Bruchou, a lawyer representing Ecuadorean plaintiffs
in a lawsuit over pollution in the Amazon rain forest.  Bruchou, an Argentine attorney at Bruchou, Fernandez,
Madero & Lombardi, made the comments today in a conference call.
Civil Judge Adrian Elcuj Miranda ordered 40 percent of Chevron’s
Argentine bank accounts to be held in escrow, Bruchou said.
Miranda declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg saying
judges speak through their rulings.  The Ecuadorean plaintiffs said Oct. 31 they were asking an
Argentine court to enforce a $19 billion award against Chevron,
filing an attachment order in a Court of Justice in Buenos Aires
in line with an international treaty signed by Ecuador,
Argentina and Colombia that speeds up attachments. The
Ecuadoreans blame Texaco Inc., which Chevron acquired in 2001,
for destroying the environment in the  Lago Agrio  region,
damaging living conditions of 30,000 inhabitants. Lago Agrio was
named after Sour Lake in  Texas .  Chevron is unaware of either a filing by the plaintiffs or
a court order in Argentina, James Craig, a spokesman for the  San
Ramon , California-based company said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  “The plaintiffs’ lawyers have no legal right to embargo
subsidiary assets in Argentina and should not be allowed to
disrupt Argentina’s pursuit of its important energy resources,”
he said. “The Ecuador judgment is a product of bribery, fraud,
and it is illegitimate.”  Shale Investments  Chevron, the fourth-largest producer of oil in Argentina,
signed a memorandum of understanding on Sept. 14 with  YPF SA (YPFD) ,
Argentina’s biggest energy company, to analyze a partnership to
jointly develop projects at the shale formation of Vaca Muerta.
Alejandro Di Lazzaro, an spokesman for YPF in Buenos Aires,
declined to comment in an e-mail.  Chevron will face more attachment requests in  Europe ,  Asia 
and Oceania, Bruchou said today. Another related lawsuit was
filed by the Ecuadoreans in the Ontario Superior Court of
Justice in Toronto on May 30. Chevron Canada Ltd. will have a
hearing on the lawsuit Nov. 28.  The company on Oct. 9 lost a U.S. Supreme Court bid to
block the judgment imposed by an Ecuadorean court. The highest
U.S. court let stand a federal appeals court ruling against
Chevron that the Ecuadoreans can’t be barred from seeking to
collect the award anywhere in the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  