-- Harmony Profit Boosted by Highest Output in 10 Quarters
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-11-07T15:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/harmony-gold-posts-first-quarter-profit-as-output-jumps.html
Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) , Africa’s
third-largest producer of the metal, said first-quarter profit
jumped almost fivefold as output climbed to the highest level in
10 quarters and prices for the metal increased.  Net income rose to 522 million rand ($61 million), or 1.21
rand a share, in the three months through Sept. 30, from 107
million rand, or 25 cents, in the prior three months, the
Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today.  Along with  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ,
Harmony is trying to boost output to mitigate labor-cost and
electricity-price increases and to benefit from increasing gold
prices. Chief Executive Officer Graham Briggs plans to raise
production to 1.7 million ounces in fiscal 2016 from an
estimated 1.3 million ounces this fiscal year.  Harmony increased 6 percent, the most since May 24, to
72.31 rand by the close in Johannesburg, making it the best
performer on the city’s stock exchange after  Grand Parade
Investments Ltd. (GPL)   Production grew 8 percent to 321,924 ounces in the quarter
from three months earlier. That’s the highest in ten quarters,
finance director Frank Abbott told reporters on a call today.  Gold gained 2.5 percent to an average $1,653 an ounce
during the quarter from $1,612.73 in the prior quarter. It
wouldn’t be surprising if gold rose to $1,800 by the end of this
year, Briggs told reporters on a call. In local-currency terms,
it may increase to about 470,000 rand to 490,000 rand a
kilogram, he said. The metal traded at $1,714.03 an ounce as of
5:17 p.m. in  London .  Strike Cost  Second-quarter production will probably be similar to the
first, excluding an estimated 25,000-ounce loss from a strike at
Kusasalethu, which will affect this year’s target, Briggs said.
The cost of the strike that lasted from Oct. 2 to Oct. 25 is
estimated at about 325 million rand, Harmony said.  Pay strikes spread from South African platinum mines to
gold, coal, iron-ore, chrome and diamond operations in the past
three months. The Association of Mining and Construction Union
has a “strong” presence at Kusasalethu mine, where union
representation is being verified, Harmony said. AMCU has
challenged the dominance of the National Union of Mineworkers in
the platinum industry.  The NUM will likely remain a significant entity, Briggs
said on the media call today. The NUM is an affiliate of the
Congress of Trade Unions of South  Africa , an alliance partner of
the ruling African National Congress.  Wage Costs  Wage increases are costing the company about 10 million
rand a month more than before, Briggs said on the call. Harmony
mines about 90 percent of its metal in South Africa and is
investing in existing and new projects in Papua New Guinea.
Labor represents about half of Harmony’s costs while electricity
accounts for an average 16 percent, Briggs said.  Harmony was least affected by strikes at South Africa’s
largest producers also because the company has a different pay
structure, Briggs told investors on a call. Harmony’s basic pay
is typically lower and variables higher, so employees benefited
in the past quarter as production rose, he said.  Larger rivals AngloGold and Gold Fields had all of their
South Africa mines idled by labor stoppages last month. Most of
the operations have resumed. Only one Harmony mine had a strike.  There is a “new era” in human resources management,
Briggs told investors on a call today. “It’s not going to be
maybe as predictable as it has been in the past,” he said of
labor engagement. “Maybe having another union in the board room
isn’t necessarily a bad thing,” he said.  Tax Payment  Earnings excluding one-time items of 1.23 rand a share
compared with a loss of 6 cents in the previous quarter. The
median  estimate  of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
profit of 1.22 rand a share on this basis.  Harmony’s first-quarter earnings also improved after a
higher tax payment wasn’t repeated, Abbott said. Analysts who
cover South African gold producers measure quarter-on-quarter
performance on an earnings excluding one-time items basis.  A crusher upgrade at Hidden Valley mine in Papua New Guinea
should be completed next month and throughput could be
normalized by March, Briggs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  