-- Asian Stocks Advance, Dollar Weakens as Obama Wins Re-Election
-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2012-11-07T05:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/asia-stocks-advance-before-u-s-election-results-while-oil-slips.html
Asian stocks rose, U.S. index futures
pared losses and the dollar weakened after President  Barack Obama  won re-election. Metals prices climbed and Treasuries
headed for the biggest gain in a week.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 0.6 percent at 2:57
p.m. in Tokyo, while Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures slid
0.3 percent after earlier dropping as much as 1 percent. The
U.S. 10-year Treasury yield declined six basis points to 1.69
percent. The dollar fell against 15 of its 16 major peers and
dropped 0.3 percent against the yen. Copper rallied 0.6 percent
and gold increased for a third day.  Obama defeated Republican  Mitt Romney , according to
television network projections that show the president winning
the electoral votes needed for re-election. He will need to
address a so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in
tax increases and spending cuts that take effect in 2013 unless
Congress can reach a budget compromise. The Greek parliament
votes later today on austerity measures needed to keep the
nation’s bailout on track.  “Monetary policy will remain loose under Obama so the
dollar will be sold,” said Michiyoshi Kato, the senior vice
president of foreign-currency sales in Tokyo at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market value.
“Dollar selling may not last that long as the U.S. faces the
fiscal cliff.”  Gauges of materials, telecommunications and technology
companies led gains on MSCI’s Asian index. Nissan Motor Co., the
biggest Japanese carmaker in  China  by sales, rose 4.1 percent in
Tokyo trading after saying orders and showroom visits rebounded.  Monetary Policy  The dollar fell 0.4 percent to $1.2864 per euro, after
earlier gaining as much as 0.2 percent. It declined 0.4 percent
to 80.04 yen. Japan’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at
0.755 percent, matching the lowest level since August.  Obama, a Democrat, backs the Federal Reserve, which has
purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasuries and mortgage-related bonds
and instituted plans to purchase $40 billion of home-loan
securities a month to support the economy. Romney, a Republican,
said he wouldn’t reappoint Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke to a
third term in 2014. The U.S. plans to sell $24 billion of 10-
year notes today.  Ever since Lyndon B. Johnson defeated Barry Goldwater for
the presidency in 1964, yields on 10-year Treasuries have
dropped about 40 basis points in the first month when a Democrat
wins, and risen 19 after a Republican victory, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Metals Advance  Copper for delivery in three months increased for a second
day, advancing to $7,790 a metric ton. Zinc rose 0.8 percent and
nickel rallied 1.5 percent.  Spot gold rose 0.5 percent to $1,724.03 an ounce after the
biggest advance in more than seven weeks. The metal climbed 1.8
percent yesterday. Bullion advanced 10 percent this year and is
set for a 12th annual gain after central banks took steps to
stimulate economies hurt by  Europe ’s debt crisis. Silver and
platinum also gained.  In  Greece , Prime Minister Antonis Samaras faces a test of
his coalition government as he seeks parliamentary approval of
austerity measures to unlock bailout funds amid the third
general strike in six weeks. Approval of the legislation is the
first of the parliamentary votes required by Nov. 12 to receive
a 31 billion-euro ($40 billion) portion of international aid. A
roll-call vote is expected after 8 p.m. Athens time.  China Leadership  Oil pared losses of as much as 1 percent before trading 0.2
percent lower at $88.52 a barrel in New York. The gauge surged
3.6 percent yesterday.  China’s Communist Party will start a meeting in Beijing
tomorrow that will formally pick the next generation of the
nation’s leadership, with Xi Jinping expected to be chosen as
general secretary.  “You have the two biggest economies in the world going
through their own versions of leadership change this week so the
political cycle will still dominate,” said George Boubouras,
the Melbourne-based head of investment strategy at UBS AG’s
Australian wealth management unit. The Swiss bank has about $1.5
trillion. “The backdrop looks promising to build on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in  Tokyo  at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  