-- AT&T to Invest $14 Billion in Networks, Lifts Dividend
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-11-07T21:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/at-t-to-invest-14-billion-in-networks-lifts-dividend.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the top U.S. telephone
company, said it will invest $14 billion over three years to
improve the networks that deliver wireless communications, high-
speed Internet access and television services.  The company is devoting $8 billion to the network that
handles mobile data and calling and $6 billion to wireline
equipment, Dallas-based AT&T said today in a statement. It also
forecast that per-share earnings will rise at a mid-single digit
percentage rate in the coming three years, while lifting its
quarterly dividend by 2.3 percent to 45 cents a share.  Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  is taking steps
to help AT&T fend off phone competitors led by  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  as well as cable providers such as  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  The upgrades will help the company reach a wider customer
base, bringing the potential market for U-verse TV, Internet and
calling packages to 33 million locations.  “In today’s world, if you don’t have broadband, both
wireless and wireline, the competition will tear you to
pieces,” said  Roger Entner , an analyst at Recon Analytics LLC
in Dedham,  Massachusetts . “This is clearly designed to compete
toe-to-toe with Verizon and the cable companies. A company that
stops investing in the network is a company that starts dying.”  AT&T said its fourth-generation wireless network, which
uses long-term evolution technology, will cover 300 million
people by the end of 2014. The company expects its fiber network
to reach an additional 1 million business customers by the end
of 2015.  `Substantial Value'  “We have the opportunity to improve AT&T’s revenue growth
and cost structure for years to come and create substantial
value for share owners,” Stephenson said in the statement.  AT&T fell 3.3 percent to $33.63 at the close in  New York .
The stock has advanced 11 percent this year.  “AT&T’s announcement of billions of dollars in new
investment in wired and wireless broadband networks is proof
positive that the climate for investment and innovation in the
U.S. communications sector is healthy,” said U.S. Federal
Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski in a
statement.  Total  capital spending  will be about $22 billion for each
of the next three years, AT&T said. That topped the estimate of
as much as $20 billion by John Hodulik, an analyst at UBS AG in
New York. The spending will help boost sales growth through 2015
while holding back earnings expansion, Hodulik, who has a
neutral rating on the shares, wrote in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  