-- Tata Motors Net Misses Estimates as Europe Demand Slows
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-11-07T18:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/tata-motors-net-misses-estimates-as-europe-demand-slows.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India ’s biggest
automaker, posted profit that missed analysts’ estimates as
demand for  luxury vehicles  made by its Jaguar  Land Rover  Plc
unit slowed in Europe.  Second-quarter  net income  rose 11 percent to 20.8 billion
rupees ($384 million), from 18.8 billion rupees a year earlier,
the Mumbai-based company said in a statement yesterday. That
lagged behind the 24.3 billion-rupee median of 34  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Profit at Jaguar Land Rover
rose 77 percent to 305 million pounds ($488 million).  Jaguar deliveries declined for four straight months through
September, while sales that month at Land Rover expanded at the
slowest pace since December 2009. This may increase the pressure
on Jaguar Land Rover Chief Executive Officer Ralf Speth to
revamp Jaguar’s aging designs and boost the appeal of Land Rover
models other than the Evoque.  “In this market all the luxury carmakers are facing
pressure,” said Mitul Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst with Karvy
Stock Broking Ltd. who has a hold rating on the stock. “Going
forward, we are not positive on the sales outlook for Jaguar
Land Rover, particularly in  Europe ,  China  and the U.K.”  Tata Motors rose 0.9 percent to 269.35 rupees in Mumbai
trading yesterday. The earnings announcement was made after the
close of trading. The shares have climbed 51 percent this year,
compared with a 22 percent increase in the 30-member benchmark
BSE India Sensitive Index.  Sales Estimates  Net sales  increased 19 percent to 428.2 billion rupees in
the three months ended Sept. 30, according to the statement.
That lagged behind the 442.1 billion-rupee median of 34
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Total costs, including of materials, wages and product
development, rose 20 percent to 396.6 billion rupees, according
to the statement.  Tata Motors has said it plans to invest $12 billion in its
British luxury-vehicle unit over five years.  Jaguar Land Rover, which showed its first two-seat sports
car in almost four decades at the Paris Motor Show in September,
is targeting as much as 20 percent share of the full-size sports
car market, Steven de Ploey, the marketing head for Jaguar, said
Sept. 27. The company will also begin deliveries next year of
the new Range Rover SUV.  The unit’s deliveries increased 14 percent to 77,442
vehicles in the three months ended Sept. 30. Land Rover’s sales
rose 24 percent to 67,610 SUVs as demand for the Evoque,
introduced in September last year, surged.  Emerging Markets  Jaguar Land Rover is turning to  emerging markets  such as
China,  Russia  and  South Africa  to pursue growth. The luxury unit
received written approval from China’s main industry planner to
form a venture with Chery Automobile Co. and begin making cars
in the world’s biggest auto market, Speth said yesterday.  “We continue to see demand for our vehicles in China,”
Speth said at a press conference in Mumbai. “So we remain
cautiously optimistic that the growth will continue in future.
Producing in China will give us additional opportunities.”  The venture, to be based in the eastern city of Changshu in
Jiangsu province will have a production capacity of 130,000
vehicles annually, according to a statement posted on China’s
Ministry of Environmental Protection’s website.  Land Rover will have 160 Chinese dealerships by 2020,  John
Edwards , who heads the car brand, said in September.  Jaguar Land Rover deliveries in September fell 4.3 percent,
the first decline in sales in 14 months, as a slowing global
economy sapped demand for luxury vehicles. Sales of Jaguar
branded cars fell 49 percent to 2,808 units, the steepest
monthly drop since Tata Motors started reporting data in
December 2009. Land Rover SUV sales increased 7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  