-- Australian Dollar Climbs Versus U.S. Peer After Obama Win
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-11-07T06:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/aussie-trades-near-month-high-before-u-s-election-result.html
The Australian dollar rose against
its U.S. counterpart on speculation U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s re-election will boost prospects for monetary stimulus
by the  Federal Reserve  that tends to debase the greenback.  The so-called Aussie strengthened after Obama defeated
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney , according to television
network projections that show the president winning the
electoral votes needed for a second term. New Zealand’s currency
also reversed losses from earlier today as Asian stocks extended
an advance following the election outcome.  “The Aussie has popped in a very short-term market
reaction,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior currency
strategist at Scotiabank. With Obama poised to begin another
four-year term “the consistent approach that will be executed
by the current administration is positive. The one thing we
don’t need these days is uncertainty.”  The Australian dollar gained 0.2 percent to $1.0451 as of
4:45 p.m. in Sydney after earlier falling as much as 0.2
percent. The currency’s implied three-month volatility fell to 8
percent, the lowest since 2007.  The  New Zealand  dollar added 0.1 percent to 82.78 U.S.
cents, following an earlier decline of as much as 0.4 percent.  The yield on Australia’s 10-year note climbed one basis
point to 3.19 percent. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed
payment made to receive floating rates, fell five basis points
to 2.70 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares gained 0.6 percent.  Romney on Fed  Romney had said he disagrees with the Fed measures to
stimulate the economy and would replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke at the end of his term in January 2014.  In New Zealand, the central bank said in its half-yearly
Financial Stability Report released today that “a period of
further strength remains possible” for the local dollar.  “It’s hard at this point to see any factor that would lead
to a major depreciation in the  exchange rate  in the short
term,” Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler told
parliament’s finance select committee today.  The New Zealand dollar has risen 5 percent this year, the
best performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Its
Australian counterpart has gained 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  