-- Australia Appoints Former Judge to Head Review of Cycling Body
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-07T04:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/australia-appoints-former-judge-to-head-review-of-cycling-body.html
A review of  Cycling Australia , which
lost two officials last month after they admitted to doping
during their racing careers, will be headed by retired chief
judge James Wood.  The examination is necessary to “ensure the confidence and
trust of the Australian public is restored” in the sport’s
national governing body, Australian Sports Minister Kate Lundy
said in a statement on her  website  announcing Wood’s appointment.  “I would like to see a tight time-frame, four to six weeks,
for this review,” Lundy told reporters today in  Melbourne . “I
would be very keen to see the recommendations before
Christmas.”  Matt White, Cycling Australia’s national men’s road team
coordinator, was fired on Oct. 17 after he admitted to taking
performance-enhancing drugs when riding on  Lance Armstrong ’s U.S.
Postal Service team in the early 2000s. Stephen Hodge, a vice-
president of the governing body, resigned two days later saying
he had doped during a career that ended in 1996.  Wood will examine Cycling Australia’s governance and
administration, including its recruitment, employment and
appointment practices, Lundy said. It will also analyze the
organization’s anti-doping policies and recommend any
improvement that should be made.  The government will refer any recommendations to the
Australian Sports Commission and the Australian Sports Anti-
Doping Authority with a view to developing policies and
guidelines across all sports in the country.  “It is important that we see this review as an opportunity
to improve governance and anti-doping practices across the
board,” Lundy said in the statement.  White also was fired on Nov. 1 as sport director of Orica-
GreenEDGE,  Australia ’s only professional cycling team. His
doping admission came after he was mentioned in the U.S. Anti-
Doping Agency’s report that resulted in Armstrong being stripped
of all seven of his Tour de France victories. The International
Cycling Union, or UCI, endorsed the decision on Oct. 22.  Armstrong, who has denied doping and said he never failed a
drug test, declined to take the USADA case to arbitration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at +61-2-9777-8682 or
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  