-- Australia Promotes Carbon Market With First Trading Licenses
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-11-07T08:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/australia-promotes-carbon-market-with-first-trading-licenses.html
Australia ’s Securities and
Investments Commission granted the first 11 licenses to trade
emission permits in Australia, a sign that a carbon market is
taking shape despite a political threat to end the program.  “A market is beginning to develop, premised on the steady
flow of issuance of carbon units,” Craig McBurnie, a senior
specialist for the commission, said today at the Carbon Expo in
 Melbourne .  Australia began charging about 300 of its largest emitters
a price of A$23 ($24) a metric ton for their greenhouse gas
emissions on July 1. While the nation already has started to
issue permits under a provision to give them at no cost to
companies that can show they are exposed to global competition,
Australia’s cap-and-trade system isn’t scheduled to start until
2015, and the program’s future is in doubt because the Liberal
party has pledged to discontinue it if it wins elections set for
next year.  The investments commission has received 122 applications
for Australian Financial Services Licenses from parties planning
to trade emission permits and credits, McBurnie said. Applicants
include 37 entities that have never had a so-called AFSL before,
and 74 from firms that want to extend their licenses to include
emission allowances, he said. Any party that trades carbon units
or gives advice on such transaction will require an AFSL
starting in 2013.  “We are genuinely predisposed to be as generous as we
can,” McBurnie said. The commission expects to favor applicants
that can demonstrate a history of carbon trading and consulting,
and it may recognize trading experience in nations including the
U.K.,  Singapore , Hong Kong and New Zealand, he said.  Australia will be the only nation to classify spot sales of
carbon allowances as a financial product, McBurnie said. The
country opted for strict rules to discourage the kind of fraud
that tainted trading in markets including the European Union,
which runs the world’s biggest carbon markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Anderson in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  