-- LBBW Reiterates Full-Year Target as Nine-Month Profit Rises 15%
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-11-07T11:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/lbbw-reiterates-full-year-target-as-nine-month-profit-rises-15-.html
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg,
 Germany ’s biggest state-owned lender, reiterated its forecast
for higher profit this year after earnings rose 15 percent in
the first nine months.  Net income climbed to 281 million euros ($361 million) from
245 million euros a year earlier, LBBW said in a  statement 
today. The company set aside 153 million euros in provisions for
risky loans after a release of 7 million euros a year ago.  The lender repeated that 2012 net income should be higher
than the 87 million euros of profit posted last year.  LBBW, led by Chief Executive Officer Hans-Joerg Vetter,
 sold  its stakes in German insurers  Wuestenrot &
Wuerttembergische AG (WUW)  and SV SparkassenVersicherung Holding AG in
the last two months as part of a restructuring agreement with
the  European Commission .  The lender returned to full-year profit in 2011 as lower
provisions for risky loans helped snap three years of losses.
The firm is cutting about 2,500 jobs by 2013 and agreed earlier
this year to sell its LBBW Immobilien real estate unit as part
of the restructuring agreement.  LBBW’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of capital strength,
improved to 14.9 percent by Sept. 30 from 12.9 percent at the
end of 2011, the Stuttgart, Germany-based company said.  The bank also plans to convert its  owners ’ silent-partner
contributions into common equity Tier 1 capital and further
reduce risk assets “to ensure adequate capitalization in
accordance with the more stringent future requirements,” LBBW
said.  As part of the conversion plan, the savings banks in Baden-
Wuerttemberg are the first of the three owners to have agreed to
this conversion, LBBW said. The lender said it’s “currently in
good and constructive negotiations” with the state of Baden-
Wuerttemberg and the city of Stuttgart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  