-- Berlin's KaDeWe Department Store Said to Be Put on Market
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-11-07T17:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/berlin-s-kadewe-department-store-said-to-be-put-on-market.html
KaDeWe, continental  Europe ’s largest
department store, was put up for sale by a group of owners that
includes  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Berlin building, which opened in 1907, is valued at
about 500 million euros ($638 million), one of the people said.
They both asked not to be named because the information is
private.  KaDeWe, or Kaufhaus des Westens, is owned by the Highstreet
partnership made up of Goldman Sachs’ Whitehall Street Real
Estate Funds, Deutsche Bank’s RREEF Real Estate,  Prelios SpA (PRS)  and
Generali Real Estate Fund SA. Richard Speich, a spokesman for
Highstreet, declined to comment.  The building is likely to attract investors seeking to
profit from Berlin’s retail property boom. Rents for Berlin’s
prime retail space was 270 euros a square meter in October, 13
percent higher than a year earlier, according to data compiled
by broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  That’s the strongest gain of
any German city.  Only the KaDeWe building is for sale, one of the people
said. The retail business inside belongs to the Karstadt
Warenhaus GmbH chain and is owned by Nicolas Berggruen Holdings
GmbH.  Jones Lang and BNP Paribas Real Estate have been hired to
manage the sale, the people said.  The KaDeWe building, a West Berlin landmark close to the
Kurfuerstendamm shopping boulevard, was designed by Johann Emil
Schaudt. The store was destroyed during World War II when a U.S.
bomber plane flew into it, sparking a fire that almost burned
the building to the ground, according to its website. KaDeWe
reopened in 1950 and had its biggest gains after the collapse of
the  Berlin Wall  in 1989, the website says. It now has more than
60,000 square meters (646,000 square feet) of retail space.  Immobilien Zeitung reported the news yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  