-- Bharti Net Falls on Increased Competition, Network Costs
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-11-07T13:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/bharti-profit-falls-on-increased-marketing-network-costs.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, reported a drop in profit as rising
network costs and call-rate reductions in the world’s second-
largest wireless market squeezed margins.  Second-quarter  net income  fell 30 percent to 7.21 billion
rupees ($133 million) in the three months ended Sept. 30, from
10.30 billion rupees a year earlier, New Delhi-based Bharti said
today. That compared with the 7.27 billion-rupee median of 18
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 17
percent to 202.7 billion rupees, beating the 195.5 billion-rupee
median of analysts’ estimates.  Bharti joined rival  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  in cutting call and
data rates this year after a price war sparked by the entry of
operators including  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  into India
drove voice-call charges as low as a penny a minute. The
wireless carrier controlled by billionaire Sunil Mittal also saw
an increase in costs as it expanded its networks in India and
Africa, and spent more on marketing and advertising.  “In terms of operating performance, it could be the
beginning of a turnaround for Bharti,” said Naveen Kulkarni, an
analyst at MF Global Global Sify Securities India Pvt. in
Mumbai, who rates the stock sell. “The revenue beat is
primarily on account of the slowdown in minutes being less than
expected in India, and Africa has done reasonably well.”  Minutes on Network  Shares of Bharti fell 1 percent to 271.10 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai. The stock has slumped 21 percent
this year making it the  biggest loser  on the benchmark Sensitive
Index, which has climbed 22 percent.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, or EBITDA, rose 9 percent to 63.5 billion rupees
from 58.2 billion rupees a year earlier. EBITDA  margin  fell to
31.3 percent last quarter from 33.7 percent in the year-earlier
period.  Minutes that customers spent talking on Bharti’s network in
India rose to 234 billion in the second quarter, from 217
billion a year earlier, according to the company’s quarterly
report. Minutes in  Africa  grew to 23.6 billion from 18 billion.  Voice average revenue per user in India fell to 148 rupees
from 153 rupees last year, and declined in Africa to $5.50 from
$6.50 last year.  Bharti,  32.3 percent  owned by  Singapore Telecommunications
Ltd. (ST) , is focused on leading the market development through
network and distribution expansion, and affordable pricing amid
“intensified competitive pressures,” it said in a statement.  Margin Correction  The company, which spent 156 billion rupees at auctions of
airwaves in 2010 to introduce faster wireless services, started
amortizing last year the spectrum costs and interest on
borrowings to make that payment. Bharti is also expanding in
 Kenya  and other countries with its purchase of the African
assets of  Kuwait ’s  Mobile Telecommunications Co. (ZAIN)  to offset
slowing growth at home.  “There’s been a substantial margin correction because of a
rise in network spending and sales and general costs” including
that of marketing, Ankur Rudra, an analyst at Ambit Capital Pvt.
in Mumbai, said before the earnings announcement. “It’s also
partly because of tariff competition, primarily led by the
larger companies.”  Bharti’s debt exceeded cash and cash equivalents by 668
billion rupees as of Sept. 30, up from 644 billion rupees a year
earlier, the company said in its quarterly report.  Depreciation of license investments and amortization of
interest on its loans increased to 38.6 billion rupees from 31.8
billion rupees a year earlier.  Operating expenditure, including network operation costs,
selling, general and administrative costs, employee costs, and
cost of goods sold, rose 21 percent to 93.3 billion rupees from
76.8 billion rupees a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  