-- BlackBerry 10 Phones Will Be ‘DOA,’ Analyst Says
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-11-07T21:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/blackberry-10-phones-will-be-doa-analyst-says.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  fell the most
since June after Pacific Crest Securities said the company’s new
BlackBerry 10 operating system, the linchpin of its comeback
plan, may be dead on arrival.  “We believe BB10 is likely to be DOA,”  James Faucette , a
Pacific Crest analyst in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in a report. He
has the equivalent of a sell rating on the shares. “We expect
the new OS to be met with a lukewarm response at best and
ultimately likely to fail.”  RIM is counting on BB10, a new operating system that lets
users “peek” at one program with their finger while running
another, to restore market share it has lost to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. RIM
shares had rallied last week after the company said wireless
carriers had begun lab-testing BB10 phones worldwide, a sign the
devices are on track for delivery early next year.  RIM shares  fell 9.1 percent to $8.24 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since June 29 and the first loss in
six trading days.  RIM shares had climbed 27 percent through yesterday since
Sept. 27, the day it reported a narrower second-quarter loss
than analysts estimated, with an increase in cash reserves and
growth in its customer base. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index has
lost 1.3 percent in the same span.  Analyst Upgrades  The quarterly report prompted analysts including Cormark
Securities’ Richard Tse and Scotia Capital’s Gus Papageorgiou to
raise their ratings on the stock. Paradigm Capital today resumed
coverage of RIM with a buy rating and a price target of $14.  “The company has significantly improved its ability to
attract developers to build apps for the BB10 ecosystem, which
we view as a key catalyst for success,” Paradigm Capital’s
Gabriel Leung wrote in a note published today.  Pacific Crest’s Faucette remains bearish. Phones with the
software, due in the first quarter of 2013, will struggle to
attract buyers because of an unfamiliar user interface, a lack
of compatible technology and few software applications, he said.
Any opportunity for a sale of all or part of the company may
have passed, he said.  RIM hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and RBC Capital Markets in
May to help explore its strategic options. Chief Executive
Officer Thorsten Heins told analysts in September that he’s met
with CEOs at various organizations over the past several months
to discuss BB10 licensing and partnerships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  