-- BNP Paribas Third-Quarter Net Doubles on Trading Gains
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-11-07T08:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/bnp-paribas-third-quarter-net-more-than-doubles-on-trading-gains.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
bank, said third-quarter profit more than doubled after it
posted higher revenue at the investment-banking unit.  The shares rose after the Paris-based company reported net
income climbed to 1.32 billion euros ($1.7 billion) from 541
million euros a year earlier. That exceeded the 1.06 billion-
euro average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BNP Paribas, led by Chief Executive Officer Jean-Laurent Bonnafe, has reached higher capital levels under new Basel III
rules than rivals including Germany’s  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as
European lenders cut assets and reduce corporate- and
investment-banking jobs. The French firm, among banks hurt last
year by a liquidity crunch and losses on Greek sovereign debt,
plans to expand services to affluent U.S. clients and to
corporate- and investment-banking clients in  Asia .  “We are well positioned to redevelop and benefit from
geographies or businesses that are growing,” Bonnafe, 51, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  BNP Paribas rose 4 percent to 40.69 euros at 9:05 a.m. in
Paris trading, the biggest gain in three weeks. That gives the
company a market value of 51 billion euros.  Pretax  profit  at BNP Paribas’s corporate- and investment-
banking unit, or CIB, rose 7.3 percent to 732 million euros,
beating analysts’ estimate of 686 million euros. Revenue from
equity and advisory operations climbed 51 percent to 444 million
euros, while fixed-income sales more than doubled to 1.13
billion euros.  “We saw quite a strong rebound” in capital-markets
revenue, Bonnafe said. “We rely very much on the global trend
of market businesses of course, but for the time being there is
no reason to believe it’s going to be that different.”  Greek Writedown  The bank, which took 3.2 billion euros in writedowns on
Greek government debt in 2011, has rushed to cut its sovereign
debt holdings in most European countries since mid-2011 to help
protect capital levels.  BNP Paribas was among three French lenders whose credit
rating was cut by  Standard & Poor’s  last month on concern it may
be hurt by  Europe ’s protracted economic weakness and a potential
housing slump in France. BNP Paribas, Cofidis and Banque Solfea
were downgraded by S&P as “these groups are more vulnerable to
the impact of rising economic risks in the  euro zone ,
particularly in France and countries in southern Europe,” the
ratings company said on Oct. 26.  French banks also face “potentially limited, but still
noteworthy, impact from an ongoing correction in the housing
market,” S&P said last month. The ratings company revised its
outlook to negative from stable for BNP Paribas and 10 other
French lenders, including  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s second and third largest by market value,
respectively.  Funding Stabilizing  S&P’s move came as France’s largest banks have found their
funding situation stabilizing, thanks to 1 trillion euros in
long-term loans by the  European Central Bank  and ECB President
 Mario Draghi ’s agreement in September to buy the bonds, under
some conditions, of euro nations whose sovereign yields have
soared.  “The French real-estate market is very, very solid, I can
tell you,” Bonnafe said. “Europe as a whole has been slowing
down, so this is just the same for France.”  French banks, the biggest foreign holders of private and
public debt in the euro-area’s problem economies, are benefiting
from the ECB’s moves as the crisis enters its fourth year.  BNP Paribas has  gained  34 percent this year in Paris
trading, while  Societe Generale  has risen 51 percent in 2012.
Credit Agricole has increased about 41 percent.  Asset Disposals  Both BNP Paribas and  Credit Agricole  operate Italian branch
networks. French banks held $540 billion in private and public
debt in Greece, Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain  at the end of
June, Bank for International Settlements data show.  BNP Paribas last year joined Societe Generale and Credit
Agricole in shrinking balance sheets and slashing sovereign debt
holdings. The lender has boosted its capital level with retained
earnings and asset disposals.  The company began trimming its balance sheet last year as
 capital requirements  and funding costs increased. The bank at
the end of September reached a target of 45 billion euros in
risk-weighted asset cuts at the CIB division. The French firm
also has achieved 90 percent of its planned job reductions at
the unit.  Consumer Banking  “There is absolutely no plan to go further in
deleveraging,” Bonnafe said. BNP Paribas’s core Tier 1 ratio
under Basel III reached 9.5 percent at the end of September,
exceeding the bank’s goal.  Securities firms in the U.S. and Europe have posted gains
in revenue since Draghi’s July pledge to defend the euro with
“whatever it takes” sparked a rally in bond markets. Deutsche
Bank last week posted an increase in third-quarter profit as
revenue from trading bonds and other products jumped 67 percent.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  last month said its fixed-income,
currencies and commodities revenue climbed 28 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier.  BNP’s total retail-banking pretax  profit  was 1.71 billion
euros in the third quarter, 8.8 percent higher than last year,
the bank said. Earnings at the French branch network rose to 525
million euros from 487 million euros a year earlier and Belgian
 consumer-banking  pretax profit gained 8.5 percent to 192 million
euros.  The lender’s Italian retail-banking network, Banca
Nazionale del Lavoro, had third-quarter pretax earnings of 141
million euros, down 6.6 percent from a year earlier, beating
analysts’ estimates for 109 million euros.  BNP Paribas sees “no question, no issue” with its parent
funding to Rome-based BNL, Bonnafe said. The company’s funding
to BNL will “obviously” fall to below 10 billion euros by
year’s end, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  