-- Boosting China Military Ties Australian Priority, Carr Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   Z e b   E c k e r t
-- 2012-11-07T02:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/boosting-china-military-ties-a-priority-for-australia-carr-says.html
Australian Foreign Minister Bob Carr
said the government is seeking to boost military and political
ties with  China  even as his nation deepens its defense
relationship with the U.S.  “We want more military to military co-operation with the
Chinese,” Carr said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
in Kuala Lumpur today. “We’re interested in spreading the
relationship beyond the economic.”  Australia is cementing relations with the world’s two
biggest economies, with the U.S. its main military ally for more
than 60 years and China its biggest trading partner. The U.S. is
increasing its military presence in the Asia-Pacific region and
deploying 2,500 Marines in northern Australia as China’s power
grows.  “The Chinese are entitled to modernize and upgrade their
military in response to their economic development,” Carr said.
“So too is Australia entitled to nurture its treaty
relationship with the U.S. I think the Chinese fundamentally
understand that.”  China, fueled by its appetite for  iron ore  and coking coal,
has surpassed Japan and the U.S. as the biggest buyer of
Australian exports. Growth in the world’s most populous nation
slowed to the weakest pace since 2009 in the third quarter.  Leadership Decisions  Australia is seeking “more regular, more systematic
contact” with China’s leaders, Carr said. “We’ve put a
proposition to the Chinese, which they need to think through
especially as they’re focused in these months on the leadership
transition.”  China’s Communist Party starts its 18th Congress in Beijing
tomorrow, when 2,2370 delegates will begin meeting over several
days to decide on changes to the organization’s top leadership,
which will probably see  Xi Jinping  replace  Hu Jintao  as general
secretary of the party that’s ruled China since 1949.  The two nations have a fundamentally sound relationship,
with Australia encouraging Chinese investment in its resources
and agricultural industries, he said.  Carr will attend talks in Perth on Nov. 14 with his Defense
Minister  Stephen Smith  and U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary
Clinton  and Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta . The discussions
aren’t likely to focus on security issues, he said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Zeb Eckert in Hong Kong at 
 zeckert1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  