-- Brazil Annual Inflation Quickens to Fastest in Eight Months
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-11-07T12:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/brazil-annual-inflation-quickens-to-fastest-in-eight-months-2-.html
Brazil ’s  consumer prices  in October
rose at the fastest yearly pace since February, as a food supply
shock continues to ripple through the largest emerging market
after  China .  Prices as measured by the IPCA index rose 5.45 percent in
the 12 months through October, the national statistics agency
said today in Rio de Janeiro. The median estimate from 37
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 5.44 percent increase.
Monthly  inflation  quickened to 0.59 percent from 0.57 percent in
September. Prices for food and beverages rose 1.36 percent in
October, the fastest monthly pace since November 2010.  “We’re at the end of the supply shock curve when you talk
about consumer prices,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at
Gradual Investimentos, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “It seems
to have reached the peak right now in October, perhaps November,
but it’s quite clear that it won’t be a problem anymore.”  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration has extended tax
cuts for consumer and industrial goods, cut bank reserve
requirements to boost lending and pressured banks to reduce
spreads in order to spur demand. The central bank has cut its
benchmark lending rate since August 2011 by  525 basis points ,
the most among the Group of 20 nations, to a record 7.25
percent.  Recent indicators show the stimulus measures haven’t gained
traction in all sectors of the economy. Brazil’s industrial
output in September fell 1 percent from August, the first
decline in four months. Consumer default rates in September
remained at the highest level since November 2009, as indebted
consumers struggle to keep up with payments.  Price Stability  The central bank will continue to pursue its inflation
target and focus on price stability, Carlos Hamilton, the bank’s
head of economic policy, said on Oct. 31. The pace of price
increases is unlikely to converge to target until the third
quarter of 2013 due to a spike in food prices, he said in
September. The bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or
minus two percentage points.  A majority of the central bank’s monetary policy committee
members voted in October to cut the benchmark Selic rate. Those
voting in favor argued that uncertainty remained regarding the
economy’s recovery due to global economic fragility and its
local disinflationary effect, and that price pressures were the
result of short-term supply shocks, according to minutes from
the meeting.  Target Change  “Apparently for the moment we have changed from an
inflation target regime to an economic activity target regime,”
 Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Banco Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said by phone from Sao Paulo on Nov. 6. “We
don’t believe that is wrong, but you should at least warn people
that your focus has changed, and it has not been the case in
terms of the central bank.”  Economists cut their 2012 inflation forecasts for the first
time since July, to 5.44 percent, according to the median
estimate in the latest central bank survey of about 100
analysts. The economists maintained their forecasts of 1.54
percent gross domestic product growth this year and 4 percent
expansion in 2013.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.81 percent at
10:09 a.m. local time. The real was little changed at 2.0325 per
U.S. dollar.  Food Prices  Higher food prices in October were led by manioc flour and
rice, which increased 18.2 percent and 9.9 percent,
respectively.  Prices in October as measured by the IGP-DI index, which is
60 percent weighted to the wholesale sector, fell 0.3 percent
over September, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said today.
Producer prices fell 0.7 percent, led by a 1.9 percent drop in
raw materials and 1.3 percent fall in agricultural production.  “That figure suggests inflation relief is on the way,”
 Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA,
said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “That could bring help for
interest rates not to increase in 2013.”  Decreases in agricultural and raw materials prices will not
carry through to consumer food prices until mid-November or
December,  Pedro Tuesta , senior Latin America economist at 4Cast
Inc., said by phone from  Washington .  Apparel  October registered a 1.1 percent increase in apparel,
according to the IPCA index. The acceleration was due to a
seasonal move associated with new clothing lines hitting stores
before Brazil’s summer,  Roberto Padovani , the chief economist at
Votorantim Ctvm Ltda., said.  Rousseff in September announced new electricity concession
rules that will lower revenue and the power rates charged as
part of a package that aims to cut electricity costs by as much
as 28 percent. This should have a disinflationary effect of some
60 basis points next year, 4Cast’s Tuesta said.  The country’s near-record low unemployment level has helped
to boost wages that continue to put inflationary pressure on the
services sector,  Espirito Santo (BES) ’s Santos said. Services
inflation accelerated 0.6 percent in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  