-- Brazil Swap Rates Decline as Price Index Falls; Real Weakens
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-11-07T17:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/brazil-swap-rates-drop-as-price-index-falls-real-little-changed.html
Brazil swap rates dropped to a record
low after an index that is weighted mostly in producer prices
fell more than economists forecast, reducing speculation that
the central bank will raise borrowing costs.  Rates on contracts due in January 2014 fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.32 percent at 3:23 p.m. in
Sao Paulo, matching a record low reached on Nov 5. The real
depreciated 0.1 percent to 2.0343 per dollar.  The Getulio Vargas Foundation’s IGP-DI price index
decreased twice as fast as analysts forecast in October from a
month earlier, led by a 0.68 percent drop in producer prices.
The index is composed of 60 percent wholesale prices, 30 percent
consumer prices and 10 percent construction costs.  “What is deepening the fall in swap rates today is the
IGP-DI results, which showed deflation in agricultural and
industrial prices,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at
Banco WestLB do Brasil, said in a phone interview.  The IGP-DI decreased 0.31 percent in October from a month
earlier, compared with the median forecast of a 0.15 percent
slide among 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Keeping borrowing costs at record lows for a “prolonged
time” is still the best strategy to ensure inflation will slow
to target in the third quarter of 2013, central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said in an interview at his office in Brasilia
today.  The central bank has cut its benchmark lending rate by 525
basis points since August 2011, the most among the Group of 20
nations, to a record 7.25 percent. Policy makers target
inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  IPCA Index  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA index increased
0.59 percent in October from a month earlier, the national
statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro , in line with the
0.58 percent median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Annual inflation accelerated to 5.45 percent, from 5.28 percent
the month before.  The central bank will continue to pursue its 4.5 percent
inflation target and focus on  price stability , Carlos Hamilton,
the bank’s head of economic policy, said Oct. 31. The pace of
price increases is unlikely to converge to the target until the
third quarter of 2013 because of a spike in food prices, he said
in September.  IGP prices will accelerate again in the next few readings
as agricultural costs increase and food prices show smaller
declines, Octavio de Barros, an economist at  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,
said in an e-mailed note to clients today.  Stimulus Measures  President  Dilma Rousseff  ’s administration has extended tax
cuts for consumer and industrial goods, cut bank reserve
requirements to boost lending and pressured banks to reduce
borrowing costs to spur demand.  Recent data show the stimulus hasn’t gained traction in all
sectors of the economy. Industrial output in September fell 1
percent from August, the first decline in four months. Consumer
default rates in September remained at the highest level since
November 2009.  Economists cut their 2012 inflation forecasts for the first
time since July, to 5.44 percent, according to the median
estimate in a central bank survey of about 100 analysts
published Nov. 5. They maintained forecasts of 1.54 percent
gross domestic product growth this year and 4 percent expansion
in 2013.  Brazilian swaps traders have been overestimating how soon
the central bank will reverse course and raise borrowing costs,
Paulo Leme, the chief of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s offices in
the country, said Oct. 26. Policy makers are likely to keep the
benchmark rate unchanged through the end of 2013, Leme said in a
speech at a Brazilian pension fund conference in  Sao Paulo .  The central bank will raise the benchmark Selic rate by 25
basis points as soon as May, trading in swap rates show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  