-- Brenntag Pares Top End Hopes for Profit as Economies Weaken
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-07T08:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/brenntag-pares-top-end-hopes-for-profit-as-economies-weaken.html
Brenntag AG (BNR) , the chemical distributor
aspiring to join  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index, pared the top-
end of its forecast for 2012 profit as economies weaken and
third-quarter earnings came in below analsyts’ estimates.  Brenntag now expects earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation, amortization and transaction costs of 705 million
euros ($907 million) to 725 million euros, the Muelheim an der
Ruhr, Germany-based company said today in a statement.
Previously the chemical distributor had predicted as much as 735
million euros.  “Brenntag currently does not expect a positive lift in
demand over the remainder of the year,” the company said in
today’s statement.  Deteriorating economies in  Europe  are clipping Brenntag’s
growth rate in its home region. Chief Executive Officer Steven Holland is responding by driving expansion in  China  and other
 emerging markets , where growth remains more resilient as
manufacturers seek more flexibility in purchasing raw materials.
Last year’s purchase of Zhong Yung Group lifted Asian earnings.  Third-quarter Ebitda rose 1.9 percent to 167.7 million
euros, missing a 184.7 million-euro analyst estimate. Sales
gained 12 percent to 2.47 billion euros, compared with a 2.42
billion-euro prediction, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The German company set aside 10 million euros to settle a
potential fine from the French competition authority, which is
investigating whether it breached trading rules from 1997 to
2007, Brenntag said in its quarterly report. Regulators have yet
to make a final decision, spokesman Hubertus Spethmann said
today by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  