-- Brink’s 41% Premium Seen in Deal Assent: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-11-07T22:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/brink-s-41-premium-seen-in-deal-assent-real-m-a.html
Brink’s Co. (BCO) , which uses armored cars
to transport gold bullion, would stand to boost the lowest
valuation in the security-services industry by heeding a
shareholder’s call for a sale.  Shamrock Holdings Inc. urged the board in a letter last
week to explore options, including seeking a buyer, to “address
meaningfully Brink’s continuing underperformance.” After its
stock lagged behind peers in the past 12 months, the Richmond,
Virginia-based  company traded  yesterday at 5 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the
cheapest among its closest competitors, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s low valuation makes it ripe for a takeover,
according to Bernzott Capital Advisors, and Cubic Asset
Management LLC said its cash generation also could lure private-
equity firms. While the fallout from the global financial crisis
has hampered profit, Brink’s is also opening more vaults to
capitalize on investors buying gold and precious metals.
Shamrock said a sale may fetch $40 a share -- 41 percent more
than yesterday’s close -- from a security firm looking to expand
in the U.S. or bolster its position in  Europe  and  Latin America .  “As a standalone business, it isn’t going anywhere,” said
Kevin Bernzott, chairman and chief executive officer of
Camarillo, California-based Bernzott Capital, which oversees
about $400 million including Brink’s shares. “Management is
doing a good job of controlling costs in a difficult
environment, but there just doesn’t seem to be a catalyst that
is going to unlock the value that we think is there,” he said
in a telephone interview.  ‘Due Course’  Brink’s said in a filing this week that its board will
review Shamrock’s letter “in due course.” Ed Cunningham, a
spokesman for the company, declined to comment on Shamrock’s
recommendations or whether it would be open to a sale.  Clifford Miller, a spokesman for Burbank, California-based
Shamrock, didn’t return messages and e-mails seeking comment
about its intentions regarding Brink’s. Shamrock didn’t disclose
the size of its Brink’s stake in filings.  Founded  in 1859, Brink’s provides armored transportation
for transferring cash and valuables to banks, government
agencies and retailers worldwide. It also manages automated
teller machines, processes checks and guards warehouses, among
other services.  The $1.3 billion company serves customers in more than 100
countries and generated the majority of its $3.89 billion in
revenue last year outside the U.S., according to its annual
earnings filing. Brink’s, which spun off its home-security unit
in 2008, has seen its operating margin shrink every year since
the split, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shamrock Letter  On Nov. 2, Stanley Gold, president of Shamrock -- the
investment vehicle founded by Roy E. Disney, the nephew of  Walt Disney  -- wrote to Brink’s board, asking the company to explore
options including a sale after the stock trailed peers.  “We do not believe this management continuing to operate
under the supervision of this board could come close to
approaching the shareholder value that can be obtained in a
sale,” Gold wrote.  Brink’s  stock fell  4.5 percent during the 12 months ended
Nov. 2, while shares gained for its four closest competitors --
 Loomis AB (LOOMB) ,  G4S (GFS)  Plc, Prosegur Cia de Seguridad SA and Garda World
Security Corp., as cited in its annual filing. Since the letter
was disclosed two days ago, the stock has climbed almost 8
percent.  Low Valuation  At yesterday’s closing price of $28.29, Brink’s was valued
at 5 times trailing 12-month Ebitda, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg that includes net debt. That’s lower than its main
rivals, and also the cheapest valuation among 13 U.S.
commercial-services firms with market capitalizations of more
than $500 million, the data show.  Today, Brink’s fell 3.7 percent to $27.25.  Shamrock’s Gold estimated that Brink’s could be worth about
$40 a share in a takeover. That price is based on the valuation
for the planned $1.1 billion buyout of Montreal-based Garda by
its founder and private-equity firm Apax Partners LLP. The offer
for Garda, announced in September, was a 30 percent premium to
the company’s closing price the day before the offer and valued
it at 7.6 times Ebitda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dan Miller  of Rye, New York-based Gabelli & Co., which
oversees about $37 billion, said a $40-a-share valuation for
Brink’s is “on point.”  Brink’s “is a great global brand,” said Miller, manager
of Gabelli’s  Focus Five Fund (GWSVX) , which holds Brink’s shares. “It’s
just a very interesting story.”  ‘Bite-Sized’  Miller said the company could lure interest from strategic
buyers including U.K.-based security provider G4S, which could
see an acquisition of Brink’s as a way to gain a foothold in
Latin American markets.  “I would think that G4S would want to be a much larger
player in those markets and Brink’s would be a very easy,
logical entry point,” he said in a phone interview. Brink’s is
“absolutely an attractive, kind of bite-sized acquisition.”  Representatives from G4S, which has a market value of 3.8
billion pounds ($6.1 billion) didn’t return a message or e-mail
sent after normal business hours seeking comment on whether the
company would be interested in buying Brink’s.  Shamrock’s prodding for an exploration of strategic options
could also spark bids from private-equity firms, which could be
attracted to the company’s  cash flow  generation as well as its
low valuation relative to its Ebitda, said Jim Kaplan, president
of Cubic Asset Management, which oversees about $400 million,
including Brink’s shares.  Attention-Getter  Brink’s generated $50.8 million in  free cash flow  last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The letter from Shamrock “will get people’s attention,”
Kaplan, who estimates Brink’s could fetch $35 a share in a
takeover, said in a phone interview from  Boston . “It’s a
reasonably good free-cash-flow generator.”  While Brink’s management, led by CEO Thomas Schievelbein,
is working to boost margins and the stock price by closing
branches and trimming headcount, a sale “would certainly be the
most expedited route” for unlocking  shareholder value ,
according to Bill Weber, an analyst and  money manager  at
Philadelphia-based Cooke & Bieler LP. The firm oversees about
$4.6 billion, including Brink’s shares.  Brink’s  operating margin  of 4 percent in the last 12 months
was the lowest among its closest peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Any buyer of Brink’s would have to take on unfunded
 obligations , including $306 million in U.S. pension liabilities
and $261 million in United Mine Workers of America benefit
obligations, according to the company’s August investor
 presentation .  Manageable Deal  Even with obligations at almost half the company’s market
value, a takeover would be manageable for a larger competitor or
a private-equity firm, according to Cooke & Bieler’s Weber.  Tom Schindler, a Columbus, Ohio-based money manager at
Diamond Hill Capital Management Inc. which oversees about $9.3
billion including Brink’s shares, said he’s open to a sale,
given the potential for a takeover premium of as much as 41
percent.  “I certainly would be amenable to exploring strategic
options, including hiring an investment bank to do something
along the lines of an auction,” Schindler said in a phone
interview. “In other words, take the bird in the hand rather
than only the potential for management to make the
improvements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  