-- Broadway Weekly Sales Drop by a Third Amid Cancellations
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/broadway-weekly-sales-drop-by-a-third-amid-cancellations.html
Broadway ticket sales last week fell
by more than a third from the week before, as regional blackouts
and transportation paralysis forced theater owners to cancel
performances.  Broadway sold $13.6 million of tickets in the week ending
Sunday, down from $20 million the previous week and $21.2
million a year ago. The grosses were the first full week
reported by the trade association the  Broadway League  since
 Hurricane Sandy  clobbered the New York area.  Some shows failed to sell enough tickets to cover their
weekly operating expenses. “ Peter and the Starcatcher ”
reported receipts of $185,508 for seven performances, down 43
percent. A preliminary production budget obtained by Bloomberg
estimated the show’s weekly operating expenses to be $264,000.  “Cyrano de Bergerac,” “Grace,” “Nice Work if You Can
Get It” and “ Scandalous ” -- a musical in previews co-written
by Kathie Lee Gifford -- all saw sales fall by about half.  The critically acclaimed revival of “Who’s Afraid of
Virginia Woolf” sold $212,620, down 25 percent.  Power outages, gas shortages and other transportation
headaches around the region continue to depress Broadway.  “We may feel a bit of an after-effect,” said Daryl Roth,
who’s part of the producing team of a new revival of “Annie”
and lead producer of the musical “ Kinky Boots ,” which opens in
April.  Pacino Sells  “Glengarry Glen Ross,” starring  Al Pacino , generally held
up, taking in $744,703 over five performances. The revival,
still in previews, is charging as much as $377 per ticket before
fees.  On Monday, the producers postponed its official opening to
Dec. 10 from Nov. 11. Lead producer Jeffrey Richards attributed
the delay to the fact that three rehearsals were truncated.  Elsewhere in New York culture,  Carnegie Hall  reopens
tonight with newly restored heat and hot water, spokesman
Synneve Carlino said in an e-mail. It was initially affected by
street closings caused by a dangling crane.  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 