-- Bulgaria Ties South Stream Agreement With Gas Supply Contract
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-11-07T13:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/bulgaria-ties-south-stream-agreement-with-gas-supply-contract.html
Bulgaria’s Cabinet authorized
Bulgarian Energy Holding to sign an investment agreement on
constructing the South Stream pipeline with  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  on
condition gas prices are cut in next year’s supply contract.  The Holding, which groups Bulgaria’s biggest utilities, and
 Russia ’s gas export monopoly agreed to sign in November a new
gas-supply contract, which involves an 11 percent retroactive
price cut for the second half of 2012, along with the South
Stream investment agreement, Energy and Economy Minister Delyan Dobrev said on Aug. 28. Bulgarian and Russian officials are
expected to meet later this month.  “The condition for the approval and signing of the
investment agreement is the conclusion of a new natural gas
supply contract for 2013 between Bulgargaz EAD and Gazprom
Export, which is satisfactory for Bulgargaz in the critical
issues,” the Cabinet in Sofia said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Gazprom will lend to Bulgarian Energy Holding, an
undisclosed amount of funds needed to cover its participation in
the South Stream  Bulgaria  AD joint venture that will build the
Bulgarian section of the pipeline, according to the draft
agreement approved by the Bulgarian Cabinet today. The funds
will be repaid by the venture’s dividends, the Cabinet said. The
joint pipeline company will have a planned rate of return of 8
percent, the Cabinet said.  Gazprom said in August it will begin underwater
construction on Dec. 1 of the pipeline, which will run from
Russia along the Black Sea floor to Bulgaria. Gazprom will
finish construction of the first line, which will be able to
handle 15.75 billion cubic meters of a year, at the end of 2015,
the Moscow-based company said.  South Stream, Nabucco  South Stream will carry 63 billion cubic meters of gas by
2019, when all four lines are operational, according to Gazprom.
The link will run through  Serbia ,  Hungary , Slovenia and northern
Italy with offshoots to  Greece  and potentially Croatia,
Montenegro and Macedonia, according to Gazprom. It competes with
the OMV AG-led Nabucco pipeline which plans to pump Caspian Sea
gas to  Europe  via  Turkey  and Bulgaria.  Gazprom pumps 17.8 billion cubic meters of gas a year to
Bulgaria, about 2.8 billion cubic meters of which was consumed
in 2011 there. The rest goes on to Turkey, Greece and Macedonia
under a 30-year contract signed in 2006. Bulgaria spends as much
as 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion) a year on gas imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  