-- Burberry Posts Profit That Exceeds Analysts Estimates
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-11-07T14:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/burberry-posts-profit-that-exceeds-analysts-estimates.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker, reported first-half profit that
exceeded estimates and said its new cosmetics division should
boost earnings from 2014.  Adjusted pretax profit for the six months ended Sept. 30
advanced 7 percent to 173.4 million pounds ($278 million), the
London-based company said today in a statement. The average of
six analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was 169.2 million
pounds. The company increased the first-half dividend 14 percent
to 8 pence a share.  Burberry is raising prices and eliminating some entry lines
to nudge its image upscale as demand for luxury goods wanes.
First-half retail sales rose 10 percent on an underlying basis
as the trenchcoat maker sold more of its higher-priced Prorsum
and  London  ranges than the cheaper Brit line, even as store
traffic slowed. For the full year, the company said it continues
to expect a “modest” improvement in its retail and wholesale
operating margin.  “We remain long-term fans but the backdrop is tough,
Christmas is crucial, and we see few near term-catalysts,” said
Bethany Hocking, an analyst at Investec Ltd. in London, who
downgraded the stock to hold from buy.  Burberry  shares  fell 1.9 percent to 1,228 pence at 2 p.m.
in London, after earlier rising as much as 2.2 percent. Last
month, the stock advanced the most since 2002 after the luxury
goods maker reported a partial recovery in retail sales growth
following a profit warning.  “We’re as solidly positioned for the second half as we’ve
ever been, at least for the things that we can control,”
Burberry Chief Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts said in a video
posted today on YouTube.  Perfume Ownership  Burberry will pay 181 million euros ($232 million) in the
second half to end its license relationship with  Interparfums
SA (ITP) , according to today’s statement. Of this, 71 million pounds
was booked as an exceptional item in the first half.  Directly operating a new fragrance and beauty division
starting April 1, 2013, represents a “significant opportunity”
to develop lower-priced categories where the company has room to
expand, Burberry said. The unit will have a “broadly neutral”
effect on next year’s adjusted pretax profit and boost earnings
from fiscal 2014/2015, it said.  In the second half, average retail selling space is “on
plan” to increase by about 14 percent, while underlying
wholesale revenue will be “broadly” unchanged from last year,
Burberry said, repeating guidance given last month.  Full-year licensing revenue will also be similar to that of
last year on a reported basis and excluding currency swings, the
company said. Full-year capital expenditure remains unchanged at
180 million pounds to 200 million pounds, Burberry also said.  Burberry said in September that pretax profit for the year
would be at the lower end of a range of 407 million pounds to
454 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  