-- California Voters Reject Curb on Union Political Power
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-11-07T10:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/california-voters-reject-curb-on-union-political-power.html
California  voters rejected a ballot
initiative that would have weakened the political power of
unions in the most populous U.S. state.  Proposition 32 would have prohibited donations to political
campaigns with funds derived from payroll deductions, such as
union dues. The measure was losing 55.5 percent to 44.5 percent,
with 82 percent of the ballots counted, according to the
 Associated Press .  It was the third time such a measure has failed in the
state since 1998.  Organized labor spent heavily to defeat the proposal,
raising more than $75 million, according to MapLight, a
nonpartisan research organization based in Berkeley, California.
Proponents, including Charles Munger Jr., the son of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s vice chairman, and an  Arizona  nonprofit that
fought to keep its donors secret, poured $60.5 million into
their effort.  The supporters argued that the measure would bring campaign
finance reform to a state where money from special-interest
groups can influence the ballot. They included language in the
initiative that said corporations, too, couldn’t use payroll
deductions on political spending.  Opponents argued that since most corporations don’t use
payroll deduction for campaign donations, the measure really
would only affect only unions and would allow corporations
unchecked spending for their own political gains.  Former California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  pushed a
similar proposal in 2005 that was defeated after heavy union
spending against it. Governor Pete Wilson similarly lost in his
push for such an initiative in 1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  