-- Californians Approve Brown Tax Plan, Averting School Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-11-07T18:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/californians-approve-brown-tax-plan-averting-school-cuts.html
California voters approved Governor
 Jerry Brown ’s sales- and income-tax increases, handing the
Democrat his biggest victory since he was elected two years ago
and averting $5.5 billion of cuts to public schools.  Proposition 30 won by 54 percent to 46 percent, with 100
percent of precincts reporting, the  Associated Press  said.  Brown’s successful referendum contrasts with the 1978
passage of tax limits known as Proposition 13, which he opposed
in his previous term as governor. The measure capped local
property taxes, led to cuts that reduced per-student school
spending to 29th nationally from seventh, and pushed the state
into budget gridlock. Without the ability to boost local levies,
three municipalities -- Stockton, San Bernardino and Mammoth
Lakes -- have filed for  bankruptcy protection  since June.  Voters backed the governor’s tax increase because they
believe in “our schools and our universities, and in the
capacity of our state government to make some wise investments,
that will benefit all of us,” Brown said.   California, the most-populous U.S. state, has an economy
bigger than  India ’s, ranking ninth in the world as measured by
gross domestic product. Proposition 13 caps real-estate taxes at
1 percent of a property’s most-recent sale price. Before it
passed, local governments could raise revenue as they saw fit.  ‘Unfair’ System  “Proposition 13 set up an unfair and dysfunctional two-
tiered system of property taxes,” Kevin Starr, a University of
Southern  California  history professor, said in an interview last
year. “It choked off a source of revenue, and the lack of that
revenue has brought California to the edge.”  Brown, 74, and fellow Democrats in the legislature, counted
on the revenue from the tax increases when they passed a budget
in June that closed a $16 billion deficit. The spending cuts,
equivalent to taking three weeks off the academic year, were
built in midway through fiscal 2013 to assure investors that the
state would have adequate cash to repay them if the tax plan
lost.  The governor campaigned in 2010 on a promise not to raise
taxes without voter approval. His measure increases the
statewide  sales tax  to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent, and boosts
rates on income starting at $250,000. Those making $1 million or
more will pay 13.3 percent, the most of any state. The
increases, which will raise an estimated $6 billion annually,
are to expire by 2018.  ‘Positive Outlook’  Standard & Poor’s , which rates the state’s credit A-, six
levels below AAA and worse than any other U.S. state, lauded
passage of the tax increase. The company said the measure would
lead the state toward paying down $34 billion of budget
liabilities from previous deficits by 2016.  “It’s consistent with our positive outlook,” Gabriel Petek, a San Francisco-based S&P analyst, said in a telephone
interview. “The measure actually does more than just boost the
state’s revenues temporarily. It adds credibility to the
governor’s plan to repay a lot of its budgetary debt and
liabilities over the next several years.  A rival proposal, financed by Molly Munger, the daughter of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s vice chairman, was rejected, 73
percent to 27 percent.  12-Year Boost  Munger’s plan would have increased taxes for 12 years on
income of more than $7,316 from 0.4 percent for the lowest
earners to 2.2 percent for those making more than $2.5 million a
year. The proceeds were to be earmarked for education.  The governor sought the ballot initiative with the help of
labor unions after Republican lawmakers in 2011 blocked a vote
to extend expiring taxes to help combat what was then a $10
billion deficit.  Brown and the unions raised more than $69 million to
support their initiative, according to MapLight, a nonpartisan
research organization based in Berkeley, California. Millions to
fight Brown’s plan came from Munger’s brother, Charles Munger Jr., and an  Arizona  non-profit that fought to keep its donors
secret.  Molly Munger  donated $44.1 million of her personal
fortune to back her proposition.  The trigger mechanism was inserted into the budget to
pacify Wall Street investors who wouldn’t lend the state $10
billion of cash without assurance they would be repaid by year-
end.  California voters yesterday also rejected initiatives to
abolish the death penalty, to prohibit unions from spending
member dues for political campaigns and to require the labeling
of genetically modified food.  Voters approved a measure that strips out-of-state
corporations of an option for lowering their state income taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  