-- Cameron to Visit Syrian Refugee Camp After Urging Assad to Quit
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/cameron-to-visit-syrian-refugee-camp-after-urging-assad-to-quit.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
will visit a Syrian refugee camp on the Jordanian border today
as he tries to increase the pressure on President Bashar Al- Assad to quit and bolster a key regional ally.  Foreign Secretary William Hague plans to say today that 
he has authorized British diplomats to have direct contact 
with military members of the Syrian opposition, according to 
a person familiar with his agenda who declined to be identified
because the announcement isn't yet public.         Cameron arrived in  Jordan  late yesterday on the third leg
of his regional tour, which also saw him visit the United Arab
Emirates and Saudi Arabia. Earlier in the day, he suggested
Assad could be offered safe passage out of the country if it
ended the bloodshed.  “I am very frustrated that we can’t do more,” Cameron
told Al Arabiya television. “This is an appalling slaughter
that is taking place in our world today -- 40,000 lives lost
already and you can see, on your television screens, night after
night, helicopters, aeroplanes belonging to the Assad regime
pounding his own country and murdering his own people.”  The prime minister has supported many of the uprisings
known as the Arab Spring, most prominently in Libya, where the
U.K.,  France  and the U.S. committed air forces to support the
rebels. He will announce more money to support Syrian rebels
today, while continuing to refuse them arms.  “We must ask ourselves what more can we do: how can we
help the opposition?” he told Al Arabiya. “How can we put the
pressure on Assad? How can we work with partners in the region
to turn this around?”  Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN peace envoy for Syria, made similar
remarks to Cameron’s in an interview published today in the pan-
Arab Al Hayat newspaper.  If the crisis is left unresolved, Syria may descend into
warlordism, with “the total collapse of the state and  Syria 
turning into a new Somalia,” he said.  Britain counts Jordan as a longstanding defense ally.
British and Jordanian military units regularly carry out
exercises in Jordan and King Abdullah II trained at the Royal
Military Academy at Sandhurst in  England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Amman or  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  