-- Carlyle Calls It Quits on Chemring After Misses Multiply
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-07T17:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/carlyle-calls-it-quits-on-chemring-after-multiple-target-misses.html
  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the U.S. private
equity firm, said it walked away from a potential bid for
 Chemring Group Plc (CHG)  after a review of the defense company, which
has repeatedly failed to meet earnings targets in recent months.  “Carlyle today confirms that it does not intend to make an
offer for Chemring,” the Washington, D.C.-based private equity
firm said in a statement, without citing the reasons. Chemring
fell as much as 16 percent in London trading.  Negotiations that were extended twice since they first
became public on Aug. 17 had been overshadowed by two target
downgrades by Chemring and the surprise ouster of Chief
Executive Officer  David Price  last month. Chemring said today
after Carlyle pulled out that it will continue to feel the
strain from governments cutting defense budgets.  “Carlyle realized Chemring’s problems were far deeper than
expected,” Oliver Sleath, a London-based analyst at Credit
Suisse, said in a telephone interview. Another bidder is not
likely to emerge in the short term, he said.  Chemring fell as much as 44 pence to 226.90 pence, its
lowest since June 2006, and closed at 258.00 pence, valuing the
company at 499 million pounds ($797.3 million). The value peaked
above 800 million pounds after the talks became public.      The
Fareham, England-based company said it would provide more
information on its business on November 27 over the financial
results for the year ended October 31.  “Whilst Chemring continues to face near term challenges
resulting from defense budget constraints in its NATO markets,
which are not expected to ease in the immediate future, the
company has market leading positions and manufacturing expertise
in the fields of counter-IED, countermeasures, munitions and
pyrotechnics,” Chemring said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  