-- Caterpillar Dealers See Demand for Generators Rising
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-11-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/caterpillar-dealers-see-demand-for-generators-rising.html
Hurricane Sandy , the third storm in
the past 14 months to disrupt power supply to millions of U.S.
homes and businesses, has boosted demand for generators made by
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Generac Holdings Inc. (GNRC)  as frustrated
customers experience more frequent blackouts.  More than a week after Sandy cut power to 8.5 million
customers in 11 states, almost 1 million are still without power
as the Northeast faces another storm with winds and rain today.
Caterpillar dealers and Honda Motor Co. have had to shift
inventory to meet demand as blackouts linger for owners of some
homes and businesses.  Generac, the largest maker of standby residential
generators, said last week that  2012 sales  and adjusted earnings
would increase more than 40 percent from a year ago because of
the recent outages, up from a previous forecast of more than 30
percent. The Waukesha, Wisconsin-based company has gained 32
percent since the storm struck, closing yesterday at $37.51 in
New York.  “There is more awareness of the need for standby power
generation, both on the residential and industrial side,” Andy Kaplowitz, a New York-based machinery analyst for Barclays Plc,
said in a phone interview yesterday. Kaplowitz said he’s looking
to buy a generator for his own home in  New Jersey , where as many
as 65 percent of customers lost power from Sandy.  H.O. Penn Machinery Co., a Caterpillar dealer serving New
York and  Connecticut , has seen “significant” rental demand
before and after the storm and expects it to remain strong in
the weeks ahead, Chief Executive Officer Rob Cleveland said in
an e-mail.  ‘Unstable’ Grid  A string of weather events, including last year’s  Hurricane
Irene  and an October 2011 snowstorm, has brought to light “how
unstable” the  power grid  is, Zach Larkin, a  Little Rock ,
Arkansas-based analyst for investment bank Stephens Inc., said
in a Nov. 5 interview.  The number of power interruptions in  North America  more
than doubled last year from 2009, Generac said in a Nov. 6
presentation, citing data from North American Electric
Reliability Corp.  Only 2.5 percent of unattached single family homes in the
U.S. currently have a standby generator and each percent of
additional penetration represents $2 billion, Generac estimates.
The North American market for residential standby generators
increased 17 percent annually on average in the decade through
2011, the company said, and there are more than 14 million
buildings in the U.S. that may need a generator.  ‘Backup Plan’  Generators range in price from a few hundred dollars for
portable units fueled by gasoline to several million dollars for
custom-made units that run on natural gas and can power large
buildings.  While the sluggish economy may weigh on plans by businesses
and consumers to invest in these products, use of power
generation equipment made by companies such as Caterpillar and
 Cummins Inc. (CMI)  will increase and supplies will tighten, said
Kaplowitz.  Honda’s Atlanta-based power equipment unit, which sells
portable generators the company makes in  Japan , is running low
on inventory following last week’s storm, Sara Pines, a
spokeswoman for the unit, said in a Nov. 5 e-mail.  Demand is at “incredible levels, it’s like nothing we have
seen before,” said Melanie Tydrich, a spokeswoman for closely
held Kohler Co., the second-largest maker of standby residential
generators.  Long-Term Effect  “The events of the last few days continue to demonstrate
for home owners and business owners the importance of having a
backup plan for their power needs,” Aaron Jagdfeld, chief
executive officer of Generac, said in an Oct. 31 statement.  Still, events such as superstorm Sandy usually don’t have a
long-term effect on sales or profit,  Stephen Volkmann , a New
York-based analyst with Jefferies Group Inc., said in an
interview.  Cummins, based in Columbus,  Indiana , supplies generators
for homes, boats, businesses and utilities. After a storm,
inventory will be shifted to the region most in need, he said.  “The overall impact is less than you might think,”
Volkmann said. “For example, for  Hurricane Katrina , Cummins
traded up initially then lower after a few weeks.”  Cummins has seen more demand for generator rentals than
sales, said Jon Mills, a company spokesman. The company has
gained 8.6 percent since Oct. 29, when Sandy made landfall in
New Jersey, and the shares have increased 16 percent this year.  While most inquiries coming into Carolina Cat, a  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based dealership, often fade after a storm hits,
large businesses such as grocery stores with long-term plans are
ensuring new buildings are wired for generator hookups, Chief
Executive Officer Ed Weisiger Jr. said.  Voting Booths  Briggs & Stratton Corp. (BGG) , a Milwaukee-based maker of
generators, began shipping inventory east from as far away as
 California  a week before Sandy struck. Now the company is
looking for temporary help at two plants in Wisconsin and
Alabama, which are running at full capacity to fill backorders.  Demand may increase 20 percent in the next year because of
increased storm damage, Eric Loferski, director of marketing for
portable power products for Briggs & Stratton, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  The company sold 800 portable generators to the National
Guard after a Homeland Security official walked into a retailer
in Queens, New York, on Nov. 2 seeking to power voting booths.
Briggs & Stratton worked through the weekend to round up units
from small retailers in surrounding states.  Pumping Water  The fear that more power outages from storms like Sandy may
be the norm going forward convinced Ryan Devlin, 40, to buy a
generator for his home in  Long Island City ,  New York . The
basement and the first floor of the house, which has been
without power for a week, were destroyed by floods from the  East
River . He and his wife Jessica borrowed a generator to pump
water out of the basement because local stores were out of
stock.  “They’re really hard to get a hold of right now,” Devlin
said of the generators. “The minute they come in, we’re going
to get one. From now on, we can’t afford not to have one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  