-- Celtic Stuns Barcelona in Champions League; Man. Utd. Advances
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-08T00:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/celtic-beats-barcelona-in-champions-league-manchester-utd-wins.html
Celtic upset Barcelona 2-1 in
soccer’s Champions League, as  Manchester United  got three late
goals to advance to the knockout stage.  Victor Wanyama and Tony Watt scored and goalkeeper Fraser
Forster made several saves last night as Celtic handed Barcelona
its first loss in the group stage of  Europe ’s elite club
competition since October 2009. The victory came one day after
the Glasgow club celebrated its 125th anniversary.  “It’s right up there, one of the proudest nights of my
career,” Celtic manager Neil Lennon told  Sky Sports . “It was a
monumental effort on the anniversary of the club. I wanted them
to do justice tonight and they’ve surpassed that and beaten the
best team in the world.”  Goals from  Robin van Persie ,  Wayne Rooney  and  Javier Hernandez  in the final 10 minutes lifted Manchester United to a
3-1 win at Braga that clinched the top spot in Group H. United
joined Malaga and Porto in qualifying for the knockout phase
after four of six group games. The top two teams from each of
the eight groups advance to the round of 16.  Elsewhere, defending champion Chelsea beat  Shakhtar Donetsk 
3-2, while  Bayern Munich  routed Lille 6-1 and Juventus defeated
Nordsjaelland 4-0. The 35 goals scored last night fell one short
of the record for a single match day.  Wanyama opened the scoring in the 21st minute at Celtic
Park by heading in Charlie Mulgrew’s corner kick. It was
Celtic’s only shot in the opening half as Barcelona had 67
percent of possession and had seven attempts, two of which hit
the frame of the goal.  Forster’s Saves  Barcelona, seeking its fourth European Cup title in eight
seasons, continued to pressure in the second half, with Forster
making two saves off  Alexis Sanchez  and one from Lionel Messi.  The home team doubled its lead with seven minutes remaining
as Watt, an 18-year-old who came on for Mikael Lustig in the
second half, broke free of the defense and fired a shot past
 Victor Valdes .  “It’s probably the best moment of my life,” Watt told Sky
Sports. “I’ll look back at it when I’m older and think ’We’ve
just beaten Barcelona in the Champions League.’ There’s nothing
better.”  Barcelona, which beat Celtic on an injury-time goal two
weeks ago, finally broke through in stoppage time as Messi
scored off a rebound. Forster then made a save against Pedro on
Barcelona’s last attempt to get the tying goal.  The Catalan club tops Group G with nine points, two more
than Celtic. Benfica moved into third place by beating Spartak
Moscow 2-0 on a pair of Oscar Cardozo goals.  Perfect Record  In Portugal, Manchester United remained perfect with its
fourth straight win to lock up first place in its group after
failing to advance to the round of 16 last season.  Braga took the lead in the 49th minute on a penalty kick
from Alan. The game was then delayed for about 12 minutes when a
 power failure  knocked out some of the lights in the stadium.  After play resumed, United manager  Alex Ferguson  brought on
 Van Persie  for  Danny Welbeck  and the Dutchman scored the tying
goal with 10 minutes left by lifting the ball into the net with
the goalkeeper caught out of position.  United took the lead four minutes later when Rooney scored
from the penalty spot after being taken down in the area.
Hernandez completed the comeback by knocking in a rebound in
stoppage time.  “We had a difficult night and we weren’t at our best but
we won,” Rooney told Sky Sports. “We’ve topped the group and
that’s the main thing. We’re happy with that.”  Burak Yilmaz scored all three goals as Galatasaray beat
Cluj 3-1 in the other group game to leave the teams tied with
four points, one more than Braga.  Late Winner  Victor Moses’s stoppage-time goal gave Chelsea a 3-2 home
win over Shakhtar Donetsk that left the teams tied for the Group
E lead with seven points. Juventus is one point back after
beating Nordsjaelland to end a record run of nine straight draws
in European competition.  Claudio Pizzaro scored three goals in a 15-minute span of
the first half to lead Bayern Munich’s rout of Lille. It was the
third-fastest hat trick in  Champions League  history.  The win leaves Bayern and Valencia tied for the lead in
Group F with nine points after the Spanish club beat BATE
Borisov 4-2.  The next round of games will be played Nov. 20 and 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  