-- China’s Xi Won’t Be Able to Take On the World
-- B y   O d d   A r n e   W e s t a d
-- 2012-11-07T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/china-s-xi-won-t-be-able-to-take-on-the-world.html
When he takes over as  party leader 
this week at the  18th Congress  of the Chinese Communist Party,
Vice President Xi Jinping will face a host of ills. For all its
newfound wealth, China is -- to put it simply -- very badly
governed.  Corruption is rampant, the provinces are neglected, and
current party leader Hu Jintao has  put off  much-needed political
reforms for a decade.  To make changes at home easier to push through, Xi, who is
expected to become president next year,  may be tempted  to pursue
a populist foreign policy. Xi has already  positioned himself  in
line with the nationalist instincts of many younger Chinese on a
number of foreign matters. For instance, he has conveyed that
 China  has been weak-kneed in its relations with the U.S.,  Japan 
and, for that matter, North Korea.  At the same time, Xi is, above all else, pragmatic. He’s
not expected to do anything that would endanger China’s
continued economic growth. China’s gross domestic product has
multiplied 30 times over since 1990, and even if its year-on-
year growth is now slowing, it is still by far the fastest
growing of the world’s large economies.  Therein lies the new leadership’s foreign policy challenge.
China’s goal in its relations with the outside world is to get
the most for China. Yet that is no strategy. Nor is it even a
viable policy, unless the country’s aim is to antagonize its
neighbors.  Lacking Framework  Even within Asia, China has no overriding foreign policy
framework. In  conflicts over islands  in the South China Sea, the
government, spurred on by increasingly nationalist public
opinion, appears to be guided only by the desire to secure more
territory for China. The re-elected Obama Administration will
find plenty of willing partners for cooperation in eastern Asia
if the current Chinese attitude toward its neighbors persists.  Xi Jinping and his key foreign policy advisers understand
this. Yet there are few signs that they know what to do about
it. One reason is that they are personally poorly equipped to
deal with foreign affairs.  Scholars sometimes argue that China’s leaders excel at
foreign affairs strategy because they take the long view, while
Western politicians can’t do so because they are encumbered by
elections and legislatures.  This view of the Chinese leadership -- advocated in the
past by Henry Kissinger -- doesn’t hold up today. The last
generation of Chinese leaders has been generally shortsighted
and ill-informed about international affairs. They don’t much
like going abroad or having much to do with foreigners in China.
They find international affairs difficult to understand and
worry about embarrassing themselves in front of a foreign
audience.  Moreover, China lacks an effective foreign policy apparatus
to advise the leadership and carry out initiatives. A “small
leading group” on foreign affairs is supposed to coordinate
policies for the Central Politburo’s Standing Committee, the
most powerful decision-making body in the country. It appears to
do very little if any coordination, however. The  Foreign
Ministry  is constantly at odds with various party departments
and agencies with a hand in foreign affairs. And the military,
at times, seems to have its own foreign policy, entirely
uncoordinated with what goes on within the party or government.  Taking a tough line on the outside world can bring
political benefits in China, as it can in the U.S. or U.K. Yet
in the absence of a clear and coordinated strategy and an
effective bureaucracy to carry it out, the leadership can become
hostage to short-term sentiments, which may not reflect China’s
long-term interests.  Xi Jinping has demonstrated a more hands-on leadership
style than Hu Jintao. Although his position will remain primus
inter pares, Xi is expected to be more visible on major foreign-
affairs issues. His ascension represents an opportunity for
reform in the foreign as well as the domestic sphere. Rather
than resort to knee-jerk nationalism, he would be wise to invest
in a strategy -- and an apparatus to carry it out -- that would
achieve both profitable and smooth relations with the outside
world.  (Odd Arne Westad is a professor of history at the London
School of Economics and Political Science and the author of the
recently published “Restless Empire: China and the World Since
1750.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Visit  the Ticker  for election commentary,
including Mary Duenwald on  the prospects of a carbon tax , James
Greiff on  restoring Wall Street-White House ties  and Zara
Kessler on  Mitt Romney’s 49 percent problem .  Plus, the editors on how President  Barack Obama  can  avoid the
fiscal cliff  and  start on his global to-do list ; Caroline Baum
on  why Congress doesn’t listen to voters ; Clive Crook on how
 Obama can make this election matter ; Ezra Klein on  the opening
for filibuster reform ; W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm on  the
California business that might come to Texas .  To contact the writer of this article:
Odd Arne Westad at  A.Westad@lse.ac.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at  lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 