-- China May Make First High-Speed Train Orders Since Crash
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-11-08T10:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/china-may-make-first-high-speed-train-orders-since-crash.html
China may issue at least 38.4 billion
 yuan  ($6.2 billion) of high-speed train tenders within the next
two months, ending a more than yearlong hiatus following a fatal
crash.  The government will probably seek bids for between 300 and
400 train sets, according to Hong Kong-based Citigroup Inc.
analyst Paul Gong, who made the estimate after meetings with the
nation’s two major trainmakers. Jefferies Group Inc. and
 Everbright Securities Co.  made similar  predictions . A set
comprises of eight or 16 carriages.  A revival of purchases would be a boost for  CSR Corp Ltd. (1766) 
and  China CNR Corp. (601299) , the nation’s two big trainmakers, whose
shares are yet to recover from a slump following the July 2011
train disaster. The government may resume orders as it steps up
railway building as part of wider plans to stoke economic
growth.  “This is obviously great news for Chinese trainmakers,”
Gong said in a Nov. 6 interview. “The order will help to remove
concerns that the country may shift its focus from high-speed
trains after the fatal crash.”  Outperform Index  Both CSR and CNR shares outperformed benchmark indexes in
Hong Kong and  Shanghai  trading today.  The dual-listed CSR closed unchanged at 4.48 yuan in
Shanghai, the second best performer on the  Shanghai Stock
Exchange 50 A (SSE50)  Share Index, and gained 0.3 percent to close at
HK$6.35 in Hong Kong. China CNR fell 0.7 percent to 4.02 yuan,
while the benchmark Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index
dropped 1.6 percent. The  Hang Seng Index  fell 2.4 percent.  CSR has made preparations for possible tenders, it said in
an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News questions. China CNR said it
expects demand for more high-speed trains as new lines open. The
Beijing-based companies both said they didn’t know when the
Ministry of Railways would issue its next tender. Calls to the
ministry went unanswered.  No high-speed train tenders have been placed since last
year’s crash near the eastern city of Wenzhou, which killed 40
people. An official report into the accident said it was caused
by mismanagement and design flaws in a signaling system.  Slow Construction  Construction slowed after the disaster amid safety concerns
and because the ministry was struggling to sell bonds to finance
work. The  yield gap  between its one-year notes and government
debt has now fallen to around 126.6 basis points, about half the
figure in October 2011, according to Chinabond data, as state
support eases concerns about its debts. The ministry had 2.12
trillion yuan of long-term debt as of Sept. 30, according to an
Oct. 26 audit report posted on Chinabond.com.cn.  High-speed train purchases were also slowing before the
crash amid a corruption investigation that led to the downfall
of then-Rail Minister  Liu Zhijun . The ministry ordered about
1,100 high-speed carriages in 2010 and 2011, before the crash,
compared with about 6,000 in 2009, according to data compiled by
Citigroup.  CSR, which builds high-speed trains itself and in a venture
with  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , has fallen 8.6 percent in Hong Kong
trading since the disaster, while the benchmark Hang Seng Index
has dropped 3.9 percent. China CNR Corp. has slumped 35 percent
in Shanghai while the Shanghai Composite Index has dropped 25
percent. Both trainmakers generated more than 90 percent of
sales in China last year. The companies also make wagons,
mainline trains and subway units.  China has ordered 705 high-speed train sets, or 7,264
carriages, in the past five years, according to an Oct. 9  report 
by the official People’s Daily, citing an interview with Rail
Minister Sheng Guangzu. A carriage for a 250 kilometer per hour
(155 mile per hour) train costs about 16 million yuan, while one
for a 350 kph train costs about 24 million yuan, the report
said, citing Gong.  Delivery Schedule  A resumption of high-speed orders may not immediately
affect trainmakers’ earnings as the ministry will only accept
units when it needs them, Jefferies analysts Julian Bu and Zhi Aik Yeo said in a Nov. 2 note. For instance, CSR’s  venture  with
Montreal-based Bombardier didn’t begin handing over trains
ordered in a 27 billion yuan deal in 2009 until the third
quarter of this year, they said.  “Having orders by itself means very little,” the Hong
Kong-based analysts said. “What matter is the delivery
schedule.”  The ministry may order as few as 63 sets or as many as 950
through 2015, depending upon how trains are used and how much
importance the government puts on costs, they said. It may plump
for a middle-ground order of about 400, which could be its last
major purchase, they said.  Spending Boost  China  needs more bullet trains as it plans to lay about
8,000 kilometers on high-speed track over the next three years.
The high-speed rail network, which opened in 2007, is due to
reach 16,000 kilometers based on a five-year plan running
through 2015. It was 7,563 kilometers long at the end of
September, according to the October People’s Daily report.  China has boosted spending plans for railways at least four
times since July as it contends with economic growth that cooled
to 7.4 percent in the third quarter, the slowest pace in three
years. The government also announced approvals for subway
projects in 18 cities in September.  The Ministry of Railways now plans to spend 630 billion
yuan on fixed-asset investments, including building new lines
and buying equipment this year, according to a bond prospectus
issued last month. That’s 7.4 percent more than last year’s
tally of 586.3 billion yuan.  “Boosting rail investment is a good way to boost economic
growth,” said Xu Minle, a Shanghai-based analyst at Bank of
China Ltd. “Unlike roads, rail demand is not saturated. It can
also add jobs and drive demand for raw materials without causing
pollution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  