-- Citigroup Sued by Sealink Over Mortgage-Backed Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-11-07T21:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/citigroup-sued-by-sealink-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, was sued by Sealink Funding Ltd. for
damages tied to an investment in $513 million worth of
residential mortgage-backed securities.  Sealink, in a suit filed today in  New York  State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan , accused Citigroup of misrepresenting and
omitting information on the underwriting standards used to issue
loans pooled to create the securities. Sealink is seeking more
than the principal amount of the securities in damages.  Citigroup, based in New York, has been fending off
litigation tied to mortgage-backed securities since the
financial crisis, when U.S. taxpayers had to rescue the lender
with a $45 billion bailout. The bank is cooperating in response
to subpoenas and requests for information from regulators
concerning its “mortgage-related conduct,” according to a
quarterly regulatory filing.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the suit.  Sealink was created to manage Landesbank Sachsen AG’s
riskiest assets after the German lender almost collapsed. It has
filed lawsuits in New York over investments in mortgage bonds
against banks including UBS AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Cases Settled  Bank of America , the second-largest U.S. bank, said last
week in a regulatory filing that in September it settled suits
with Sealink and two other foreign mortgage-bond investors,
Dexia SA and  Bayerische Landesbank , Germany’s second-biggest
state-owned lender. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender
didn’t disclose the amounts it paid.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  SachsenLB, a state-owned lender, received a 17.3 billion-
euro ($22.1 billion) bailout in 2007 to support an investment
vehicle that ran out of funding amid the credit crunch. The
German state of Saxony agreed a week later to sell the bank to
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg to avoid closing.  As part of the agreement, the state guaranteed to cover as
much as 2.75 billion euros in possible losses from investments
backed by assets including U.S. subprime mortgages that were
placed in Sealink.  The case is Sealink Funding Ltd. v. Citigroup Inc.,
653844/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York
at   dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 