-- Citigroup’s Walsh to Join Broker Marsh & McLennan
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-11-07T15:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/citigroup-s-walsh-to-join-broker-marsh-mclennan.html
Keith Walsh, who covered insurance
stocks for  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as an analyst, will join broker Marsh
& McLennan Cos. to lead investor relations.  Walsh, 38, will report to Chief Financial Officer Michael Bischoff, the New York-based broker said today in a statement.
Bischoff was named CFO in September and previously headed
investor relations among other duties.  Marsh & McLennan, the second-largest insurance broker, said
Walsh will join Dec. 3 as the company prepares for the promotion
of Daniel Glaser to chief executive officer, replacing the
retiring CEO Brian Duperreault on Jan 1. Walsh spent 13 years as
an equity research analyst at Citigroup, most recently covering
underwriters and brokers, according to the statement.  “Keith’s focus on the insurance and professional services
industries, coupled with his keen understanding of our company
and deep financial acumen, make him an ideal choice to lead our
 investor relations  efforts,” Bischoff said in the statement.  Citigroup plans to replace Walsh by early 2013, Sophia
Stewart, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Colin Devine,
a life insurance analyst who left the bank last year, was
replaced in August, by Erik Bass, who previously worked for
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Walsh was among Wall Street analysts who dropped support
for Duperreault’s predecessor Michael Cherkasky in 2007 after
the firing of Brian Storms, the head of the company’s turnaround
effort. The broker’s stock price trailed rival Aon Plc’s under
Cherkasky.  Walsh, Cherkasky  Any management change that leaves Cherkasky in place
doesn’t go far enough, Walsh said in a Sept. 16, 2007 note. It’s
a “mystery” why the board hasn’t acted yet, said the analyst,
who lowered his rating to hold from buy.  Marsh & McLennan said in December of that year that its
board had initiated a search for a new CEO. Duperreault, who had
previously led insurer Ace Ltd., was hired for the post in
January 2008.  Walsh lifted his rating less than six months later, saying
that Duperreault and Glaser, who was hired in December 2007,
were a “significant upgrade” from prior management. The
insurance broker has returned 29 percent since the day before
Walsh’s call.  Insurance firms are turning to investment banks as they
seek to build relationships with  Wall Street . Edward Spehar left
his job as an insurance analyst at Bank of America Corp. to
become head of investor relations at MetLife Inc., according to
a statement last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  