-- Clarkson Falls as Shipping Rates May Hurt Earnings: London Mover
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2012-11-07T17:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/clarkson-falls-as-shipping-rates-may-hurt-earnings-london-mover.html
Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest
shipbroker, plunged the most since 2009 after saying this year’s
earnings will be lower than executives expected because of a
slump in vessel prices.  Clarkson fell 8.7 percent, the most since Jan. 22, 2009, to
1,187 pence by the close in  London  trading, reducing the
shipbroker’s market value to 225.3 million pounds ($359.9
million). The slide was today’s second-biggest in the 602-
company  FTSE All-Share Index. (ASX)   The number of ships bought and sold dropped this year,
cutting broking revenue, London-based Clarkson said in a
statement today. “Tightness” in the availability of debt to
finance vessel purchases also curbed transactions and values,
according to the shipbroker. A glut of ships that carry iron ore
and coal curbed returns by stoking competition for cargoes.  The deterioration in freight rates “has come as a
surprise,”  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in
London, said in a note to investors. “Even though Clarkson has
seen increased volumes throughout most of its broking
operations, allowing it to further build market share in most
areas, this is likely to be insufficient to offset the magnitude
of the rate declines” and volume weakness, he said.  Zonneveld lowered his estimates for the company’s
shipbroking earnings and reduced his share-price prediction by
13 percent to 1,300 pence, while maintaining a buy
recommendation. “We remain bullish on the longer-term prospects
for Clarkson” and expect it to continue a “progressive
 dividend  policy,” he said.  Analysts’ Advice  Damian Brewer, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , also
lowered his price target today, to 1,000 pence from 1,200 pence.
Of the six analysts who report their research on Clarkson to
Bloomberg, four recommend buying the shares and two, including
Brewer, have the equivalent of a hold rating.  “The short-term outlook for rates and values is uncertain,
with demand-supply imbalance a brake on recovery,” Clarkson
said. Weaker-than-expected activity in the second half
“resulted in a reduction in the board’s expectations for full-
year results.”  Freight rates for iron-ore carrying Capesize ships are on
course for the lowest annual average since at least 1999. The
secondhand sale price of the carriers, each able to hold about
160,000 metric tons of cargo, fell 19 percent to $30.1 million
in the past year, according to the  Baltic Exchange , a London-
based publisher of freight costs on more than 50 trade routes.  Shipbroking revenue also came under pressure because most
transactions are concluded in dollars and the currency declined
against the British pound, Clarkson said.  Capesize charter rates averaged $6,925 a day since the
start of January, according to the exchange. That would be the
lowest annual hire cost since at least 1999, its data show. The
secondhand price of tankers hauling 2 million-barrel cargoes of
oil fell 4.8 percent in the past year to $55.4 million,
according to its figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  