-- Clayton Dubilier & Rice Said to Seek $5 Billion for Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-11-07T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/clayton-dubilier-rice-said-to-seek-5-billion-for-fund.html
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC, one of
the industry’s oldest private-equity firms, plans to seek about
$5 billion for its next fund, the same amount it gathered for a
predecessor raised in 2009, according to three people familiar
with the matter.  Clayton Dubilier & Rice Fund IX LP is expected to
officially come to market next year, said one of the people, who
asked not to be named because the information is private. The
New York-based firm closed its prior fund in December of 2009
below the $7.5 billion it originally sought.  Clayton Dubilier, which specializes in buying unwanted or
underperforming divisions of larger corporations, will join an
increasingly competitive fundraising market. The number of funds
vying for capital in the third quarter rose 11 percent to 1,918
from the same period last year, according to researcher Preqin
Ltd. The amount sought rose 13 percent to $796.5 billion.  Thomas Franco, a partner at the firm, declined to comment.  Clayton Dubilier’s chairman and co-founder Joseph Rice III,
80, who helped start the firm in 1978, retired this year. The
firm is led by Donald Gogel, who has worked at Clayton Dubilier
for 23 years.  Clayton Dubilier usually invests in distribution or
services-related businesses with enterprise values of $1 billion
to $15 billion, according to the firm’s website. The firm is
staffed with a team of operating partners who typically work as
chairman of the board at each of the portfolio companies. These
operating partners generally work with one to three portfolio
companies, according to the website.  David’s Bridal  The firm in recent months has completed deals including the
purchase of the decorative surfaces business of  Illinois Tool
Works Inc. (ITW)  and the acquisition of David’s Bridal Inc. for about
$1.05 billion.  Clayton Dubilier in July sold the remainder of its stock in
 Sally Beauty Holdings Inc. (SBH)  following several secondary
offerings, which in total returned 3.4 times investors’ money,
according to one of the people. The firm purchased the specialty
retailer in 2006 as part of a $3 billion recapitalization of
Alberto-Culver Co. It generated a total of $1.9 billion in
proceeds from its investments.  Clayton Dubilier distributed $4.3 billion to investors from
2011 to 2012, according to one of the people. The prior fund was
generating a 1.5 times multiple and a 28 percent gross internal
rate of return as of Sept. 30, the person said. The firm’s Fund
VII, which closed at $4 billion in early 2006, was producing a
1.7 times multiple and 13 percent gross IRR as of the same date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  