-- Climate Change Seen Eradicating Wild Arabica Coffee by Kew
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-11-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/climate-change-seen-eradicating-wild-arabica-coffee-by-kew.html
Wild arabica coffee may become
extinct before the end of this century because of climate
change, according to a study from the U.K. Royal Botanic
Gardens, Kew, conducted with scientists in  Ethiopia .  Commercially produced arabica is grown from “very limited
genetic stock,” meaning plants have little flexibility in
coping with climate change and new threats from pests and
diseases, Kew said today in an e-mailed report. Altered weather
conditions are likely to have “a negative influence” on coffee
output in Ethiopia,  Africa ’s largest grower, it said.  “Wild arabica is considered important for the
sustainability of the coffee industry due to its considerable
genetic diversity,” Kew said. “The climate sensitivity of
arabica is confirmed, supporting the widely reported assumption
that climate change will have a damaging impact on commercial
coffee production worldwide.”  The report used field work and other data to predict
geographical distribution of coffee species until 2080 and found
“a profoundly negative influence on the number and extent of
wild arabica populations,” Kew said. Results showed reductions
of 65 percent to almost 100 percent in wild arabica localities
by that year.  Study results may be “conservative” because they exclude
deforestation in parts of Ethiopia and  South Sudan  as well as
potential pest and disease issues, Kew said. It also pointed to
a possible reduction in the number of birds, which disperse
coffee seeds.  Kew, located in the southwest London district of the same
name, was founded in 1759 and is a global leader in plant
science, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  