-- Coal’s Election Loss Could Mean Gain for Carbon Tax
-- B y   M a r y   D u e n w a l d
-- 2012-11-07T19:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/coal-s-election-loss-could-mean-gain-for-carbon-tax.html
Coal power was a widespread loser in
yesterday’s election. Despite singing its praises as loudly as
possible, Mitt Romney was unable to use his  support for coal  to
defeat Barack Obama in Virginia and Ohio.  And heavy spending by the coal industry failed to unseat
Democratic Senators Tim Kaine of Virginia,  Bob Casey  of
Pennsylvania,  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio and Jon Tester of Montana.  Even in  Corpus Christi , Texas, the Republican  Nelda
Martinez  won the mayoral race touting her opposition to building
the Las Brisas power plant, which is designed to burn coke, a
refined form of coal. (Disclosure: Bloomberg Philanthropies
supports a Sierra Club push against U.S. coal-burning power
plants, including Las Brisas.)  It looks as if the U.S. may be uniting around an
increasingly realistic view of the health, environmental and
climate  costs of burning coal . Add in the economic forces acting
against coal at a time of low natural-gas prices, and there’s
reason to think policy makers might now be encouraged to enact a
tax on  carbon emissions  as part of a broader tax-reform package
to help reduce the deficit.  Such a tax would raise revenue even as it lowered the cost
of treating asthma and heart attacks, cleaning the air and
dealing with drought and sea-level rise caused by emissions-
induced climate change. Today, Nick Robins, an analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc. in London, suggested that a carbon tax starting at
$20 a ton of carbon dioxide equivalent and rising at about 6
percent a year could raise $154 billion by 2021, Bloomberg News
 reported .  As Bloomberg View  has written , many Republicans already
support such a tax -- including two top Romney economic
advisers, Greg Mankiw of  Harvard University  and  Glenn Hubbard  of
 Columbia University .  Like-minded Republicans should be encouraged to put forward
their own proposal for a carbon tax as soon as possible. That
would keep the issue from becoming, again, too closely
identified with left-wing environmentalists and allow it to
build broad support.  (Mary Duenwald is an editor for Bloomberg View.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 