-- Cognizant Boosts Profit View on Financial Services Growth
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-07T21:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/cognizant-boosts-profit-view-on-financial-services-growth.html
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH) ,
a provider of consulting and outsourcing services, reported
third-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates and boosted
its earnings per share forecast for 2012.  Cognizant, which  counts   Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN) 
as customers, is gaining clients seeking to outsource tasks to
low-cost nations amid a slower global economy. Financial-
services revenue grew 7 percent in the third quarter from the
prior period on increased business from the company’s largest
banking clients in  Europe  and the U.S., Gordon Coburn,
Cognizant’s president, said in an interview today.  Chief information officers are relying on the Teaneck, New
Jersey-based company to simultaneously reduce costs and invest
in innovation, Coburn said.  “As long as clients understand the playing field and are
able to make decisions, we do well,” Coburn said. “Right now,
clients understand the playing field and are moving forward with
their businesses, and we become a very important piece of that
puzzle.”  Profit for 2012 will be as much as $3.42 a share, up from a
prior  forecast  of $3.38, according to a statement today.
Analysts on average had estimated $3.39, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Third-quarter net income rose to $276.9 million, or 91
cents a share, from $227.1 million, or 73 cents, a year earlier.
Analysts predicted 87 cents a share.  Portfolio ‘Gaps’  Revenue in the third quarter was $1.89 billion, topping
analysts’ estimates for $1.88 billion. Newer consulting,
business-process outsourcing and technology infrastructure
services comprised 20 percent of third-quarter sales, according
to the statement.  Cognizant didn’t see any deferment of sales or operational
decisions due to uncertainty from the U.S. election, Coburn
said, although increased clarity on regulatory decisions may
help drive business from certain clients.  The company still has “gaps in its portfolio” in  France 
and  Germany  and is searching for acquisitions in the region,
Coburn said. The company is primarily looking at targets with
between $20 million and $80 million in revenue, he said.  “Those are countries where you need a strong local
presence due to cultural and language issues,” he said.  The shares fell 0.6 percent to $66.94 at the close in  New
York  amid a broad market decline that sent the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index down 2.4 percent, the benchmark’s biggest one-day
decline since June. Cognizant has gained 4.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  