-- Colombia to Liquidate Interbolsa Brokerage After Cash Crunch
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-11-07T18:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/colombia-to-liquidate-interbolsa-brokerage-after-cash-crunch-2-.html
Colombian authorities will liquidate
 Interbolsa SA (INTBOL) ’s brokerage, the country’s biggest, after attempts
to find buyers for the cash-strapped company failed, Finance
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said.  Regulators hadn’t been able to sell or merge the brokerage
or find an alternative to liquidation, Cardenas told reporters
in Bogota. Winding down the operations will avoid disruptions in
local debt markets, he said.  Colombian authorities are shoring up trading by providing
liquidity and arranging for  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO) , the country’s
largest bank, to assume control of Interbolsa’s local government
debt operations. Regulators suspended trading in Interbolsa
shares last week and seized its brokerage after it was unable to
meet a payment on a 20 billion peso ($11 million) loan.  “The owners of the brokerage have looked for alternatives,
they looked at clients that were interested in buying the
brokerage, but it wasn’t possible to solve the situation in this
way,” Chief Financial Regulator Gerardo Hernandez told
reporters.  Banco de la Republica offered as much as 300 billion pesos
in  repurchase agreements  today, accepting securities including
corporate bonds as collateral.  ‘Maintained Indefinitely’  The repos are being sold to “give liquidity to brokerages
and prevent problems similar to the ones we are seeing today,”
Hernando Vargas, a central bank official, told reporters. “The
measure will be maintained indefinitely for as long as we
consider necessary.”  The yield on  Colombia ’s peso bonds maturing in 2024 fell
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.18 percent at
12:51 p.m. in Bogota, the biggest drop on a closing basis since
Oct. 19.  The central bank’s measure was “more than necessary” and
will help to calm investors’ nerves, Camila Estrada, the head
analyst at  Helm Bank SA (PFBHELMB) , said in a telephone interview from
Bogota. “We are looking carefully to see what potential
systemic risk there is.”  The financial squeeze was specific to Interbolsa and
doesn’t represent systemwide weakness, Cardenas said in a Nov. 4
interview in Mexico City.  Interbolsa has been suspended from trading since Nov. 2,
the day after tumbling a record 30 percent. The stock has fallen
58 percent in 2012.  The company also has a fund that had more than 2 trillion
pesos of assets under management as of April, according to its
website. Financial regulators said in a statement they are
barring withdrawals until they hold meetings with investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  