-- Colombia Bonds Rise on Liquidity Boost After Interbolsa Collapse
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-11-07T19:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/colombia-bonds-rise-on-liquidity-boost-after-interbolsa-collapse.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds advanced,
pushing yields down the most in two weeks, as the central bank
moved to bolster liquidity after the collapse of Interbolsa SA’s
brokerage.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
bonds due in July 2024 dropped seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 6.18 percent, according to the central
bank. The currency slid 0.1 percent to 1,812.88 per  U.S. dollar ,
paring its rally this year to 6.9 percent.  Colombia’s central bank  offered  today 300 billion pesos
($165 million) in 14-day repurchase agreements, accepting
securities including corporate bonds as collateral. The
announcement came as the government said today it will liquidate
Interbolsa’s brokerage, the country’s biggest, after it failed
to meet a loan payment last week.  “The news on Interbolsa led to concern we’d see a
liquidity squeeze in the market,” said Munir Jalil, the chief
economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Colombia unit. “The central bank
is sending a clear signal it is ready to offer liquidity,
helping especially brokerages that had reduced access through
the previous rules.”  The  repurchase agreements  can be backed by securities
including government peso bonds known as TES, corporate bonds
and debt issued by Banco de la Republica, the central bank said
in a  statement  on its website.  The repos are being sold to provide liquidity to brokerages
and will be maintained “indefinitely for as long as we consider
necessary,” Hernando Vargas, a central bank official, told
reporters in Bogota.  Suspended Trading  Regulators suspended trading in Interbolsa shares last week
and seized its brokerage after it was unable to meet a payment
on a 20 billion peso loan.  Chief Financial Regulator Gerardo Hernandez said yesterday
Bancolombia took over the brokerage’s trading of  government
bonds  to avoid disruptions of the local  debt market .  The decision to liquidate the brokerage was taken to
protect the market and the economy’s stability after its
“viability came into question and there was lack of confidence
from market players that provide liquidity to Interbolsa,”
Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  