-- Commerzbank Worst Among Peers Needs Disposals for Turnaround
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-11-07T16:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/commerzbank-worst-among-peers-needs-disposals-for-turnaround-1-.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  has lost more value
than peers in continental  Europe  outside  Greece  and a swing to
profit in the third quarter is unlikely to boost the shares
unless management cuts costs more quickly.  Germany ’s second-biggest bank lost 95 percent of its value
in the past five years, the most among  Europe’s financial
institutions  outside Ireland and Greece. After an 8.5 percent
rally this quarter, the stock is expected to fall 3.2 percent
over the next 12 months,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Four
of 37 analysts recommend buying the shares.  “Commerzbank has been a sick patient for many years,
burning shareholders capital,”  Christian Hamann , an analyst at
Hamburger Sparkasse in Hamburg, Germany said in a telephone
interview on Nov. 5. “The shares will only recover if its
retail and investment banking gets leaner and its legacy assets
from ship financing and real estate are reduced.”  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  will present a
review of operational activities tomorrow, when the bank
announces third-quarter earnings.  The Frankfurt-based lender has pledged to wind down non-
core risk-weighted assets valued at 67.5 billion euros ($87
billion) after getting an 18.2 billion-euro bailout during the
financial crisis.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  has already embarked on an
overhaul of its business, cutting 1,200 of a targeted 1,993 jobs
by the end of September to help achieve annual savings of 4.5
billion euros by 2015.  ‘No Strategy’  “A clear strategy is missing,”  Christian Muschick , an
analyst with Silvia Quandt Research GmbH in  Frankfurt , said by
telephone two days ago. “Without a strategy, one cannot shape
the bank. It just hasn’t embarked on any big sell-offs.”  Blessing will probably say he’ll reorganize the retail
business, extend branch opening hours and hold costs steady for
four years, the Financial Times reported Nov. 5. Commerzbank may
cut 5,000 to 6,000 jobs, though the bank won’t announce the plan
tomorrow as talks with labor unions are ongoing, Die Zeit
reported today.  German labor union Ver.di warned Commerzbank’s
competitiveness can’t be achieved at the expense of its
employees, in an e-mailed statement today. The union represents
workers at banks and at companies in other  service industries .  Commerzbank’s shares fell 3.2 percent to 1.507 euros at
5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt. Swings in their price are the greatest
among the top 25 banks traded on the Stoxx 600, according to
three-month implied volatility measures.  Nils Happich, spokesman at Commerzbank, declined to comment
on any further restructuring plans the bank has, when contacted
by telephone yesterday.  Back to Profit  Commerzbank is expected to earn 94 million euros in the
third quarter after a loss of 687 million euros a year earlier,
according to the  average estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The bank had a loss last year due to a 798 million-
euro writedown of its Greek debt holdings.  The lender, 25 percent owned by the German government, is
winding down its real estate and public finance unit Eurohypo.
It’s also exiting shipping finance and all commercial real
estate activities to bolster capital and reduce risks.  While Commerzbank repaid 14.3 billion euros of its 18.2
billion bailout, partly by raising 11 billion euros in a two-
step capital increase last year, it has sold only selected
assets. Those include the former headquarters of  Dresdner Bank 
in Frankfurt for an undisclosed amount and its Ukrainian unit
Bank Forum, which resulted in a 286 million-euro charge in the
second quarter.  Blessing is exploring the sale of the custodian business,
which may fetch more than 200 million euros, two people with
knowledge of the matter said on Oct. 22.  ‘More Challenging’  “The quality of Commerzbank’s portfolio does not seem to
be good, which makes it hard to sell without a discount,”
Muschik said.  Commerzbank once ran the world’s third-largest shipping
portfolio and was Europe’s biggest commercial real estate and
state financier.  In September, Blessing forecast a “more challenging”
second half as lower client activity and regulatory costs
weighed on earnings.  The bank’s revenue is also being squeezed by narrower
margins in retail banking after competition increased and
 interest rates  fell.  Commerzbank gets 33 percent of its revenue from retail
clients, according to second-quarter earnings. Net interest
income from lending to consumers and businesses fell an annual
26 percent to 1.3 billion euros in the period.  Deutsche Bank last week unexpectedly reported a three
percent advance in third-quarter profit to 747 million euros as
it made more money outside Germany, increasing global investment
banking revenue to 58 percent of total revenue.  Business Environment  “The bank needs higher interest rates and more client
activity in the retail unit,”  Dirk Becker , an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets in Frankfurt, said in a telephone interview two
days ago. “It can only wait for the business environment to
improve.”  Margin pressure on banks operating in Germany is raising
concern about the sustainability of some franchises, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report on Oct. 19. Further
deterioration of “asset quality” is expected, especially among
lenders focused on “highly cyclical sectors” such as
commercial real estate and shipping, Moody’s said.  Blessing is unlikely to come up with a strategy that will
satisfy shareholders when he presents his review tomorrow,
 Hamburger Sparkasse ’s Hamann said.  “This won’t be the big leap forward,” he said. “The bank
has a bad track record of presenting strategies and its
credibility is strongly shaken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  