-- Commerzbank to Invest 2 Billion Euros, Dividend Unlikely
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-11-08T13:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/commerzbank-to-invest-more-than-2-billion-euros-in-core-bank.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  said it will probably
withhold dividends for this year and 2013 as it invests 2
billion euros ($2.6 billion) in consumer and corporate banking
and repays funds to the  European Central Bank . The shares fell.  Commerzbank will make the investment by 2016 and will pay
back its first three-year Longer-Term Refinancing Operation, or
LTRO, to the ECB in the first quarter, earlier than it
anticipated. The announcement of the plans by Chief Executive
Officer Martin Blessing today came as the lender reported a
profit of 78 million euros for the third quarter, less than
analysts had estimated.  Germany ’s second-biggest bank is among European financial
institutions restructuring operations and being forced by
regulators to hold more capital amid the debt crisis. It hasn’t
paid shareholders a dividend since 2008 and is exiting shipping
and property finance to focus on consumer and corporate banking.  “There can be no return to ‘business as usual’ in the
banking industry,” Blessing, 49, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We want a new bank that unites modern technologies and
traditional values.”  The bank’s shares fell 3.6 percent to 1.453 euros at 2:08
p.m. in  Frankfurt , the biggest fall on the  Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index , which tracks 38 stocks
across the continent.  Write-Offs  Commerzbank will reduce “non-core assets” by more than 40
percent by 2016, Blessing told investors at a meeting in
Frankfurt. The shakedown will help the bank achieve targets of a
pretax return on equity of more than 10 percent and reduce its
cost-to-income ratio, a key measure of profitability, to about
60 percent by that year. he said.  The bank’s third-quarter profit compared with a loss of 687
million euros a year earlier, when it wrote down 798 million
euros of Greek debt holdings. It was expected to earn 83 million
euros, according to the average estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Commerzbank will wind down its public finance, commercial
real estate and shipping portfolios, bundled at the non-core
assets unit, “essentially without any sales.” The business
posted an operating loss of 476 million euros in the third
quarter, the bank said.  Blessing said the lender will turn to retail banking,
increasing customers by 1 million to a total of 12 million and
boosting operating profit there to 500 million euros in 2016
from 215 million euros in the first nine months of this year.  “They’re giving investors a growth perspective with their
retail unit,”  Dirk Becker , an analyst with Kepler Capital
Markets in Frankfurt, said by telephone. “It’s tough to make
money in German retail.”  Job Cuts  Commerzbank will keep costs steady, also making savings by
restructuring its branch network and cutting jobs. Blessing
didn’t say how many employees the bank will fire. It will incur
expenses for the overhaul, according to the statement.  Blessing may fire 5,000 to 6,000 employees, Die Zeit
newspaper reported yesterday.  Bank officials are in negotiations with workers’
representatives, he said. Ver.di, a labor union for service
industry workers, said yesterday Commerzbank shouldn’t fire
employees as a means to make it more competitive.  The lender will also restructure its private banking unit
by investing 1 billion euros by 2016. Operating profit there
slumped to 41 million euros in the third quarter from 71 million
euros a year earlier, it said.  Corporate Lending  Blessing said he wants to attract new clients at its
Mittelstandsbank corporate lending business. Third-quarter
operating profit at the unit rose to 395 million euros from 344
million euros a year earlier. That beat the 346 million-euro
average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Despite the overall difficult market conditions we have
achieved a solid result in the core bank,” Blessing said.  Commerzbank will bolster its Core Tier 1 capital adequacy
ratio, a measure of financial strength, under phased-in Basel
III rules “to substantially higher than 9 percent” until 2016,
it said in the statement. The bank reported a Core Tier 1 ratio
of 12.2 percent in the third-quarter earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  