-- Corporate Bond Risk Rises in Europe After Draghi Growth Warning
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-11-07T17:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/corporate-bond-risk-rises-in-europe-after-draghi-growth-warning.html
The cost of insuring against default
on corporate debt rose, reversing an earlier decline, after
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the fiscal
crisis is starting to hurt  Germany , Europe’s largest economy.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings climbed as
much as 18 basis points to 527, before trading at 525 at 12:09
p.m. in New York. An increase signals deterioration in
perceptions of credit quality.  Economic activity in the euro area, to which Germany
exports 40 percent of its goods, will remain weak and keep
inflation low, Draghi said at a conference in  Frankfurt  today.
Investors are also concerned that political gridlock in
Washington may stymie growth after President  Barack Obama  was
re-elected and Democrats retained control of the Senate, but
fell short of the 60-vote “super-majority” needed to advance
most legislation and Republicans kept their majority in the
House of Representatives.  “Draghi’s speech today did not impress the markets and lot
of it’s going to come down to  Europe ,” Peter Tchir, the founder
of New York-based TF Market Advisors said in a telephone
interview. “People realized either way not a whole lot’s going
to be done.”  U.S. lawmakers will face divisive tax-and-spending issues
after years of unsuccessfully trying to reduce the budget
deficit. They also may have to address the so-called fiscal
cliff of tax increases and spending cuts that will start in
January if Congress doesn’t act in a lame-duck session beginning
this month.  Bank Debt  The cost of insuring bank debt rose on concern that
Democrats including Elizabeth Warren, who beat incumbent
Republican Scott Brown in  Massachusetts , may advance financial
industry regulation, Tchir said.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers rose six basis points to 175 and the
subordinated index climbed eight to 304.  “There was some hope Republicans would have backed down,
but with some of the people sent to  Washington , especially
Warren, there will be an impetus to accelerate the push back on
banks,” Tchir said.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose three basis points to 129.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.8 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  