-- Credit Risk Falls as Greek Optimism Adds to Obama’s U.S. Victory
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   P a u l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-07T12:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/credit-risk-falls-as-greek-optimism-adds-to-obama-s-u-s-victory.html
Credit markets rallied for a second
day in  Europe  as  Barack Obama  was re-elected U.S. president and
investors speculated that  Greece  will meet conditions for the
next instalment of its bailout.  Sanofi (SAN) ,  France ’s largest drugmaker, Dutch energy companies
Enexis Holding NV and Alliander NV and U.S. construction-
equipment maker Terex Corp. were among issuers taking advantage
of the boost in sentiment to sell bonds. The Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index of credit-default swaps linked to the debt of 50
mostly junk-rated European companies fell two basis points to a
more than two-week low of 505 as of 12:06 p.m. in  London .  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is today seeking
parliamentary approval for the austerity measures needed to
obtain 31 billion euros ($40 billion) of international aid
before a budget vote due to take place by Nov. 12. Across the
Atlantic, Obama beat challenger  Mitt Romney  by a larger-than-
expected margin to become only the second Democrat since
 Franklin Roosevelt  to win a second term as president.  “Markets may express some relief that a long-drawn-out
recount isn’t needed” in the U.S.,  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-
income analyst at Investec Bank Plc in London, wrote in a note
to clients. “Our central scenario sees the Greek government win
the two votes this week.”  First Bond  Sanofi is selling its first euro-denominated bonds since
September 2009 and its first fundraising in any currency in more
than a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Paris-based pharmaceuticals company is raising 750
million euros from the five-year transaction, according to a
person familiar with the deal, who asked not to be identified
because they’re not authorized to speak about it. Spokesman
Jean-Marc Podvin said the proceeds would be used for general
corporate purposes including repayment of existing debt.  Terex (TEX) , which bought German crane and harbour-equipment
maker Demag Cranes AG in August, is issuing the equivalent of
$850 million from its deal, a person with knowledge of the
transaction said. Westport, Connecticut-based Terex will sell
about $530 million and 250 million euros of bonds due in 2021 in
a deal that will fund the buyback of existing 8 percent junior
notes, the person said.  Enexis reduced the interest it’s offering on its 500
million euros of eight-year bonds, a person familiar with the
terms said. The company, which last sold debt in January, is
marketing the notes at a yield of 55 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, down from an initial 55 to 65 basis-point
spread, the person said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Alliander Deal  Alliander, which has already raised 800 million euros from
bond markets this year, plans to sell 10-year senior notes, a
banker on the deal said. The EFSF, the European Union’s
temporary bailout fund, and the  Slovak Republic  are among other
borrowers in the market today.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 investment-grade companies fell one basis point to 125,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Bank credit risk also
declined, with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps tied
to the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers down two basis
points at 166, the lowest since Oct. 22.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  in London at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  