-- Croatian, Slovenian Experts Reach Compromise on NLB Dispute
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-11-07T14:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/croatian-slovenian-experts-reach-compromise-on-nlb-dispute-1-.html
Croatia  and Slovenia made progress in
solving a banking dispute, stemming from the breakup of
 Yugoslavia , that has threatened to delay Croatia’s planned July
2013 European Union entry.  Zdenko Rogic and France Arhar, the two countries’ financial
experts, reached a “compromise solution” that will be
submitted to both governments,  Vesna Pusic , Croatia’s Foreign
Minister, told reporters in Zagreb today.  “The solution is not ideal for Croatia, but it’s
reasonable,” Pusic said, declining to elaborate on details.  Croatia has barred Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., Slovenia’s
largest bank, from operating in Croatia until the issue is
settled over money owed to Croat savers from the bank’s Yugoslav
predecessor. Croatia, which took over the debt, is seeking 270
million euros ($344 million) of former deposits held by about
300,000 former savers from Croatia. Slovenia said last month it
will ratify Croatia’s EU membership only after the dispute is
resolved.  Another 130,000 Croat savers, who after the breakup of
former Yugoslavia chose not to transfer their claims to the
Croatian government, are separately seeking about $204 million
from the Ljubljana-based bank.  The  European Court of Human Rights  in Strasbourg yesterday
ruled in favor of two Bosnian citizens who sued Slovenia for
lost savings, setting a precedent for other former Yugoslav
savers outside Slovenia who have been trying to recoup their
money.  A form of “class action” litigation, the pilot-judgment
procedure has been in use by the Court since 2004 and is a means
of dealing with large groups of identical cases that derive from
the same systemic problem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  