-- Crude Futures Drop on Greek Austerity Vote, Rising U.S. Supply
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-11-07T12:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/crude-futures-drop-on-greek-austerity-vote-rising-u-s-supply.html
Oil fell from a two-week high in  New
York  amid speculation that U.S. crude inventories rose last week
and as  Greece  prepared to vote on austerity measures.  Futures slid as much as 1.6 percent after surging 3.6
percent yesterday. Greek parliamentarians will vote later today
on proposed spending cuts amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis
may curb demand for fuels. U.S. oil stockpiles probably
increased last week for a fourth time in five weeks, an Energy
Department report may show today.  “Oil’s drop is reflecting some caution ahead of the Greek
vote tonight,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “There is concern that the austerity package
will not pass the parliament and Greece will default as a
result.”  West Texas Intermediate for December delivery fell as much
as $1.41 to $87.30 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $87.36 at 12:48 p.m. London
time. The contract rose $3.06 yesterday to $88.71, the highest
close since Oct. 22. Prices have declined 11 percent this year.  Brent for December settlement slid $1.36 to $109.71 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract climbed
3.1 percent yesterday. The European benchmark crude was at a
premium of $22.47 to New York-traded WTI, compared with $22.36
yesterday.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras seeks parliamentary
approval today for budget cuts to unlock bailout funds amid the
third general strike in six weeks.  Greek Vote  The 238 pages of austerity measures, ranging from raising
the  retirement age  two years to 67 to eliminating Christmas and
holiday payments for pensioners, will be debated from 10 a.m.
with a roll-call vote expected after 8 p.m. Athens time.
Approval of the legislation is the first of the parliamentary
votes required by Nov. 12 to unlock a 31 billion-euro ($40
billion) portion of international aid.  Oil in New York is declining after reaching technical
resistance along its middle Bollinger Band yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator is at $89.28 a
barrel today. Futures last month reversed a rally after failing
to settle above the same band, signaling sell orders may be
clustered around it.  U.S. voters returned  Barack Obama  as president of the
world’s biggest crude-consuming nation. Obama’s victory reduces
the likelihood that the U.S. will expand oil and gas drilling
offshore and on federal land. The president threatened to veto a
bill passed by the  House of Representatives  in July that would
have almost doubled the number of oil and gas lease sales
through 2015. Romney said he supported increased drilling.  U.S. Inventories  “Unless the  U.S. economy  revives, there’s unlikely to be a
big jump in prices,” said Dharmesh Bhatia, an associate vice
president at Kotak Commodities Services Ltd. in Mumbai. “Demand
needs to go up. Prices may rise to $95 to $96 a barrel during
the U.S. winter season, but will fall back again.”  U.S. crude  inventories  probably rose 2 million barrels to
375 million last week as  Hurricane Sandy  shut refineries on the
East Coast, according to a Bloomberg News survey before an
Energy Department report today. Gasoline stockpiles fell by 1.5
million barrels. Supplies of distillates, a category that
includes diesel and heating oil, declined 1.25 million, the
 median estimate  of 11 analysts showed.  Gasoline demand slid 2.4 percent last week to an eight-
month low as the storm disrupted travel and supplies, MasterCard
Inc. said in a report yesterday.  Stockpiles of the motor fuel rose 1.38 million barrels to
201 million last week, the  American Petroleum Institute  said
yesterday. Crude inventories slid 27,000 barrels to 371.7
million, and distillate supplies increased 173,000 barrels to
118.4 million. Crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for the New York contract, fell 430,000 barrels
to about 43 million, according to the industry group.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its inventory
report at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington . The government requires that
reports be filed with the agency for its weekly survey. The API
collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  