-- Armstrong Investigating Panel Nearer, Cycling Body Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-11-07T14:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/cycling-body-says-coates-proposed-members-of-investigating-panel.html
Cycling’s governing body said the
president of the International Council of Arbitration for Sport
suggested members for a independent panel that will investigate
doping in cycling and the influence of  Lance Armstrong .  John Coates , the head of the ICAS, has suggested a senior
lawyer to lead the probe, who will be joined by a forensic
accountant and a sports administrator, the International Cycling
Union, known by the French acronym UCI, said today in an e-
mailed statement. The report will be published by June 1.  Armstrong was stripped of his record seven  Tour de France 
titles by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency in August. The American
won each edition between 1999 and 2005, and the USADA banned him
for life and took away the victories following an investigation
into doping throughout his career.  Colorado Springs , Colorado-based USADA cited a career
“fueled start to finish by doping” by the 41-year-old
Armstrong, revealing the results of its investigation in a 202-
page summary that included sworn testimony from 26 people,
including 15 riders with direct knowledge of doping activity on
Armstrong’s U.S. Postal Service pro cycling team.  Armstrong, who throughout his career denied doping and said
he never failed a drug test, was banned after opting not to
contest USADA’s decision before an arbitration board.  External Committee  Last month the UCI said it wouldn’t appeal the rider’s ban,
and would ask an outside sports body to set up an external
commission to look into allegations about how the cycling
authority handled issues relating to Armstrong, which include
accepting financial donations.  The commission will be asked to find ways to ban people
caught doping from participating in any part of professional
cycling, the UCI said at the time.  Coates is an Australian member of the  International Olympic
Committee . He is the head of ICAS, which oversees the Court of
Arbitration for Sport, the world’s highest sports court. The UCI
today didn’t give details of his nominees to the panel, saying
they’ll have no connection to cycling.  The UCI also said it would form an advisory panel next year
drawn from various participants in the sport to find ways to
reform cycling and bring it to a wider audience.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  