-- Czech Premier Wins Confidence as Tax Revolt Weakens Cabinet
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-11-07T12:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/czech-premier-wins-confidence-as-tax-revolt-weakens-cabinet-1-.html
Czech Premier Petr Necas won a
confidence vote tied to an unpopular tax increase after
suppressing a revolt among his lawmakers that weakened the
government as it pursues budget cuts.  The lower house approved a bill containing 22 billion
koruna ($1.1 billion) of measures to reduce the budget  deficit 
to less than the European Union limit next year. Necas mustered
backing of 101 lawmakers in today’s vote that was tied to a
confidence motion. A group of ruling lawmakers, who had opposed
some tax increases in the plan, stepped aside to allow for the
approval of the bill in the 200-seat chamber.  With the country facing the prospects of the longest
 recession  on record, Necas is trying to avoid the fate of
European leaders who were ousted as they pushed austerity
measures that stunted economies from  Romania  to  Spain . The
premier, who credits previous cuts with helping to reduce
borrowing costs, is likely to meet more difficulties with his
austerity measures as a defection of one rebelling lawmaker
pushed the government into a minority.  “Horse trading is to become a feature of any important
vote in parliament,” Otilia Simkova, an analyst at Eurasia
Group in  London  who had predicted the government to survive the
confidence vote, said in an e-mail. “This bodes poorly for
government’s ability to implement any key legislation in the
future as well as its overall stability.  Record-Low Yields  The yield on five-year koruna bonds fell two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to a record-low 0.72 percent today,
according to generic data compiled by Bloomberg. The central
bank cut its  benchmark   interest rate  to near zero on Nov. 1,
responding to falling household consumption that has caused the
economy to shrink the last three quarters and tamed inflation.  The government needs a simple majority to push through
bills in the lower house and may seek backing from a group of
lawmakers who were formerly in ruling parties. Necas will
probably endure more resistance from the Senate in which the
opposition holds a majority and vowed to reject the latest
fiscal package.  With 99 lower-house mandates, the ruling coalition lacks
the 101 votes in the 200-seat chamber to override a veto by the
Senate or President Vaclav Klaus. Klaus, an economist who
founded Necas’s party two decades ago after the fall of
communism, has criticized the tax bill as hurting growth.  Six Rebels  Six of Necas’s lawmakers joined the opposition on Sept. 5
to reject the bill, which includes raising  sales-tax  rates and a
new levy for high earners.  One of the deputies has since left Necas’s party, while
three gave up their parliamentary mandates today before the
vote.  ‘‘All in all, while the risk of an early general election
has eased, it has not disappeared,”  Jaromir Sindel , an
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Prague, said in an e-mail today.  At a party convention last weekend, Necas defeated a last-
minute contestant from the group of deputies who reject tax
increases to remain the chairman of the Civic Democrats, or ODS.  The new package will maintain investor confidence by
cutting the fiscal deficit to within the EU’s limit of 3 percent
of gross domestic product next year, Necas says.  The Cabinet has cut investment, raised the sales tax and
curbed spending on public wages. The budget shortfall narrowed
to 3.3 percent of GDP last year from 4.8 percent in 2010. The
 Finance Ministry  estimates it at 3.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  