-- Dana Gas Restructures $1 Billion Bond to Avert Asset Seizure
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-11-07T10:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/dana-gas-reaches-accord-to-restructure-1-billion-islamic-bonds.html
     Nov. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Dana Gas PJSC, which missed payments
on nearly $1 billion of Islamic bonds last week, reached a
restructuring deal with sukukholders including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
averting a potential seizure of its Egyptian energy assets.  The United Arab Emirates-based fuel producer has an in-
principle agreement with creditors and will convert the Islamic
bonds into an ordinary and a convertible sukuk with “revised
economic terms,” the Sharjah-based company said today in a
statement to the Abu Dhabi stock market. Holders of the Islamic
bond or sukuk will also receive a partial cash payment.  The missed payment on Oct. 31 prompted speculation that
debt-holders may seek to seize the company’s gas fields in
 Egypt . BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, and London-
based  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM)  own more than 50 percent of the notes,
according to two people familiar with the restructuring, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.  “The outcome is positive and reassuring to shareholders
and also important on the implication of the credibility of the
debt capital market in the U.A.E.,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin,
managing director of  Abu Dhabi  Financial Services Co., the
brokerage unit of National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC. “If that
failed, it would have had a huge negative implication on the
future of companies coming to market.”  Sukuk Rose  Dana Gas’ sukuk rose for a second day to 65.82 cents to the
dollar yesterday, after falling 16 percent last week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares  advanced 4.9 percent
to 43 fils, set for the highest close since Oct. 30, at 2:05
p.m. in Abu Dhabi.  Some companies and state-owned enterprises in the U.A.E.
teetered on the brink of default at the height of the global
financial crisis. Dubai World, one of the emirate’s holding
companies, roiled global markets in 2009 after seeking a
standstill on about $25 billion of debt.  Sukuk holders were to get 19,077 shares for every $10,000
of bonds at a conversion price of 1.93 dirhams for each share in
the old agreement, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dana Gas made a profit payment due on Oct. 30 and will
announce details of new terms after a so-called lock-up
agreement is reached, it said. The deal envisages that $80
million of the sukuk currently held by the company will be
canceled. The company said Nov. 5 investors need to confirm
whether they want the trust holding the assets to be broken up.  ‘Creditor-Friendly Deal’  “On the face of it, it looks to be a creditor-friendly
deal and a 180 degree turnaround from the company’s last stance
to its creditors,” Ahmad Alanani, Middle East director at
Exotix Ltd. in Dubai, said by phone. “The devil is in the
detail so we will reserve final judgement until then.”  Political instability in Egypt and  Iraq ’s Kurdish region,
Dana Gas’ biggest sources of revenue, led to payment delays this
year, hurting the company’s profit, which fell 27 percent in the
third quarter.  The prospects for receiving outstanding payments from
Iraq’s Kurdish regional government have improved and political
stability returned to Egypt with the election of a president in
June. Ashti Hawrami, the Kurdish natural resources minister,
said Sept. 30 that the Iraqi government informed him it would
start paying money on that day to  oil companies  pumping crude in
the northern region.  “This is a step in the right direction,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based brokerage Al Fajr
Securities LLC. “However, investors would like further
information on the convertible sukuk as far as the amount and
the conversion price.”  Dana Gas appointed Deutsche Bank AG, Blackstone Group LP
and Latham & Watkins LLP to advise on the restructuring, while
sukuk-holders hired investment bank Moelis & Co. and law firm
Linklaters LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  