-- David Koch Gave $50 Holiday Tips at 740 Park Avenue: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-11-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/david-koch-gave-50-holiday-tips-at-740-park-avenue-tv.html
The billionaires living at 740 Park
Avenue on  Manhattan ’s Upper East Side are, as a former doorman
puts it in Alex Gibney’s new documentary, a “high-tempered”
bunch.  And that’s the start and finish of any understatement in the
trenchant, dishy broadside “ Park Avenue: Money, Power and the
American Dream .”  A big, hulking metaphor for  income inequality , 740 Park (not
to be confused with ABC’s series, “666 Park Avenue”) houses the
greatest concentration of billionaires in the country. A 10-
minute limo ride away, sections of the South Bronx have
unemployment levels of 19 percent and a local food pantry runs
out of supplies 15 minutes after its doors open.  Once home to John D. Rockefeller Jr. and a young Jacqueline Bouvier, the 31-unit building now shelters, among others, Koch
Industries cofounder David Koch; the final Merrill Lynch CEO
 John Thain ; Blackstone Group CEO Stephen A. Schwarzman; and
hedge fund manager J.  Ezra Merkin .  With the savvy indignation he brought to “ Enron: The
Smartest Guys in the Room ,” Gibney lambastes the power brokers
he says have “rigged the game” with unfair tax policies,
political influence and unchecked greed.  Gross Book  Loosely based on author  Michael Gross ’s “740 Park: The Story
of the World’s Richest Apartment Building,” Gibney’s hour-long
film traces current disparity to the consumer protection
crusades of the 1970s -- or, more specifically, to corporate
America’s take-no-prisoners response to those crusades.  With co-writers Chad Beck and Adam Bolt, Gibney leaps from
CEO salaries, Wall Street bonuses and carried-interest loopholes
to oil company profits and corporate lobbyists with free rein on
the political circuit.  “Money is being used to buy results,” says  Jack Abramoff ,
who knows a thing or two about the subject (and is the focus of
another Gibney film, “ Casino Jack and the United States of
Money ”). “That’s how I used money, and I knew what I was doing.”  But the film’s ace is 740 Park itself, an imposing limestone
fortress built in 1929.  Gibney says the building is now dominated by the “hedge fund
guys” who have widened the gap between rich and richest.  None of the billionaires agreed to appear in the film,
freeing Gibney of any equal-time diplomacy. His disdain goes as
unchecked as Thain’s $1.2 million office renovations at the
failing Merrill Lynch.  Lousy Tipper  “The cheapest person overall was  David Koch ,” the former
doorman tells Gibney, his voice altered and his face in shadow.
“We would load up his trucks -- two vans usually -- every
weekend for the Hamptons.  “In and out, in and out, heavy bags. We would never get a
tip from Mr. Koch. We would never get a smile from Mr. Koch.”  Koch did, however, hand out Christmas bonuses. Each doorman
got a check for $50.  “Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American Dream” airs
Monday, Nov. 12 on PBS’s “Independent Lens” at 10 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: ***1/2  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on food and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:  Greg Evans  at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 