-- Democrat Donnelly Wins Indiana Senate Race Over Mourdock
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-11-07T02:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/democrat-donnelly-wins-indiana-senate-race-over-mourdock.html
Democrat Joe Donnelly defeated
 Richard Mourdock  for an open U.S. Senate seat in  Indiana , one of
Republicans’ must-win races in their effort to gain control of
the chamber.  The contest between Mourdock, the state treasurer, and
Donnelly, a three-term U.S. congressman, gave Democrats an
opportunity to claim a long-held Republican seat. Mourdock, 61,
an anti-tax Tea Party favorite, used an anti-Washington message
to defeat six-term Republican Senator Richard Lugar by 20
percentage points in the party primary in May.  Much of the race hinged on whether Mourdock could win over
voters who supported Lugar for 36 years. Lugar declined to
campaign for or endorse Mourdock. The senator’s spokesman, Andy
Fisher, said Mourdock “perpetuated misleading statements”
about Lugar during the primary campaign.  Further imperiling his candidacy, Mourdock said in a debate
with Donnelly, 57, two weeks before the election that pregnancy
caused by rape is something “God intended” and doesn’t justify
an abortion.  Donnelly’s campaign website called Mourdock’s statement
part of a “troubling pattern of extreme positions.”  Mourdock stood by his position while apologizing for his
“less than fully articulate use of words.” The fallout spilled
into the presidential campaign as Democrats called on Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  to denounce Mourdock’s comments
and revoke his endorsement of the Senate candidate.  Romney’s campaign said he disagreed with Mourdock’s
statement though he wouldn’t take back his endorsement.  Andrew Horning, the Libertarian candidate who hasn’t held
elective office, may have also hurt Mourdock. He peeled off
about 6 percent of the vote that might have gone for the
Republican. During a series of debates during the race, Horning
mocked the wars in Afghanistan and  Iraq  as an effort to root out
individuals who wear “exploding underpants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  