-- Democrat Menendez Defeats Republican Joseph Kyrillos
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-11-07T04:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/democrat-menendez-defeats-republican-joseph-kyrillos.html
Democratic U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez  was re-elected in New Jersey, turning back a challenge
from Republican state lawmaker Joseph Kyrillos.  Menendez, 58, has served in the Senate since 2006, when he
was appointed to fill the vacancy left by  Jon Corzine ’s election
as governor. He was re-elected later that year. Kyrillos, 52, is
a commercial real-estate broker and state senator who has served
in the New Jersey legislature since 1988.  The Democratic incumbent held a large lead over Kyrillos in
opinion polls before the election and outspent his opponent.  “In this election I looked straight at you in the camera
and told you this is where I came from, this is who I am, this
is what I have done for you the last six years in the  U.S.
Senate ,” Menendez said after polls closed, according to the
Associated Press.  Kyrillos said Menendez’s superior fundraising was a factor
in his victory. The incumbent had $8.3 million on hand heading
into October, while Kyrillos had $1.6 million, the AP said,
citing federal filings. Yet the challenger said he didn’t regret
running.  “Tonight we end this great effort,” Kyrillos said in his
concession speech, the AP reported. “I’ve loved this campaign.
I’ve loved every minute of it.”  President  Barack Obama  also won in New Jersey to claim its
14 electoral votes.  The New Jersey Senate race mirrored the presidential
election as the candidates sparred over whose policies would
revive the economy and assist middle-income earners.  Menendez said he sought to reduce taxes for the middle
class while increasing taxes on the highest earners to help
close the  U.S. budget deficit . Kyrillos backed cutting
individual and corporate taxes, saying that would spur
investment and revive the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net 
STONJ1 US <Equity> 