-- Did Sandy Deal Romney a Lethal Blow?
-- B y   T o b i n   H a r s h a w
-- 2012-11-07T03:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/did-sandy-deal-romney-a-lethal-blow-.html
Did Hurricane Sandy deal a crippling
blow to the  Mitt Romney  campaign?  “If you hadn’t had the storm,”  said Karl Rove , “there would
have been more of a chance for the Romney campaign to talk about
the deficit, the debt, the economy.”  Bill O’Reilly  agreed that the weather helped President
 Barack Obama : “That image of Hurricane Sandy overrode the Libya
story . . . he got more positive currency out of Sandy than
negative currency on Libya.”  Rush Limbaugh even hinted at  a conspiracy : “I’ll tell you
something, that whole Sandy narrative, that it helped Obama. Who
started that? It wasn’t our guys. That was the media that
started that, kept hoping and praying that Sandy would give
Obama -- but they knew last week that Obama needed a boost.”  Many Democrats have dismissed this as so much whining.
“Republicans have already found their scapegoat:  Hurricane
Sandy ,” wrote  Sahil Kapur  at Talking Points Memo. “The argument
misstates the timing of the Romney surge. While the first
presidential debate early October led to an unquestionable
polling swing in Romney’s favor, scores of national surveys
showed the race stabilizing by mid-October, well before the
storm hit.”  Others speculated that the storm should actually have aided
the Republican side of the wealth gap. “A certain amount of bad
weather on election day helps conservatives in every democracy,”
noted the  Financial Times’s Lex column . “In crude terms, car-
driving conservative retirees still turn out in driving rain,
when bus-taking lower-income workers just back from a night
shift are more likely to give rain-soaked polls a miss.”  So what really happened? A clue can be found in a Politico
story inexplicably headlined “Exit polls 2012: Hurricane Sandy
not a factor.” According to CBS News’s exit polling,  Emily
Schultheis  reported, “26 percent named Sandy as an ’important’
factor, and 15 percent said it was the ’most important’ factor
in their decision.” That was early exit polling, but if it
holds, it’s hard to say the storm wasn’t a factor.  And at least one member of the East Coast media
establishment has  some sympathy  for the challenger. “If Sandy
didn’t cost Romney the election, it may well have cost him his
last shot of winning,” wrote the New Yorker’s John Cassidy. “At
the very moment he needed to appeal to undecided voters and make
up ground in places like Iowa and  Ohio , the storm knocked him
off out of the headlines and robbed his campaign of any momentum
it may have had.”  (Tobin Harshaw writes editorials on national security for
Bloomberg View. Follow him  on Twitter .)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 