-- Fox Loses Bid to Block Dish’s AutoHop Ad-Skipping Service
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/dish-says-it-wins-ruling-in-news-corp-suit-over-autohop.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting unit
lost its bid to block  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s ad-free primetime
television service and its so-called AutoHop features before a
copyright-infringement lawsuit has been resolved.  Dish and Fox issued separate statements yesterday saying
that U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee in Los Angeles had ruled on
Fox’s request for a preliminary injunction. The ruling was filed
under seal and couldn’t be independently confirmed.  “We are gratified the court found the copies Dish makes
for its AutoHop service constitute copyright infringement and
breach the parties’ contract,” Fox said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are disappointed the court erred in finding that
Fox’s damages were not suitable for a preliminary injunction.”  Fox Broadcasting Co.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal and  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  separately sued Dish, the No. 2 U.S. satellite-television
provider, claiming the service will destroy the “advertising
supported ecosystem” that provides free, over-the-air primetime
television. Dish sued the networks in New York, seeking a court
ruling that it isn’t infringing copyrights.  Richard Stone, a lawyer for Fox, said at a Sept. 21 hearing
that other distributors, including  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S.
satellite-television provider, will be forced to follow suit if
Dish’s ad-free primetime television service isn’t blocked.  ‘Customer Choice’  Yesterday’s ruling “is a victory for common sense and
customer choice,” R. Stanton Dodge, general counsel for
Englewood, Colorado-based  Dish Network , said in an e-mailed
statement. “The ruling underscores the U.S. Supreme Court’s
‘Betamax’ decision, with the court confirming a consumer’s right
to enjoy television as they want, when they want.”  Fox said it intends to appeal the judge’s denial of their
request for a preliminary injunction.  Dish introduced its Hopper digital video recorder in March.
It can record all the major networks’ primetime shows and store
them for eight days after their initial broadcast. AutoHop,
introduced in May, allows viewers, with the touch of a button,
to skip all the commercials on recorded shows automatically,
without having to fast-forward through them.  The case is Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network, 12-04529,
U.S. District Court, Central District of California ( Los
Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  