-- Djokovic Overcomes Murray at ATP Finals in U.S. Open Rematch
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-07T18:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/djokovic-overcomes-murray-at-atp-finals-in-u-s-open-rematch-1-.html
Novak Djokovic  fought back from a set
down to defeat Andy Murray at the  ATP World Tour Finals  in an
error-strewn rematch of the U.S. Open tennis final.  The world No. 1 defeated third-ranked Murray from Britain
4-6, 6-3, 7-5 in the group phase of the season-ending tournament
at London’s O2 arena.  “We really pushed each other until the end, until the last
ball,” Djokovic, the runner-up in New York, said in a court-
side interview. “It could have gone either way.”  The Serbian right-hander produced 23 winners and 40
unforced errors, while Murray had 28 winners and 44 mistakes.
It was the seventh meeting this season between the two, who
first played each other as 13-year-olds.  The  ATP World Tour Finals , won last year for a record sixth
time by Switzerland’s Roger Federer, feature a round-robin
format. The world’s best eight singles players and doubles pairs
are divided into two groups of four, with the top two in each
section moving into the knockout semifinals.  Djokovic, who now leads Murray 10-7, will move to the
semifinals should  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga defeat former
Wimbledon finalist Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic in the
other group match later today. Murray and Djokovic both won
their opening matches in Group A earlier in the week.  ‘Walk the Dog’  Djokovic won’t be watching the Tsonga-Berdych contest.  “I have to walk the dog tonight,” he said. He’s been seen
at the O2 arena this week walking his poodle, Pierre.  Murray is having a breakthrough season. After making his
first Wimbledon final in July, he won the gold medal at the
 London Olympics  in August. In September, he outlasted Djokovic
in a five-set encounter lasting almost five hours at the U.S.
Open to end Britain’s 76-year long wait for a male Grand Slam
singles champion.  Australian Open winner Djokovic, who will finish the season
as the top-ranked player on the ATP World Tour rankings for a
second consecutive year, was forced on the back foot by Murray
from the start today.  Stepping inside the court to take the ball early, the 25-
year-old right-hander from  Scotland  dictated the rallies. He
broke serve in the second game to a huge cheer from the crowd
with a forehand pass.  Watched by his coach and eight-time Grand Slam singles
champion Ivan Lendl, Murray served out of the first set with a
love game on a backhand error by his opponent.  Regained Initiative  Djokovic regained the initiative early in the second set.
Reading his opponent’s serve better than in the first, he broke
for a 4-2 lead as a serve-and-volley combination by Murray
floated long. Play went into a decider after Djokovic easily
held serve to clinch the second set.  A backhand error handed Djokovic an early break in the
third as Murray gestured angrily.  After saving break points at 3-1 and 4-2 down, Murray
seemed to have regained momentum when he broke back for 4-4. The
recovery was short-lived as he handed Djokovic the break back at
5-5 with two ground-stroke errors.  Serving for the match at 6-5, Djokovic saved two break
points before winning on a backhand error by Murray.  “The last two minutes of the match probably is what
decided it,” Murray told reporters. “He broke from 15-40, and
then I had 15-40 next game and didn’t break, so that was the
moment that decided the match.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  London ’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  