-- Dollar, Yen Gain Amid U.S. Fiscal Cliff, Europe Concerns
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-11-08T08:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/dollar-yen-gain-amid-u-s-fiscal-cliff-europe-concern.html
The yen strengthened as investors
sought refuge assets amid concern re-elected President  Barack Obama  and the  U.S. Congress  will struggle to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff.  The euro traded near a two-month low versus the dollar
before a European Central Bank meeting today after ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said Europe’s debt crisis is affecting Germany. A
report showed exports in Europe’s largest economy declined the
most in nine months in September. The greenback remained weaker
against the Japanese currency after Obama’s victory over
Republican Challenger  Mitt Romney  boosted speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will maintain monetary stimulus.  “The biggest focus of the market as we head into year-end
will be the fiscal cliff,” said Noriaki Murao, the New York-
based managing director of the marketing group at the Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., referring to the $607 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts set to be implemented in 2013 unless
Congress acts. “Investors are buying safe currencies such as
the dollar and yen.”  The yen advanced 0.1 percent to 79.94 per dollar as of 8:37
a.m. in London. It rose 0.1 percent to 102.09 against the euro.
The dollar was little changed at $1.2770 versus the 17-nation
currency. It reached $1.2737 yesterday, the strongest since
Sept. 7.  Fed Stimulus  Romney had said he disagreed with the Fed’s measures to
stimulate the economy and would replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
at the end of the latter’s term in January 2014. U.S. policy
makers unveiled a plan in September to buy $40 billion of
mortgage-backed securities every month in a third round of so-
called quantitative easing after $2.3 trillion purchases of
bonds from December 2008 and June 2011.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, was at 80.782 from 80.759 yesterday, when it touched
80.924, the highest since Sept. 7.  “What we’re seeing now is a post-election bounce in the
 U.S. dollar ,” Khoon Goh, a senior currency strategist in
Singapore at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move Asia” with
 Rishaad Salamat . “The fiscal cliff will be the near-term focus
for markets which will cause jitters.”  The euro was little changed before the ECB meeting amid
economic data today which may add to evidence Europe’s debt
crisis is hampering growth. All but one of 63 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predict the central bank will keep
its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged at 0.75 percent.  German Economy  “While a rate cut is unlikely, we should certainly expect
some dovish commentary from ECB President Draghi at the post
meeting press conference,” Ray Attrill, Sydney-based global co-
head of currency strategy at National  Australia  Bank Ltd., wrote
in a note to clients today.  Draghi said at a conference in Frankfurt yesterday that
while Germany has been largely insulated from difficulties
elsewhere in the euro area “the latest data suggest that these
developments are now starting to affect the German economy.”  German  exports , adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, dropped 2.5 percent from August, when they gained 2.3
percent, the Federal Statistics Office said today. That’s the
biggest slide since December. Economists forecast a 1.5 percent
decline, according to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Greek Approval  The euro remained weaker even after Greek Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras won approval of austerity measures needed to
unlock bailout funds. The bill on pension, wage and benefit cuts
was approved with 153 votes in favor in the 300-seat Parliament
early today, according to acting Parliament speaker Athanasios
Nakos.  “The Greek approval of austerity measures was not enough
to turn the sentiment around for the euro,” said Kengo Suzuki,
a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
Japan’s third-largest bank by market value. “There is still
uncertainty whether or not  Greece  will be able to secure the
next tranche of aid at the next European Union summit. The yen
and the dollar are being bought in a bid for safety.”  The euro declined 0.7 percent over the past week, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 0.8 percent in the
same period, while the yen gained 1 percent, the best performer.  Earnings forecasts released today by  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  suggest it anticipates a stronger euro.
Europe’s biggest aerospace and defense company said its new
hedge contract had an average rate of $1.29 per euro.  Aussie Dollar  The so-called Aussie dollar rose against most of its major
peers after data showed Australian employers added more jobs in
October than economists estimated.  The number of people employed in Australia increased by
10,700 last month after rising a revised 15,500 in September,
the statistics bureau said today. That compares with economist
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of a gain of 500.  The Aussie added 0.1 percent to $1.0416. It climbed to
NZ$1.2752, the highest since Sept. 17.  Today’s data from Australia “was stronger than expected,”
said  Sue Trinh , a Hong Kong-based senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of  Canada . “It’s no surprise to see the Aussie
outperforming across the board.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  