-- DTCC Operations Ran During Sandy, Vault Status Still Unclear
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-07T21:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/dtcc-operations-ran-during-sandy-vault-status-still-unclear-1-.html
The Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
processed about $19 trillion in securities trades last week even
as Hurricane Sandy submerged its 40-year-old underground
 Manhattan  vault holding physical stock and bond certificates.  The company switched day-to-day command of its operations
to its office in Tampa,  Florida , and moved control of the
technology that runs its clearing and settlement business and
record-keeping to its Dallas data center the weekend before the
Atlantic’s largest-ever tropical storm, Michael Bodson,
president and chief executive officer of New York-based DTCC,
said in a telephone interview. The average value of transactions
processed weekly this year is $23.1 trillion, DTCC said.  The DTCC handles trades in U.S. equities and government,
municipal and corporate bonds and is more important to how
markets function than the  New York  Stock Exchange or Citigroup
Inc., according to James Angel, a professor at  Georgetown
University ’s McDonough School of Business in  Washington . Of the
approximately $35 trillion in securities for which DTCC provides
services, the “vast majority” -- a percentage in the “high
90s” -- is in electronic form only, Bodson said.  Disaster Recovery  “Over the weekend we saw flooding would hit lower
Manhattan and declared we were going into recovery mode,”
Bodson said. “Given our criticality to the U.S. financial
system, we have very, very robust disaster-recovery plans that
have been built up over the years. We kept operations going.
Last week was a normal week. We did not have any significant
issues other than the vault. We met all deadlines.”  Regulators including the Securities and Exchange
Commission, U.S.  Federal Reserve , New York Fed and  Department of
Financial Services  in New York State tracked the DTCC’s
emergency plans daily since last weekend, Bodson said. He and
other executives have been in touch with them, the Treasury
Department and Commodity Futures Trading Commission, he said.  “We can live without the NYSE and we can live without
Citigroup, because their competitors will quickly fill the
gap,” Angel said by e-mail. “We can’t live without DTCC
because there is no substitute. They are one of the most
important pieces of our financial infrastructure and the epitome
of the ’must not fail’ institution.”  Continual Testing  The DTCC’s emergency plans are “tested continually” and
reviewed regularly by regulators and auditors, Bodson said. The
company can run its operations from its New York headquarters at
55 Water Street in lower Manhattan or its offices in Tampa. Its
three data centers are at 55 Water Street, its  Brooklyn , New
York, recovery site and in  Dallas , he said.  The company occupies eight of the 54 floors at 55 Water
Street, according to Bodson. The 10,000-square-foot vault, three
levels below ground, contains 1.3 million stock and bond
certificates and other securities stacked on shelves like in a
library, he said.  The entire 55 Wall Street building remains closed. Over the
weekend large yellow pipes emerged from the building’s side
entrance, near a crane, and water-pumping machines ringed the
premises. The building’s lobby contained other equipment related
to the cleanup work. Workers could be seen inside.  While the certificates may be damaged if water flowed into
the vault, they’re already recorded electronically in DTCC’s
systems, the CEO said. Once the company can assess the status of
the certificates, it will figure out what to do about replacing
them, he said. DTCC also has images of all bearer stocks and
bonds in the vault, he said.  Computer Records  “There’s no loss of economic ownership here,” Bodson
said. “It’s a logistical and administrative challenge in
assessing if certificates are damaged. We did not lose the
computer records of ownerships or the computer records of
images.”  About 600 people of the 2,000 at the company’s headquarters
in Manhattan are currently working at DTCC’s Brooklyn recovery
site, with the remaining operating remotely from home, Bodson
said. Bodson, who lives in  Connecticut , carpools to the Brooklyn
site with three other employees each day. The commute, which
starts at 5:30 a.m. New York time, is down to an hour now from 3
1/2 on Oct. 31, he said.  Transactions from the week before the storm continued to be
processed on Oct. 29 and Oct. 30 when U.S. stock and bond
markets closed or shut early, Bodson said. About 25 people
stayed in the company’s Brooklyn location during the storm so
they could continue to handle financial trades, with others
working remotely, he said.  SEC, Fed  Officials from the SEC, New York Fed and the state’s
Financial Services Department remain at its Brooklyn site, which
Bodson likened to the prison -- “without the charm” --
portrayed in the 1999 movie “ The Green Mile .”  Some DTCC clients had sporadic connectivity to its systems
and telecommunications problems because of the damage Sandy
caused, he said. The industry’s back offices that handle
transactions and record keeping after trades occur and the
technology infrastructure operated “very well,” he said.  Water in the underground level that includes the vault
should be fully pumped out today, Bodson said. Assessments of
whether there are contaminants in the building and whether it’s
safe for personnel to return can then begin, along with a study
of how to open the vault since no one knows if water lies behind
the two-ton door, he said. The vault, built on bedrock, has 18-
inch walls of reinforced concrete and has never before been
submerged, he said.  Restarted Services  The DTCC  restarted  some services for clients that could
deposit physical certificates to its Brooklyn location on Nov. 1
and expanded the processing of those securities the next day.  The National Securities Clearing Corp., a DTCC  subsidiary ,
cleared $2.35 trillion in securities trades for mutual funds,
equities, corporate and municipal bonds the week of Oct. 29,
compared to a weekly average of $3.5 trillion this year, DTCC
said. The company’s Fixed Income Clearing Corp. cleared $13.45
trillion in government and mortgage-backed securities last week,
versus a weekly average of $17.35 trillion, it said.  The DTCC  said  in 2009 it would relocate about 1,600
employees to offices in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , in the
beginning of next year. The contents of the current vault are
going to be moved to a vault in the new location, Bodson said.
Temporary  office space  may be sought for employees for the next
few months, he said.  Paper Certificates  The DTCC has been working on a plan to eliminate physical
securities in U.S. markets to make processing more efficient and
reduce risks. In a July report the company said there were 86
percent fewer certificates in its vault than there were in 2000.  Many companies have stopped issuing paper certificates,
according to Bob Kerstein, CEO of  Scripophily.com , a company in
Fairfax,  Virginia , that runs a website selling old stock and
bond certificates. It also provides research on them. The damage
or loss of certificates in DTCC’s vault won’t affect the value
of those bought and sold by collectors since what DTCC holds
doesn’t become public when the physical securities are
eliminated, he said.  Certificates no longer needed are usually returned to
transfer agents or shredded, Bodson said.  A certificate from Pixar, the animation studio that created
“Toy Story” and “A Bug’s Life” and was bought by Walt Disney
Co. in 2006,  sells  for $595 on Scripophily.com. DreamWorks
Animation SKG, shows  Shrek , a green creature in a movie by the
same name, on its certificate. It sells for $79.95.  Company certificates portray pieces of American financial
history and show how firms’ self-portrayal changes over the
years, Angel said. Still, the financial system should press
ahead with eliminating physical securities, he said.  “This may be a golden opportunity for DTCC to move to a
paperless setup for as many securities as possible,” he said.
“ Hurricane Sandy  may have handed them a fait accompli.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 