-- The First Speech of Obama’s Second Term
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-07T12:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/the-first-speech-of-obama-s-second-term.html
“We are not as divided as our
politics suggests,” said the man who had just been re-elected
president with barely 50 percent of the vote. For Barack Obama,
it was the best kind of rhetoric: a self-serving statement that
also happens to be true.  The president’s remarkable victory over Republican nominee
 Mitt Romney  last night was a near-landslide in the Electoral
College, especially if  his lead  in  Florida  becomes official
(with almost all the results in, it stands at about 46,000
votes). And if his current share of the popular vote holds, he
will be the first Democratic president since  Franklin D. Roosevelt  to be re-elected with a majority.  But politics is about more than numbers -- and besides, the
president still has to deal with a truculent  House of
Representatives , which got much more conservative (if only
slightly more Republican) yesterday. It is also about
persuasion. In that sense, the president’s rousing yet realistic
 victory speech  was the night’s most encouraging development.  Gone was the heavy-lidded, monotonous lecturer of last
month’s  first presidential debate . Absent was the sarcastic,
occasionally churlish  campaigner  of the last several weeks. This
was vintage  2004 Obama , considerate of those who may disagree
with him and pledging to work with his opponents. “I also look
forward to sitting down with  Governor Romney  to talk about where
we can work together to move this country forward,” the
president said, to polite applause.  Romney, for his part, was  warm and graceful  in defeat --
where was that guy last spring and summer? -- while House
Speaker  John Boehner  offered the president congratulations and  a
commitment  “to find common ground.” Who knows? Maybe Romney will
join the Obama Cabinet as the nation’s first  secretary of
business , and Boehner will revisit the grand bargain to reduce
the debt that he and Obama came so close to striking in the
summer of 2011.  Or maybe not. Once the shine of victory and the sting of
defeat wear off,  Washington  could easily sound a lot like it did
the day before yesterday. This is not to downplay the importance
of Obama’s victory; it will allow tens of millions of uninsured
Americans to get health care, to cite just one benefit, and it
protects a woman’s right to an abortion, to cite another.
Historic challenges facing the nation’s budget and economy
remain.  Bipartisanship will not by itself solve these problems, as
pundits  of the left  and  right  are fond of pointing out. It is,
however, a necessary condition to any solution. To favor
bipartisanship is not to require that both sides agree. At this
point, it would be nice if they could just communicate.  One of the virtues of Obama’s speech is the way it
acknowledged both the difficulty and necessity of this
negotiation. “I’m not talking about blind optimism, the kind of
hope that just ignores the enormity of the tasks ahead or the
roadblocks that stand in our path,” he said. “I’m not talking
about the wishful idealism that allows us to just sit on the
sidelines or shirk from a fight.”  Compare this forthrightness to his  victory speech  of four
years ago, with its vague plea to resist “partisanship and
pettiness and immaturity.” This is the kind of gauzy language
that so enraptured Obama’s supporters and so enraged his
opponents: They both suspected he was talking about the latter.  In 2008,  Barack Obama  was the very embodiment of change. In
2012, he  led the party  of the status quo. In part this is a job
requirement for any incumbent seeking office. Yet it also has to
do with the maddening, fatuous notion of “change” itself. Would
a Romney presidency have represented “change”? Or would it have
represented a return to the pre-Obama status quo? Did Obama
fulfill his promise of bringing “change” to Washington? Or is
his administration evidence of the impossibility of the task?  The answer, of course, is all of the above. “Change” is in
the eye of the voter. At any rate, Obama -- and his supporters,
to judge from yesterday’s impressive near-sweep of swing states
-- seem to have traded in a generalized desire for change for a
grim determination to see his changes through. This is progress,
for both the president’s supporters and opponents: In politics
as in language, defining terms is always helpful.  For our part, we’re happy that Obama seems to have retired
his cranky candidate persona. If his early-morning address was
the first speech of his second term, then there is reason to be
-- pardon the term -- hopeful about the next four years.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Visit  the Ticker  for election commentary,
including Josh Barro on  the unimportance of the 2012 vote ,
Justin Wolfers on  better election predictions  and Tobin Harshaw
on  the perils of tweeting your ballot .  Plus, the editors on  the dangerous rise of euro-skepticism ;
Jonathan Mahler on  why sports leagues should embrace New Jersey
gambling ; Randal C. Picker on  how tech companies tie their hands 
with antitrust settlements.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 