-- Leaders Congratulate Obama Saying Win Helps Globally
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-11-07T23:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/leaders-congratulate-obama-saying-win-helps-globally.html
World leaders urged a re-elected
President Barack Obama to play a leading role on issues from
boosting the economy to  climate change  and relations with
Muslims as they congratulated him on his victory.  “I’ve really enjoyed working with him over these last few
years and look forward to working with him again over the next
four years,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told the  BBC 
during a visit to a Syrian refugee camp in Jordan today.
“There’s so many things that we need to do. We need to kick-
start the world economy.”  Obama, who pulled the U.S. out of recession in his first
four years by bailing out banks and expanding the deficit, will
face a budget crunch in his second term that threatens to derail
global growth. In foreign policy, Obama must repair relations
with traditional allies such as Israel and manage a leadership
change in China even as he seeks to end bloodshed in Syria and
prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.  “I will continue to work with President Obama to ensure
the essential security interests of Israel’s citizens,” Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in an e-mail.  The Obama administration faces a global economy struggling
to recover from the fallout from the debt crisis in Europe. The
euro-area economy may contract 0.4 percent this year, while
China is forecast to grow 7.8 percent and the U.S. 2.2 percent,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Brazilian View  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the global
economy may benefit if a re-elected Obama strikes a deal with
Congress to avoid the spending cuts and tax increases known as
the fiscal cliff that are scheduled to take effect in January.  “If it implements fiscal measures, overcomes the fiscal
cliff that would force it to reduce spending and investments,
the U.S. could grow at a slightly better rate in 2013, helping
the recovery of the global economy,” Mantega told reporters
today in Brasilia.  Mantega said Obama had handled “relatively well” the most
acute phase of the economic crisis early in his first term and
“isn’t doing better because the  U.S. Congress  hasn’t approved
fiscal moves.” The Republican-controlled House of
Representatives “has brought some difficulties,” Mantega said,
saying he was speaking for himself and not the government.  Congratulations Offered  Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens noted that
both Obama and defeated Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  had
called for greater unity during their post-election remarks.
Speaking at a press conference in Mexico City, Carstens said he
hoped Romney’s appeal “for consensus helps to resolve issues
that are so important, such as avoiding the fiscal cliff.”  Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  and Chilean President
Sebastian Pinera both expressed congratulations to Obama --
Calderon in a letter, according to a statement issued by his
office, and Pinera in a Twitter message that his press office
confirmed as authentic.  European stocks advanced after Obama’s re-election, with
the Stoxx Europe 600 adding as much as 0.6 percent before
sliding 1.4 percent. U.S. Treasury bonds advanced, pushing the
10-year yield down the most in a week, as the election outcome
bolstered expectations the  Federal Reserve  will stick to its
policy of buying bonds to support the economy.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in a letter to Obama
that she “greatly values” cooperation with the U.S. The French
finance minister,  Pierre Moscovici , said Obama is a “great
president” and congratulated him on his re-election.  ‘Work Well’  “We work well with his administration,” Moscovici told
RTL radio today. “It has always been helpful to solve the euro-
zone crisis, preserve its integrity and favors a balance between
austerity and growth.”  Chinese President Hu Jintao and Premier  Wen Jiabao  offered
their congratulations, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said
at a briefing in Beijing today. China will hold a once-a-decade
leadership transition starting this week.  “China is ready to work with the U.S. side to deliver
greater benefits to our two peoples and the people of the
world,” Hong said.  Romney had pledged to label China a currency manipulator on
his first day in office if he won. Obama’s victory means the
value of the  yuan  won’t escalate into a major trade issue that
would slow the global economy, Arjuna Mahendran, the Singapore-
based head of Asia investment strategy at HSBC Private bank,
which oversees $409 billion, said in a telephone interview
today.  ‘Continued Cooperation’  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , whose country is
America’s biggest ally in Asia and hosts almost 40,000 of its
military personnel, told reporters “we look forward to
continued cooperation.”  South Korean President Lee Myung-Bak welcomed Obama’s re-
election and called for continued cooperation in stifling North
Korea’s nuclear threat. Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou said he
plans to build on relations with the U.S. that are the strongest
in 30 years, according to a statement on the website of the
island’s Presidential Office.  Australia Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called for U.S.
leadership on financial stability and climate change in a
statement saluting Obama for his victory. The U.S. is deploying
2,500 Marines in northern Australia and will station about 60
percent of the Pentagon’s naval assets in the Asia-Pacific
region by 2020, up from about 50 percent now.  ‘Many Challenges’  “Many challenges lie ahead, from ending the bloodshed in
Syria, to getting the Middle East peace process back on track,
to promoting sustainable development and tackling the challenges
posed by climate change,” United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon said in an e-mailed statement today. “All will require
strong multilateral cooperation” and the UN counts on the
“active engagement” of the U.S. on these and other issues.  Obama clashed with Netanyahu this year as Israel considered
military attacks to halt  Iran’s nuclear program . In September,
Netanyahu said the U.S. had “no moral right” to stop an
Israeli strike. Relations were strained during the campaign as
Netanyahu met with Romney.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak congratulated Obama
and highlighted strengthening relations with the U.S. Two months
ago, protests erupted in Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and
Pakistan over a video produced in the U.S. that was offensive to
Muslims.  “It is my hope that President Obama will continue in his
efforts to foster understanding and respect between the United
States and Muslims around the world,” Najib said in a
statement. “As a moderate Muslim nation, Malaysia stands ready
to help the United States as it seeks to better engage with
those of Islamic faith.”  Indonesian Childhood  Obama spent part of his childhood in Indonesia and is
scheduled to attend a summit of Asian leaders later this month
in Cambodia. He said in 2009 the U.S. would join the  Trans-
Pacific Partnership , an agreement involving nine Asia-Pacific
countries that will undergo its 15th negotiation round next
month.  “If  Barack Obama  comes and focuses on the economy and
focuses on strengthening relations across the Asia-Pacific
region, he can do it because he’s built up the network,”
Kishore Mahbubani, dean of the  National University  of
Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “He can do a massive
amount for the  U.S. economy  in Asia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  