-- EADS Flying Solo Leaves Enders Repairing Investors Faith in Jets
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/eads-flying-solo-leaves-enders-repairing-investors-faith-in-jets.html
A month after  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  buried plans to merge with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  gets a chance to assure
investors he can ride out demand swings in civil aviation alone.  Enders will announce third-quarter earnings tomorrow that
further tilt  Europe ’s largest aerospace company toward its
Airbus civil aircraft business. Profit before interest and tax
probably rose 52 percent to 490 million euros ($627 million)
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, as airliner
deliveries rose. Airbus accounts for 70 percent of total sales.  Enders advertised the merger with BAE as the fast-track
option to a balanced portfolio between civil and defense assets
that would help EADS bridge declines in either segment. The idea
never caught on with shareholders, who pummeled the stock in the
wake of the announcement on concern they wouldn’t have enough
say in the new group. The German government ultimately killed
Enders’s aspirations with its veto.  “Given that he tried to do this deal, and failed, one big
question out there is EADS management’s belief in the civil
cycle,” said Zafar Khan, an analyst at  Societe Generale (GLE)  in
London. “Management will need to highlight the fact that they
have lots of confidence in the civil business for growth
potential, and that the big aircraft programs are on track.”  Working Investors  For four weeks, from the first announcement of the plan on
Sept. 12 to the companies ending talks on Oct. 10, Enders and
his counterpart at London-based BAE, Ian King, sought to win
stakeholders’ backing for a combination. EADS has lost 7.4
percent in value since mid September, slumping as much as 10
percent the day after the companies disclosed their talks.  The combination was designed to build a European equal to
 Boeing Co. (BA) , whose business is more balanced between civil and
defense assets. Boeing has boosted its 2012 profit forecast
three times as commercial and military aircraft sales rose.  Enders has emerged unscathed from the episode for now,
partly protected by a shareholder agreement that balances
representation between German and French executives in top
management. By contrast,  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , which holds 13.4 percent
of BAE shares, called for the resignation of Chairman Dick Olver
and of independent director Peter Mason after breakdown.  Still, Enders will need to map out a future for EADS’s
defense assets, which ranks as an also-ran in the U.S., the
world’s biggest weapons market, and lacks critical mass even in
Europe, where it has been cutting jobs as governments reduce
budgets. Enders said the Cassidian defense unit would come under
particular strategic scrutiny in the wake of the failed merger,
as he reconsiders the structure.  Impasse  “We have reached a bit of an impasse at Cassidian,” said
 Sandy Morris , a London-based analyst at Jefferies International,
with  Germany  unwilling to boost defense spending and not
allowing the business to be merged. Near-term, it may simply be
necessary to “let the dust settle,” he said.  With the focus back on the civil-aviation assets, Enders
and Fabrice Bregier, his successor at the helm of Toulouse,
France-based Airbus, must assure customers and investors that
programs are progressing. Airbus has commenced final assembly of
the A350 aircraft, a complex procedure given that the wide-body
jet is largely made from lightweight composite materials. First
flight is slated for the middle of next year.  On the A380 double-decker aircraft, Airbus is working to
fix cracks in wing components that emerged this year and have
already cost Airbus more than 270 million euros. Airbus had
planned to win 30 new orders this year for the A380, which has
been in service for half a decade, and has failed to come close
to that goal so far. It wants to deliver 30 units in 2012.  Delivery Goal  Overall, Airbus is set to hand over 580 planes this year,
from 530 in 2011. While the planemaker still has a six-year
backlog, it may be approaching peak delivery before shipments
decline, said  Nick Cunningham , an analyst at Agency Partners in
London. EADS’s defense, helicopter and space businesses aren’t
sufficiently large to offset a decline.  Airbus’s book-to-bill ratio, or the relationship between
new orders won and planes delivered, will fall below 1 some time
next year, from a peak of 2.8 in February, Cunningham said.
Historically, deliveries decline within two years of the book-
to-bill falling below 1, he said.  “A delivery downturn could be only a couple of years
away,” Cunningham said. As an investor, “you can’t make money
from buying and holding companies like this. You make money from
timing the cycle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  