-- Least Risky Slice of CLOs Most Compelling, Wells Fargo Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2012-11-07T19:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/least-risky-portion-of-clos-most-compelling-wells-fargo-says.html
The least risky portion of
collateralized loan obligations offers investors the most
compelling yield relative to risk, according to Wells Fargo &
Co.  While coupons on the AAA portion of CLOs are now
“testing” the area of 140 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate, they generally haven’t tightened as much
as lower-rated pieces of the funds, the San Francisco-based bank
said yesterday in a research report.  CLOs, which buy high-yield loans and slice them into
securities of varying risk and return, have pooled more than $40
billion of this year, more than tripling the $12.9 billion
raised in 2011, according to the report.  “AAA spreads, especially new issue AAA spreads, are by far
the most compelling in the stack” from a risk-reward
standpoint, Dave Preston, a  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
analyst for Wells Fargo, wrote in the report.  Earlier this month, Jefferies Group Inc. raised a $406.5
million CLO for Alcentra including a slice rated AAA that offers
a coupon of 141 basis points more than Libor, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “For investors that require more yield than the AAA
spreads provide, we still favor primary mezzanine notes as the
best value,” Preston wrote.  The loan market has become more “issuer-friendly” with
the cost of bank debt falling since July, even as companies
increased leverage this year, Wells Fargo said. More than 60
percent of new loans this year have been used for refinancing or
to pay shareholder dividends, according to the report.  “Higher leverage and tighter spreads are not generally
optimal for CLO investors,” Preston wrote.  A rise in corporate borrowing costs in October is positive
for CLO investors as it may be a sign of “increased
discipline” on the part of lenders, he wrote in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  