-- Economic Growth First Then Austerity, Orszag Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-11-07T18:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/economic-growth-first-then-austerity-orszag-says-tom-keene.html
With economic growth still sluggish,
efforts to rein in federal deficit spending should be delayed
until the U.S. is better positioned to handle a contraction in
 government spending , according to Citigroup Inc.’s  Peter Orszag .  President Barack Obama and the Republican majority in the
 House of Representatives , both returned to office by voters
yesterday, must now address more than $600 billion of federal
spending cuts and tax increases that will kick in automatically
at the start of next year unless Congress acts, a problem known
as the fiscal cliff.  “What we should be doing is another round of
infrastructure spending and tax cuts coupled with deficit
reduction,” Orszag said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen.
“We can at least avoid doing too much harm by making sure any
fiscal austerity we enact, it doesn’t really take effect
immediately.”  Orszag, also a Bloomberg View columnist, is vice chairman
of corporate and investment banking at Citigroup and is a former
director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Obama
administration.  The 1983 bipartisan agreement on reforming  Social Security ,
which raised the  retirement age  while also pushing out the
increase until 2000, should serve as a model for fiscal
agreements now, Orszag said. “That’s exactly what we want
today,” he said. “No immediate fiscal austerity; do it with a
delay.”  Recession Warning  Congress created the spending cuts in August 2011 as part
of an agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling and reduce
future budget deficits. Falling off the cliff would probably
reverse U.S. economic growth and put the world’s largest economy
back into recession, the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office 
said on Aug. 22.  The negotiations over deficit and debt reduction have
highlighted the parties’ differences over the size and role of
the government, without producing an accord.  Republicans have said they’ll resist tax increases and
defense cuts to avoid hurting the economy. Democrats support
increased taxes for high earners. President  Barack Obama  has
said he will veto any bill that extends the tax cuts for high-
income taxpayers.  “If you do too much spending cuts and too much revenue
raising” it will put continued economic growth at risk, Orszag
said.  ‘Gradual Steps’  Most estimates of the impact of an agreement on the fiscal
cliff suggest it would slow expansion by 1 percent to 1.5
percent of the U.S. gross domestic product, Orszag said.  “That’s probably not sufficient to undo the progress we’ve
been making on housing and the momentum the economy has,”
Orszag said. “It would be better not even to do that. It would
be better to put in place specific gradual steps that take
effect not in 2013.”  The economy had been showing signs of improvement heading
into the election. The  U.S. economy  expanded at a faster-than-
forecast 2 percent annual rate in the third quarter, up from a
1.3 percent pace for the period from April to June, the Commerce
Department said Oct. 26.  Housing starts climbed in September to the highest level in
four years. With the latest gains, companies now have added 4.97
million workers to payrolls since the economy stopped
hemorrhaging jobs in February 2010. Retail sales in August and
September registered the biggest back-to-back gains in almost
two years. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Stock Index is up 75
percent since Obama took office.  -- Editor: Kenneth Pringle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  