-- Hedge Fund Co-Founder Faces Jury as FBI Raids Yield Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/hedge-fund-founder-faces-jury-as-fbi-raids-yield-trial.html
Almost two years ago, Level Global
Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC were among
four hedge funds raided by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
as part of a nationwide crackdown on  insider trading .  Yesterday, the first of two defendants who worked for those
firms the FBI searched went on trial in  Manhattan  federal court,
as the U.S. continues its unprecedented five-year-old
investigation of market corruption at hedge funds, technology
companies and consulting firms.  The U.S. alleges that Level Global co-founder Anthony Chiasson and  Todd Newman , a former portfolio manager for
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Diamondback, for allegedly earning
more than $67 million in illicit profits by trading on inside
information in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  Both men have pleaded
not guilty to the charges.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan is presiding over the
case, began individually questioning 49 prospective jurors
yesterday. While no one was officially seated on the panel,
Sullivan told lawyers in the case to be prepared to deliver
their opening arguments today.  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara have said Chiasson and Newman were part of a group of
fund managers, analysts and technology company employees who
traded stock tips in a conspiracy that operated from 2007 to
2009.  ‘Tight-Knit’  The case is the latest chapter in a series of probes that
last month yielded a two-year prison sentence for their highest-
profile target, former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Director Rajat Gupta. Gupta, convicted of insider trading, conspired with
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Rajaratnam, who is
serving an 11-year term, has asked an appeals court to throw out
his conviction, arguing wiretaps used in his case were illegal.  “This case describes a tight-knit circle of greed on the
part of professionals willing to traffic in confidential
information,” Bharara said when the charges were announced in
January. “It was a circle of friends who essentially formed a
criminal club, whose purpose was profit and whose members
regularly bartered inside information.”  The trial, which had been scheduled to start Oct. 29, was
delayed by the courthouse’s closing after  Hurricane Sandy . As of
yesterday, Sullivan had dismissed one potential juror who said
he had been a doorman at Chiasson’s apartment building. Also
among the jury candidates is a professional psychic.  Guilty Pleas  Of the eight people charged in this case, six have pleaded
guilty to insider trading and are cooperating with the U.S. They
include Jesse Tortora, a former Diamondback analyst; Spyridon
“Sam” Adondakis, an analyst at New York-based Level Global;
and Danny Kuo, a former analyst at Whittier Trust Co., a South
Pasadena, California-based wealth-management company.  Jon Horvath, a former technology analyst who was arrested
with Newman and Chiasson, pleaded guilty on Sept. 28. During his
plea, Horvath, who worked at a unit of  Steven Cohen ’s $14
billion hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP, admitted to passing
nonpublic information to his portfolio manager. He is
cooperating with the U.S.  In September, Horvath’s portfolio manager, Michael Steinberg, was put on leave after he was identified by two
people familiar with the matter as an unindicted co-conspirator
in the case. Steinberg hasn’t been accused of any criminal
wrongdoing. His lawyer, Barry Berke, has declined to comment on
the case.  ‘Everyone’s Mind’  Yesterday, during questioning of prospective jurors, a man
who said he’s worked at SAC for seven years in business
development and said he hired portfolio managers, told Sullivan
he had read about the case and used to sit next to Michael
Steinberg. The man told the judge he didn’t know Horvath,
Chiasson or Newman.  “Being at SAC, I’ve read about this case extensively,
especially being that Level Global and Diamondback were spawned
out of SAC,” said the potential juror, noting that both hedge
funds were started by SAC alums.  Asked by Sullivan if he thought he could be fair to the
defendants because of his SAC ties, the man replied, “As a
person I think I could be fair, but as a hedge fund employee
it’s awkward for me to be involved. I think it is the impression
of a long-time employee of SAC sitting on a jury in this
particular case,” he said. The man told Sullivan that many at
SAC were closely watching the case, saying “It’s on everyone’s
mind, and we’ve been in the press too.”  ‘Unindicted Co-Conspirator’  Outside of the man’s presence, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Antonia Apps, a prosecutor in the case, voiced concern about
seating an SAC employee on the jury, especially someone who
knows Steinberg  “Horvath is an unindicted co-conspirator and he said he
knows Michael Steinberg,” she said. “Mr. Steinberg is an
unindicted co-conspirator and this man will be asked to assess
his testimony.  ‘‘It does sound inappropriate,’’ said Sullivan, who later
dismissed the man from the jury pool.  Sullivan also questioned one man who identified himself as
a ‘‘professional medium’’ who assisted  New York  and New Jersey
authorities in missing persons cases.  Asked by Sullivan if he knew either of the two defendants,
the man replied, ‘‘I can’t rule out that I didn’t do psychic
readings for them or one of their relations. I do feel affection
to one of them, for Mr. Chiasson.” The man added later, “I’ve
done dozens and dozens of readings for people who work on  Wall
Street .”  Cooperating Witnesses  In a series of pretrial motions, prosecutors and defense
lawyers showed the depth of information gathered by the U.S. in
the case, including wiretaps and consensual recordings made by
some of the co-conspirators at the direction of the FBI.  Lawyers for Chiasson and Newman sought to use recordings
involving cooperating witnesses, including Tortora, who will
testify against their clients. Newman’s lawyers told Sullivan at
an Oct. 23 hearing that they expect Tortora will be the
government’s first witness.  Stephen Fishbein, one of Newman’s lawyers, argued that the
recordings should be heard, saying Tortora’s credibility “will
be at issue.” The tapes contain statements that indicate
Tortora “intends to blame Mr. Newman for anything he has done
wrong,” Fishbein said.  Prosecutors objected to Tortora’s calls being played,
calling them “an undercover ruse set up by the FBI,” in court
papers.  “Members of the jury may object to the notion that the FBI
is recording individuals without telling them, or that
cooperating witnesses engaged in deceptive behavior at the
direction of the FBI, even though these are entirely permissible
law enforcement techniques,” prosecutors said in an Oct. 22
filing.  Taped Calls  The defense seeks to play several calls, including a Dec.
1, 2010, call from Tortora to Kuo. Tortora, who had already
agreed to cooperate with the government by that time, telephoned
Kuo at the request of the FBI, a week after agents had raided
Tortora’s fund.  “What’s happening, man?” Tortora asked during the call,
according to a transcript prosecutors submitted to the court.  “Dude, is your phone tapped?” Kuo replied.  “Wait, is the phone tapped?” Tortora asked, adding, “Why
do you ask that?”  “Uh, because I saw on the news,” Kuo said, “that you and
Todd are, uh, being investigated.”  After Kuo and Tortora discussed defense strategy to explain
their trades were made after legitimate research, Kuo concluded
the call with a final warning to Tortora about making future
calls from a personal telephone, according to the transcript.  “I would seriously invest in some quarters, and start
calling from 7-Elevens,” Kuo said.  Last Month  At a hearing last month, Sullivan didn’t rule on the
government’s request, saying he was “skeptical” about the
admissibility of the recordings. He said he wouldn’t issue a
final decision on them until the trial.  Prosecutors alleged that Kuo knew an unidentified insider
at Nvidia who gave him information about the technology
company’s financial results, which he passed on to friends,
including Adondakis, Tortora and Horvath.  The government claimed that Tortora passed tips on Nvidia
to Newman, who traded on the information while Adondakis
provided illegal tips to Chiasson, who then traded on the
information. Chiasson allegedly earned $10 million from May 2009
Nvidia trades while Newman earned about $48,000.  Bharara alleged that Sandeep Goyal, who once worked at
Dell, was part of a second scheme which involved the PC maker.
According to the U.S., Goyal, who worked as a technology analyst
at  Neuberger Berman , knew an unidentified person in the Dell
investor-relations department who gave him secret earnings
information on the company.  Passing Information  Prosecutors said Goyal twice passed the information to
Tortora, who then tipped Newman, earning his fund about $3.8
million in 2008. Tortora shared his Dell tips with Adondakis,
who passed that information to Chiasson, prosecutors said. As a
result, Level Global and Chiasson earned at least $57 million in
2008 from illicit information, the U.S. alleged.  Goyal has also pleaded guilty and, like Kuo, Tortora and
Adondakis, is cooperating with prosecutors.  Fishbein and John Nathanson, Newman’s lawyers, and Greg
Morvillo and  Reid Weingarten , lawyers for Chiasson, declined to
comment on the trial.  Diamondback agreed to pay more than $9 million to resolve a
Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit over trades made in
2008 and 2009 by Newman and Tortora.  ‘Not Known’  In January, Diamondback and Bharara’s office entered into a
non-prosecution agreement related to the actions of the two men.
Prosecutors said the alleged misconduct “was not known by”
others at Diamondback.  According to the government, a lawyer hired by Diamondback
concluded in a separate inquiry that some trades by Newman and
Tortora in Dell and Nvidia resulted from material nonpublic
information they received from an unidentified expert-networking
firm. The lawyer’s probe found “no evidence that either the
conduct or the improper information” was known by the firm,
prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  