-- Russian Hedging Costs Soar as Obama Fight Spurs Swings
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-11-08T13:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/hedging-costs-soar-as-obama-fight-spurs-swings-russia-overnight.html
Options traders are demanding more
protection against swings in Russian stocks over the next six
months after U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s re-election sent oil
tumbling and heightened concern developed nations’ efforts to
shore up economies will reduce demand for riskier assets.  Implied volatility, the key gauge of options prices, for
at-the-money contracts on the  Market Vectors Russia exchange-
traded fund  due in six months rose to 29.94 yesterday, and was
26 percent above the level for those expiring in 30 days on Nov.
2, the biggest gap since December 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the
most-traded Russian companies in the U.S. dropped the most since
July yesterday, while  futures  on Moscow’s RTS Index sank 1
percent to 140,490 in the U.S.  Oil,  Russia ’s biggest export earner, slumped the most this
year in  New York  as Obama was re-elected U.S. president and
 Greece  prepared to vote on austerity measures. Obama’s victory
sets the stage for a showdown with Congress over $600 billion in
tax increases and spending cuts set to come into force from
January. The euro region, ravaged by the three-year-old debt
crisis, may also be forced to take further action with the
European Commission predicting near-stagnation next year.  “We are about to run into a period of political frenzy in
relation to economic management and that is going to lead to
more volatility,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Sberbank
Investment Research, a unit of Russia’s biggest lender, said in
an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York yesterday.
“There will be a lot of uncertainty and a lot of volatility in
markets, particularly high-beta markets, among which Russia is
nearly at the top of the list,” he said, referring to a measure
of risk.  ‘Preoccupies Investors’  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, fell 2.9 percent to $27.56 in the
U.S. yesterday, the lowest level since Sept. 5. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the  stock
futures , surged 13 percent to 30 points. The Bloomberg Russia-US
Index lost 2.5 percent to 92.75.  Republican  John Boehner , Speaker of the U.S. House of
Representatives, said yesterday that his party would be willing
to hold discussions on ways to avert the so-called fiscal cliff
of combined tax increases and expenditure reductions from 2013.
Obama has called for higher tax rates for people earning more
than $200,000 a year and married couples making more than
$250,000, while the Republicans oppose raising income tax rates.  “The specific decisions on spending, tax and debt
management in the U.S. over the winter is what preoccupies
investors,” Weafer said. “That will be reflected in the way we
see  emerging markets  and risk assets trading. I expect
volatility will greatly increase.”  Micex Swings  Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF) ’s 30-day  volatility 
coefficient fell to 14.38 by 4:48 p.m. in Moscow today, the
lowest level since Sept. 13. A  similar measure  for the MSCI
Emerging Market Index of developing-nation stocks rose to 8.53,
climbing from a six-year low reached yesterday.  The European Commission said yesterday that the  euro-area
economy  will expand 0.1 percent in 2013, down from a May
forecast of 1 percent. The European Union’s executive body cut
the forecast for  Germany , the region’s largest economy, to 0.8
percent from 1.7 percent.  American depositary receipts of Moscow-based  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) ,
the world’s largest natural gas producer, lost 2.6 percent to
$9.04 in New York yesterday, reaching the lowest level since
Aug. 2.  Surging Volumes  Volumes rose to more than six times the daily average over
the past three months, and 10-day volatility on the ADRs held at
34.3, the highest reading since Sept. 26, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Futures on Gazprom’s Micex-listed stock dropped
0.7 percent.  State-run Gazprom, Russia’s biggest company, links its gas
contracts to  oil prices  and refined products with a time lag, a
method that dates back to the 1970s, when the fuels were more
commonly used in power generation.  “Gazprom’s contract prices in  Europe  are linked to the
price of oil, so their profitability will suffer as a result or
lower pricing and lower demand and as the European economy is
struggling to recover,” Ilya Kravets, who helps manage $100
million of investments at Daniloff Capital LLC in New York, said
by e-mail yesterday.  Crude oil for December delivery tumbled percent to $84.44 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the
biggest decline since Dec. 14. The contracts rebounded today,
adding 1.2 percent to $85.49, paring this year’s drop to 13
percent.  Brent Rebounds  Brent oil for December settlement sank 3.8 percent to
$106.82 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange yesterday,
before jumping 0.9 percent to $107.80 today. Urals crude,
Russia’s chief export blend, decreased 3.7 percent to $105.77
yesterday, the most since June 21. It’s up 0.6 percent today to
$106.41.  The S&P’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities retreated 2.4
percent yesterday, the biggest one-day slide since July 23.  The
gauge rose 0.7 percent today.  The dollar climbed 0.3 percent against the euro yesterday
and another 0.2 percent today. A stronger U.S. currency reduces
the appeal of dollar-denominated raw materials as an investment.  Futures contracts on Russia’s ruble weakened 0.2 percent to
31.75 per dollar today, as the currency slipped the same amount
to 31.54 in Moscow.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , the Russian media company that owns the CTC
television channel, declined 3.5 percent to $8.46 on the Nasdaq
Stock Exchange yesterday, the lowest level since Oct. 31.
Trading volume was 31 percent above the three-month daily
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  CTC Media reported a net loss of $38.5 million in the third
quarter, even as revenue increased 1.5 percent to $162 million,
according to a  statement  on its website yesterday. The Moscow-
based company also declared a 13 cent per-share cash dividend to
be paid around Dec. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  