-- El-Erian Says Municipal Debt More Attractive After Election
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-11-07T16:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/el-erian-says-municipal-debt-more-attractive-after-election.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian said municipal debt is more attractive after
the re-election of President  Barack Obama  with lawmakers faced
with addressing what’s become known as the fiscal cliff.  Investors should also be “careful of the long-end” of the
yield curve, El-Erian, chief executive officer of the world’s
biggest manager of bond funds, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities are attractive, El-Erian reiterated.  Among a confluence of budget measures coming to a head at
the end of year that’s been referred to as the fiscal cliff is
the expiration of tax cuts for income, dividends and capital
gains. Most income from municipal bonds is exempt from federal
taxes and often from local taxes, allowing muni bondholders to
shelter income.  If Congress does nothing, 82.9 percent of U.S. households
would face tax increases averaging $3,701, according to the Tax
Policy Center, a nonpartisan research group in  Washington . More
than 98 percent of households earning more than $50,000 a year
would pay higher taxes, the group said.  Treasuries rose following the election results, with 10-
year yields falling the most in five months, as Obama’s victory
over  Mitt Romney  bolstered speculation the Federal Reserve will
stick to its policy of buying bonds to support the economy.  Fed Policy  Bernanke is likely “relieved,” El-Erian said. “He
understands now that he has more scope to continue with his
unusual activism. The alternative was that Governor Romney would
get elected and he would name someone to replace Bernanke and
that the markets would question guidance language, would
question QE3, would question his commitment to keep his foot on
the accelerator.”  The 10-year  yield  fell as much as 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, the biggest intraday drop since May 30, to
1.63 percent before trading at 1.64 percent at 11:50 a.m. in New
York, down 11 basis points.  The Fed began in September purchasing $40 billion of
mortgage bonds a month in its third round of so-called
quantitative easing, known as QE3, as gains in U.S. employment
remain below levels needed to lift the pace of economic growth.
The Fed also through the rest of this year in a program known as
Operation Twist is exchanging $667 billion in short-term debt
for longer-maturity securities to help contain borrowing costs.  ‘Best Friend’  As well as announcing purchases of mortgage-debt, policy
makers said in September they would probably hold the federal
funds rate at about zero at least through mid-2015.  “The Fed will continue to be investors’ best friend, and
maybe even investors only friend at this stage,” El-Erian said  Bill Gross , Pimco’s founder and co-chief investment officer
with El-Erian, said in a “Bloomberg Surveillance” interview on
Nov. 2 that the Newport Beach, California-based firm was
wagering on the Fed’s actions causing inflation by purchasing
inflation-index bonds.  “We think that you avoid a fiscal cliff through a mini
bargain, not a grand bargain,” El-Erian said. “Which means you
limit the contraction from about 4 percent of gross domestic
product to contractionary of about 1.5 percent. And you do it in
a less disorderly fashion. We still believe the higher
probability event is to avoid the fiscal cliff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  