-- The Global Crises Awaiting Obama
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-07T23:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/election-over-global-crises-beckon-in-obama-s-new-term.html
Living with a democratic hegemon
isn’t easy. Every four years, as 300 million Americans convulse
themselves with a presidential election, the other 6.6 billion
people on the planet must wait as the candidates slug it out.  Treaty talks, potentially life-or-death decisions and
diplomatic appointments are stuck in limbo. Then, depending on
the outcome, the rest of the world must brace for a bad case of
policy whiplash, as a new U.S. administration seeks to undo the
work of its predecessor, preferably starting on that all-too-
familiar day one.  At the least, President  Barack Obama ’s re-election has
averted that dizzying prospect. This may be one reason so many
world leaders seemed to react with relief. A little continuity
isn’t bad, especially given the Robespierre-like intensity with
which voters have dispatched other world leaders since the
financial crisis.  Another good omen for progress is the “I’ll have what he’s
having” approach to foreign policy that  Mitt Romney  adopted in
the final presidential debate, which points to a sunlit patch of
bipartisan ground on  Iran ,  Syria  and Afghanistan. And Democratic
gains in the Senate will make that chamber more likely to focus,
as far as the president’s foreign policy is concerned, on
“advise and consent” than “obstruct and destroy.” Perhaps
Obama was right when he inadvertently remarked over an open
microphone to Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  last March
that, after his “last election,” he would have more
“flexibility” to get things done.  We have a few suggestions about where to start, beginning
with some cans that are too big to keep kicking down the road.  Nuclear Iran  Exhibit A is the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran. The
administration’s approach is having an impact: Sanctions
continue to erode the Iranian economy, and to incite public
dissatisfaction with the Islamic regime. In particular, the rial
has slumped as much as 40 percent against the dollar since
August, leading to spiraling inflation.  Now Obama needs to intensify the pressure by persuading
 India ,  Japan  and  South Korea  to make further reductions in
Iranian imports; banning all transactions -- not just  oil-
related business  -- with the Central Bank of Iran and its
satellites; expanding sanctions beyond petroleum production to
all aspects of the Iranian energy sector, which is fully
controlled by the congressionally blacklisted Islamic
Revolutionary Guards Corps; and perhaps working to keep Western
insurers and reinsurers from issuing policies related to Iranian
trade.  The president will also have to come to some understanding
with  Israel  on where to draw a “red line” on Iran’s progress
toward a nuclear weapon, and the circumstances that would lead
to military action.  Although the Obama administration vehemently denied reports
that it agreed to direct talks with the Iranians, we don’t
object to such discussions. They just shouldn’t reward Iran for
half-measures: Until Tehran agrees to strictly enforced limits
on uranium enrichment and inspections that give the world
comfort it cannot build a nuclear bomb, the heat stays on.  Syria is competing with Iran for the top slot on Obama’s
foreign policy to-do list. This crisis has no good or simple
fix, and there certainly isn’t a strong desire among Americans
to undertake another armed intervention a la Iraq or
Afghanistan. Still, the administration has been slow to take
those actions that it could.  Syrian Rebels  With the elections over, whoever replaces Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  should begin to engage publicly with
Syrians fighting inside the country. Obama should get more
clandestine U.S. personnel on the ground to support Syria’s non-
Islamist opposition, identify a potential transitional
leadership, and take control of the flow of weapons to the Free
Syrian Army from  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar to ensure that arms
don’t fall into the hands of jihadist and other groups.  In the broader region, Obama can’t sustain his see-no-evil,
speak-no-evil approach to the brewing tumult in the Gulf
kingdoms. Bahrain, which hosts the U.S. Navy’s  Fifth Fleet , has
been  rocked by unrest . Previously quiet Jordan and Kuwait have
lately experienced protests. And those are just the visible
hotspots.  Obama officially supports the expansion of democracy
throughout the Mideast. That commitment would be severely tested
by any popular uprising in the Gulf kingdoms. Accordingly, the
president would be wise to privately lean on the Gulf monarchs
to usher in  democratic reforms now  rather than risk losing power
(not to mention life and liberty) altogether.  As more Arab political systems open up, Islamic parties are
sure to gain influence. The administration needs to redouble
efforts to establish, when possible, trusting relationships with
these forces. The U.S. can’t dictate the course of the Arab
awakening, but it can be better prepared to navigate its twists
and turns.  Durable progress just about anywhere in the  Middle East 
will require at least grudging cooperation with  China  and
 Russia , nuclear-armed United Nations Security Council members
with strong -- and in China’s case, growing -- geostrategic
interests there. Both countries were also the targets of some
heavy-handed rhetoric on the campaign trail. Two quick, mutually
beneficial ways to dispel some post-campaign tensions would be
for the U.S. to speed the next meeting of the high-profile  U.S.-
China Strategic and Economic Dialogue , which it will host early
next summer, and for the lame-duck Congress to pass legislation
that would grant Russia permanent normal trade relations status
by repealing the obsolete anti-Soviet Jackson-Vanik Amendment of
1974.  Awarding such trade relations would also help increase U.S.
exports to what is the world’s  seventh biggest economy , but only
its 20th biggest trading partner.  Trade Opportunities  That brings us to the last item on our to-do list and the
first thing on most Americans’ minds: jobs.  In his 2010  State of the Union  address, Obama vowed to
double U.S. exports by the end of 2014. The U.S. isn’t on track
to reach that goal. Obama should intensify the effort by
pressing harder for the  Trans-Pacific Partnership , a trade
agreement that was first initiated under President  George W. Bush , and for a U.S.-European Union free-trade pact, which,
according to a Bloomberg Government analysis, would eliminate
$6.4 billion in annual duties on U.S. exports.  And if Obama was serious about working with Romney to move
the country forward, one easy way to do so would be to pursue
expanded trade with  Latin America , particularly Brazil and
Argentina, which the Republican candidate rightly identified as
emerging powerhouses.  Of course, many other global challenges loom for the second
Obama administration, from a tottering European Union, to the
moribund Israeli-Palestinian peace process, to  North Korea , to a
melting Arctic. But first things first. The world has been
waiting. Time to get back to business -- until 2016, that is.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Visit  the Ticker  for election commentary,
including Mary Duenwald on  the prospects of a carbon tax , James
Greiff on  restoring Wall Street-White House ties  and Zara
Kessler on  Mitt Romney’s 49 percent problem .  Plus, the editors on how President Barack Obama can  avoid the
fiscal cliff ;  Caroline Baum  on  why Congress doesn’t listen to
voters ; Clive Crook on how  Obama can make this election matter ;
 Ezra Klein  on  the opening for filibuster reform ; W. Michael Cox
and Richard Alm on  the California business that might come to
Texas ; Odd Arne Westad on  China’s more nationalistic leadership .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 