-- Telefonica CEO Turns to Latin America After German IPO
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-11-07T17:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/telefonica-misses-profit-estimates-on-slowing-demand.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  Chief Executive Officer
Cesar Alierta, having lowered the Spanish phone company’s debt
by 5.5 billion euros ($7 billion) from asset sales in Europe and
 Asia , has won additional time to decide on a separation of its
Latin American business.  “We do not need to do that transaction, but we may decide
to do it depending on what provides the best value for our
shareholders,” Finance Chief Angel Vila told analysts today
when asked about plans for an initial public offering of the
business. “We are still in the process of internal analysis.”  Telefonica today posted third-quarter earnings for Latin
America that beat those from Spain and some analysts’ estimates.
Alierta, 67, is under less pressure to sell shares in the
business as net debt and funding costs have declined, people
familiar with the matter said. The Madrid-based company may even
cancel plans to spin off the assets, depending on its  credit
ratings , the people said, asking not to be identified because
the deliberations are private.  Alierta is reversing a decade-long acquisition spree to
shrink a debt pile that ballooned to more than 58 billion euros.
In the past months, Telefonica sold a stake in  China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. (762) , sold shares in its German unit, and disposed
of the Atento call-center division.  Listing Options  One option being considered for the Latin American
operations is the creation of a holding company, excluding
Argentina and  Venezuela , and to list the shares in  Sao Paulo  or
 New York , the people said. An alternative is to sell more shares
of its existing business in  Brazil , they said. Sanford C.
Bernstein analysts valued the assets at 47 billion euros in
July.  Latin America’s operating income before depreciation and
amortization rose 4.8 percent to 2.69 billion euros last quarter
as  sales  gained 3.8 percent to 7.62 billion euros. Still,
revenue growth slowed from the second quarter’s 5.8 percent.  That compares with an estimate of 0.9 percent Oibda growth
and 4.2 percent revenue growth by Andres Bolumburu, an analyst
at Banco de Sabadell in Madrid. Telefonica’s earnings in the
region climbed because of tighter cost control and the sale of
mobile-phone towers, he said.  “ Latin America  is still growing strongly,” Bolumburu said
by phone. “Even though they weren’t wonderful, they slightly
changed the trend from previous quarters.”  No Decision  The different structures being analyzed have different
potential consequences “from regulatory, tax and other
implications,” Vila said.  “None of them are more clear or
differential than others. We have not taken any decision not
only with respect to any structure but with respect to whether
the transaction will be performed or not next year.”  Alierta is relying on Latin American growth to offset
stiffer competition at home, where a slumping economy is hurting
demand and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange and  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo
are winning customers.  Spain  is still Telefonica’s biggest
market, followed by Brazil.  Telefonica, the biggest phone company in Spain,  declined 
2.1 percent to 10 euros in Madrid, valuing the company at 45.5
billion euros. It climbed as much as 2.3 percent earlier today.  Telefonica said its net debt has dropped to 52.8 billion
euros from 58.3 billion euros in June. The yearend target is 50
billion euros, Vila said. In addition to asset sales, Telefonica
also plans to swap 2 billion euros in preferred shares for bonds
and treasury stock.  Portugal Telecom  Telefonica has received offers for other assets and will
assess whether or not they add value for the company, Vila said
today. Telefonica is “monitoring market conditions” to sell
its 2 percent stake in  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) , he said.  Telefonica reiterated its 2012 targets, including a net
debt goal of less than 2.35 times Oibda. The phone company also
stuck to a plan to pay a 75-cent  dividend  in 2013.  Third-quarter earnings excluding some items topped
analysts’ estimates, helped by Latin America. Oibda was 5.35
billion euros, compared with the average analyst  estimate  of
5.33 billion euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales for the period declined 1.6 percent to 15.5 billion euros.  Net income was 1.38 billion euros, compared with a loss of
429 million euros a year earlier. Analysts had  predicted  profit
of 1.4 billion euros. In the year-earlier quarter, Telefonica
had 2.6 billion euros in job-cut expenses.  “I see nothing that’s incrementally worrisome or
materially positive,” said Guy Peddy, an analyst at Macquarie
Securities in  London . “They’ve done what they said they would
do, so they tick the boxes in the quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  