-- Elizabeth Warren, From Professor to Gadfly to Senator
-- B y   D e b o r a h   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-07T03:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/elizabeth-warren-from-professor-to-gadfly-to-senator.html
Elizabeth Warren  is living proof that
taking on the banks can be very good for your career.  Just a few years ago, Warren was a little-known law
 professor  at  Harvard University , focusing on consumer debt and
bankruptcy issues. Today, she’s a U.S. senator from
Massachusetts after unseating Republican  Scott Brown . Her
soaring trajectory is thanks to one thing: The Democrat spoke
truth to power about  Wall Street .  Anyone who has  watched  Warren will admit: The lady knows
how to spin a yarn. Her trademark folksy  phrases  (she’s fond of
“golly” and “tricks and traps”) have allowed her to go for the
jugular without seeming shrill, catty or mean. In taking down
the banks she talks up her Oklahoma roots, her brothers and how
toasters have more safety standards than credit cards and
mortgages.  Now she’s headed to the U.S. Senate, where (if Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  is smart) she’ll probably sit on the
Senate Banking Committee and keep a watchful eye over the
inevitable attacks on the Dodd-Frank financial reform law.  Her ascension from consumer-protection gadfly to TARP
 overseer  to the Gang of 100 will no doubt leave many on Wall
Street shaking their heads. But the truth is they have no one to
blame but themselves. Their enmity toward Warren (which was
shared by many on Capitol Hill) put enough pressure on President
Barack Obama that he opted not to name her to lead the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, which she essentially conceived and
pushed for.  It could be that Warren would have had more power as head
of the CFPB, which regulates consumer financial products and --
according to its critics -- has more power than any other
regulatory agency in Washington. But if history is any guide
Warren will be a force to be reckoned with on Capitol Hill.  Those Senate banking hearings are about to get really
interesting.  ( Deborah Solomon  is a member of the Bloomberg View
editorial board. Follow her  on Twitter .)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 