-- Emerging ETF Sinks to 2-Week Low as Brazil Equities Fall
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-07T22:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/emerging-stocks-rise-to-three-week-high-on-obama-victory.html
The exchange-traded fund tracking
developing-nation shares sank the most in two weeks as equity
indexes from Hungary to Brazil fell along with U.S. stocks and
oil.  BYD Co. (1211) , the Chinese carmaker partly owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., surged 11 percent.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  ETF tumbled 1.6
percent as investors assessed U.S. President Barack Obama’s
challenge to address a so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts after winning re-
election and the Greek debt crisis on  emerging markets . BYD led
gains in industrial and technology companies in the MSCI
Emerging Markets  Index (INDEXCF) , which was little changed.  “We’re seeing the very tough reality check after the
party,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Sberbank Investment
Research, the investment banking arm of Russia’s largest lender,
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.
“With the election over people are looking to the tough
schedule ahead for the U.S. coupled with uncertainty surrounding
 Greece  and the euro zone.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.1 percent to
1,007.45 at the close in New York, paring an earlier advance of
as much as 0.8 percent. Benchmark indexes in Hungary, Russia,
Brazil Colombia and Mexico fell more than 1 percent.  Brazilian oil producer  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA ,
slid the most since Oct. 26 as crude sank the most this year.  ‘Good News’  Obama’s re-election supported emerging-market stock gains
earlier in the day, on prospects he is more likely than
challenger  Mitt Romney  to maintain asset purchases designed to
bolster the U.S. economy, said  Michael Ganske , head of emerging-
market research at Commerzbank AG in London. Countries in the
MSCI gauge send about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S. on
average, according to the World Trade Organization.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index had surged 108 percent
during the Fed’s first round of bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing. The gauge has climbed 2.6 percent since the
Fed announced a third round on Sept. 13. The MSCI index’s 30-day
 volatility , a gauge of price swings, dropped to 8.2, the lowest
closing level since January 2006.  “A clear-cut win for Obama is good news,” Ganske said by
e-mail. “The political agenda of Romney had some question
marks, such as naming  China  a currency manipulator and the
continuation of QE3.”  Romney had pledged to label China a currency manipulator
over its management of the  yuan  and said he disagreed with the
Fed’s measures to stimulate the economy. He also vowed to
replace Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke at the end of his term in
January 2014.  All of the top five advancers in the MSCI developing-nation
gauge were Chinese stocks.  ‘Reality Check’  Obama’s victory means the value of the yuan won’t escalate
into a major trade issue that would slow the global economy,
Arjuna Mahendran, the Singapore-based head of Asia investment
strategy at HSBC Private Bank, which oversees $409 billion, said
in a phone interview today.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility  Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the iShares ETF
and expectations of price swings, gained 3.2 percent.  Obama will need to address the so-called fiscal cliff of
tax increases and spending cuts that take effect in 2013 unless
Congress can reach a budget compromise.  Russia, Brazil  Russia’s Micex Index slumped 1.6 percent as oil slid 4.8
percent in New York. Brazil’s Bovespa Index fell 1.6 percent as
OGX sank 4.4 percent and state-owned  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 
slumped 2.3 percent.  Hungary’s BUX Index lost 1.6 percent, the most in three
weeks. Mexico’s IPC Index retreated 1.7 percent, the biggest
decline since June 1. Colombia’s IGBC gauge sank for a seventh
day, dropping 2.5 percent, the longest stretch of slumps since
May 17.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
climbed 0.7 percent, snapping a two-day decline, before the
Chinese Communist Party’s leadership congress that starts
tomorrow.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has advanced 9.9 percent
this year, compared to a 9 percent increase by the  MSCI World
Index. (MXWO)  The emerging-markets index trades at 11.6 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea’s won gained 0.5 percent per dollar to the
strongest level in almost 14 months. The Czech Koruna declined
0.9 percent against the dollar.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 291, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Brazilian miner  MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA  dropped 5.1
percent, the most since July 20 as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 raw materials declined 2.4 percent.  Oil slumped below $85 in New York as re-elected U.S.
President  Barack Obama  has to forge a deal with Congress to
avoid more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts,
and Greece prepared to vote on austerity measures.  Largan Precision Co. (3008)  jumped 7 percent after Macquarie Group
Ltd. upgraded the stock to an equivalent of buy from neutral. A
gauge of information-technology companies in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index climbed for an eighth day, the longest winning
streak since January.  BYD surged 11 percent in Hong Kong, trading above its 200-
day moving average for the first time since May 4.  China Mobile Limited (941)  rose 2.5 percent, the biggest gain
since June 6. The company plans to start 4G mobile data service
in Hong Kong by the end of the year, the Standard in Hong Kong
reported, without saying how it obtained the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  