-- Enbridge Reports Quarterly Profit, Helped by Liquids Pipe
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-11-07T16:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/enbridge-reports-quarterly-profit-helped-by-liquids-pipe.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the largest
transporter of Canadian crude to the U.S., reported a third-
quarter profit, helped by higher volumes on its liquids
pipelines and a smaller loss from derivatives contracts.  Net income was C$189 million ($191 million), or 24 cents a
share, compared with a loss of C$5 million, or 1 cent, a year
earlier, the Calgary-based company said in a statement today.
Per-share profit excluding one-time items missed by a penny the
35-cent average of 15 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales fell 7.8 percent to C$5.79 billion. Enbridge owns and
operates  Canada ’s largest oil pipeline network spanning 24,738
kilometers (15,372 miles) and shipping 2.3 million barrels of
crude and liquids a day. More production in  Alberta  and  North
Dakota  increased demand for long-haul transit on the company’s
Canadian Mainline and Spearhead Pipeline.  “ North America  is undergoing a transformation in crude oil
and natural gas production, which is driving the need for
significant new energy infrastructure,” Chief Executive Officer
Al Monaco said in the statement. “Enbridge is in the middle of
that transformation and we’re uniquely positioned to benefit
from new and emerging opportunities in energy infrastructure
development.”  Adjusted earnings for its liquids pipelines rose 27 percent
to C$191 million for the quarter. The company’s net loss for
contracts used to lock in commodity prices and foreign exchange
rates fell to C$76 million from C$242 million a year earlier.  Expanding Pipelines  Enbridge is expanding and reversing pipeline routes to the
U.S. Gulf Coast and to Canada’s eastern provinces to handle
rising production from Alberta’s oil-sands and the Bakken Shale.
The company is also proposing a conduit called Northern Gateway
to transport bitumen to Canada’s Pacific coast, allowing
producers to access Asian markets.  Enbridge fell 0.6 percent to C$39.87 at 10:46 a.m. in
Toronto, the best performance today among the six companies on
the  Bloomberg World Pipelines Index. (BWPIPE)  The shares have gained 4.6
percent this year and have 14 buy, one hold and two sell  ratings 
from analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  