-- Tepco May Seek More Government Funds for Fukushima Clean-Up Cost
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-11-07T03:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/tepco-may-seek-more-government-funds-for-fukushima-clean-up-cost.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. may ask the
government for more funds to cover decontamination and reactor
decommissioning costs from last year’s nuclear disaster at its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant.  The utility known as Tepco estimates it may cost about 10
trillion yen ($125 billion) to decontaminate areas around the
plant, the Mainichi newspaper reported, citing a mid-term
business plan to be announced today. Decommissioning costs for
the damaged reactors will probably exceed an earlier projection
of 1.15 trillion yen, the newspaper said.  In July, the Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund
took control of Tepco in return for a 1 trillion yen capital
injection after the disaster left the utility on the brink of
bankruptcy. The survival of Tepco, which has received 1.4
trillion yen in state funds to compensate those affected by the
disaster, hinges on whether it receives more aid, said Hirofumi Kawachi, an energy analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co.  “The government is likely to refuse to cover all the
additional expenses” as extra aid would draw public criticism,
Kawachi said by phone today.  The utility will “request the government to consider
additional measures” to cover the costs of decommissioning and
compensation including decontamination, Tepco said in May in its
earlier business plan approved by Trade and Industry Minister
 Yukio Edano , who oversees energy companies.  On May 11, Edano indicated the government may pay part of
the costs to decontaminate areas around the Fukushima plant
while Tepco should be responsible for expenses to decommission
and dismantle the reactors.  The utility plans to set up a Fukushima headquarters as
early as January and increase the number of employees assigned
to recovery work in the prefecture to more than 4,000 from
3,500, the Mainichi newspaper reported Nov. 3, citing the mid-
term plan.  Tepco said in May it will cut more than 3.37 trillion yen
in costs over 10 years. The business plan calls for additional
cuts of about 100 billion yen a year, the Mainichi said.  Tepco spokesman Tsuyoshi Numajiri declined to comment on
the mid-term business plan before the official announcement
today at 2 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  