-- Merck May Not Have Shown Women Can Safely Choose Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-07T15:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/merck-may-not-have-shown-women-can-safely-choose-drug.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) , the third-largest U.S.
drugmaker by revenue, may not have shown that women can safely
use the company’s overactive-bladder medication Oxytrol without
a doctor prescription, U.S. regulators said.  Food and Drug Administration staff asked advisers to vote
on whether Merck’s data supports that women can appropriately
use the patch in an over-the-counter setting. The FDA staff
released its  report  today ahead of a Nov. 9 advisory panel
meeting to discuss the drug, which Merck is seeking to make the
first bladder treatment available without a prescription.  Merck bought the rights to nonprescription Oxytrol from
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  The FDA is scheduled to decide on
Merck’s Oxytrol by the end of January, said Edwin Hemwall,
associate vice president of clinical research for prescription
to over-the-counter switches at the  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based company. The patch is suited for nonprescription
use because of less frequent side effects than oral overactive-
bladder drugs, he said.  “It’s a category that affects 20 million women in the
U.S.,” Hemwall said in a telephone interview before the report
was released. “Up to 80 percent self-manage the condition
already without seeking help from a health-care professional.”  Self-management includes purchasing pantyliners or pads to
manage leaks and not leaving the house for long periods of time.
Side effects of overactive bladder medications are dry mouth,
constipation and abnormal vision.  40 Million Patches  The agency approved Oxybutrol in 2003 and 40 million
patches have been distributed worldwide through February 2011,
according to the report.  “In accordance with FDA regulations, if a drug can be OTC,
it should be OTC,” FDA staff wrote.  Some consumers failed to correctly decide whether they
could take the drug based on their understanding of the label
and their symptoms and as well as other conditions that might
indicate they shouldn’t take Oxytrol, the FDA staff said. Some
men also incorrectly chose to take the product labeled
specifically for women.  FDA staff didn’t find any new safety signals for use of
over-the-counter Oxytrol, according to the report.  The FDA hasn’t convened an advisory panel for a switch to
nonprescription status in five years, Hemwall said.  OTC Expansion  The agency said earlier this year it’s considering
expanding the list of drugs that can be bought without a
doctor’s order to lower costs and ease access to drugs for
people with chronic ailments. The FDA held a meeting on the
proposal in March focusing on cholesterol, asthma, migraine and
blood-pressure medications that could benefit from new
technologies such as kiosks to help people determine whether a
drug is appropriate for them.  Merck began its program studying Oxytrol five years ago,
Hemwall said.  “We’re very pleased to see how FDA has started thinking
about innovation in switch,” he said.  Merck doesn’t anticipate it will need the new technology to
help make the Oxytrol switch, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  