-- Ericsson to Cut 1,550 Jobs in Sweden as Carriers Spend Less
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-11-07T11:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/ericsson-to-cut-1-550-jobs-in-sweden-as-carrier-spending-falls.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest
maker of mobile-phone networks, said it will eliminate 1,550
positions in Sweden, two weeks after reporting a slump in profit
as wireless carriers curbed spending.  The cuts, amounting to 8.7 percent of its Swedish
workforce, are across the board, with the majority of the
reductions at the networks division, the Stockholm-based company
said today. About 1,000 of the positions slated to go are based
in the Swedish capital, it said.  Ericsson joins Nokia Siemens Networks and Alcatel-Lucent SA
in reacting to spending cuts among mobile-phone companies hurt
by a slowing economy and competition from Chinese manufacturers.
The Swedish company, which has projected 4 billion kronor ($600
million) in restructuring costs for 2012, reported one-time
costs of 1.7 billion kronor for the first nine months.  “Something big was bound to happen in the fourth
quarter,” said Lars Soederfjell, an analyst at Aalandsbanken in
 Stockholm . “If you look at network margins, they were down to 5
percent in the third quarter and they have a target of returning
to double-digit margins so in order to get there without much
top-line growth in the near term, they need to take steps.”  Productivity Leads  The shares rose as much as 1.1 percent after the
announcement and traded 0.7 percent lower at 58.30 kronor as of
12:14 p.m. on the Stockholm exchange. They had declined 17
percent this year through yesterday.  By cutting jobs, Ericsson is acting on a sales forecast it
 trimmed  in March, when it predicted compound growth of between 2
percent and 8 percent through 2014. The manufacturer yesterday
said the global market for telecommunications hardware will grow
by an average 3 percent to 5 percent a year through 2015,
supported by increases in smartphone use.  Ericsson’s revenue per employee last quarter was 17 percent
higher than Alcatel-Lucent’s and at a similar level to Nokia
Siemens. Selling and administrative expenses, at 11 percent of
its sales, also beat Alcatel-Lucent’s 16 percent.  The Swedish company said it’s negotiating with union
representatives and expects to inform all employees affected by
the plan by March 2013.  Network Management  “We must ensure that we can continue to execute on our
strategy to maintain our market leadership, invest in R&D and
meet our customers’ needs,” said Tomas Qvist, head of
Ericsson’s human resources in  Sweden . “To secure this we need
to focus on reducing cost, driving commercial excellence and
operational effectiveness.”  To offset the slower demand and rivalry from Huawei
Technologies Co. and Nokia Siemens, Ericsson is trying to sell
more services such as network management and maintenance.  Nokia Siemens, the venture between  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens
AG (SIE) , announced plans a year ago to cut 17,000 positions, or 23
percent of its headcount. Alcatel said last month it will
eliminate 5,500 positions, or 7 percent of its workforce. The
unprofitable French manufacturer would need to slash another
10,000 jobs to catch up with its rivals’ efficiency figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  