-- Merkel Euro Budget Veto Policy Is Wrong, Council of Advisers Say
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-11-07T11:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/merkel-euro-budget-veto-policy-is-wrong-council-of-advisers-say.html
Efforts by German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government to expand powers of the European Commission
to allow it to veto euro area states’ budgets are misplaced and
unrealistic, her panel of economic  advisers  said.  Sovereign rights over budgets must remain under control of
national governments while obligations to follow the fiscal
arrangements devised to stabilize the euro are tightened, said
the group, known as the “Five Wise Men,” in their annual
report presented to Merkel in Berlin today. The veto plan, aired
last month by German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ,
sparked opposition in France, Italy and  Spain .  Giving the commission budget veto powers or creating a euro
area finance minister would be a “highly difficult step,
possibly without hope of realization at the national level, not
least in  Germany ,” said the five economists. The proposal “is
to a high degree politically improbable.” Merkel said in the
German parliament on Oct. 18 that she was “surprised” about
the proposal’s negative reception.  The government’s push may conflict with the efforts of
Germany’s own parliament, pursued at the constitutional court,
to uphold sovereign powers over the budget. Merkel has
previously raised the possibility of empowering the European
Court of Justice to punish infringements of “Fiscal Pact”
treaty that seeks to bind states to tighter fiscal discipline.  Merkel isn’t obliged to adopt proposals of the wise men.  Stabilize Euro  The group’s review of the German, European and global
economies advocates a three-pillar plan to stabilize the euro.
The pillars -- tighter fiscal policy anchored in binding
treaties, a European “banking union” and financial market
rules -- are for the most already in progress, the panel said.  In its 2011 report, the group proposed creation of a euro
area “debt redemption fund” to service states’ excessive debt.
While rejected by Merkel, the proposal still merits
consideration, giving states a fresh start in adhering to new
fiscal rules while easing the burden of legacy debt, the group
said.  The council of economic advisers, established in 1963,
consists of Chairman  Wolfgang Franz ,  Peter Bofinger , Claudia Buch, Lars Feld and Christoph Schmidt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  