-- Merrill Asks Singapore Court to Reject Ex-Client’s Suit
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-11-07T03:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/merrill-asks-singapore-court-to-reject-ex-client-s-suit.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch
unit asked Singapore’s High Court to reject a former Indonesian
private-banking client’s  lawsuit  for 251 billion rupiah ($26
million) as fraudulent.  Prem Harjani asked the court in a Sept. 27 suit to enforce
an award he won in Indonesian courts against Merrill for
embezzlement and defamation. Merrill countersued on Nov. 5,
saying the award shouldn’t be enforced as it undermines an
earlier Singapore judgment that Harjani had defrauded Merrill.  A Merrill unit won $9.4 million from Harjani in the
Singapore court in 2010 for failing to pay for shares in a
Jakarta-listed company in 2008. Harjani sued two other Merrill
units in  Indonesia  in 2008 and was awarded $26 million in 2010.  “This action is an attempt by Harjani to profit from his
fraud and undermine the Singapore proceedings and Singapore
judgment,” Merrill said in its Nov. 5 filing. “In furtherance
of his fraud, Harjani ran a false and misleading case in the
Indonesian proceedings.”  Harjani, who owns Renaissance Capital Management Investment
Pte, had claimed Merrill had acted unlawfully by selling the
shares which he was entitled to and causing the price to tumble
due to a loss of confidence in the stock.  Paul Scanlon, a Hong Kong-based spokesman at Bank of
America, declined to comment as did Harjani’s lawyer N.
Sreenivasan.  Merrill has requested the Indonesian  Supreme Court  for a
civil review of the Indonesian ruling and to halt its
enforcement, according to its Singapore court papers. Harjani
hasn’t paid Merrill $7.8 million of the $9.4 million Singapore
judgment as of Oct. 2, according to court papers.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America agreed to
buy Merrill Lynch & Co. in September 2008.  There was “overwhelming evidence” that Harjani made a
“series of false representations” to Merrill, Singapore High
Court Justice Andrew Ang ruled in 2010.  The case is Harjani Prem Ramchand v Merrill Lynch
International Bank Ltd (Merchant Bank). S810/2012. Singapore
High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  