-- Essar Said to Plan $4.8 Billion Debt Refinance: Corporate India
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-11-08T08:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/essar-said-to-plan-4-8-billion-debt-refinance-corporate-india.html
Essar Group, controlled by
billionaire Indian brothers Shashikant and Ravikant Ruia, is in
talks with banks to refinance as much as $4.8 billion of debt,
two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Essar  Global Ltd. (3271) , the holding company of the owners, plans
to refinance $3.5 billion of overseas loans, while Essar Steel
Ltd. will take on new debt to repay as much as 70 billion rupees
($1.3 billion) of borrowing, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the matter is private.  The group plans to roll over maturities on overseas loans
and switch some of the rupee debt into dollar-denominated
obligations to reduce interest costs, the people said. Essar
used short-term borrowings to finance part of its $18 billion
expansion since 2008 that has yet to operate at its full
capacity, putting pressure on the group’s cash flow, they said.  “Right now the debt levels are at a peak,” said Puneet
Bhatia, an analyst at Credit Analysis & Research Ltd., or CARE,
in Mumbai. “With the commencement of new projects and expected
incremental cash flow, resources available for debt servicing
stand augmented.”  Switching from rupee to dollar-denominated debt may help
the company, which also earns in the U.S. currency, reduce
costs. Average yields on Indian dollar debt are 4.33 percent,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes. That compares with  State
Bank of India (SBIN) ’s prime lending rate of 14.5 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Pruning Cost’  “The swapping of rupee debt with foreign debt is a
beginning toward” aligning financing costs with global levels,
Essar spokesman  Manish Kedia  said in an e-mail response. “These
efforts are neither driven by any compulsion to refinance or
restructure but by the strategy of pruning financing cost as
much as possible.”  Closely held Essar Steel has a total debt of about 230
billion rupees, the people said. It has spent most of the funds
to more than double capacity to 10 million metric tons at Hazira
in Gujarat state and in setting up a pellet plant in the eastern
state of Odisha.  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL)  increased its refining capacity
to 20 million tons from 10.5 million tons this year.  India’s central bank has approved the steel unit’s proposal
to switch about $430 million of its rupee loans into dollar
debt, the people said. It also plans to borrow the maximum $750
million loan allowed by the Reserve Bank of  India  under the
automatic approval route for importing equipment, one person
said.  “As a policy, we do not comment on any specific
transaction,” Kedia said. CARE on Aug. 24 cut its long-term
bank facilities  rating  for Essar Steel three levels to BBB-,
citing worsening margins and rising debt.  Steel Prices  A drop in steel prices is affecting the company’s revenue.
Global benchmark  hot-rolled coils  that Essar Steel produces,
used in making cars and home appliances, declined more than 13
percent since April 1 following a slowdown in  Europe  and
weakening demand in China and India.  Essar Steel’s loss widened to 8.81 billion rupees in the
year ended March 31 from 1.66 billion rupees, according to
provisional results provided to CARE.  The company, which started operations in 1969 by building a
barrier to reduce wave intensity in Chennai port, is also in
talks with Indian banks for short-term dollar denominated
borrowing backed by the company’s receivables to help manage its
working capital financing at a lower cost, the people said. It
has also sought rupee funding and refinancing of as much as 30
billion rupees from the Indian banks, one person said.  Stake Sale  Essar Steel in 2003, under the  Corporate Debt Restructuring
Mechanism , extended the term of the loans, reduced interest
charges and converted loans into equity, helping cut liabilities
by 20 percent to 43 billion rupees, according to an exchange
filing.  The company doesn’t plan to use the mechanism to revamp its
debt, the people said.  The Ruias may sell a stake in their U.S. steel unit or in
other group companies including  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) ,  Essar Ports
Ltd. (ESRS)  and  Essar Shipping Ltd. (ESL)  to reduce debt at Essar Global, the
people said.  The group’s owners plan to sell some of their shares in
Essar Oil, Essar Shipping and Essar Ports to comply with the
regulatory norms and are not planning to cut stake in Essar
Energy, said Kedia.  Essar group, which bought Minnesota Steel Industries LLC
for an undisclosed price in 2007, is in talks with banks for an
initial public offering for the U.S. steel unit, Chief Executive
Officer Prashant Ruia said in June.  ‘No Bearing’  “Being a privately held company, Essar Global’s size of
debt or debt servicing has no bearing on any of Essar’s domestic
or foreign listed entities,” Kedia said today.  In the past five years, the group has expanded its power
generating capabilities by more than four times to 4,500
megawatts. Coal mining plans for its power plant in the central
state of Madhya Pradesh have been delayed following the federal
government’s decision to refer the matter to a ministers’ panel.  Last month, Mahan Coal Ltd., an equal venture between Essar
Power Ltd. and  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL)  received the first stage
forest clearance for the block, which was alloted to the company
in 2006.  Essar Oil said on Oct. 9 it may raise as much as $1.5
billion in overseas loans after it received the Reserve Bank of
India’s approval and plans to seek more so-called external
commercial borrowings. Essar Oil had 156.3 billion rupees in
debt and 20.6 billion rupees of cash and equivalents as of March
31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The group is targeting $35 billion in revenue in three
years, a 30 percent rise, as it taps demand for infrastructure
in Asia’s third-largest economy, Prashant Ruia had said. Essar’s
investments have come at a cost lower than the industry average,
leaving the group with less debt than competitors with similar
expansion plans, he said.  Essar Oil, which will announce its second-quarter earnings
tomorrow, posted a wider-than-expected loss in the three months
ended June. 30. The  shares  of the company have climbed 31
percent in Mumbai this year, while parent Essar Energy fell 19
percent in  London  in the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  