-- Tester Beats Rehberg to Keep Montana U.S. Senate Seat
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-11-07T17:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/tester-beats-rehberg-to-keep-montana-u-s-senate-seat.html
Democratic U.S. Senator Jon Tester of
 Montana  won a second term, defeating Republican House member
Denny Rehberg, according to the  Associated Press .  With 90 percent of precincts reporting, Tester had 48.8
percent to Rehberg’s 44.7 percent. Dan Cox, the Libertarian
candidate, received 6.5 percent of the vote, more than double
the share that the Libertarian candidate for president received
in Montana. Those votes may have come at Rehberg’s expense.  “It is an honor to accept your trust in sending a Montana
farmer with Montana values back to the United States Senate,”
Tester told supporters today in Great Falls.  Rehberg and his supporters worked to tie Tester to
President Barack Obama, who is unpopular in the state. Montana
has fewer people per square mile than any state except Alaska
and  Wyoming .  Both parties spent millions of dollars on advertising, much
of it negative. Crossroads GPS, a nonprofit group that former
President George W. Bush political adviser  Karl Rove  helped
create, ran an ad that showed Tester with his arm around the
president.  “ Barack Obama  and Jon Tester dug a hole” with the 2009
stimulus bill, the 2010 health-care law and a 2011 measure
raising the federal debt ceiling, the ad said. “They want
Montanans to pay the price.”  Coal Closing  Rehberg ran an ad claiming Tester’s support for the Obama
administration’s 2011 air-quality regulations contributed to
Montana PPL’s decision to close a coal-fired power plant in
Billings in 2015. Tester said the company was using federal air-
quality rules as an excuse to cut costs.  In his speech today, Tester said his win was proof that
corporations and billionaires can’t buy elections.  “In Montana, we believe that people and their ideas and
their values are what govern us,” he said.  Tester’s campaign and Democratic groups countered with ads
claiming Rehberg, 57, would turn Medicare, the federal health-
care program for senior citizens, into a voucher system. They
said Rehberg supported cuts to education, including  Pell grants 
for college students.  Tester, 56, said he broke with the Obama administration by
supporting the Keystone XL pipeline, opposing the auto bailout
and trying to remove Endangered Species Act protection from gray
wolves that Montana ranchers say are preying on livestock.  Six years ago, as part of a wave that led to Democratic
majorities in the House and Senate, Tester defeated three-term
Republican Senator Conrad Burns by 3,562 votes, less than 1
percent of the total votes cast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  