-- Let the 2016 Punditry Begin
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-11-07T16:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/let-the-2016-punditry-begin.html
Today is the day of the Great Pundits
Pivot. It happens every four years, the day after a presidential
election. Before the election, every commentator wants to be
Michael Barone. Afterward, everyone wants to be Oswald Spengler.  Mike Barone is a rightly esteemed Washington journalist --
long ago a wonky liberal, now a cranky conservative, but still
an intrepid interpreter of demographic and political statistics
-- whose claim to fame is that he’s visited every one of the
country’s 435 congressional districts. There is no bit of
electoral minutiae too small for Barone to explain how it is the
key to understanding everything. Long before NBC’s Chuck Todd
and  CNN ’s John King, Barone was reading the tiny tea leaves and
noticing an increase in the population of Armenians in South
Carolina’s Third Congressional District that may tip the balance
in the House of Representatives.  Up to Election Day, Baronism dominates the coverage and
commentary, as political journalists compete to display their
expertise. The ultimate goal is to find one person, probably in
Ohio, whose vote -- through a series of complicated and subtle
developments involving the Electoral College, super-PACs, and
tracking polls for each election cycle -- will determine the
result.  This year  Barone predicted  a Romney landslide. Since I
write on Election Day, you know whether he’s right and I don’t.
But the point is not to be right; the point is to be bold. If
you’re right, you’re a hero. No one will remember if you’re
wrong.  Then comes Election Day. The world of punditry turns
briefly and bizarrely quiet, as if in the eye of a storm. TV
talking heads keep talking, but no sound comes out -- or at
least no sound worth hearing. This blessed silence used to last
a day or more. Now, thanks to the Internet, it only lasts a few
precious hours, if that.  Early or late in the evening on Tuesday, as the result
becomes probable and then certain, the winds of punditry start
up again. By Wednesday midday they are in full force.  Only now the minutiae no longer matter. President  Barack Obama ’s performance in the first debate,  Mitt Romney ’s latest
Etch A Sketch moment, whether Paul Ryan’s budget adds up or Joe Biden smiled too much: All these matters that have obsessed us
these many months will turn out to have had little or nothing to
do with the result, which -- it now develops -- was dictated by
broad historical forces.  Michael Barone is out. Oswald Spengler (1880-1936,
philosopher and author of “ The Decline of the West ,” which
I’ve never read either) is in. On TV, on opinion pages, and
probably even in Bloomberg View, political consultants are
escorted off the premises and in come the historians.  Whereas before the election, the goal of punditry was to
narrow the group of people who are responsible for the result
(citizens of  Ohio , undecided voters, black Republicans, Irish
Catholics in  Iowa , and so on), after the election the goal is to
produce a theory that implicates the entire nation, or indeed
the world and known universe in the result, whatever it may be.
And it matters even less whether you are right or wrong than it
did before the election. Whether you’re right or wrong won’t be
known for at least 100 years or so anyway.  This lasts a day or so. Then we start on the minutiae for
2016, and the great cycle of punditry goes round and round.  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or @michaelkinsley on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 