-- EU Bank Union Should Embrace East, Development Bank Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-11-07T14:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/eu-bank-union-should-embrace-east-development-bank-says-1-.html
European Union proposals for a
banking union risk disadvantaging lenders in emerging  Europe ,
the world’s most-dependent region on foreign funding, according
to the  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development .  The plan to create a single supervisor and use rescue funds
to recapitalize troubled banks ignores the needs of countries in
the trading bloc’s east by limiting full membership and access
to the funds to institutions in euro nations, the London-based
EBRD said today in its annual Transition Report.  “The playing field would be distorted by the preferential
access to the European Stability Mechanism,”  Erik Berglof , the
EBRD’s chief economist, told a news conference today in London.
“It’s in the interests of the emerging European economies to
have this incompleteness fixed. We’ll hopefully see developments
there.”  Foreign lenders including and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  have
helped fuel economic growth in nations such as Poland, Hungary
and  Croatia , where they control about three-quarters of banking
assets. Euro-area governments have urged their banks to lend
more at home at the expense of subsidiaries elsewhere in Europe,
causing capital and liquidity to be hoarded and leading to
credit shortages across emerging Europe.  Vienna Initiative  The EBRD will present the report to the European Commission
this week and plans to push its recommendations through the
Vienna Initiative, the group of banks, regulators and policy
makers which helped prevent an east European financial collapse
in 2008 and 2009, Berglof said. The group is currently chaired
by Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka.  Under EU plans, the European Central Bank will become the
main regulator for the biggest banks in the 17-nation euro
region as early as Jan. 1, the first step toward a banking
union. Next, the euro area will consider allowing direct bank
bailouts from the 500 billion-euro ($648 billion) ESM. A full
union will gradually come into effect, covering all 6,000 euro-
area banks by Jan. 1, 2014.  While it would be mandatory for euro-area nations to place
their banks under ECB supervision, EU states outside the bloc
may voluntarily sign up to the plan. Still, with non-euro
nations ineligible for support from the ESM, few would join the
single supervisory mechanism, the EBRD said.  ‘Significant Gaps’  “The proposed plans leave significant gaps and have raised
concerns among emerging European countries,” Berglof said in
the report. Among the fears “is that the banking union would
tilt the competitive balance inside the EU against banks
headquartered outside the banking union, as the latter would not
be covered by the fiscal safety net provided to banking union
members.”  The development bank proposes that countries outside the
euro region should become eligible for ESM aid if they accept
oversight from the single supervisor. National governments
should retain responsibility for an initial amount of financial
assistance to avoid “moral hazard,” it recommended.  An extension of the banking union to European countries
that either were unable or didn’t want to become full members,
for instance in the form of “associate membership,” may also
be considered, under the EBRD’s suggestions. This may allow
nations outside the euro region to benefit from liquidity
support from the ECB with conditions and wouldn’t extend to
fiscal support, it said.  Concern that the proposed supervisor may not pay enough
attention to local problems in smaller countries may be
addressed by giving individual nations more sway in oversight,
according to the report.  The EBRD, owned by 63 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, was created in 1991 to invest in former communist
countries and help them transform their economies. It’s
expanding its scope to nurturing market economies and
democracies in the southern Eastern Mediterranean region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  