-- EU Cuts 2013 Growth Forecast as Crisis Weighs on Germany
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-11-07T14:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/eu-cuts-2013-growth-forecast-as-crisis-weighs-on-germany.html
The European Commission said the
euro-zone economy will virtually grind to a halt next year as
the debt crisis ravages southern  Europe  and gnaws at the
economic performance of export-driven  Germany .  The 17-nation euro economy will expand 0.1 percent in 2013,
down from a May forecast of 1 percent, the  commission  said
today. It cut the forecast for Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, to 0.8 percent from 1.7 percent.  “Europe is going through a difficult process of
macroeconomic rebalancing and adjustment which will last for
some time still,” European Union Economic and Monetary
Commissioner Olli Rehn told reporters in Brussels. The economy
is “sailing forward through rough waters.”  The economic falloff may make it harder for European
governments to pull  Greece  back from the brink and deal with a
possible aid program for Spain, leaving the debt crisis to
fester for a fourth year.  Technically, the euro area will avert a recession, defined
as two consecutive quarters of contraction, though the overall
economy will still shrink 0.4 percent in 2012, ending a two-year
expansion, the commission said.  The euro fell after the downbeat forecast and a warning by
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi that debt-related
“difficulties” are “starting to affect the German economy.”
The currency slid to $1.2754 at 3:15 p.m. Brussels time, a drop
of 0.5 percent today.  North-South Divide  Next year’s near-stagnation across Europe masks a north-
south divide, in which the economy ekes out positive numbers
along an arc from  Finland  through the Low Countries to France,
and contraction grips Greece, Cyprus, Slovenia, Italy, Spain and
 Portugal .  North-south tensions over the debt crisis will bubble up on
Nov. 12, when finance ministers judge whether Greece has made
enough budget cuts and economic reforms to deserve the next
installment of 240 billion euros ($308 billion) in aid offered
since 2010.  Dilemmas facing Greece and its creditors were highlighted
by a commission forecast that Greek debt will rise to 188.4
percent of gross domestic product in 2013, higher than the 168
percent predicted in May. Euro governments are aiming to wrestle
it down to 120 percent by 2020.  “It is increasingly unsustainable without further measures
of reducing this debt burden,” Rehn said. The next hurdle comes
later today, when Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras seeks to
hold his fragile coalition together in a parliamentary vote on
austerity measures demanded by the creditors.  Germany is becoming less resistant to the economic woes of
southern Europe just as  Chancellor Angela Merkel , the dominant
figure in the handling of the debt crisis, embarks on a campaign
for a third term in elections in late 2013.  ‘Cross-Country Divergences’  The commission pointed to “wide cross-country divergences
in economic activity and labor-market dynamics” in a common-
currency area meant to bring Europe together, not fracture it.
It predicted “moderate” growth of 1.4 percent in 2014 that
leaves Cyprus alone in negative territory.  Data from the commission perch France, Germany’s
traditional partner in managing European affairs, in the middle
between the healthier economies of the north and the depressed,
deficit-ridden southern countries that have been forced to fall
back on international aid.  European forecasters put growth at 0.4 percent in  France  in
2013, more pessimistic than a French government prediction of
0.8 percent. As a result, the commission said, France will miss
its target of cutting the budget deficit to the euro-area limit
of 3 percent of GDP in 2013 and keeping it there in 2014.  Fiscal Outlook  The worsening fiscal outlook may lead to a reckoning
between northern anti-deficit countries and French President
Francois Hollande, who took office in May with a pledge to
soften the austerity-first policies that have marked Europe’s
response to the debt crisis.  Rehn avoided a confrontation, noting that Hollande is
working on steps to spur business and shore up public finances.
The French government yesterday shifted some taxes from labor to
consumption in an effort to reduce a record trade deficit, a
sign of France’s weakening competitiveness.  “We have potentially a very substantial policy change in
France going on,” Rehn said. “We’re not in a static situation,
things may change.”  Pressure will also mount on Spain, already tapping a 100
billion-euro aid program for its banks and potentially seeking
more for its public balance sheet. The commission warned that
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s deficit-reduction strategy is
based on rosy economic assumptions.  Spain’s economy  is likely to shrink 1.4 percent in 2013,
the commission said, worse than the government’s forecast of
minus 0.5 percent. The grimmer outlook will cut tax receipts and
boost welfare payments, pushing Spain’s deficit out to 6 percent
of GDP next year and 6.4 percent in 2014, the deadline for
bringing it under 3 percent.  Spanish Banks  Spain’s deficit “risks are tilted to the downside,” the
commission said. It said the costs of recapitalizing Spanish
banks aren’t yet known, and the overhaul of the economy could
crimp tax revenues.  Rehn said he told Spanish officials “to substantiate their
measures of fiscal consolidation soon, also for 2014.” The
focus will be on Spain’s “structural” deficit, a gauge that
factors out the ups and downs of the economy, he said. Still, on
that measure, the forecasts indicated that Spain will need to
take more out of the budget by 2014.  Spanish leaders have sent mixed signals about seeking
European help in financing the government’s deficits. Since
July, a bond-buying pledge by the central bank has trimmed
Spain’s borrowing costs in bond markets, enabling the government
to get by without an aid package.  The forecasts showed  Italy , the euro area’s third-largest
economy, in better fiscal shape than its Mediterranean
neighbors. Italy’s deficit will remain under the limit this
year, at 2.9 percent, dipping to 2.1 percent in 2013, the
commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  