-- EU Raises Duty Threat on Chinese Solar Panels With Subsidy Probe
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-11-07T23:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/eu-raises-duty-threat-on-chinese-solar-panels-with-subsidy-probe.html
The European Union stepped up the
threat of tariffs on solar panels from  China  by probing alleged
subsidies to Chinese manufacturers already accused of unfair
price undercutting in the biggest EU  trade dispute  of its kind.  The EU decision to open the inquiry into whether Chinese
solar-panel exporters receive trade-distorting  government aid 
comes amid a separate European investigation into allegations
that they sold in the 27-nation bloc below cost, a practice
known as dumping.  The two cases cover 21 billion euros ($27 billion) of EU
imports last year of crystalline silicon photovoltaic modules or
panels and cells and wafers used in them. Both probes stem from
complaints by EU ProSun, an industry group led by  Germany ’s
 Solarworld AG. (SWV)   The new investigation will determine whether solar panels
from China are “being subsidized and whether these subsidized
imports have caused injury” to the EU industry, the European
Commission, the bloc’s trade authority in Brussels, said today
in the  Official Journal . The commission has nine months to
decide whether to impose provisional anti-subsidy duties and EU
governments have 13 months to decide whether to apply
“definitive” levies for five years.  On Sept. 6, the commission started to investigate whether
Chinese manufacturers dumped solar panels and the cells and
wafers used in them in the EU, initiating the largest import-
protection case in Europe. In that inquiry, the commission has
nine months to introduce any provisional anti-dumping duties and
EU governments have 15 months to impose possible five-year
levies.  The dumping and subsidy cases highlight European concerns
about the expansion of Chinese solar companies led by Suntech
Power Holdings Co., which have grabbed market share from
European rivals that were once dominant. They follow a U.S.
decision this year to impose anti-dumping and anti-subsidy
duties as high as 250 percent on the Chinese industry.  Europe  accounts for around three-quarters of the global
photovoltaic market. China produces about 65 percent of solar
panels worldwide, the commission said in September when opening
the dumping case. The EU is China’s main export market,
accounting for roughly 80 percent of Chinese sales abroad,
according to the commission.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  