-- Fannie Mae Avoids Treasury Aid for Third Straight Quarter
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-11-07T22:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/fannie-mae-avoids-treasury-aid-for-third-straight-quarter.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  said it won’t seek U.S.
Treasury Department aid for a third straight quarter and expects
to post its first annual profit since 2006 as the housing
market’s recovery helps bolster financial results.  The company had third-quarter net income of $1.8 billion
after a $2.9 billion dividend payment to the Treasury on the
government’s stake, largely because of rising  home prices ,
Washington-based  Fannie Mae  said today in a statement. The
profit compared with a $5.1 billion loss in the same period a
year earlier.  “The most significant driver is the improvement in home
prices, and then we’ve had a number of other positive things
that have added to it, like declining delinquencies” and better
sales execution on foreclosed homes owned by the company, Susan
McFarland, Fannie Mae’s chief financial officer, said in a
telephone interview. “When you look across the board, virtually
all of the different parts of our financial statements have been
improving.”  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  have required almost $190
billion in aid since they were seized by federal regulators and
placed under U.S. conservatorship in 2008 amid losses that
pushed them toward insolvency. The two government-sponsored
enterprises, which provide liquidity by buying and bundling
mortgages, own or guarantee more than half of U.S. home loans.  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , based in McLean,  Virginia , said yesterday it
wouldn’t need a Treasury draw for the second quarter in a row as
it reported third-quarter net income of $2.9 billion after
accounting for a $1.8 billion dividend payment to Treasury.  Starting next year, the two taxpayer-owned companies will
cease paying dividends of 10 percent to the Treasury and will
instead pay any profits above a permitted capital reserve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  