-- Fatima Fertilizer Weighs Algeria, Nigeria for $1.4 Bln Plant
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-11-07T11:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/fatima-fertilizer-weighs-algeria-nigeria-for-1-4-bln-plant-1-.html
Fatima Fertilizer Co. (FATIMA) , Pakistan’s
third-biggest maker of the farming ingredient, is evaluating
Algeria or  Nigeria  as a potential destination to set up a $1.4
billion facility as part of a plan to tap overseas markets.  Teams have visited both countries to select a location with
convenient access to natural gas, Fawad Ahmed Mukhtar, chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“We are making good progress and conducting due diligence to
finalize terms with possible local partners.”  Fatima is seeking global avenues as Pakistan’s chronic
shortage of gas, the key raw material, curbs fertilizer
production even as domestic demand grows. Engro Fertilizer Ltd.,
the biggest urea maker, did not receive any gas in the quarter
ended Sept. 30, according to a  statement  on its website.  The new urea and di-ammonium phosphate plants will have a
capacity to produce 1.3 million tons a year and the company may
ship to African markets,  Pakistan  and  Brazil , Mukhtar said.
Fatima and its affiliates plan to have a stake ranging from 49
percent to 75 percent, with the rest being held by local
partners, he said.  Fatima’s  shares  rose as much as 1.2 percent before closing
little changed at 25.98 rupees in Karachi. The stock has gained
13 percent this year compared with a 45 percent increase in the
Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index.  Fatima posted a  net income  of 1.42 billion rupees in the
three months ended Sept. 30, compared with 2 billion rupees for
the same period last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Pakistan’s fertilizer imports accounted for 27 percent of
total consumption in the nine months ended Sept. 30, compared
with 13 percent a year ago, according to Shajar Capital Ltd. in
Karachi. Domestic production of urea and di-ammonium phosphate,
the two major types of fertilizer, fell 18 percent to 3.44
million tons in the same period.  Pakistan’s demand for natural gas exceeds supply by as much
as 15 percent, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  