-- Fed QE3 May Hit $1 Trillion as Fiscal Deadlock Persists
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-11-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/fed-qe3-may-top-1-trillion-amid-political-impasse.html
The  Federal Reserve  stands as the
only source of policy support for a  U.S. economy  burdened by 7.9
percent unemployment after the presidential election preserved
the balance of power between Democrats and Republicans.  “If you’re going to get stimulus, it’s got to come from
the Fed,” said Paul Edelstein, the director of financial
economics at IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts.
“They’re the only game in town.”  A fiscal boost to the economy is probably off the table as
President  Barack Obama  negotiates revenue increases and spending
cuts with leaders of a Democratic-controlled Senate and a  House
of Representatives  led by Republicans, Edelstein said. That may
leave only the Fed in the position of trying to boost the
economy, and its third round of quantitative easing may extend
through next year and climb past $1 trillion, said economists at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Pierpont Securities LLC.  Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year yields down the most in
five months, as Obama’s re-election bolstered speculation the
central bank will maintain a bond-buying program that San
Francisco Fed President  John Williams  this week said may exceed
$600 billion. Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  had criticized
the Fed’s policies and said he’d replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, whose second term expires in January 2014.  The 10-year yield fell 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, to 1.65 percent yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  Yellen Succession?  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co.
in New York, said it’s “highly probable” that Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  would replace Bernanke if he leaves in
2014. “That suggests the era of QE will be extended,” he said,
because Yellen has supported the Fed’s record monetary stimulus.  Stocks tumbled as Obama’s re-election set up a showdown
with the Republican-controlled House over the budget, with the
so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts slated to start in January unless
Congress acts before then.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 2.4 percent, the
most since June, to close at 1,394.53 in New York. The retreat
wiped out roughly $370 billion in market value from U.S.
equities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio said yesterday
Republicans may accept new  tax revenue  to cut the  budget deficit 
if it’s accompanied by a tax overhaul and changes to entitlement
programs. All sides are “closer than many think” to being able
to revise the  tax code , he told reporters in Washington.  Electoral Votes  Obama won the White House by capturing at least 303
electoral votes to Romney’s 206. Republicans kept a majority in
the House and Democrats retained control of the Senate.  Bernanke said Sept. 13 that “fiscal-policy uncertainty”
was already causing companies to hold off on hiring and making
investments. “The sooner it can be clarified, it’ll be
beneficial not just because we avoid the cliff itself, but
because we clarify for firms” how it will be resolved, he said.  Corporate  spending  on equipment and software was little
changed in the third quarter, the weakest in three years. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index , a proxy for
sentiment, was 51.7 in October after 51.5 the prior month. It
has hovered above 50 -- the dividing line between expansion and
contraction -- after shrinking in June, July and August.  The unemployment  rate  climbed in October to 7.9 percent
from 7.8 percent in September as more people entered the  labor
force  in search of work. Unemployment held above 8 percent for
43 consecutive months through August.  ‘Sustained Improvement’  “We’re looking for ongoing, sustained improvement in the
labor market,” Bernanke said on Sept. 13, when the Fed
announced its open-ended program to buy $40 billion of mortgage
debt per month. “There’s not a specific number we have in mind.
What we’ve seen in the last six months isn’t it.”  In a statement last month extending the bond-purchase
program, the Fed said “growth in employment has been slow.”
The economy expanded at a 2 percent annual pace in the third
quarter, compared with 4.1 percent at the end of last year.  “It’s going to take a long time for unemployment to come
down and growth to really pick up,” Williams told reporters
after a speech in Irvine, California on Nov. 5. He said bond
purchases should be “at least” $600 billion, “but I would
think it would probably be bigger given my view on how slow the
economy is going.”  Harder Job  The fiscal cliff makes the Fed’s job that much harder.
Gross domestic product would shrink by 0.5 percent next year and
joblessness climb to about 9 percent if it isn’t averted,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . Bernanke has said
he lacks tools strong enough to offset such an impact on growth.  “ Monetary policy  is limited in its capacity to provide
additional stimulus,” said Antulio Bomfim, senior managing
director at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in Washington and a
former Fed staff economist. The Fed’s benchmark interest  rate  is
already near zero, and for asset purchases, “there’s a limit on
how much more they could buy without actually affecting the
functioning of the market.”  Bernanke has argued that lawmakers need to address the
nation’s fiscal shortfall with a long-term plan while also not
acting too quickly to choke off a still-fragile recovery.  “If you had something that actually did that -- that could
be both supportive enough of aggregate demand and supportive
enough of improved sentiment on the economy -- that could
prevent the Fed from needing to do more,” said  Michael Feroli ,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan in New York. “But that just
doesn’t look realistic right now.”  Extended Horizon  Bernanke has kept  interest rates  near zero since December
2008, and the Fed in September extended the horizon for record-
low rates through at least the middle of 2015.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion in securities in its previous
two rounds of bond-buying and has swapped its short-term
Treasuries with longer-term securities in a program called
Operation Twist, due to expire in December.  Feroli predicted QE3 will last through the first half of
2014. Mortgage debt purchases may reach $700 billion, and when
Operation Twist expires at the end of the year, the Fed will
also start buying Treasuries at a similar pace, Feroli said.  Fed officials aren’t “going to stop until they feel pretty
comfortable about the economic situation, and I just don’t see
us being in an environment that generates strong growth,” said
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont in Stamford,
Connecticut. “I don’t see this great movement toward bipartisan
kumbaya coming in January” or “anything coming from the policy
side that’s going to push an acceleration in growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  