-- Federer Breaks Tour Finals Record to Open Bid for Seventh Title
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/federer-breaks-tour-finals-record-to-open-bid-for-seventh-title.html
Roger Federer  still wasn’t fulfilled
after setting another tennis record by beating Janko Tipsarevic
at the ATP World Tour Finals.  The 6-3, 6-1 victory at  London ’s O2 arena yesterday was
Federer’s 40th at the season-ending tournament for the top eight
singles players, one more than the mark he’d previously shared
with five-time champion  Ivan Lendl .  “I’m far from perfect,” Federer, 31, told reporters when
asked if there was anything he wasn’t good at. “I can’t cook.
There are many things I can’t do that I wish I could do. I can’t
skate. I would love to do that.”  After losing his spot atop the rankings last season to
 Novak Djokovic  of  Serbia , Federer returned to form at Wimbledon
this year, where he beat Britain’s  Andy Murray  to win a men’s
record-extending 17th Grand Slam title. He won the silver medal
at the London Olympics and completed a record 302nd week at No.
1 before being usurped by Djokovic this week. He’ll end the
season inside the top two for the ninth time in 10 years.  As at the four Grand Slam tournaments, Federer’s record at
the ATP Finals is unmatched in the men’s game.  The Swiss has a 40-7 career record in 11 appearances and
has won the title a record six times. Lendl and  Pete Sampras  are
next with five championships.  Federer said he can still recall his first match at the ATP
Finals, a straights-set win against Juan Carlos Ferrero of  Spain 
in  Shanghai  in 2002.  ‘Big Moment’  “It was a big moment for me because I was hoping to do
well, increase my ranking, because I knew every match I could
win possibly in the round robin stages could really help my
ranking down the stretch,” Federer said. “That’s exactly what
it did. I think I finished sixth in the world that year.”  The  ATP Finals  feature a round-robin format. The top eight
singles players and doubles pairs are divided into two groups of
four, with the top two in each moving into the semifinals.  Spain’s  David Ferrer  beat former U.S. Open champion Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina 6-3, 3-6, 6-4 last night in the
other match in Federer’s group.  Today, U.S. Open champion Murray and Australian Open winner
Djokovic will clash for the seventh time this season.  France ’s
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, last year’s finalist, plays Tomas Berdych of
the Czech Republic in the evening match.  The second-ranked Federer fired seven aces past No. 8 seed
Tipsarevic yesterday and never faced a break point, winning 95
percent of the points on his first serve.  “Roger was just too good,” Tipsarevic said. “People see
him play this flawless tennis and saying, ‘Oh, life is so easy
for Roger, he’s so talented.’ He is talented, but there’s so
much work behind that and so much thinking to improve.”  Should Federer win his seventh title of 2012 in London, he
would join  John McEnroe  at No. 3 on the career title-leaders
list with 77.  “It’s been a great career, but hopefully I have some more
left in the tank this week,” said Federer, who will face Ferrer
in his next group match tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at London’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  