-- E-House Falls on Concern Rebound at Risk: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-11-07T22:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/fiscal-cliff-sinks-e-house-on-economy-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  sank the most in three
months in  New York , led by consumer companies, on concern the
nation’s economic recovery will be threatened by U.S. spending
cuts and the lack of a resolution to Europe’s debt crisis.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. tumbled 1.9 percent to 93.92, the
biggest decline since July 23. Property firm  E-House China
Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  slipped 6.3 percent while  China Telecom Corp. (CHA) , the
biggest fixed-line operator, fell to a two-month low.  Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  traded at the biggest discount to its
 Hong Kong  stock in a month after reporting a drop in third-
quarter profit.  While expanding industrial production and rising retail
sales are adding to signs  China’s economy  is showing signs of
emerging from a seven-quarter slowdown, the global outlook is
clouded. U.S. President  Barack Obama , re-elected on Nov. 6, has
to forge a deal with Congress to avoid more than $600 billion in
tax increases and spending cuts, and the euro-area economy is
facing near-stagnation in 2013 because of debt issues.  “The overall sentiment is negative in the short term,”
Erik Lam, director of Asian equity sales at Auerbach Grayson &
Co. in New York, said by phone yesterday. “With the U.S.
election out of the way, people are worried about the next
thing, tension over the fiscal cliff and Europe. These two real
issues will hang over the market for a while.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., lost 2.2 percent, the most
since June, to $37.28 in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index also sank 2.4 percent to 1,394.53, the biggest slump since
June 21.  Melco Profit  American depositary receipt of Melco Crown, a Hong Kong-
based venture between Australian billionaire  James Packer  and a
son of gambling tycoon  Stanley Ho , dropped from a six-month
high, sliding 2.4 percent to $14.62. The ADRs traded 2.7 percent
below their equivalent shares in Hong Kong, the biggest discount
since Oct. 4.  Melco Crown’s net income in the third quarter fell 7.4
percent to $104.9 million from $113.3 million a year earlier,
based on U.S. accounting standards, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange yesterday. That compares with the
$93.4 million average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  E-House, a property agency service provider based in
Shanghai, fell 6.3 percent, the most since Sept. 17, to $4.03.
ADRs of China Telecom dropped 3.4 percent to $55.93, the lowest
level since Sept. 5.  Baidu Sinks  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s biggest online search engine,
slipped 1.4 percent to $104.51 after earlier tumbling to the
lowest level since January 2011. Chief Executive Officer Robin Li told employees there may be “downsizing to improve
efficiency,” online news site TechInAsia reported, citing an
internal e-mail obtained by Techweb.com.  Bloomberg’s China-US index has gained 5.7 percent over the
past two months, compared with a loss of 3 percent in the  S&P
500 , as improving data for retail sales and industrial
production signal the world’s second-largest economy may be
stabilizing. Policy makers have accelerated railway and road
construction approvals, increased money supply and rolled out
tax support for exports.  “I am bullish on China,” Gabriel Borenstein, a managing
director at Enclave Capital LLC., a brokerage in New York, said
by e-mail. “The Chinese policies in place are effective, but
you need to allow some time for the policies’ impact on the
Chinese economy.”  Remain Cautious  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks
traded in Hong Kong rose 0.7 percent to 10,813.34 yesterday,
while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was little changed at
2,105.73, after dropping in the previous two days.  Investors will remain cautious on Chinese equities until
additional policy initiatives are undertaken after the nation’s
once-a-decade power transition, according to Wang Lei, who helps
manage the $27 billion Thornburg International Value Fund in
Santa Fe, New Mexico.  China’s Communist Party starts its 18th congress today in
Beijing to choose its fifth generation of leaders since taking
power in 1949. Vice President  Xi Jinping  is set to replace Hu Jintao as general secretary of the 82 million-member party. The
new leadership faces challenges from breaking up state-owned
monopolies to deregulating lending rates and correcting under-
pricing of natural resources.  “Further fundamental support depends on top-down
reforms,” said Wang in a phone interview yesterday.
“Uncertainty is there. People will be cautious about making
investment decisions.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  