-- Fischer Defeats Kerrey to Take Nebraska Senate Seat
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-11-07T04:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/fischer-defeats-kerrey-to-take-nebraska-senate-seat.html
Republican Deb Fischer won Nebraska’s
open U.S. Senate seat, defeating former Democratic Senator  Bob Kerrey  in his attempt to return to Congress 12 years after his
retirement.  Kerrey, 69, who retired from the Senate in 2001 after two
terms, entered the race after Democratic incumbent  Ben Nelson 
said he wouldn’t seek a third term.  Fischer, a 61-year-old state senator, won a three-way
primary after receiving the endorsement of Sarah Palin, the
Republican vice presidential nominee in 2008.  Fischer portrayed Kerrey as an outsider, featuring his
image in an ad superimposed on a picture of the skyline of  New
York , where he was president of the New School for a decade.  She also sought to capitalize on President  Barack Obama ’s
low approval ratings in Nebraska, accusing Kerrey of seeking to
advance the president’s agenda. She promised to repeal Obama’s
2010 health-care overhaul law.  Kerrey won the endorsements of two former Republican U.S.
senators, Nebraska’s Chuck Hagel and  Alan Simpson  of Wyoming.
Simpson was co-chairman of Obama’s bipartisan commission on
deficit reduction.  In a statement posted on Kerrey’s website, Simpson said he
endorsed his former Senate colleague because “he has told
Nebraskans” about the need for “stabilizing Medicare and
Medicaid.” Kerrey proposed $409 billion worth of Medicare cuts
over a decade.  Nelson, the only Nebraska Democrat elected to statewide
office, wasn’t always a reliable vote for his party in the
Senate. Last year he opposed extending the government’s
borrowing authority, and he voted against the final version of
Obama’s health-care law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  