-- Fukushima $137 Billion Cost Has Tepco Seeking More Aid
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-11-07T18:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/fukushima-137-billion-cost-has-tepco-seeking-more-aid.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  asked the
government for more aid after estimating it may need at least 11
trillion yen ($137 billion) to cover costs from last year’s
nuclear disaster at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant.  The utility, which has lost 94 percent in Tokyo trading
since the March 2011 disaster, may have to pay more than 10
trillion yen to decontaminate areas around the plant and
compensate those affected by the disaster, it said in a two-year
business plan through March 2015 released yesterday.  Decommissioning the four damaged reactors is forecast to be
an “enormous cost,” exceeding its earlier projection of “less
than 1 trillion yen,” the utility known as Tepco said in the
report.  In a 10-year business plan approved by the government in
May, the state-run Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund
injected 1 trillion yen into Tepco in July and took control of
the utility after the disaster left it almost insolvent. Without
additional state aid, Tepco’s survival is again in doubt as it’s
likely the estimated costs will exceed what one company can
afford, the utility said.  “The government is likely to refuse to cover all the
additional expenses” as extra aid would draw public criticism,
Hirofumi Kawachi, an energy analyst at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co., said before the announcement. At the same time,
“the government has to keep Tepco alive” as compensation
payments to those who lost homes and livelihoods would be at
risk if the utility goes bankrupt, he said.  The government set aside 9 trillion yen previously as part
of the bailout of Tepco and to pay compensation and cleanup
costs related to radiation leaks.  On May 11, Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano , who
oversees energy companies, indicated the government may pay part
of the costs to decontaminate areas around the coastal plant
while Tepco should be responsible for expenses to decommission
and dismantle the reactors.  Cost Cuts  As part of measures to restructure, the utility will cut
100 billion yen in costs in each of the next two years in
addition to a 3.4 trillion yen reduction over 10 years pledged
in the long-term plan, it said.  After 2013, it will set up three companies within the
utility for handling fuel and thermal power generation,
transmission and distribution, and retail sales. The utility
will consider a new corporate structure based on government
reforms, which may call for an end to regional power monopolies,
Tepco President Naomi Hirose told reporters yesterday in  Tokyo .  Under the fuel and thermal-power business, Tepco will
expand the use of liquefied natural gas that has a low calorific
value, such as that from shale gas in  North America , to as much
as 10 million tons per year, about half of its need, the utility
said.  Alliances Sought  It will also seek business alliances with Japanese and
foreign companies to develop  power plants , the utility said.
Tepco will invite bids for the supply of 10,000 megawatts of
thermal power to replace old thermal plants, in addition to
2,600 megawatts announced earlier.  The utility plans to set up a Fukushima headquarters as
early as January and increase the number of employees assigned
to recovery work in the prefecture to more than 4,000 from
3,500. The company may build a “cutting-edge coal-fired plant”
in Fukushima to create local jobs, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Todd White  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  