-- LG Said to Face EU Fines With Philips, Panasonic for Cartel
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-11-07T18:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/lg-said-to-face-eu-fines-with-philips-panasonic-for-cartel.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
and  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  may be fined by European Union
antitrust regulators within weeks over price-fixing agreements
for cathode-ray tubes used in televisions, four people said.  Technicolor SA (TCH)  is also among companies earmarked for
possible European Commission fines as soon as Nov. 28, one of
the people said. Other manufacturers including Toshiba Corp.
have been asked to meet with EU officials prior to a preliminary
decision on fines by a panel of EU and national competition
authorities, another person said. The people spoke on condition
of anonymity because the process isn’t public.  Sales of cathode-ray tubes used in televisions and computer
monitors fell after customers switched to slimmer liquid-crystal
and plasma display sets. Philips and Technicolor, previously
known as Thomson SA, received objections in the EU probe in
2009. Antitrust watchdogs in the EU,  Japan  and  South Korea 
raided companies in 2007 over concerns they colluded to fix
prices for tubes in computer monitors and color televisions.  The commission can fine cartel members as much as 10
percent of their annual sales. Antoine Colombani, a spokesman
for the Brussels-based authority, declined to comment on the
matter.  Joost Akkermans, a spokesman for Amsterdam-based Philips,
declined to comment because the investigation is ongoing.
Thibault Peulen, a spokesman for Technicolor in Paris, declined
to comment. Tokyo-based Toshiba declined to immediately comment.
LG and Panasonic didn’t immediately respond to calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  Whistle Blower  Chunghwa Picture Tubes (2475)  Ltd. won’t be fined because it was
the first to inform regulators of the cartel, two people said.
Chunghwa didn’t immediately respond to two calls and two e-mails
seeking comment.  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and Samsung SDI Co. Ltd., an
affiliate of Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., are also involved in
the case, one person said. Hitachi and Samsung didn’t
immediately respond to calls and e-mails.  Philips and LG said in June that they’d received
supplementary objections from regulators. The EU made the
complaint to hold them responsible for the behavior of
LG.Philips Displays, a now-defunct joint venture that made the
tubes, two people familiar with the matter said at the time.
LG.Philips Displays’ European holding company was declared
bankrupt in 2006.  LG Display Co., partly owned by Seoul-based LG Electronics,
was among companies fined 648.9 million euros ($828 million) by
the EU in 2010 for fixing the price of LCD panels used in
televisions, computer monitors and  notebook computers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 