-- Germany’s Bonds Jump After Draghi Says Inflation Risks Are Low
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-11-07T16:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/german-bonds-fall-before-note-auction-eu-retail-sales-report.html
Germany ’s bonds rose, with 10-year
yields falling to the lowest level in nine weeks, after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said inflation was subdued
and the debt crisis was starting to hurt the nation’s economy.  Two-year yields  dropped by the most since July as German
industrial production shrank more than economists forecast and
the European Commission halved its 2013 growth estimate for the
country. Greek 10-year bonds declined as Prime Minister Antonis Samaras seeks to gain parliamentary approval for austerity
measures needed to unlock further bailout funds.  Finland ’s two-
year yields fell below zero for the first time since August.  “Saying the outlook is weaker than many people may have
thought and inflation risks are not as serious means investors
don’t need to fear an imminent sell-off in bunds,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich. “This puts you back into risk-off mode
and then you would be looking to hold the bonds of the
economically strongest credits, like bunds.”  Germany’s 10-year yield fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.38 percent at 4:21 p.m. in  London  after
dropping to 1.36 percent, the lowest level since Sept. 3. The
1.5 percent bund due in September 2022 gained 0.565 or 5.65
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,275) face amount, to 101.12.  Two-year  yields  slid three basis points to minus 0.038
percent after dropping as much as five basis points, the biggest
decline since July. 30. A negative yield means investors who
hold the security until it matures will receive less than they
paid to buy it.  ‘Very Low’  “The weak overall economic situation, combined with slow
money growth, means that the risks of inflation are currently
very low over the medium term,” Draghi said in a speech at a
conference in  Frankfurt . “Germany has so far been largely
insulated from some of the difficulties elsewhere in the euro
area. The latest data suggest that these developments are now
starting to affect the German economy.”  The ECB meets tomorrow and will leave its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at a record low of 0.75 percent,
according to all but one of 63 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Draghi will hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m. in
Frankfurt to discuss the decision.  “Today’s comments are likely to be reiterated tomorrow,”
Annalisa Piazza, a strategist at Newedge Group in London, wrote
in an e-mail to clients. “In a nutshell, a weaker economic
scenario and low inflation leave the door open for further cuts
in the coming months.”  Growth Forecast  The European Commission cut its forecast for euro-zone
growth next year, predicting the economy will expand 0.1
percent, down from a May prediction of 1 percent. It also
lowered its target for Germany to 0.8 percent from 1.7 percent.  France  will miss its goal of cutting the  budget deficit  to
the euro-area limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product in
2013, the commission said.  France’s 10-year bonds underperformed German bunds, with
the  additional yield  investors demand to hold the French
securities expanding as much as five basis points to 82 basis
points, the most since Oct. 5, before settling at 80 basis
points. The French  10-year yield  dropped three basis points to
2.18 percent.  Greek Bonds  Greek bonds snapped a two-day advance before the parliament
votes on additional austerity measures required by Nov. 12 to
free up a 31 billion-euro portion of international aid.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras can in theory count on the
backing of 175 lawmakers from the three parties supporting his
government. Democratic Left, a coalition partner with 16 seats,
has said it won’t approve changes to labor laws it says have no
fiscal benefit.  “There’s positive sentiment related to  Greece  and what
looks to be the likely passage of the austerity bill,” said
 Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London.  The Greek 10-year yield rose five basis points to 17.27
percent. The 2 percent bond due in February 2023 dropped to
32.345 percent of face value.  Volatility on French bonds was the highest in euro-region
markets today, followed by those of Finland, according to
measures of 10-year debt, the spread between two- and 10-year
securities, and credit default swaps.  The yield on Finland’s  two-year note  fell three basis
points to minus 0.011 percent after dropping to minus 0.019
percent. The yield has been positive since Aug. 15.  German bonds returned 3.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. France’s
securities gained 8.5 percent and Finland’s rose 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  