-- Germany Gets 10th Three-Star Restaurant in Michelin Guide
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-11-07T13:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/germany-gets-10th-three-star-restaurant-from-michelin.html
Michelin today awarded a 10th
restaurant in  Germany  a third star, honoring chef Kevin Fehling
of La Belle Epoque in the Baltic coast resort of Travemuende
with its highest accolade.  Germany is second only to  France  in  Europe  in the number of
restaurants with three stars.  La Belle Epoque , with windows
overlooking the sea, is in the Columbia Hotel. Fehling, 35,
offers a menu that includes dishes like marinaded fjord shrimps
or wagyu beef with caviar and pickles.  “German gourmet cuisine is extraordinarily varied,”
Michelin said in its statement. “This year’s selection of
restaurant features a very wide array of cooking styles, ranging
from traditional to contemporary, Asian and regional.”  Michelin also awarded seven restaurants a second star in
the 2013 guide, bringing the total to 36. Among the new two-star
restaurants are  Tim Raue  in Berlin,  Ophelia  on Lake Constance,
and Hirschen in Sulzberg, in the southwestern state of Baden-
Wuerttemberg. Douce Steiner at  Hirschen  is the first female chef
to win a second star in Germany, according to Michelin.  The remaining four new two-stars are  Il Giardino  in the
Bavarian spa resort Bad Griesbach, Villa Merton in  Frankfurt ,
Seven Seas restaurant in the  Suellberg  hotel in Hamburg and  Le
noir  in Saarbruecken. Michelin also added 29 new 1-star
restaurants, including three in Dusseldorf, three in Stuttgart,
two in Frankfurt and two in Hamburg.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie. (ML)  is the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free of charge (until 1920) and intended for
chauffeurs. The guide contained practical information, including
street maps and tips on using and repairing tires.  “Michelin Guide Deutschland 2013” will go on sale in
Germany on Nov. 9 and sell for 29.50 euros in Germany or 30.80
euros in  Austria .  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Ryan Sutton 
on New York restaurants and  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 