-- German Economy Will Fail to Pick Up in 2013, Advisers Say
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-07T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/german-economy-will-fail-to-pick-up-in-2013-advisers-say.html
German economic growth will fail to
pick up next year as the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis
saps demand for German exports, the government’s council of
economic advisers said in its annual report.  The German economy,  Europe ’s biggest, will expand 0.8
percent in 2013, the same pace as this year, the five-member
council said in the 476-page report, which was published in
Berlin today. Foreign trade won’t contribute to growth as
imports accelerate faster than exports, it said.  “The second half of 2012 is characterized by widespread
recessionary trends in the  euro zone  that impact on the German
economy through foreign trade and confidence” and damp the
economy’s expansion through declining investment, the report
said.  Germany ’s economy is showing signs of weakness as
governments and consumers across the region cut spending,
reducing export demand. Factory orders fell the most in a year
and business confidence dropped to the lowest in more than 2 1/2
years in September.  Chemicals maker  Lanxess AG (LXS)  said yesterday profitability
declined in the third quarter as weaker demand for standard
rubber left capacity idle, pushing shares down the most in three
weeks. The automotive sector will remain weak in the fourth
quarter, Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann said.  The  European Central Bank  said in its quarterly projections
published Sept. 6 that the euro-area economy may contract 0.4
percent this year instead of a previously estimated 0.1 percent.
That’s in line with the International Monetary Fund’s latest
prediction.  ‘Very Unclear’  While  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Nov. 5 there are
first signs that the euro area is succeeding in overcoming its
crisis, Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said at
 Stockholm University  yesterday it’s “very unclear” how it will
develop.  Europe has put in place a 500 billion-euro ($642 billion)
bailout fund that can sell bonds to finance aid packages for
distressed euro-region governments and offer credit lines. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  announced details of a bond-buying
program in September for countries willing to sign up to
austerity measures.  The ECB’s bond-purchasing plan is “a last resort at best”
and should be ended as quickly as possible because it blurs the
line between monetary and fiscal policy, the German advisers
said. The euro region needs an improved mechanism to ensure
budgetary discipline, a banking union to stabilize the financial
sector and insolvency rules for states, they said.  Jobs ‘Stable’  Germany’s labor market is still “very stable,” the
advisers said, pegging the country’s unemployment rate at an
average 6.9 percent next year, compared with 6.8 percent in
2012, the lowest level since German reunification in 1990.  That’s helping  consumer confidence , which will climb to a
five-year high this month even as the economy cools, according
to market research company GfK. German growth slowed to 0.3
percent in the second quarter from 0.5 percent in the first.
Third-quarter data are due on Nov. 15.  Germany’s budget will be close to being balanced this year
and next, helped by surpluses in social insurance coffers while
local authorities are still running deficits, the advisers said.  Merkel’s government should be more ambitious in
consolidating the budget, the council said, criticizing
decisions to give benefits to parents who keep their preschool
children at home, to boost minimum pensions and to abolish
medical consultation fees.  The council of economic advisers, established in 1963,
consists of Chairman  Wolfgang Franz ,  Peter Bofinger , Claudia Buch, Lars Feld and Christoph Schmidt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at  bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  