-- German Stocks Decline After Draghi Says Crisis Hurting
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-07T17:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/german-stocks-little-changed-as-obama-wins-second-term.html
German stocks  declined as European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the debt crisis is
hurting Europe’s largest economy and the European Commission cut
its growth forecasts for the euro area, offsetting optimism
about U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s re-election.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  led
retreating shares.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  climbed 3.1 percent after the
builder swung to a profit in the third quarter and reiterated
its full-year guidance.  The  DAX (DAX)  fell 2 percent to 7,232.83 at the close of trading
in  Frankfurt , after earlier rising as much as 0.8 percent. The
gauge added 0.7 percent yesterday as Americans went to the polls
to elect their president and companies including Hannover Re and
Fraport AG reported earnings that beat estimates. The broader
HDAX Index retreated 1.8 percent today.  “The comments on the German economy are weighing on the
market,” said Yves Marcais, an equity sales trader at Global
Equities in Paris. “But the question is: was this morning’s
gain justified? Can Obama’s election pull the market higher as
he has said the country has to reduce the deficit? We have the
fiscal cliff ahead.”  Draghi said the debt crisis is beginning to take its toll
on the German economy. “ Germany  has so far been largely
insulated from some of the difficulties elsewhere in the euro
area,” he said at a conference in Frankfurt today. “But the
latest data suggest that these developments are now starting to
affect the German economy.”  Forecasts Cut  The European Commission cut its growth forecast for the
euro zone as the debt crisis ravages southern Europe and gnaws
at the economic performance of export-driven Germany.  The 17-nation euro economy will expand 0.1 percent in 2013,
down from a May forecast of 1 percent, the Brussels-based
commission said today. It cut the forecast for Germany to 0.8
percent from 1.7 percent.  Obama defeated Republican  Mitt Romney  and now faces
negotiating with Congress to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of
more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts next
year that threaten to slow U.S. growth.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 43 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Infineon, Europe’s second-biggest semiconductor maker, slid
4.8 percent to 5.40 euros.  Banks Fall  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender lost 4.4 percent to
34.38 euros. Commerzbank AG, the second-biggest, retreated 3.2
percent to 1.51 euros.  A gauge of banking shares was the worst performer of the 19
industry groups on the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  Munich Re lost 0.2 percent to 127.35 euros, erasing gains
of as much as 3.5 percent. The world’s largest reinsurer
reported third-quarter net profit that increased almost fourfold
to 1.13 billion euros, beating the 756 million-euro average
analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Investment income surged 65 percent to 2.22 billion euros.
The company also raised its full-year earnings forecast.  “We are very optimistic of realizing a profit in the
region of 3 billion euros for 2012,” Chief Financial Officer
Joerg Schneider said in a statement.  Munich Re Chief Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard said
in August he expected the company to “slightly surpass” its
full-year profit target of about 2.5 billion euros.  Hochtief climbed 3.1 percent to 39.77 euros after the
builder confirmed its 2012 forecasts as it benefits from German
urban residential demand. The company swung to a pretax profit
of 354.7 million euros ($455.6 million) for the third quarter,
compared with a 101.6 million-euro loss a year earlier. It also
reported a 17 percent increase in nine-month sales to 18.51
billion euros.  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  increased 0.3 percent to 33.24 euros,
trimming earlier gains of as much as 3.7 percent. Europe’s
biggest newspaper publisher posted third-quarter profit and
revenue that missed analyst estimates.  Still, digital media growth shows the company is on the
“right track” in the shift to digital, DZ Bank AG said in
note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  