-- Glencore’s Revised Xstrata Offer Divides Investor Groups
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-11-07T17:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/glencore-s-revised-xstrata-offer-divides-investor-groups-1-.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s revised
$33 billion takeover offer for  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  has divided
shareholder advisory groups in the run-up to this month’s vote.  Pensions & Investment Research Consultants Ltd.  today
recommended shareholders oppose the deal because of a lack of
due diligence and board independence. While Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc. and  Glass Lewis  encouraged investors
to support for the takeover, they called for the resolution on
retention bonuses to be voted down.  Investors are due to vote Nov. 20 on plans to create the
world’s fourth-largest mining company. Glencore, the largest
publicly traded commodities supplier, is seeking to take over
Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata’s copper, coal and zinc mines to
create the fourth-biggest mining company and challenge rivals
 BHP Billiton Plc (BLT) , Vale SA and  Rio Tinto Plc. (RIO)   Shareholders will be asked to consider two resolutions --
one to approve the takeover along with 144 million pounds of
retention bonuses for about 70 Xstrata employees, and a second
that excludes the pay question. The merger must be backed by a
vote of 75 percent to be approved.  “Given the complexity of the Glencore business, PIRC would
have liked to have seen evidence of more extensive due
diligence,” said the adviser, which advises institutional
investors with combined assets exceeding 1.5 trillion pounds
($2.4 trillion). “Additionally, the level of independent
representation on the board is insufficient.”  Independent Directors  As measured by PIRC guidelines, only three members of
Xstrata’s 13-strong board are independent directors, excluding
Chairman  John Bond , said the London-based group.  Xstrata said seven of its 13 directors are independent
based on the U.K. corporate governance code. The independent
directors conducted due diligence on Glencore’s industrial and
marketing businesses, Xstrata said in March. Glencore declined
to comment.  ISS recommended shareholders vote for both resolutions
approving the deal with and without the retention package.
Investors should then oppose the bonus deal package in the
following standalone vote because the proposals include
substantial share awards, it said in a Nov. 2 report.  “The 22 percent premium implied by Glencore’s revised
offer appears reasonable in the circumstances, taking into
account the size of Glencore’s current stake in Xstrata,” ISS
said. “The strategic rationale offers some net upside to
Xstrata, and the simplification of the shareholder structure is
a compelling point.”  Revised Bid  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg increased
the bid on Sept. 7 to 3.05 of his company’s shares for each one
in Xstrata from 2.8 shares offered in February. That followed
demands from investors including 12 percent shareholder Qatar
Holding LLC for a higher offer.  The  Association of British Insurers  lowered its concern
rating for the deal to amber from the “red top” it gave it in
June that highlighted a breach of best practices.  “While the proposed merger is no longer conditional upon
the approval of the management incentive arrangements, holders
will note that the independent Xstrata directors recommend to
vote in favour of the resolution which makes the merger
conditional upon the approval of the management incentive
arrangements,” ABI said in an Oct. 31 report.  Xstrata’s board on Oct. 1 recommended shareholders back the
revised deal and vote for the retention packages to retain the
managers responsible for the industrial assets that will account
for about 80 percent of the combined company’s earnings.  Six Months  Mick Davis  will serve as CEO of the combined group for six
months, according to the revised offer, as opposed to about
three years in the original February offer, before handing the
post over to Glasenberg. Davis won’t receive the 28.8 million-
pound retention bonus he was offered in the initial bid.  As few as 16.48 percent of shareholders can block the deal
because U.K. takeover rules prevent Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore from voting its 34 percent stake in Xstrata, the
world’s largest thermal coal exporter.  Xstrata dropped 2 percent to 975.80 pence at the close in
London. Glencore also fell 2 percent to 340.35 pence.  “There is also concern over a possible executive-influence
on the decision, due to the rather lucrative package involved
should the deal be approved and realized,” PIRC said. “Because
of these reasons and the uncertainty of good control and
protection for shareholders of non-U.K.-registered company, PIRC
is recommending an oppose vote.”  PIRC said it welcomed the change to the voting that allows
shareholders to vote for the merger without supporting the
payment packages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  