-- U.S. Swaps Rules Won’t Work Overseas, CFTC Is Warned
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-11-07T19:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/global-swaps-regulators-work-to-avert-delay-on-risk-rules.html
A U.S. plan to extend the reach of
its derivatives rules across international borders “won’t
work” without alteration, a top European regulator said in
 Washington  today.  U.S., Asian and European regulators are gathered in an
effort to resolve differences over the international reach of
the U.S. swaps rules drafted by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
other trading firms. Absent agreement, they risk undermining
international efforts to reduce risks in the $648 trillion
global swaps market, the overseas regulators told the CFTC.  Patrick Pearson, head of the financial market
infrastructure unit at the European Commission, at the meeting
warned of risks in the CFTC’s guidance for complying with its
rules. “The proposed approaches across the globe simply won’t
work. They won’t mesh. They won’t interact. They will cause
conflicts,” Pearson said at the meeting. “Washington, we have
a problem,” he said.  The CFTC, the main U.S. regulator for interest-rate and
credit swaps, is weighing final guidance on the cross-border
reach of trading, capital, collateral and other rules. The
meeting in Washington was held with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, which shares oversight of  credit
derivatives  and may propose its own cross-border rules in the
next few months.  Emil Paulis, the European Commission’s director of
financial markets, said at the meeting that regulators should
focus on closing loopholes in countries with weak rules rather
than than on extending tougher rules across borders. “It is
impossible even for the most important jurisdictions to think
they can control this market even by having a very far
extraterritorial application of the rules,” said.  U.S. Agenda  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said the meeting comes at an
important time with the commission’s five commissioners seeking
to complete documents on the reach of the rules before
regulations take effect early next year. The rules and their
timing have raised concerns internally at the CFTC.  “I think it would be premature for the CFTC to finalize
any of our rules until we see the SEC’s proposal and we see
proposals from the rest of the world,” Jill E. Sommers, a
Republican commissioner and chairwoman of the advisory
committee, said in a telephone interview before the meeting.
“We need to make sure that we are in line with them before we
finalize anything.”  CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton has said that a delay could
be beneficial to improve coordination. “I am suggesting that we
pause, take a breath, and think globally about implementation
and compliance dates that are more reasonable — perhaps June 1,
2013,” Chilton, one of three Democrats on the commission, said
in an Oct. 2 speech in  Rome .  Regulatory Goals  The G-20 nations set an end-of-the-year goal to complete
swaps regulations designed to reduce risk and increase
transparency in a market faulted for helping to fuel the 2008
credit crisis. Lack of clarity and international wrangling over
the rules threaten to delay the deadline, according to the
Financial Stability Board, an international regulatory group
that has been monitoring new swaps rules.  “Progress to date in cross-border discussions has been
slow,” according to an Oct. 31 report from the board. “This
risks delaying the full and timely implementation of the G-20
objectives.”  Today’s meeting followed a private gathering this week of
overseas regulators with CFTC and SEC staff.  The G-20 regulatory goals were set in 2009. In the U.S.,
rules to meet those goals are spelled out in the Dodd-Frank Act
of 2010. Some Dodd-Frank rules are in place; others have been
delayed until Dec. 31.  International Scope  The CFTC has been facing criticism from overseas regulators
since it proposed guidance in June about the international scope
of its Dodd-Frank rules. The agency’s guidance determines when
regulations apply to foreign-based companies trading with U.S.
clients and to branches of U.S. companies trading overseas. The
reach of the rules has prompted opposition from  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs,  Bank of America  Corp. and  Societe Generale
SA. (GLE)   Gensler urged support for the cross-border guidance, citing
a need to protect U.S. taxpayers from rescuing companies whose
overseas trades lead to their collapse.  “During a default or crisis, risk knows no geographic
border,” Gensler said in an Oct. 30  speech  prepared for a
meeting held by the Ontario Securities Commission. “If a run
starts on one part of a modern financial institution, almost
regardless of where it is around the globe, it invariably means
a funding and liquidity crisis rapidly spreads to the entire
consolidated entity.”  Seeking Clarity  The CFTC’s proposal failed to clarify the reach of the
rules and could lead to conflicts, according to letters
submitted to the CFTC by overseas regulators, including the
U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, European Commission,
European Securities and Markets Authority, Financial Services
Agency in  Japan , the  Bank of Japan , Bank of  France  and Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority.  “At a time of highly fragile economic growth, we believe
that it is critical to avoid taking steps that risk a withdrawal
from global financial markets into inevitably less efficient
regional or national markets,”  George Osborne , U.K. chancellor
of the exchequer, and  Michel Barnier , the European Commissioner
for financial services, said in an Oct. 17 letter to Gensler.
“We would urge you before finalizing any rules, or enforcing
any deadlines, to take the time to ensure that U.S. rule-making
works not just domestically but also globally.”  The letter was also signed by Ikko Nakatsuka, Japan’s
financial-services minister, and  Pierre Moscovici , France’s
finance minister.  ‘Enormous Pressure’  “There is going to be enormous pressure for him to
compromise,”  Christian A. Johnson , professor at the University
of Utah law school and author of  a paper  on the potential for
regulatory arbitrage because of cross-border rules, said in a
telephone interview on Nov. 5. “Industry will turn on him and
international regulators have already turned on him. I don’t
know how he will continue to stonewall them.”  The lack of coordination has already led to changes in how
overseas firms trade with U.S. companies, according to a Nov. 2
letter from the Japan Financial Markets Council. “Some are
looking at ways to avoid any transaction that might lead to a
requirement to register with the CFTC. Others are simply
refraining from trading,” the group said in a letter
representing firms including  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi  UFJ and Deutsche Bank.  Limiting Trades  DBS Group Holdings Ltd (DBS) , based in  Singapore , and  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s largest lender, have said they won’t
need to register in the U.S. under Dodd-Frank rules. “We do not
intend to register as a swap dealer in the U.S. because we
expect our trading volumes with U.S.-based counterparties to
stay below the threshold which triggers the CFTC registration
requirement,”  Karen Ngui , a Singapore-based spokeswoman for
DBS, said in an Oct. 24 e-mail statement.  Nordea spokesman Erik Durhan said by telephone from
 Stockholm  yesterday that the bank’s trading volumes are also
below the U.S. registration requirements. “This gives us the
opportunity to continue our trade without registering,” he
said.  The CFTC guidance was published in two documents, including
an exemptive order preventing Dodd-Frank rules from applying to
certain institutions through Dec. 31.  “We need to make sure that we’re giving relief where
relief is needed to market participants until we can confirm
that the entire world globally is on the same page on cross-
border regulations,” Sommers said.  The $648 trillion measure of the global swaps market
represents the total notional amounts outstanding of over-the-
counter derivatives through December 2011,  according  to the Bank
of International Settlements, a Basel, Switzerland-based
organization that promotes global financial collaboration and
serves as a bank for central banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  