-- GMP Capital to Cut Costs as Trading Slumps
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-11-07T21:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/gmp-capital-to-cut-costs-as-trading-slumps.html
GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)   Canada ’s second-
largest non-bank brokerage, is poised to announce more cost cuts
as a 25 percent drop in trading on the country’s two main stock
exchanges leads to a third-straight quarter of per-share losses.  GMP and larger competitor  Canaccord Financial Inc. (CF) , both
based in Toronto, have been cutting costs as trading volume and
fees from stock sales have shrunk. GMP Chief Executive Officer
Harris Fricker said in August he’d update investors on how he’ll
improve “efficiencies” when the firm reports third-quarter
results on Nov. 9.  “They’re not making any money today,” CIBC analyst Paul Holden said in an interview. “This is an environment where the
revenues from the industry are not robust enough for them to
earn a profit, so they’ve really got to focus on containing
expenses and managing capital.”  Equity trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange and TSX
Venture Exchange dropped 25 percent in the third quarter from a
year ago amid the debt crisis in  Europe  and after Canada’s
economy contracted in August. World growth is estimated at 2.2
percent in 2012, the slowest advance since 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  GMP is expected to  post  a loss of 3 cents a share excluding
some items, according to four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Canaccord is also expected to extend its streak of losses
to three quarters today by posting a 7 cents a share loss for
its fiscal second quarter, according to estimates from six
analysts.  ‘Tough Quarter’  Rocco Colella, a spokesman for GMP, and Scott Davidson, a
Canaccord spokesman, declined to comment.  Canaccord has already cut at least 320 positions in Canada,
the U.S. and U.K. since March and shut 16 Canadian branches in
its wealth management unit.  GMP may also exit some businesses such as asset management,
said Phil Hardie, an analyst at Scotia Capital.  “We believe there is an increasing chance that the firm
will exit the investment management business over the next few
quarters,” Hardie said in an Oct. 18 note.  It’s going to be another tough quarter for investment
banks, said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall
MacDougall & MacTier Inc., whose Toronto-based firm oversees
about C$4 billion ($4 billion). “It’s really time to batten
down the hatches. They’re talented people but when there’s a lot
of headwinds rather than tailwinds there’s not much else you can
do,” he said by phone.  Volumes Shrink  GMP  rose  0.6 percent to C$5.06 at 4 p.m. trading in
Toronto, while Canaccord fell 4.7 percent to C$4.71, its biggest
decline since Sept. 24. GMP has  declined  29 percent in the year
while Canaccord has  plunged  40 percent, compared with the 7.4
percent gain in the 44-member Standard & Poor’s/TSX Financials
Index.  The value of equity financings on the TSX Venture Exchange,
whose marketplace of smaller companies are the staple for
Canaccord and GMP, dropped 48 percent in the first 10 months
from a year ago, according to TMX Group Ltd. statistics. Trading
on the Toronto Stock Exchange fell 21 percent at the end of
October from the same period a year earlier, while TSX Venture
Exchange trading plunged 35 percent.  GMP relies on investment-banking fees and trading
commissions for more than 85 percent of its revenue, according
to its financial statements. Canaccord gets more than 60 percent
of its revenue from investment banking and trading from its
Canaccord Genuity unit, the company said in filings.  ‘Operating Efficiencies’  “The continued sluggish performance of the TSX Venture
 Index (STFINL)  speaks to what, in our view, remains a marketplace that
remains risk-averse, thus limiting the level of both
underwriting and trading in these commodity-oriented names,”
Sumit Malhotra, a Toronto-based analyst at Macquarie Capital
Markets, said in an Oct. 29 note.  “We think it is imperative that expense management begin
to play a bigger role with the company,” Malhotra said. “Signs
of increased emphasis on cost control will be the key focus with
GMP in the upcoming results.”  GMP’s Fricker said three months ago that he’s been
reviewing the firm’s businesses to contain costs and improve
efficiencies amid “extremely challenging” markets.  “The current low level of activity is affording us the
opportunity to fully assess our operations across the entire
franchise to ensure we are delivering services in an efficient,
technology-forward and cost-effective fashion,” Fricker said in
an Aug. 3 conference call. “We expect this major initiative to
yield improved operating efficiencies.”  Since then, GMP said Christine Drake, who received C$1.2
million in fiscal 2011 as chief financial officer, left the firm
on Sept. 18.  Less Appealing  Restoring profit by cutting expenses is less appealing to
investors, Nakamoto said.  “You cannot cost-cut your way to success, you need the
revenue gains,” Nakamoto said.  GMP and Canaccord’s balance sheets still “look healthy,”
according to CIBC’s Holden.  “They should be able to endure a slump for a while longer,
but you just need higher revenues for these firms to thrive,”
Holden said. “They’re doing enough to keep the lights on, but
not much more than that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  