-- Gold, Copper Lead Gains in Commodities as Obama Wins Second Term
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-11-07T11:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/gold-copper-climb-as-crude-oil-pares-loss-on-obama-s-victory.html
Gold and copper advanced after  Barack
Obama  won a second term as U.S. president, entrenching prospects
for continued stimulus in the world’s biggest economy and
weakening the dollar.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials climbed
as much as 0.5 percent to 647.66. Gold advanced to $1,731.82 an
ounce in London, the highest in more than two weeks, while
copper rose as much as 1.4 percent to $7,806.25 a metric ton.  Obama defeated Republican  Mitt Romney , securing at least
303 electoral votes, with 270 needed for victory. The S&P GSCI
Index is little changed this year as investors weigh stimulus
from the world’s central banks including the  Federal Reserve 
against a global slowdown and impact of Europe’s debt crisis.  “The outcome of the U.S. election increases the
probability that the ultra-expansionary monetary and fiscal
policy will continue, which puts pressure on the  U.S. dollar  and
gives buoyancy to commodity prices,”  Eugen Weinberg , head of
commodities research at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said today
in a report.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , a gauge of the U.S. currency against six
counterparts, declined 0.2 percent to 80.453. Commodities priced
in dollars tend to move counter to the currency.  Obama’s victory erases a question mark that has shadowed
the  U.S. economy  and the Fed all year as the U.S. central bank
presses on with a program of quantitative easing to spur growth
and cut joblessness. Romney had vowed to replace Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  when his term ends in 2014 because “the amount
of currency that he’s created” with his purchases of Treasuries
and other debt securities has failed to create jobs. The U.S.
jobless rate rose to 7.9 percent in October, according to a
Labor Department report on Nov. 2.  Fed’s Purchases  The  Federal Open Market Committee  on Oct. 24 affirmed plans
to buy $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities each month
without specifying the total size or duration of the purchases.
In two previous rounds of bond-buying, the Fed bought $2.3
trillion in securities and has swapped short-term Treasuries
with longer-term securities in a program called Operation Twist.  Gold has gained 10 percent this year and is poised for a
12th annual advance. It’s almost doubled since the end of 2008
in Obama’s first term in office. The S&P GSCI Spot Index, which
tracks 24 raw materials, has climbed 85 percent since the start
of 2009, while copper in London and crude oil in New York
doubled in the period.  Nickel, lead, aluminum, zinc and tin advanced on the London
Metal Exchange, while rubber rallied as much as 1 percent on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange. West Texas Intermediate crude for
December delivery was at $87.79 a barrel, down 92 cents, on the
New York Mercantile Exchange after dropping as much as $1.09.  “An Obama win favors a continuation of the current easy-
money policy,”  Axel Merk , president and chief investment
officer at Merk Investments LLC, wrote in an e-mail. “The Fed’s
increased emphasis on employment is here to stay.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  