-- Greek Protests Turn Violent in Athens as Samaras Seeks Austerity
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-11-07T18:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/greek-protests-turn-violent-in-athens-as-samaras-seeks-austerity.html
Greek police beat back protesters
outside Parliament with tear gas and water cannons as Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras fought for approval of austerity
measures demanded by the country’s lenders.  Inside the chamber, Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras
withdrew a last-minute proposal to cut parliamentary employees’
pay under pressure from opposition lawmakers and the threat of a
wildcat strike that could delay tonight’s vote on pension, wage
and benefit cuts. Approval of the legislation is the first of
the votes required by Nov. 12 to get a 31 billion-euro ($40
billion) installment of aid from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund .  “The issue is to keep the country in the euro,”
Stournaras said in Parliament. “This bill is here to ensure
that all Greeks participate in the effort to save the country.”  Samaras is seeking to stem defections from his three-party
coalition to convince European Union leaders including German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  that his government is serious about
staying in the euro. On paper, he can count on the backing of
175 lawmakers. Democratic Left, a coalition partner with 16
seats, has said it won’t vote for changes to labor laws it says
have no fiscal benefit.  Voting ‘Present’  Democratic Left chief Fotis Kouvelis reiterated today that
his party would vote “present” on the bill, rather than for or
against the legislation. He said the party continued to support
the government to keep the country in the euro.  The government has lost as many as four supporters since
being formed in June, with the latest defection coming from the
ranks of Socialist Pasok, which provides Samaras with the votes
he needs for his  majority  in Parliament.  Discussion of the bill was delayed almost four hours as
lawmakers quarreled over procedural issues and the opposition
demanded a roll-call vote on a motion to dismiss the measures as
unconstitutional. That motion was dismissed by 170 votes to 47.  The debate was held on the second day of a 48-hour general
strike. Hospitals, banks, pharmacies and government services
shut down and taxis, buses and rail services ground to a halt.
Police said at least 50,000 people gathered at a protest rally
outside the Parliament starting at 5 p.m., waving banners and
chanting anti-bailout slogans. More than 35,000 Greeks marched
peacefully in central  Athens  yesterday.  The 238 pages of proposals in the bill range from raising
the  retirement age  two years to 67 to eliminating Christmas and
holiday payments for pensioners and cutting benefits paid to
disabled people.  Rolling Strikes  Public Power Corp SA (PPC)  workers, opposed to caps on wages for
employees in state-owned companies, are holding rolling 48-hour
strikes. Five  power plants  were taken offline yesterday, while
the islands of Crete and Rhodes were suffering outages for a
second day today.  “This parliament is not what will judge you,” Zoe
Constantopoulou, a lawmaker with opposition party Syriza, said
in the chamber today. “History will judge you.”  Parliament will convene again on Nov. 11 to vote on the
2013 budget, which provides for 9 billion euros of the savings
to bring the  deficit  to 5.2 percent of gross domestic product
next year from 6.6 percent this year.  Greece  sees the economy
shrinking 4.5 percent in 2013, the sixth straight contraction.
The European Commission today forecast the downturn next year
will be 4.2 percent.  Greece has received 240 billion euros in aid pledges from
the EU and the International Monetary Fund since 2010. Under
pressure to make more efforts to rein in its  budget deficit  and
deregulate the economy, the country is still struggling to hit
its debt-reduction targets, which may endanger further payments
under the loan agreements.  Rising Debt  Debt is forecast by the Greek government to rise to 189
percent of GDP next year from 176 percent this year as the
economy tumbles.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn , speaking at a meeting of Group of 20 finance chiefs
in Mexico City, said Nov. 5 that a deal to unlock bailout funds
must be made at a meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels on
Nov. 12. A European G-20 official, speaking before Rehn and on
condition of anonymity, cast doubt on the prospects for that
deadline, saying officials may fall short.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  