-- Greece Plans Revenue Tax for Solar Plants to Cut Deficit
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-11-07T14:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/greece-plans-tax-on-existing-solar-plants-of-25-35-of-revenue.html
Greece  is planning to approve a tax
on existing solar power plants of 25 percent to 35 percent of
revenue to reduce a deficit related to clean energy.  The government included the tax cutting the revenue for all
photovoltaic plants in its bill of economic measures scheduled
for a vote tonight in the parliament in  Athens , a draft of the
legislation shows. It covers all solar power plants bigger than
10 kilowatts during two years.  Greece, which has spent about 370 million euros ($473
million) on clean energy subsidies, is joining Spain, the Czech
Republic and  Bulgaria  in raising taxes on solar facilities
already built. Plants with about 700 megawatts were completed in
Greece this year, bringing to 1.3 gigawatts the total installed
capacity.  “This very sudden tax will create cash flow problems for
most plants and threatens investments planned for 2013,” said
Stelios Spsomas, policy adviser for the  Hellenic Association of
Photovoltaic Companies , the industry’s lobby group. The bill
can’t be withdrawn though the tax rates could be reduced before
the vote, he said.  Solar plants connected to the power grid from 2007 to 2011
will see their revenue cut by 25 percent, and those connected
from January to August this year will be slashed by 35 percent,
according to the draft. In addition, projects permitted in this
period will be taxed by 29 percent to 35 percent and will need
to be connected by mid-March, earlier than previously planned.  Greece, whose financial crisis began in 2009, has the
European Union’s highest feed-in tariffs for solar power. These
premium rates have led to an a surge in installations that can’t
be sustained, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “PV growth in Greece subsidized with costs which are not
effectively passed onto customers has been the Minotaur of the
Greek economy rather than the bull,” Martin Simonek, solar
energy analyst for BNEF, said by e-mail. “It had to be killed
at some point and the bigger it got, the more drastic measures
were anticipated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  