-- Gulf Oil to Buy Chemical-Maker Houghton for $1.05 Billion
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-11-07T10:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/gulf-oil-agrees-to-buy-houghton-international-for-1-05-billion.html
Gulf Oil Corp. (GULF) , controlled by the
billionaire Hinduja brothers, agreed to buy  Houghton
International Inc.  for $1.05 billion in the second-biggest
acquisition planned by an Indian company this year.  Gulf Oil agreed to buy Houghton, whose chemicals and
lubricants are used in the metalworking and automotive
industries, from a U.S.-based private-equity fund, the
Hyderabad, India-based company said in an exchange filing today.
New York-based private-equity firm AEA Investors LP bought
Houghton in 2007.  Indian companies have announced international deals worth
$10.2 billion in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Gulf Oil’s planned acquisition is second only to Indian Hotels
Co.’s $1.86 billion offer last month to buy Hamilton, Bermuda-
based  Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH)   Houghton, based in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania , posted sales
of $858 million in the year ended Sept. 30, according to Gulf
Oil. The Indian company may consider acquisitions to expand its
lubricant-making capacity by at least 50,000 metric tons a year,
President Ravi Chawla said last year.  Factories, Clients  Gulf Oil and its units had 2.2 billion rupees ($40.5
million) of cash and equivalents and 3.5 billion rupees of total
debt as of March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company will be able to offer Houghton’s industrial
clients “a complete end-to-end range of lubricants,” following
the acquisition, it said in the statement. Houghton will give
the company access to chemical factories in 10 countries and
customers in more than 75 nations.  Gulf Oil  fell  1.3 percent to 86.35 rupees at the close in
Mumbai. The shares have gained 54 percent this year, compared
with a 22 percent advance in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The Hinduja Group is a closely-held conglomerate that owns
power plants and truckmakers and is controlled by brothers
Gopichand and Srichand. It has operations in about 38 countries
and gets as much as 9 percent of its revenue from  India , Co-
Chairman Gopichand Hinduja had said in an interview in January
2011.  The Hinduja brothers, based in  London , were estimated to be
worth $8 billion as of October 2012, according to the website of
Forbes magazine.  The group, founded in 1914 by their father Parmanand, also
has interests in the health care, media, real estate, finance
and information technology industries, according to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  