-- Li Honeymoon Off as Easing Bets End in Shibor Swap: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-07T04:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/li-honeymoon-off-as-easing-bets-end-in-shibor-swap-china-credit.html
Inflation concerns have prompted swap
traders to scrap bets Li Keqiang will ease  monetary policy  after
he is flagged as  China ’s next premier at a Communist Party
congress starting tomorrow.  The cost to lock in the three-month  Shanghai  interbank
offered rate for a year rose 25 basis points in the past month
to 3.76 percent, four basis points  above  the benchmark floating
rate after trading below it for 18 months. The yield on the June
2013 bonds of China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s
second-biggest lender, climbed 15 basis points last quarter to
3.68 percent. Globally, financial companies pay an average 2.74
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The pessimism of traders in Shanghai is at odds with global
banks including HSBC Holdings Plc, which wrote this month that
there is “little doubt” China’s new leaders will gear up
stimulus for the world’s second-biggest economy during the
transition. Li needs to balance the risks of rising bad loans
with inflation forecast to reach 3.4 percent in the third
quarter of 2013, up from 1.9 percent in September, according to
the median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “Borrowing costs for companies and between banks may rise
because inflation will go up and liquidity won’t be as
abundant,” said Rainy Yuan, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Masterlink Securities Corp., a brokerage and underwriting
company. “There are a lot of uncertainties for policy makers to
weigh next year. They don’t want to loosen further to stir up
inflation but neither should they tighten too much to hurt the
economy.”  Monetary Policy  The People’s Bank of China has held its benchmark lending
rate at 6 percent since cutting to that level in July. The
central bank has also kept the reserve ratio for the biggest
banks at 20 percent since May.  Authorities have been on pause since then as inflation has
ticked up from 1.8 percent in July, its lowest since November
2009. The U.S. Federal Reserve’s third round of so-called
quantitative easing threatens to lead to further acceleration of
price rises, according to Masterlink Securities’ Yuan.  “Inflation pressure will come back again next year as pork
prices may rebound and U.S. QE3 threatens to add imported
inflation,” she said.  The increase in the inflation rate comes as economists
forecast economic growth will pick up this quarter to 7.7
percent from 7.4 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, the
weakest growth since the first quarter of 2009.  Li’s Challenges  Li is currently vice premier and a member of the Politburo
Standing Committee, the highest ruling body in the party. He
will work with Premier  Wen Jiabao  in setting monetary policy
until a March session of the legislature at which he is expected
to formally take over.  China’s third-quarter growth may have been weaker than
official data indicate, as reflected in slowing electricity
production and other data, according to analysts at Standard
Chartered Plc and Capital Economics Ltd. Li was quoted in 2007
as saying he watched data on power, rail cargo and loans because
gross domestic product numbers were “man-made.” The remark was
published in a leaked diplomatic cable published by WikiLeaks in
late 2010.  Chinese commercial banks’ delinquent obligations may rise
10 percent this year and accelerate in 2013 if concerns about a
rebound in inflation lead authorities to tighten monetary
policy, according to China Orient Asset Management Corp. The
company is one of the nation’s four state-owned asset managers
established in 1999 to take over trillions of  yuan  of bad loans
from the country’s largest lenders.  Bad Loans  Total non-performing loans at China’s four-biggest banks
increased 2.1 billion yuan ($336 million) in the third quarter
to 295.7 billion yuan, according to separate statements from the
lenders last month.  The yuan rose 0.03 percent to 6.2436 per dollar as of 10:03
a.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System.  “A tightening monetary policy is generally negative to
credit quality of banks,” Stanley Li, an analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities (HK) Ltd., a unit of the South Korean brokerage, said
by telephone on Nov. 5. “If the inflation rate rises to more
than 5 percent, there’s likely to be an obvious tightening and
this will be negative to credit quality.”  As investors bet that  interest rates  are set to track
inflation higher next year, lenders’ borrowing costs have risen.
The yield premium on top-rated five-year corporate bonds over
similar-maturity government debt climbed to a more than five-
month high at  164 basis points  on Nov. 5.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government note fell one
basis point to  3.58 percent  yesterday, according to Chinabond.  Rate Forecasts  The central bank will likely hike rates twice next year,
lifting them 100 basis points higher in total, according to  Sun Mingchun , a Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
 Hong Kong  Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s second-largest brokerage.  Rate increases of that size “shouldn’t affect bad loans
significantly,” Sun wrote in an e-mailed response to questions
on Nov. 6. “Chinese leaders should pay more attention to the
long-term sustainable growth and the underlying structural
reasons for the bad loans, rather than focusing on low interest
costs.”  Five-year credit-default swaps insuring sovereign notes
against non-payment fell three basis points to the lowest level
this year at 62 basis points yesterday, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities if an issuer fails to adhere to
its debt agreements.  Profits Slow  Chinese banks may post slower profit growth in the fourth
quarter as their lending margins narrow and provisions for bad
debt rise, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Pretax profit
in the three months ending in December may grow by 9 percent,
down from 12 percent in the third quarter, analysts including
 Mike Werner  at the research firm wrote on Nov. 5. Bad loan
formation is likely to accelerate this quarter, according to the
report.  Central-bank moves to grant more flexibility in setting
interest rates have led banks to pay a premium of as much as 10
percent over the benchmark deposit rate, threatening their
margins. The weaker growth in the world’s second-largest economy
has also pushed up  non-performing loans .  “The figure is bound to rise in the fourth quarter and may
further increase next year as monetary policy gets tighter,”
Masterlink Securities’s Yuan said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  