-- IAG Bids for Discount Carrier Vueling to End Spain Losses
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-11-08T16:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/iag-mulls-bid-for-vueling-to-reduce-costs-in-spain.html
British Airways parent  IAG SA (IAG)  offered
to buy outstanding shares of Spanish discount carrier  Vueling
Airlines SA (VLG)  for 113 million euros ($144 million) as  Europe ’s
third-biggest carrier seeks to bolster its ailing Iberia unit.  The approach values Barcelona-based Vueling at 7 euros a
share, according to a statement from IAG, which already owns
45.85 percent of the smaller carrier’s stock. That’s 1.53 euros
or 28 percent above the closing price yesterday.  IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  has already moved
some Spanish flights to a new unit, Iberia Express, in an effort
to bring down the break-even point with less-generous contracts.
Unions said today that a takeover of Vueling could be linked to
a plan to cut 6,000 Spanish jobs that may be announced tomorrow.  “With its leading position in Barcelona, European growth
strategy and low cost base, Vueling has much to offer,” Walsh
said today. “It has significantly increased capacity while
remaining profitable, despite the Spanish economic slowdown.”  Integrating Vueling will give IAG a low-cost platform and
should boost earnings from year one, according to the statement.
The offer should be completed next spring, and Walsh said the
unit would be run as a separate operating company, retaining the
current management team led by CEO Alex Cruz.  ‘Unattractive’  Shares of Vueling  rose 1.38 euros, or 25 percent, to 6.85
euros at the close of trading in  Madrid . IAG, as International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA is known,  dropped  0.9 percent to
168 pence in  London , where the company is based.  The bid will probably be sufficient to persuade Vueling
investors to sell, according to Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-
based strategist at FGA/MG Valores.  “There may be people who are disappointed with the
price,” he said. “It’s reasonable if you take into account
current conditions and that IAG already owns more than 45
percent of the stock. However, if you look at Vueling’s
potential and expect the market to recover, then it’s relatively
unattractive.”  Combining Vueling -- Spain’s second-biggest carrier after
Iberia -- with the Express business would risk inflating costs
at a company that has thrived under Cruz, said analyst  John Strickland  at JLS Consulting in London.  ‘Slippery Slope’  “Their independence has been the reason for their
success,” he said. “I can see the logic for IAG, but if
Vueling is going to retain its strengths they have to avoid the
slippery slope of gravitating upwards in cost and losing their
fleet-of-foot.”  Vueling had gained 41 percent this year even before the IAG
offer, with the shares surging following a jump in traffic after
the collapse of Barcelona-based rival Spanair SA.  IAG, which has advanced 15 percent this year, valuing the
company at 3.13 billion pounds ($5 billion), will hold an
investor briefing on its strategy at London’s Heathrow airport
tomorrow, spokeswoman Lorena Monsalves said today.  Spanish unions are anticipating “widespread job losses”
at Iberia, an official at the Sepla pilots union said yesterday
by telephone before the IAG statement. Three main labor groups
have signed an agreement to resist cuts to the payroll unless
linked to a plan to restore traffic lost to Iberia Express,
Vueling and Iberia affiliate Air Nostrum, the official said.  Pay, Disposals  As many as 5,200 ground workers, 850 cabin crew and 350
pilots may be fired, the UGT general workers union estimates.
The labor group is also bracing for a 5 percent pay cut and the
sale of engineering, ground-handling and maintenance activities.  An Iberia official declined to comment on job cuts today,
adding that the situation should become clear tomorrow.  Traffic dropped 3.7 percent at Iberia last month versus a
year earlier as  Spain ’s sovereign-debt crisis continued to sap
demand for travel. The figure at British Airways, with which the
Spanish arm merged in 2011, jumped 6.2 percent, IAG said Nov. 6.  “The BA side of the equation is working very well, but
Iberia has problems, not only macro-economic, but the perennial
problem at legacy carriers of short-haul losses and low-cost
competition,” Strickland said. Walsh could announce route cuts,
as well as “significant” job losses, he added.  Vueling posted a nine-month pretax profit of 59 million
euros and has assets of 805 million euros. IAG reports earnings
for the period tomorrow after slumping to a 253 million-euro
operating loss in the first half, with a 13 million-euro profit
at BA and a 263 million-euros loss at Iberia, including items.  Tough Task  IAG may struggle to achieve a target of ending losses at
Iberia by the end of 2013 or early 2014, Oddo & Cie analyst Yan Derocles said. Shortfalls at the Spanish unit mean the group may
record a “small operating loss” for the full year, IAG said in
August after earlier forecasting that it would break even.  “It’s a transition between the new and old Iberia,”
Derocles said before the Vueling announcement. “They need a
combination of job cuts and productivity gains. The track record
of BA and IAG management is quite good in terms of cost-cuts.”  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s
two biggest carriers, last week posted earnings that beat
estimates after reaping the benefits of moves to eliminate
thousands of jobs. Air France said Oct. 31 it plans to cut 1,300
posts at its Dutch unit in addition to 5,000 already going from
the payroll at the larger French business. Lufthansa is scraping
3,500 administrative positions and as many as 1,000 in catering.  SAS Group, the parent of Scandinavia Airlines, said today
it will delay a third-quarter earnings report until Nov. 12 as
it seeks to complete the renegotiation of credit facilities.
Shares of the carrier, which said cost cuts and asset disposals
are part of those talks, fell as much as 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  