-- Michigan Voters Reject Collective-Bargaining Protection
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-11-07T04:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/michigan-voters-reject-collective-bargaining-protection.html
Michigan  voters rejected a
constitutional amendment that supporters said would strengthen
collective-bargaining rights, and opponents argued would drive
business away by giving unions too much power.  The loss for Proposal 2 was projected by the  Detroit Free
Press  and WXYZ-TV.  The amendment would have blocked so-called right-to-work
laws in which union membership cannot be a condition of
employment. Opponents, led by business groups, said the measure
would have increased taxpayer costs by overriding dozens of
laws, such as a 2011 statute requiring public employees to pay
20 percent of health-insurance premiums.  The vote was a “staggering defeat” for union leaders,
said Jared Rodriguez, a spokesman for Protecting Michigan
Taxpayers, the business-led coalition opposing Proposal 2.
“Voters and union members sent a crystal-clear message to the
union bosses today that union business has no place in
Michigan’s constitution,” Rodriguez said in an e-mailed
statement.  Union-Led  The ballot issue was the result of a petition drive by a
union-led coalition after Wisconsin in 2011 stripped some
collective-bargaining rights from public employees and  Indiana ’s
passage this year of a right-to-work law. The Wisconsin move led
to an unsuccessful recall drive against Republican Governor
 Scott Walker .  Proposal 2 supporters said the state went too far with laws
that made it easier for schools to fire teachers, ban union-dues
collections by government entities and allow state-appointed
emergency managers to cancel union contracts in financially
distressed cities and school districts.  The proposal was beaten by corporate opponents that spent $32
million “lying to voters to confuse them,” according to a
statement by Protect Working Families, the group behind the
ballot issue. “Working people will continue the fight to ensure
a voice for fair wages, benefits and safe working conditions
that benefit us all.”  Supporters expressed concern that Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  would approve a right-to-work law if passed by the
Republican-controlled legislature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  