-- Michigan Rejects Increase to Renewable Energy Requirement
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-11-07T18:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/michigan-rejects-increase-to-renewable-energy-requirement.html
Voters in Michigan rejected a
proposed constitutional amendment that would raise to 25 percent
the amount of electricity state utilities must get from
renewable sources by 2020.  The  proposal  lost by a margin of almost two-to-one,
according to unofficial  results  on the Michigan government’s
website.  The results show that voters think Michigan utilities are
balancing the demands of adopting  renewable energy  while keeping
rates down, according to Howard Edelson, campaign manager for
Clean Affordable Renewable Energy for Michigan Coalition, a
group that opposes the initiative.  “The state’s constitution is not the place for costly
 energy policy ,” he said in a  statement  after the election
yesterday.  The initiative would have required that at least a quarter
of the power sold to retail customers be produced from wind,
solar, biomass or hydropower, up from a 2008  law  requiring 10
percent by 2015. Utilities would have been permitted to raise
electricity rates by no more than 1 percent to meet the higher
renewable-energy mandate.  Opponents of the initiative spent more than $35 million to
block the proposal, outspending supporters by more than three-
to-one, Kevin Knobloch, president of the Union of Concerned
Scientists, a Washington-based non-profit, said today in a
 statement .  “Coal-dependent utilities and fossil fuel interests threw
everything they had into distorting the facts, including an
astounding amount of money and resources,” said Knobloch.  Twenty-nine states and the  District of Columbia  have
renewable-portfolio standards. The  highest  targets are in
California, which requires 33 percent by 2020, and Hawaii, with
40 percent by 2030, according to data compiled by  North Carolina
State University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  