-- Michigan Unions Lose and Right-to-Work Revival Looms
-- B y   S h i k h a   D a l m i a
-- 2012-11-07T14:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/michigan-unions-lose-and-right-to-work-revival-looms.html
Unions went for broke in  Michigan  and
they lost big time.  Michigan voters soundly  defeated  a measure that would have
given public-sector unions a potent tool to challenge any law --
past, present or future -- limiting their benefits and powers.
It would also have permanently barred Michigan from becoming a
right-to-work state where payment of dues is no longer required
as a condition of employment in unionized companies.  Will this defeat now open the  right-to-work  floodgates?  Although both sides raised a whopping $20-plus million for
their campaigns, ultimately the proposal lost by a wide margin
because of opposition across the political spectrum. Both the
 Detroit News  and the  Detroit Free Press , the state’s flagship
conservative and liberal papers respectively, counseled a “no”
vote. The Free Press, usually an ardent supporter of collective-
bargaining rights,  concluded : “Michigan just can’t afford those
kinds of limitations in an era when debt from pension and health
obligations to current and retired employees are pushing many
local governments to the brink of insolvency.”  All of this would have rung the death knell for the last
two years of fiscal reforms by Governor  Rick Snyder , a moderate
Republican, paving the way for future tax increases on
individuals and businesses. This would have been economically
devastating for Michigan, which went into a recession several
years before the rest of the country -- and is only now
beginning to post a slow recovery. Its unemployment is still
about a point above the national average.  The unions may wish they had never overplayed their hand in
this battle. They were field-testing a strategy to take back
existing right-to-work states that allow legislative action
through ballot referendums.  If anything, however, they hurt their cause. Ever since
 Indiana  became the first right-to-work state in the  Rust Belt 
earlier this year -- and 23rd in the country -- Governor Snyder
has been under tremendous pressure from his party, which
controls both legislative chambers, to push a right-to-work law
in Michigan as well. Snyder resisted because he wanted to
concentrate on tax and regulatory changes and avoid a
distracting fight with unions. But conservative lawmakers are
going to interpret the resounding defeat for the ballot
proposition as essentially a mandate for a right-to-work law in
the state. It is now unclear whether Snyder will have the will
or the clout to hold them at bay.  High labor costs are the biggest obstacle deterring
manufacturers from setting up shop in Michigan, depressing
employment. If Michigan had been a right-to-work state,
according to research by economist  Hari Singh  of Grand Valley
State University, the  auto industry , for example, would have
seen a 25 percent gain in jobs since 1965. Instead, it lost 56.6
percent just from 2002 to 2009, shrinking its work force by
165,777.  Even before the collective-bargaining measure, polls showed
that 50 to 60 percent of Michigan residents supported a right-
to-work law. That number will no doubt be even higher now. If
Michigan goes that route, it will become difficult for non-
right-to-work states to resist and remain competitive.  (Shikha Dalmia is a senior analyst at the Reason Foundation
and a contributor to Bloomberg View.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 