-- Michigan Rejects Emergency Managers for Troubled Cities
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-11-07T17:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/michigan-rejects-emergency-managers-for-troubled-cities.html
Michigan voters voided a 2011 law
that gave state emergency managers broad powers to cut spending
and avoid bankruptcy for stricken cities and school districts.  The referendum repealed Public Act 4, passed by the
Republican-controlled legislature at the urging of Republican
Governor  Rick Snyder , which allowed the state to intervene more
quickly to prevent insolvencies and have more power to reverse
financial collapse.  “I’m disappointed,” Snyder told reporters in Lansing
today. “It makes things more complicated.”  The law was viewed as a boon for cities’ credit by bond-
rating companies. The vote against it was 52 percent to 48
percent, with 95 percent of precincts reporting, the  Associated
Press  said.  Public Act 4 replaced a 1990 statute that gave emergency
managers less authority. It allowed managers to assume the
powers of mayors, city councils and school boards, to fire
employees, sell assets and cancel union contracts. After the
measure to void it was placed on the ballot,  Michigan  reverted
to the earlier law.  Preservation Attempt  Snyder said he’ll discuss with state lawmakers changing the
1990 measure to preserve the state’s ability to issue early
warnings on municipalities’ finances -- and authority to fix
them without the authoritarian power of an emergency manager.  Even the earlier law is being challenged in court. If that
challenge prevails, “that would be a concern in my view,”
Snyder said.  Bondholders have liked the stronger emergency-manager
rules, said John Loffredo, co-head of MacKay Municipal Managers
in Princeton,  New Jersey , which oversees $6.8 billion.  “It’s kept bonds in full payments,” Loffredo said. “It’s
given the state and local governments the ability to rewrite
contracts. If they are going to a different direction, that is
really going to put more pressure on local governments. The
appetite for investors in Michigan will change.”  Roy Roberts, emergency manager of  Detroit  Public Schools,
had told Snyder Oct. 30 he might leave the job if voters killed
Public Act 4, according to the  Detroit Free Press . Snyder said
he spoke to Roberts today and no decision had been made.  Opponents called the 2011 law an overreach of state
authority and an undemocratic affront. They said the law
protected the creditors at the expense of residents.  When the referendum was placed on the ballot in August,
Michigan had four cities and three school districts under
emergency managers. Another locality has since been placed under
state control under the 1990 law.  Detroit avoided an emergency manager in April under a
consent agreement with the state that gave Mayor Dave Bing more
authority to rein in spending to eliminated a projected deficit
that topped $200 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  