-- If We Elect Them, Do They Have to Listen to Us?
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-11-07T23:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/if-we-elect-them-do-they-have-to-listen-to-us-.html
Lyman Hall, the  Georgia  delegate to
the Second Continental Congress, is trying to resolve his
dilemma. His constituents are opposed to independence from Great
Britain, which is why he initially voted “no.” Then Hall
recalls something Irish philosopher Edmund Burke once said,
“that a representative owes the people not only his industry,
but his judgment, and he betrays them if he sacrifices it to
their opinion.” He changes Georgia’s vote for independence to
“yes.” The rest is history.  At least that’s how Hall’s decision is portrayed in the
musical “1776.” The  Burke quote  isn’t quite right, but Lyman’s
theatrical rephrasing captures the essence.  I was thinking about this issue recently: Whether a
representative is beholden to those who elect him. Does
representing one’s district mean doing what voters want? Or does
it mean using one’s judgment to act in what one perceives to be
the voters’ best interest?  This is what political scientists call “a trustee versus
delegate problem,” said Michele Swers, a professor of political
science at Georgetown University in  Washington . A trustee
listens to his constituents, but when it comes to making a
decision, he formulates his own conclusions, which is what Hall
did in 1776. The 2008 bank bailout, or Troubled Asset Relief
Program, is an example of legislators acting as trustees, Swers
said. “It was unpopular but necessary to save the nation.”  People’s House  The U.S. system is based on a delegate model. The nation’s
founders designed the House of Representatives, sometimes called
the “People’s House,” as a populist institution.  Article I  of
the Constitution provides for a two-year term, proportional
representation and direct election of representatives (senators
were indirectly elected by state legislatures until the  17th
Amendment  to the Constitution in 1913).  We, the people, get to throw them out every two years if
we’re dissatisfied. Doesn’t that imply they have to listen to
us?  Apparently not. The U.S. system may have been based on a
delegate model, but nowadays representatives answer to a higher
power. “They are less likely to listen to constituents and more
likely to act as a national party team,” said Barry Burden, a
professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin-
Madison.  Independent voting by party members peaked in the 1970s,
Burden said, shortly after the enactment of the 1964 Civil
Rights Act and the transformation of the south to a Republican
stronghold. The parties became increasingly polarized. Today the
U.S. has “a party-government model that looks like the British
Parliament,” he said.  Democratic and Republican representatives elected
sequentially from the same district, as well as senators of both
parties representing the same state, have “wildly different
 voting records ,” Burden said, suggesting they aren’t catering
to their constituent base.  Should we be upset? We can always vote for the challenger,
and two years isn’t very long to wait.  It turns out that when voters are considering which
candidate to support, they “care much, much more about someone
who represents their policy views as opposed to policy
outcomes,” said Philip Edward Jones, a political science
professor at the University of  Delaware  in  Newark . Jones’
research supports the idea that voters punish incumbents for the
 way they vote , not for the way things turn out.  Backward Evolution  For example, a consistent vote for tax cuts may be more
persuasive than the perceived economic outcome. Which makes
sense even to someone not steeped in political theory. None of
us can control outcomes in our own lives, no less in the economy
at large. What we can control is our inputs, what we do, which
Jones’s research suggests is what matters to voters. And here I
thought it was all about money!  It surprised me to learn from both Burden and Jones that
money doesn’t buy votes to the extent that it can’t turn a
“nay” into a “yea.” Does it  buy access ? You bet. There’s
nothing like attending a fund-raiser in the district if you want
your congressman to take your call the next time you ring.  What about influence? Money “mobilizes supporters,”
Burden said, and “buys behind-the-scenes participation,”
according to Jones.  Simply put, members of Congress have only so much time, and
nothing focuses the mind like a hefty campaign contribution.
(Imagine how much more time they would have to do the people’s
business if representatives spent fewer hours in their districts
campaigning for re-election.)  It’s been more than 200 years since Lyman had his epiphany
on what it means to be a representative. In that time, the U.S.
has evolved from a delegate model to a trustee relationship
between representative and constituent to a party-centric model,
which is where we are today. That doesn’t sound like progress.  “There’s one upside,” Burden said: “You know who’s
responsible for what’s happening.”  The 2008 election put the Democrats in control of the
presidency and both houses of Congress. The voters knew whom to
blame when the 2010 mid-term rolled around.  What does it say about the 2012 election that Americans
voted for a status-quo Congress? Maybe it means that with
nothing accomplished there was no one to blame. Let’s hope
lawmakers don’t internalize that message.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Visit  the Ticker  for election commentary,
including Mary Duenwald on  the prospects of a carbon tax , James
Greiff on  restoring Wall Street-White House ties  and Zara
Kessler on  Mitt Romney’s 49 percent problem .  Plus, the editors on how President  Barack Obama  can  avoid the
fiscal cliff  and  start on his global to-do list ; Ezra Klein on
 the opening for filibuster reform ; W. Michael Cox and Richard
Alm on  the California business that might come to Texas ; Odd
Arne Westad on  China’s more nationalistic leadership .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 