-- Tigers’ Young Pleads Guilty After New York Bias Incident
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-07T17:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/tigers-young-pleads-guilty-after-new-york-bias-incident.html
Delmon Young, who played baseball
last season for the Detroit Tigers, pleaded guilty to harassment
for shouting an anti-Semitic slur at four men before tackling
one of them at a  New York  hotel, Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr. said.  Young, 27, pleaded to aggravated harassment in the second
degree over an altercation outside the Hilton New York on April
27, Vance said today in a statement. Young was ordered to
complete 10 days of community service and take part in a program
at the Museum of Tolerance, the district attorney said.  Vance said the program was developed by his office’s Hate
Crimes Unit in concert with the museum. Through it “defendants
learn how their words and actions can have implications far
beyond a single incident, and are taught about sensitivity and
compassion,” Vance said.  If he meets the terms of his original plea, Young can re-
plead to harassment in the second degree, a violation, the
district attorney said.  Young was arrested after the altercation and suspended by
Major League Baseball without pay for seven days.  “An incident like this cannot and will not be tolerated,”
Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig said in a statement at the time.  Free Agent  Young batted .267 with 18 home runs and 74 runs batted in
with the Tigers last season, and had a $6.75 million contract,
according to  Baseball Prospectus . He’s now a free agent.  The seven-year outfielder was named the most valuable
player of this year’s American League Championship Series after
batting .353 and hitting two home runs in the Tigers’ four-game
sweep of the New York Yankees, according to  Baseball-Reference .  The Hate Crimes Unit was formed in May 2010 to investigate
and prosecute crimes based on race, ethnicity, gender, religion
or sexual orientation.  Since 2011, Vance’s office has had three defendants
complete the so-called restorative justice program with the
Museum of Tolerance, which involves a tour of its exhibits,
interactive workshops, guided discussions, and a report back to
the district attorney from the museum on how the defendant
participated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York State Supreme Court in New York at +1-
   tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  