-- Time Warner Profit Tops Analyst Estimates on Cable-TV Gains
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-11-07T21:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/time-warner-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-on-cable-tv-gains.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , the media company
that owns  HBO  and the Batman film franchise, reported third-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates after making
gains in cable-network revenue.  Net income  rose to $838 million, or 86 cents a share, from
$822 million, or 78 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. That beat the 82 cents
analysts had projected, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  Time Warner, led by Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes,
saw an increase in the money that cable-TV providers pay to air
its networks. The fees rose 7 percent last quarter, offsetting a
1 percent drop in cable advertising revenue. Bewkes, who took
over in 2008, has refocused the company on premium programming
such as HBO’s original series “Boardwalk Empire,” helping make
its networks more attractive.  “The quarter looked better than expected,” said  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst with Wunderlich Securities Inc. in Denver.
Cost cutting also helped bolster profit, he said.  Time Warner rose 4.2 percent to $44.91 in New York at the
close, the biggest one-day gain in almost a year. The stock
climbed 24 percent this year.  Bewkes has developed services that let HBO subscribers
watch the channel on tablets and other mobile devices, and he’s
made bets on live sports programming. Last month Time Warner
renewed a rights agreement with  Major League Baseball  to
broadcast games through the 2021 season.  HBO’s Allure  “In a time when the market for content consumption is
increasingly fragmented and live TV ratings are falling, we
believe a network like HBO that has top quality original
programming and an integrated digital strategy will be more
resilient -- and valuable -- than networks with mostly
syndicated content,”  Anthony DiClemente , an analyst with
Barclays Plc in New York, said in a research note before the
earnings report.  Time Warner’s strategy should help increase its pay-TV fees
by as much as 10 percent by 2014, DiClemente said in his report.
Still, ratings suffered last quarter. The company had a 10
percent decline in viewership at its cable networks in the
period, DiClemente said. The popularity of the London Olympics,
which benefited  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, hurt other networks.  Netflix Deal  CNN, a victim of the ratings slump, has seen recent
audience gains due to election coverage, Bewkes said on an
analyst call. He also expects to name a successor to outgoing
CNN President Jim Walton by the end of the year.  Total revenue from its cable networks increased 4.1 percent
to $3.34 billion last quarter, compared with declines at the
company’s film and TV studios and publishing business. Overall
sales dropped 3.2 percent to $6.84 billion in the period.
Analysts had forecast $6.91 billion on average, according to
data  compiled  by Bloomberg.  The company revealed more data on its deals with streaming
video providers such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Time
Warner took in more than $250 million this year selling
streaming rights to its television and movie content, with two-
thirds of that sum coming directly from Netflix.  Revenue at the film and TV studios -- which released the
final movie in the Batman franchise, “The Dark Knight Rises,”
in July -- fell 12 percent to $2.9 billion. While the “Dark
Knight” film drew more than $1 billion in global box-office
receipts, the studio division had lower sales than a year
earlier when it benefited from the final Harry Potter film.  Publishing Business  Revenue from Time Inc., the publisher of People and  Sports
Illustrated , dropped 5.7 percent to $838 million. Laura Lang,
the division’s chief executive, is forging a plan to unify its
long-sparring online and print fiefdoms -- a move that would
ease the selling of advertising across print titles, the Web and
mobile devices.  The company also reaffirmed its 2012 full-year outlook.
Excluding some items, the percentage growth in adjusted net
income should grow in “the low double digits,” compared with
$2.89 a share in 2011.  “All in all, a really productive quarter for us,” Bewkes
told analysts. “It’s another indication that the plan we put in
place five years ago is working.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  