-- IMF Says Case for Further South Africa Rate Cuts Is Building
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-11-07T11:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/imf-says-case-for-further-south-africa-rate-cuts-is-building.html
The case for further  interest-rate 
cuts in  South Africa  is building as the global economy slows and
recent labor disputes hurt output, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  The central bank unexpectedly cut the  benchmark interest
rate  by 0.5 percentage point to 5 percent in July to bolster the
economy as the  European debt crisis  eroded demand for South
African exports. On Oct. 25, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  cut
his growth outlook for this year to 2.5 percent from a February
estimate of 2.7 percent, partly reflecting a loss of production
at gold, platinum and coal mines because of strikes .  “The deterioration in the global economy, as well as the
internal domestic strikes that you have in the mining sector, as
well as other sectors of the economy, has without doubt had some
impact on growth,” Calvin McDonald, the South African
delegation chief in the IMF’s African department, told lawmakers
in Cape Town today. These developments “strengthen the case”
for South Africa to “rely increasingly on monetary policy to
support economic recovery if conditions in the global
environment continue to deteriorate.”  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee will make its
next rate decision on Nov. 22.  The IMF regards the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
 inflation  target band as appropriate and allowing sufficient
flexibility, and sees no need for it to be adjusted, McDonald
said.  He urged the government to stick to its commitment to rein
in borrowing to buoy investor confidence and contain growth in
spending on civil servant salaries.  The IMF said on Oct. 9 that Africa’s largest  economy  will
probably expand 2.6 percent this year and 3 percent in 2013,
forecasts that were prepared before a wave of strikes broke out
in August. The estimates have yet to be revised, McDonald said.  “We haven’t had any discussions with the government yet,’
he told reporters. “Things seem to have stabilized somewhat,
which is good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  