-- India Seeks to Enforce Renewable Targets on Reliance, Tata Steel
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-11-07T21:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/india-seeks-to-enforce-renewable-targets-on-reliance-tata-steel.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and Tata
Steel Ltd. are among 50 companies who’ve been sent letters by
the Indian government to ensure they comply with clean-energy
targets or face fines, an official said.  The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy is meeting with
state-level electricity regulators to discuss penalties for
companies that don’t comply, said Tarun Kapoor, the ministry’s
joint secretary.  India requires power distributors, steelmakers and miners
to either produce or buy as much as 10 percent of their annual
electricity from clean sources. Reliance and Tata Steel, which
own almost 4,000 megawatts of fossil fuel-based generation
capacity, are obligated to build or procure the equivalent of
158 megawatts of solar power, according to a list from Kapoor.  Companies aren’t taking the regulation seriously, which is
undermining  India ’s one-year-old market for trading renewable-
energy credits, he said this week. In September, the Rajasthan
High Court ordered  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ’s Hindustan Zinc and
 Ambuja Cements Ltd. (ACEM) , a unit of Switzerland’s  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , to pay
penalties for failing to meet their obligations.  The glut of credits surged to a record last month, driving
the price down to the minimum set by regulators. Reliance, Tata
Steel and others can meet their targets by buying credits sold
by wind farms, solar, hydropower and biomass plants. Each credit
represents one megawatt-hour of clean power fed into the grid.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) ,  Sterlite Industries (STLT)  India Ltd.,
 Jindal Steel (JSP)  and Power Ltd. and  Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZ)  have also
received notices from the ministry, according to the list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  