-- India Rupee Gains Most in Two Weeks as Obama Wins Re-Election
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-11-07T04:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/india-rupee-gains-most-in-two-weeks-as-obama-wins-re-election.html
India’s rupee rose the most in more
than two weeks as  Barack Obama  was re-elected as U.S. president,
a result that makes further monetary easing in the world’s
largest economy more likely.  Obama defeated Republican  Mitt Romney , according to
television network projections. Romney had said he wouldn’t
reappoint Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who in
September announced the monetary authority would buy bonds to
spur growth. The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against six major trading partners, fell the most in a week. The
rupee’s gains will be limited after the  Reserve Bank  of India
refrained from cutting borrowing costs last month, according to
Westpac Banking Corp.  “The thinking is that Obama as president would mean a
dovish Fed, which puts the dollar on the back foot,” said
 Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at Westpac in  Singapore .
“Investors are still wary of the rupee as they are disappointed
by the lack of growth-support measures.”  The rupee advanced 0.5 percent to 54.1850 per dollar as of
10:11 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest gain since Oct. 22, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 14
basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 10.26 percent.  The RBI kept its benchmark repurchase rate at 8 percent on
Oct. 30, citing price pressures. It also cut its growth forecast
for the year through March to 5.8 percent from 6.5 percent and
raised its inflation estimate to 7.5 percent from 7 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 55.09 per dollar,
compared with 55.32 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were at 55.07
versus 55.36. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  