-- ING Groep Cutting 2,350 Jobs as Quarterly Profit Slides 64%
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-11-07T09:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/ing-groep-will-cut-2-350-jobs-after-quarterly-profit-slumps-64-.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, will cut 2,350 jobs in its banking
and insurance units after reporting a 64 percent slump in third-
quarter profit.  Net income dropped to 609 million euros ($784 million) from
1.69 billion euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based lender
said in a statement today. That missed the 846 million-euro
median  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit
fell after losses on hedges protecting the insurer’s capital and
a charge related to its U.S. annuity unit, ING said.  Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen is under orders to sell
its insurance operations by the end of next year after ING
received a 10 billion-euro government bailout in 2008. As the
bank prepares to sell shares in its European insurance unit to
the public, it’s cutting 1,350 jobs by 2014 and another 1,000 in
commercial banking to make total savings of 460 million euros
from 2015, it said today.  “These cost-cutting measures are an appropriate step in
getting the European insurance unit ready for divestment,”
Lemer Salah, an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam with a
buy rating on the shares, said by e-mail. “Information-
technology support in particular was a huge cost unit and it’s
good they’re striving for more efficiency.”  ING rose 1.2 percent to 6.96 euros as of 10:16 a.m. in
Amsterdam, extending its advance this year to 25 percent. The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Insurance Index (SXIP)  gained 0.7 percent.  Job Cuts  Job cuts will lead to a charge of about 150 million euros
in the fourth quarter, ING said. Reductions in commercial
banking over the next three years will spark a similar
provision, it said. The measures follow 2,700 job cuts in the
Dutch consumer bank announced in November 2011.  ING has 12,000 employees in its European insurance and
investment management businesses and 10,500 in its global
commercial bank, it said today.  “We are taking steps to increase our agility in this
uncertain environment,” Hommen said in the statement.  ING earlier this year  agreed to sell  its Canadian online
bank for $3.16 billion and raised about $3 billion by selling
shares of U.S. lender  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)   Insurance Units  The sale of insurance units in  Hong Kong ,  Thailand ,
 Malaysia  and a stake in China Merchants Fund should lead to
transaction gains of 1.89 billion euros. The selling process for
other units in the region is “ongoing,” ING said. The third-
quarter profit included a 20 million-euro goodwill writedown on
its life insurance business in  South Korea .  ING has so far repaid the Dutch government 7 billion euros
of the aid plus 2 billion euros in interest and premiums. Full
repayment by 2012, Hommen’s original goal, is uncertain because
of Europe’s debt crisis and tougher  capital requirements .  The bank will make the repayments as quickly as possible,
Chief Financial Officer Patrick Flynn said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. The company aims to repay a part
this year, depending on the outcome of talks with the European
Commission, Hommen said.  “Good progress” has been made in talks with European
regulators on revised terms for ING’s restructuring, he said.
Some divestment plans were derailed by  Europe ’s debt crisis,
while the European Commission is probing whether the Netherlands
is making a sufficient return on the funds it provided to the
bank.  Systemic Banks  ING plans to sell a first tranche of its U.S. insurance
unit in 2013 after filing a registration statement to regulators
in the next three to four months, according to the CEO. Part of
the proceeds may be used to capitalize the unit after it’s split
from the group, he said.  ING’s tier one capital adequacy ratio was 12.1 percent at
the end of the third quarter, according to the statement. Sales
of holdings including Spanish covered bonds as well as Spanish
and Irish residential mortgage-backed securities cut risk-
weighted assets by 5 billion euros.  ING targets a ratio of more than 10 percent before the end
of 2013 taking into account new capital rules known as Basel
III. It’s the only Dutch lender on the Financial Stability
Board’s list of systemic banks published earlier this month,
according to which it will be subject to a 1 percent capital
surcharge on top of requirements from the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  