-- Inventio Claims Thyssenkrupp Infringes Elevator Patent
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-11-07T18:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/inventio-claims-thyssenkrupp-infringes-elevator-patent.html
Elevators at the World Trade Center
and Times Square made by  Thyssenkrupp AG (TKA)  contain technology that
a  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  unit said infringes one of its patents.  Schindler’s Inventio, based in Switzerland, said the patent
for elevator installation was issued by the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office  in 1997 and reconfirmed last month, according
to a filing yesterday in federal court in New York.  “Locations where such infringement has occurred include at
least the elevator installations at 1 World Trade Center and 11
Times Square,” according to the complaint. Thyssenkrupp
Elevator Corp. has been aware that the Patent Office confirmed
the patent claims, Inventio said.  Inventio said it seeks an injunction to stop the elevator
unit from infringing the patent and a  jury trial . One World
Trade Center is a skyscraper under construction in Lower
Manhattan at the site of the twin towers that were destroyed in
the September 2001 terrorist attacks.  The complaint also alleges that Thyssenkrupp willfully
infringed its patent and encouraged infringement by other
parties, including the general contractors for the buildings’
construction and the providers of the security systems.  Essen, Germany-based Thyssenkrupp AG is the country’s
largest steelmaker. The company produces flat-rolled and cast
steel, elevators and escalators, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its press office didn’t immediately respond to e-
mails seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Inventio v. Thyssenkrupp Elevator Americas,
12-8072, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  