-- Irish Homes Drawing Buyers After Market Crash: Mortgages
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-11-07T11:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/irish-homes-drawing-buyers-after-market-crash-mortgages.html
In Dublin, the epicenter of Western
 Europe ’s worst housing-market  crash , signs of life are emerging
for those with access to cash.  A five-bedroom, Victorian-era home near the center of
Dublin was sold last month for 2.05 million euros ($2.6
million), 17 percent more than the reserve price. At the other
end of the market, apartments are being snapped up at auction
for as little as 50,000 euros in cash. Even prices for homes
requiring mortgages across the country rose for a third straight
month in September, the  Central Statistics Office  said.  “It’s the first time I’ve bought in Ireland,” said Neil
Cotter, a 47-year-old accountant based in Gibraltar who
purchased three apartments in Dublin last month at a sale of
distressed real estate. “I just had a look at all the markets
in Europe and it seemed the most attractive.”  Since the end of the Celtic Tiger  boom  that made Ireland
the fastest-growing economy in the euro region in the decade
ending in 2007, property prices have fallen by 50 percent,
ruining the country’s banks and forcing the government to follow
 Greece  and seek an international bailout. While bankers and
analysts are split on calling the bottom, they agree any further
recovery depends on a revival in mortgage lending, which the
 Irish Banking Federation  says dropped 95 percent from the peak.  Banking Risk  “I’m not calling any massive recovery, but people are
going to look back and see a lot of missed opportunities in
Ireland if they had the cash,” said Keith Lowe, chief executive
officer of Dublin-based property broker  Douglas Newman Good .
“Banks must understand that in order to have a proper recovery,
they must lend.”  Mortgage lending in the first half of this year dropped to
950 million euros from 18.5 billion euros in the same period in
2006, the Irish Banking Federation said. Cash now accounts for
half of all sales as banks balk at taking on more mortgage debt,
Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin estimates.  Cotter said he paid between 100,000 euros and 200,000 euros
for each of the one- and two-bedroom apartments at the auction
and is renting them out. He expects a yield, or rental income as
a proportion of capital value, of 10 percent in Dublin.  Property prices in the city rose 2.6 percent in September.  “It’s for my pension frankly,” Cotter said on Oct. 9,
following the sale. “I’ve been holding off on investing in
property for five or six years, and Ireland went into that range
that offered a very attractive proposition.”  There are cheaper properties available just outside the
city center. A 2-bedroom apartment in a west Dublin suburb was
sold last month by auctioneer Allsop Space for 50,000 euros.  Boom to Bust  Irish home prices quadrupled in the decade through 2006.
Building surged, helping to transform Ireland into the fastest-
growing economy in the euro region. The boom ground to a halt in
2008, in the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse
and the subsequent credit drought.  In Dublin, house prices are down 55 percent from their peak
in 2007, while apartment prices have fallen 63 percent, the
country’s central statistics office said last month. Outside the
capital, prices are down 46 percent.  Now, a turn may be in sight. Last month, prices across the
country climbed 0.9 percent, accelerating from 0.5 percent in
August and 0.2 percent in July, according to the central
statistics office. Bank of Ireland Plc saw “a noted pick-up”
in mortgage demand in September and October, Chief Executive
Officer Richie Boucher told lawmakers on Nov. 1. The bank,
Ireland’s largest by assets, accounts for 40 percent of new
mortgage loans.  “We genuinely believe the housing market may have turned
around after bottoming in June,” Owen Callan and Frank Oeland Hansen, analysts at Danske Bank A/S, a primary dealer in Irish
government debt, said in an Oct. 26 note. “Potential home
buyers might begin to view this as a golden opportunity.”  Supplying Demand  A mix of reasons may lie behind the signs of recovery.  The supply of family homes is limited in some parts of
Dublin after the building boom ended. About 10,000 homes were
completed last year, down from about 93,000 in 2006, based on
government figures.  Unemployment, which tripled to 14.8 percent between 2007
and 2011, stopped rising this year. Also, the government plans
to phase out a tax break for first-time buyers at the end of the
year, encouraging some people to buy now.  While Danske Bank says prices have fallen by as much as 15
percent beyond where they should be, many analysts question
whether recent increases are sustainable. Alan Dukes, chairman
of the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp., told lawmakers in Dublin
on Oct. 31, that prices may fall further.  Mortgage Dearth  “I would not be confident in saying that we have reached
the bottom of the property market,” Dukes said, adding he’s
skeptical about reports suggesting prices may continue to rise.
“I wonder if they are talking up the market in order to
generate a bit more money.”  Access to money is still the main barrier to a lasting
improvement in the market. Irish banks tightened credit
requirements on home loans even as demand increased in the third
quarter, the nation’s central bank said on Oct. 31.  At the market’s peak, banks were offering mortgages of 100
percent of the value of a property. These days, it’s more likely
to be 80 percent, according to Karl Deeter, compliance manager
with Dublin-based  Irish Mortgage Brokers . Banks are also making
more deductions to disposable income, such as 200 euros to 250
euros for every child in a family, he said.  “It’s now nearly impossible for families with a few
children and living off one income to get a mortgage, unless the
person who is working is earning more than 100,000 euros,”
Deeter said in an interview.  Conserving Capital  Irish banks may be conserving capital as mortgages arrears
mount. While they have set aside about 6.4 billion euros of
provisions for expected bad loans, actual write-offs over the 30
months to June were 250 million euros, Goodbody Stockbrokers
said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish mortgage
bonds is 5.35 percentage points above benchmarks, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. While that’s down from a spread of 9.5
percentage points in July, it’s more than seven times that of
similar top-ranked bonds tied to U.K. mortgages.  About 30 percent of Irish home loans by value, including
buy-to-let mortgages, are in arrears or have been modified. The
government is urging banks to forgive some unsustainable
mortgage debt.  Ireland needs “to see solutions that involve much more
dramatic write-off of debt in respect of households that are
really in non-sustainable situations and have an inability to
pay,” John Moran, the most senior official in the Finance
Ministry said, in a speech on Oct.16.  For their part, the lenders say home loans aren’t the
lucrative business they once were.  Allied Irish Banks Plc, (ALBK)  the
country’s largest mortgage lender, is making home loans at a
loss, Fergus Murphy, head of products at the Dublin-based bank,
told lawmakers on Oct. 31.  “The process is clearly loss-making,” Murphy told a
parliamentary committee. “We’ll have to sell products at AIB at
a profit going forward, the same as any viable bank would.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net . 