-- Japan Stock Futures Fall Before China Leadership Congress
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-07T23:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/japan-stock-futures-fall-before-china-leadership-congress.html
Japanese stock futures and Australian
equities fell as investors focused on the U.S. budget debate and
China’s once-in-a-decade leadership change amid concern that
growth in the world’s two largest economies is waning.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
dropped 1.3 percent in Sydney as commodity prices retreated.
 American Depositary Receipts  of Hitachi Ltd., the electronic
equipment maker that gets 42 percent of its sales outside Japan,
fell 2.3 percent. Shares of  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s
largest maker of tires, may be active in Tokyo after profit
missed analysts’ estimates.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,850 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,960
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,850 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
lost 1.2 percent today.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index (NZSE50FG)  retreated 0.3
percent in Wellington as a report showed the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly rose last quarter to a 13-year high.  “The euphoria from President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
has swiftly waned,” said Stan Shamu, a market strategist at IG
Markets, Melbourne-based provider of trading services in stocks,
commodities and currencies. Investors “decided to focus on some
of the key issues the president will be facing, the fiscal cliff
and the debt ceiling.”  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.3
percent today. U.S. stocks slumped yesterday, with the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  posting its biggest decline in a year, as
investors focused on the $607 billion of tax increases and
federal spending cuts set to kick in automatically in January,
the so-called fiscal cliff. The  Congressional Budget Office  has
said the U.S. economy will slow by as much as 0.5 percent next
year if Congress fails to keep the increases from taking effect.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index gained 13 percent through
yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks added
stimulus amid a slowdown in global economic growth and the
European debt crisis. Shares on the measure traded at 13.5 times
average estimated earnings, compared with 13.4 for the S&P 500
and 12.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  China’s Communist Party starts its 18th Congress in Beijing
today, when delegates will meet over several days to pick a new
leader. Xi Jinping will probably replace  Hu Jintao  as general
secretary of the party that’s ruled China since 1949.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. tumbled 1.9 percent to 93.92
yesterday in New York.  In Europe, Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras mustered
the support of enough lawmakers to secure approval of austerity
measures that will unlock bailout funds, after more than 50,000
protesters ringed Parliament.  Approval of the legislation, which raises the retirement
age by two years to 67 and cuts wages and pensions a second time
this year, is the first of the votes required by Nov. 12 to get
a 31 billion-euro ($40 billion) aid tranche and avert a
financial collapse that may drive the country from the euro.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
retreated 1.9 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  