-- Japanese Banking System Outlook Raised to Stable by Moody’s
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 2012-11-07T09:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/japanese-banking-system-outlook-raised-to-stable-by-moody-s-1-.html
The outlook for Japanese  banks  led by
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  was raised to stable from
negative by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited prospects for
modest economic growth and strong capital buffers.  “The revision was prompted by the stability evident in the
banks’ operating environment, asset quality and capital, as well
as funding and liquidity,” Moody’s said in a statement in Tokyo
today. The change is the first since Moody’s assigned the
negative outlook in 2008.  A retrenchment by global banks, particularly from  Europe ,
has given Japanese lenders greater opportunities to expand loan
books abroad, Moody’s said. Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s biggest
banking group, had a common equity capital ratio of more than 9
percent at the end of June, surpassing its 8.5 percent
requirement under the Basel III regime.  “ Japan ’s big banks are cautiously but surely increasing
their loans overseas while managing to keep their bad loans at a
minimal level,” said Toyoki Sameshima, a Tokyo-based analyst at
BNP Paribas SA. “Japanese megabanks still hold a prominent
position compared with their European and U.S. rivals in  Asia .”  Overseas loans expanded 26 percent to 16.6 trillion yen
($207 billion) as of March 31 from a year earlier, Mitsubishi
UFJ said in an earnings statement on May 15. Deposits at its two
banking units rose 0.3 percent to 118.7 trillion yen.  Capital Buffers  Japan’s three megabanks including  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  have “relatively
strong”  capital ratios , Moody’s said, citing the more than 4.5
trillion yen in funds raised from late 2008 to 2011.  Still, low  interest rates  at home are constraining growth
in net interest income and the banks haven’t fully succeeded in
boosting non-interest income to offset those declines, it said.  Japanese policy makers also remain willing to support
troubled banks, Moody’s said. Holdings of  Japanese government
bonds  pose a “low” risk to the banks, though a downgrade to
the sovereign rating could negatively affect the lenders’
ratings, it said.  Moody’s said it has a stable outlook on all except one of
the 35 Japanese banks it covers. That lender has a negative
outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Russell Ward in  Tokyo  at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  