-- Jefferies Set to Donate Trading Revenue to Sandy Relief
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-11-07T13:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/jefferies-set-to-donate-trading-revenue-to-sandy-relief.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment
bank run by  Richard Handler , is donating today’s trading revenue
to support relief from superstorm Sandy, which slammed the
firm’s home city as it hit the U.S. East Coast last week.  Jefferies is giving all net trading revenue, from equities,
fixed income, futures, foreign exchange and commodities, to the
American Red Cross and other charities, according to a statement
from the New York-based company. The firm said it will donate an
additional $1 million and its 3,814 employees will be able to
give their salary for the day.  Jefferies and its staff have given more than $12 million in
trading revenue and worker donations to relief efforts from
natural disasters since 2010, according to statements from the
firm. The company gave $5.25 million after the 2011 earthquake
in Japan and $7.5 million for the 2010 earthquake in Haiti.  “The people affected by this disaster are our families,
our neighbors and our communities and we all feel their pain and
suffering from  Hurricane Sandy ,” Handler, the chairman and
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  The U.S. death toll stands at more than 100 after Sandy hit
the coast on Oct. 29. It caused as much as $50 billion in
economic damage, according to  Eqecat Inc. , a provider of
catastrophic risk models.  Citigroup Inc., the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, said
Oct. 31 its Citi Foundation donated $1 million to the Red Cross,
in addition to its annual grant. New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and its employees will contribute $1 million to $2.5 million to
the recovery effort, the bank said in an internal memo.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  offered as much as $5 million in charitable
donations, according to a Nov. 1 statement from the firm.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, said on Nov. 2 it would match $5 million in funding for
small business pledged by New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
to provide loans. Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 