-- Kenyan Shilling Gains Second Day Before Central Bank Meeting
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-11-07T08:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/kenyan-shilling-gains-second-day-before-central-bank-meeting.html
Kenya ’s shilling advanced for a
second day, its longest winning streak in more than three weeks,
as investors awaited the outcome of today’s central bank
monetary policy committee meeting.  The currency of East Africa’s largest economy appreciated
as much as 0.2 percent to 85.40 per dollar and was less than 0.1
percent stronger at 85.50 a dollar by 10:01 a.m. in Nairobi,
poised for the longest stretch of gains since Oct. 15, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Central Bank of Kenya, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u,
may lower its  benchmark  interest rate for a third consecutive
meeting as inflation at a two-year low widens the room for
policies to stimulate growth. The bank will probably reduce its
benchmark interest rate by 2 percentage points to 11 percent,
according to the median estimate of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The bank is expected to publish its decision via
e-mail after 3 p.m. in the capital.  “The markets are very quiet as we await the decision of
the monetary policy committee  later in the day,” Jeremiah Kendagor, head of trading at Nairobi-based Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd., said by  phone. Anything like a 300 basis points cut will
have a significant impact in the market, he said.  Inflation slowed for the 11th consecutive month in October,
declining to 4.1 percent from 5.3 percent in September, the
Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said on Oct 31. The economy
expanded 3.3 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace
since the final three months of 2009, as tea and flower  exports 
slumped and tourism declined, eroding foreign-exchange income
from the country’s two biggest sources.  “Central Bank policy makers are widely expected to cut
interest rates to boost lending and spur the economy,” Nairobi-
based NIC Bank Ltd. said in a note to clients. NIC expects the
shilling to oscillate between 85.30 a dollar and 85.80 for the
day, it said.  The Tanzanian shilling gained less than 0.1 percent to
1,592 a dollar, while Uganda’s shilling strengthened less than
0.1 percent to 2,582 a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  