-- Kingfisher Air Should Raise $1 Billion of Capital, Lender Says
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-11-08T01:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/kingfisher-air-should-raise-1-billion-of-capital-lender-says.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) ’s largest
lender said the cash-strapped Indian carrier should raise at
least $1 billion of fresh capital, stepping up pressure on
Chairman  Vijay Mallya  to deliver on promises of new investment.  “We are slightly disappointed at the pace at which the
capital-raising plan is going,”  State Bank  of  India  Chairman
Pratip Chaudhuri told reporters in Gurgaon, near New Delhi,
yesterday. “The company has been assuring us that they have
been working hard for it, but we would like to see some tangible
evidence.”  Kingfisher, which halted flights about five weeks ago,
needs to raise new funds this month, Chaudhuri said, without
saying how much. He declined to give a timeframe for when the
Bangalore-based company needs the full $1 billion. The airline
separately reported a wider net loss of 7.54 billion rupees
($139 million) for the quarter ended September.  Liquor tycoon Mallya has spent about a year trying to sell
a stake in Kingfisher as he seeks funds to ease an 86 billion-
rupee debt pile. The  carrier , whose market value has slumped to
$190 million, is also working on a turnaround plan as it seeks
to persuade regulators to re-activate its suspended license.  “Until they restructure, nobody will be interested in
Kingfisher,” said Jasdeep Walia, an analyst at Kotak Securities
Ltd. in Mumbai. “Everything the airline owns is locked away as
collaterals for loans.”  Diageo Talks  The carrier’s founders have contributed 11.5 billion rupees
to the company since April 1, Mallya told shareholders at the
company’s annual meeting Sept. 26. Mallya is also in talks to
sell a stake in liquor business  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  to Diageo
Plc as he seeks cash.  Kingfisher employees resumed work Oct. 25 after the airline
agreed to pay four months’ of overdue wages by Dec. 24. A
walkout sparked by unpaid salaries prompted the flight shutdown
last month. The regulator subsequently suspended the carrier’s
operating license and rejected its request for flight slots
during the country’s winter.  The airline expects to resume operations “in the near
future,” it said in its earnings press release. The company
doesn’t comment on banking relationships, Prakash Mirpuri, a
spokesman, said yesterday.  The carrier narrowed its operating loss to 2.2 billion
rupees in the quarter through September from 4.3 billion rupees
a year earlier. The airline booked 4 billion rupees of financing
costs and 4.5 billion rupees of one-time charges from returning
planes to lessors and restructuring, it said.  Kingfisher has 10 airworthy planes, down from 66 in the
year ended March 31, 2011, according to Arun Mishra, the
director general of civil aviation.  The  airline  has tumbled 39 percent this year in Mumbai
trading. It rose 2 percent to 12.80 rupees yesterday. State Bank
owns 3.5 percent of the  carrier  after converting debt to equity
in the year ended March 2011.  Jet, SpiceJet  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest listed
carrier, and budget airline SpiceJet Ltd. have both more than
doubled in Mumbai trading this year, partly because of
Kingfisher’s flight cuts paring competition. Jet’s domestic
revenue jumped 35 percent in the quarter ended September.  Mallya’s UB Group will invest in Kingfisher to help revive
operations, an Indian government official said Oct. 26, after a
meeting between the regulator and the airline’s chief executive
officer. The carrier must prove it has adequate funds to pay
airports, fuel suppliers and other vendors before the license
suspension can be lifted, said the official, who declined to be
identified citing rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  