-- Korea Hydro CEO to Quit Once Nuclear Parts “Mess” Rectified
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-11-07T10:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/korea-hydro-pledges-to-tighten-audits-on-nuclear-reactor-parts.html
Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. ’s
chief executive officer said he will quit once he has rectified
“the mess” surrounding faked quality control certificates on
components supplied to the company’s nuclear reactors.  “I will focus on rectifying the mess, and then will step
down to take responsibility,” Kim Kyun Seop, CEO of the Seoul-
based utility, told lawmakers in a hearing today in  Seoul .
“It’s important to clean up the wrongdoings that happened in
the past.”  Korea Hydro, which operates the nation’s 23 nuclear
reactors and provides a third of the country’s electricity, said
it will tighten its audit of nuclear components after it alleged
that eight suppliers had faked quality control certificates over
the past ten years.  The company shut down two reactors at the Yonggwang nuclear
plant on Nov. 5 in order to replace the parts.  Knowledge Economy 
Minister Hong Suk Woo told lawmakers on the same day that the
safety of the reactors wasn’t compromised as the components
weren’t core to their operation. Korea Hydro aims to complete
their replacement by the end of the year.  “The nuclear operator failed in controlling suppliers,”
Jhung Han Kyung, electricity policy research head at Korea
Energy Economics Institute in Uiwang,  South Korea , said by phone.
“It’s a different issue from whether the components would have
a real impact on nuclear safety.”  Jhung said the shutdown could add as much as 300 billion
won ($276 million) in costs for  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP) ,
Korea Hydro’s state-run owner and only customer for its
electricity.  Investigation  Prosecutors are investigating Korea Hydro’s allegations of
Nov. 2 that the eight suppliers, who haven’t been named, faked
60 quality control certificates on more than 7,000 components
between 2003 and 2012, the Ministry of Knowledge Economy said on
Nov. 5 in an e-mailed statement. Minister Hong said that day
that seven of the suppliers were domestic and one was from the
U.S.  The components, including fuses, switches and 230 other
kinds of items, were valued at 820 million won, and 95 percent
of them were manufactured in the  Europe  and the U.S., according
to the statement. The suppliers forged the certificates, mainly
from one unnamed overseas quality accreditation organization, of
twelve used by Korea Hydro.  Some 98.4 percent of the components were installed at
reactor units 5 and 6 at the Yonggwang nuclear plant, 310
kilometers southwest of Seoul. The rest were used at reactor
units 3 and 4 at the Yonggwang plant, and at reactor unit 3 in
the Uljin plant, 360 kilometers southeast of Seoul.  Minister Hong said there’s no plan to shut down the other
reactors as the components could be replaced while the reactors
are operating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  