-- Krugman Says U.S. Economy Making Progress, Still Depressed
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-11-07T07:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/krugman-says-u-s-economy-making-progress-still-depressed.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  spoke about President  Barack Obama ’s second term, the
U.S. fiscal cliff and quantitative easing at a press conference
in  Singapore .  On Obama’s challenges:  “We have the healthcare reform and we have the financial
reform which needs to be put into effect. So far as he can, he
needs to try and boost us out of this crisis. We’re still a
depressed economy but we’re making progress.  “If it’s possible, we could use some modest additional
stimulus, mostly in the form of aid to state and local
governments.  “A lot of what’s required right now is just plain not
doing anything stupid that derails the recovery. We can count on
President Obama not to do anything stupid.  “We have a still very extreme Republican party so
legislation is going to be very difficult to pass and there are
going to be sharp limits on what Obama can do. To the extent
that he is going to have big achievements in his second term,
it’s mostly because he’s already passed the legislation.”  On the fiscal cliff:  “I think he actually proposes a reasonable solution, one
that involves tax rises at the top end but not for everyone.”  On U.S. monetary policy:  “The new policy is supposed to change people’s
expectations of what monetary policy will be four or five years
from now. But it tries to do that with language that is indirect
and guarded. So right now although it was widely taken as a
signal that the Fed would be willing to hold off on pulling the
trigger on  interest rates , it didn’t actually say that in clear
language. I think it needs to be much more explicit than what
they’ve done so far.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  