-- N.Z. Jobless Rate Surges to 13-Year High, Currency Plunges
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-11-07T23:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/n-z-jobless-rate-surges-to-13-year-high-7-3-currency-plunges.html
New Zealand ’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly rose last quarter to a 13-year high, adding to
evidence of a faltering recovery and sending the best-performing
Group of 10 currency this year plunging.  The jobless rate jumped to 7.3 percent from 6.8 percent in
the second quarter, Statistics New Zealand said in a report
today in Wellington. That’s the highest since the first quarter
of 1999 and was more than the 6.7 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Employment fell by 0.4 percent,
or 8,000 jobs, from the second quarter, when it dropped 0.1
percent. Economists expected job growth of 0.3 percent.  The nation’s dollar tumbled to near a two-week low as
investors increased bets the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand will
lower  interest rates  next month to revive demand. With the
world’s major economies struggling to accelerate, the New
Zealand currency’s 5.4 percent gain against its U.S. peer this
year is forcing companies including  Rakon Ltd. (RAK)  to fire workers.  “The RBNZ has room to move and today’s report may provide
the motivation,” Paul Bloxham, chief economist for HSBC
Holdings Plc in Sydney, said in a research note. “The
industries that were weakest were those that are most exposed to
the  New Zealand dollar , including manufacturing.”  The local currency bought 81.88 U.S. cents at 12:33 p.m. in
Wellington from 82.62 cents immediately before the release. The
so-called kiwi earlier touched 81.76 cents, the weakest level
since Oct. 26.  Wheeler’s Assessment  Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler yesterday said the
 exchange rate  is an “issue of concern” for exporters and
manufacturers who compete with imports.  The drop in employment was led by manufacturing, where
hiring fell to the lowest level since June 2010, today’s report
showed.  Employment fell in consecutive quarters for the first time
since 2009, the statistics agency said. From a year earlier,
employment was unchanged, the weakest result since a contraction
in the year ended March 31, 2010.  The Reserve Bank has kept borrowing costs at a record-low
2.5 percent since March last year. Wheeler, who took over as
governor in late September, signaled on Oct. 25 that the level
of the official cash rate remained appropriate amid benign
inflation. Yesterday, he said the monetary authority has scope
to cut borrowing costs if necessary.  RBNZ Outlook  Investors priced in a 21 percent chance Wheeler will cut
the benchmark rate 0.25 percentage point at the next review on
Dec. 6, according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by
Bloomberg at 12:33 p.m. Wellington time. That’s up from a 12
percent chance yesterday.  Consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in the year through June,
the slowest pace since 1999, according to government data
released Oct. 16.  All 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey last month
predicted the cash rate will be unchanged until next year. Most
expect no change until the second half of 2013.  The Treasury Department this week said the pace of economic
growth has slowed, without providing forecasts. Gross domestic
product will expand 1.1 percent in the second half, according to
the median forecast of nine economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The economy grew 1.6 percent in the six months ended June 30.  Job Cuts  Rakon, a New Zealand maker of crystal oscillators for
guidance systems used in smartphones, this week said 60 workers
in Auckland will lose their jobs as it moves more manufacturing
to  China . Solid Energy New Zealand Ltd., the government-owned
coal miner, last month fired 220  South Island  workers as falling
prices forced it to close a pit.  New Zealand’s economy has been buffeted by earthquakes on
its South Island and a global economic slowdown in the past two
years, leading to an exodus of workers to  Australia  and other
countries with better job prospects.  Still, companies are hiring in Christchurch and the
surrounding Canterbury region where earthquakes in 2010-2011
caused an estimated NZ$30 billion ($25 billion) of damage to
homes, roads and commercial buildings, today’s report showed.  Employment in the region rose 2.9 percent from the year-
earlier quarter, the report showed. Excluding Canterbury, annual
employment growth fell 0.4 percent, it showed.  The report showed the labor force participation rate was
unchanged at 68.4 percent. The number of people unemployed rose
to 175,000.  Full-Time Work  Full-time employment fell by 13,000 jobs, or 0.8 percent,
from the second quarter, according to today’s report. Part-time
employment gained by 7,000 jobs, or 1.4 percent.  Statistics New
Zealand  adjusts the full- and part-time employment figures
separately, which means they may not add up to the total change
in employment.  “It’s just another reason to think economic activity was
quite soft in the third quarter,” said Doug Steel, economist at
Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “We’re not convinced
yet that the bank will ease but the chance has increased,” said
Steel, who expects no change in borrowing costs until the fourth
quarter next year.  Total actual hours worked per week fell 0.8 percent from
the second quarter and 2 percent from a year earlier, today’s
report showed.  Hours worked in Canterbury declined 1.4 percent from the
year-earlier quarter, the report showed. Excluding the region,
hours worked across New Zealand dropped 2.1 percent from a year
earlier, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  