-- NCAA Won’t Alter Marijuana Rule After States Decriminalize Use
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-11-08T05:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/ncaa-doesn-t-plan-to-alter-marijuana-rule-after-states-legalize.html
Mark Emmert, the president of college
sports’  governing body , said he doesn’t expect schools to change
rules on drug use even after  Washington  and Colorado voters
legalized the recreational use of marijuana in those states.  Washington will allow those at least 21 years old to buy as
much as one ounce (28 grams) of marijuana from a licensed
retailer. Colorado’s law allows possession of an ounce, and
permits growing as many as six plants in private, secure areas.
Oregon voters rejected a similar measure.  Emmert said yesterday in an interview at the Metro Atlanta
Chamber of Commerce that the National Collegiate Athletic
Association hadn’t considered relaxing its rules listing
marijuana as a  prohibited substance .  “There hasn’t been any discussion to that effect, and I
would be surprised if there is an interest in doing that,” he
said. “Our  policies  are our policies now and I would be
surprised if they change,”  NCAA spokesman Erik Christianson said in an e-mail that the
state legalization “does not impact the NCAA drug-testing rules
because the ban and testing policies are not tied to whether a
substance is legal for general population use, but rather
whether the substance is considered a threat to student-
athletes’ health and safety or the integrity of the game.”  Marijuana use, which is still a violation of federal law,
is allowed for medicinal purposes in a third of U.S. states and
the District of Columbia. Washington and  Colorado  are the first
two states to decriminalize its use.  “The Department of Justice’s enforcement of the Controlled
Substances Act remains unchanged,” Jeff Dorschner, a spokesman
for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Colorado, said in a statement.
“We are reviewing the ballot initiative and have no additional
comment at this time.”  -- With assistance from Curtis Eichelberger in Washington.
Editors: Rob Gloster, Larry Siddons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  