-- Netflix Dominates Streaming Rivals in Web-Video Market
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-11-08T00:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/netflix-dominates-streaming-rivals-with-growing-web-video-share.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest
video-subscription service, increased its dominance of the
online viewing market in a study, defying predictions that newer
players would carve into the company’s market share.  Netflix captured 33 percent of prime-time Web viewing based
on  Internet traffic  in September, eclipsing Amazon.com Inc.,
Hulu LLC and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO Go by a multiple of at least
18,  Sandvine Inc.  said in its “Global Internet Phenomena
Report” released today.  “People are absolutely using their Netflix service,” said
Dave Caputo, chief executive officer of Waterloo, Ontario-based
Sandvine, a network services and research company. “I don’t
know whose library is better or bigger, but it’s very clear that
people use Netflix a lot more.”  The findings feed a debate between investors who laud the
company’s early lead and international expansion and skeptics
who cite slowing U.S. growth and losses in new foreign markets.
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  said last week he holds an almost 10
percent stake in Los Gatos, California-based Netflix and views
the stock as undervalued based on its market position and growth
prospects.  Netflix rose 1.7 percent to $77.68 at the close in  New
York . The stock has gained 12 percent in 2012 and is down 74
percent from a July 2011 closing high of $298.73. The company
adopted a so-called poison pill takeover defense this week to
prevent Icahn from buying more shares.  The rising popularity underscores the strategic advantage
Netflix has gained with its online service and efforts to make
streaming accessible on everything from televisions and game
consoles to mobile devices. Sandvine said the company should
maintain at least a 10-fold lead over competitors through 2014.  Peak Viewing  The company’s share of peak Internet viewing traffic has
climbed from 20.6 percent in the second half of 2010, Sandvine
said. It stood at 32.7 percent a year ago. By comparison,
 Amazon (AMZN) ’s market share amounted to 1.75 percent in September,
while Hulu garnered 1.38 percent and HBO Go had 0.52 percent,
according to the study.  U.S. households have more than doubled their monthly
Internet use over phone and cable lines in the past year,
consuming the equivalent of 81 hours of downloaded video,
according to data compiled from 200 Sandvine customers.  Netflix CEO Reed Hastings said on Oct. 23 that despite more
competition, many of his 30 million customers continue to watch
more thanks to a mix of “better exclusive content, better
member experience, and a clearer brand identity.”  “We are working to expand these advantages to win even
more of these moments of truth when consumers decide on any
given evening what service they turn to first when looking for
entertainment,” Hastings said.  Joris Evers, a spokesman for Netflix, declined to comment
on the Sandvine report.  Past Prediction  In its 2012 first-half report, Sandvine predicted Netflix’s
service had peaked amid competition from Amazon Prime,  HBO  Go
and so-called TV Everywhere services from cable and satellite
providers. Amazon, based in  Seattle , grew from virtually nothing
in streaming a year ago to become the ninth-largest bandwidth
user, according to Sandvine’s Caputo.  “I thought the competitive threat would’ve been more
significant against Netflix, but they seem to be holding their
own,” Caputo said in an interview.  Amazon, the world’s biggest online retailer, provides video
streaming to customers who subscribe to its Prime service, which
offers free shipping. The company yesterday gave customers the
option of paying $7.99 a month for Prime instead of a $79 annual
fee, a move described by analysts as an attempt to boost holiday
shopping online.  Competing Services  Hulu, the Los Angeles-based website owned by  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox, offers some
shows for free and others under a $7.99 monthly subscription
plan.  Two competitors seen by Icahn as potential Netflix
acquirers found growth with their own services.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube, the No. 2 site, jumped almost 3.5 percentage points to
represent 14.8 percent of peak downstream traffic. No. 5  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes rose to deliver 3.92 percent from 3.05 percent a
year earlier.  In two-way communications,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Skype ranked
third in traffic, with 4.76 percent of the market, an increase
from 4.27 percent a year earlier on growing use of the video-
conferencing service.  On mobile devices, YouTube was the biggest user of
bandwidth, according to the report. Google’s Play service came
in seventh, followed by Netflix and iTunes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  