-- Never-Used $72 Billion IMF Loan Wins Over Traders: Mexico Credit
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-11-07T14:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/never-used-72-billion-imf-loan-wins-over-traders-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s push to renew a $72 billion
International Monetary Fund loan that it’s never used is showing
why the country is safer than  Brazil  to bond traders.  Protecting Mexican dollar bonds against default for five
years using swaps cost 0.98 percent annually as of yesterday.
That’s 183 basis points, or 1.83 percentage points, less than
when the country obtained the no-interest credit line in April
2009 and four basis points cheaper than credit-default swaps for
Brazilian notes. In the past two years, Mexican debt has been an
average three basis points more expensive to insure.  While a record $162 billion of  reserves  and an economy
that’s growing at double the pace of the U.S. and Brazil suggest
that Mexico doesn’t need support from the IMF, UBS AG says the
government is pursuing the  credit line  to avoid repeating the
economic slowdown and 20 percent peso plunge sparked by the
financial crisis in 2008. The perceived default risk of Mexico,
which shunned  capital controls  that Brazil has adopted, is now
lower than some nations with higher credit ratings, including
Israel and Slovakia.  The IMF loan “has helped to build that view of
macroeconomic stability,” Rafael de la Fuente, an economist at
UBS, said in a telephone interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
Brazil “suffers in the eyes of investors from too much
discretion as opposed to a rule-based investment regime, which
the Mexicans have been very good at implementing.”  IMF Seal  Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said at an event in
Mexico City on Nov. 1 it’s “very probable” the nation will
renew the credit line, set to expire in January, before
President  Felipe Calderon  leaves office on Dec. 1. Luis Videgaray, the co-head of President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto’s
transition team, told reporters on Oct. 30 that he’d support
renewing the facility.  Carstens said in an interview in Mexico City on Nov. 4 that
while the financial resources are “important” for Mexico, the
loan represents the “seal of quality” from the IMF.  At a press conference following the conclusion of Group of
20 meetings in Mexico City on Nov. 5, IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said the fund is in “active and constructive
discussions with the Mexican authorities to make sure that there
is a smooth transition going forward.”  Lower Ratings  Credit-default swaps on Mexican debt fell from the day
before. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  At 98 basis points as of yesterday, it costs about $98,000
annually to secure $10 million of Mexican debt, versus $145,000
for  Israel  and $112,000 for Slovakia.  Mexico is rated BBB by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings,
at least three levels below Israel and Slovakia.  The IMF in April projected Mexico’s government debt will
equal 43 percent of gross domestic product this year, versus 107
percent for the U.S., 79 percent in  Germany , 90 percent for the
euro area and 78 percent overall for the Group of 20 nations.
Mexico’s economy will expand 3.8 percent this year, versus 1.5
percent in Brazil and 2.1 percent in the U.S., based on the
median forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Mexico’s tightening CDS levels are entirely justified and
the country will probably continue to be an outperforming
credit,”  Nick Chamie , the head of global foreign-exchange
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, said by telephone.
“Mexico has amongst the very best fiscal balances and
government debt metrics of any major economy in the world.”  Brazil Controls  Mexico originally obtained a $47 billion credit line, then
the largest financial arrangement in the IMF’s history, in 2009
and boosted it to $72 billion in January 2011. Colombia and
 Poland  are the only other nations with similar IMF agreements,
which can be obtained for as many as two years with no
conditions by qualifying nations.  The renewal forms part of Mexico’s push to lure investors
and secure the lowest borrowing costs possible, a tack that
contrasts with policies in Brazil, where the government has
erected barriers to its fixed-income markets to push down the
value of its currency.  While Mexico has doubled its international reserves in the
past three years, Brazil’s are more than twice as large at
$377.5 billion.  ‘Less Relevant’  Siobhan Morden, the head of Latin American fixed income at
Jefferies Group Inc., says the IMF loan is less relevant today
because Mexico isn’t as vulnerable to a spillover or worsening
of the  European debt crisis  as it was to the region’s
contraction and the recession in the U.S., the country’s biggest
trading partner, three years ago.  “Back then, this facility was extremely important for
Mexico in restoring some confidence in the peso and reducing the
financial asset volatility,” Morden said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “It’s useful to have, but I don’t know
that it’s going to have any impact on credit spreads.”  The extra  yield  investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points
to 159 basis points at 7:53 a.m. in Mexico City, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The peso slid 0.3 percent to 12.9963 per dollar. Yields on
Mexican interbank rate futures contracts due in December, known
as TIIE, fell three basis points yesterday to 4.87 percent.  Mexico is making the right decision in renewing the
flexible credit line, or FCL, because it shows investors the
nation is acting responsibly, UBS’s de la Fuente said.  “Even today, the FCL is an efficient way of augmenting
reserves,” he said. “It’s a good option to have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  