-- New York to Begin Gas Rationing as Storm Delays Recovery
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-11-08T21:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/new-storm-deepens-woe-for-sandy-s-blacked-out-650-000.html
Gasoline rationing expanded to New
York City and Long Island as the region coped with a nor’easter
that slowed the recovery from superstorm Sandy.  The city and Nassau and Suffolk counties will join New
Jersey in implementing an odd-even system for fueling based on
license plate numbers, beginning tomorrow. To aid commuters who
use northern New Jersey train lines that remain out of service,
the state will offer free shuttle buses to the Weehawken Ferry
Terminal for trips to  Manhattan , Governor Chris Christie said.  “Drivers are still facing long lines, frustrations are
growing and it now appears that there will be shortages for the
next couple of weeks,” New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said at
a City Hall briefing. “The best way to cut down the lines and
help customers get gas faster, to help gas stations stay open
longer and to reduce the potential for disorder is to alternate
the days that drivers can purchase gas.”  The Queens-Midtown Tunnel will reopen to regular commuter
traffic tomorrow morning for the first time since Sandy struck,
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said. And New York City’s L
subway line running along Manhattan’s 14th Street into  Brooklyn 
opened for the first time since Sandy flooded it, the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority said.  Families Struggling  The nor’easter hit the region nine days after Sandy slammed
into the East Coast and triggered an almost 14-foot tidal surge.
The superstorm displaced thousands of residents, crippled mass
transit, knocked out power to more than 8.5 million customers in
21 states and killed more than 100, including 42 in New York
City.  “I know how hard it is for these families that are
struggling,” Cuomo said today at a news briefing in Manhattan.
“I’ve been out there every day. It has been long. It has been
hard.”  More than 92,000 homes and businesses lost power in New
York, New Jersey and  Connecticut  yesterday, the U.S. Energy
Department said. Newark Liberty International Airport measured
6.2 inches (15.7 centimeters); Ridgefield, Connecticut, 8
inches; and Manhattan 4.7 inches of snow, the National Weather
Service said. Crews resumed repairs after high winds abated,
said  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , the New York utility.  ‘Staggering’ Losses  Cuomo said damage and economic losses to  New York state  may
total $33 billion, which he called a “staggering number.” The
Hugh L. Carey Tunnel, formerly the Brooklyn-Battery, remains the
only major crossing that remains shut.  Today, most schools remained open even as New Jersey and
New York City struggled to return to normal. Christie said he was
relieved that coastal areas devastated by the Oct. 29 storm escaped
severe damage yesterday.  “It could have been a lot worse,” Christie told reporters
today at a news briefing in Somerset.  Some relief from the inclement weather may be on the way.
The National Weather Service forecast for Manhattan tomorrow
called for sunny skies and temperatures reaching 53 degrees
Fahrenheit (12 degrees Celsius), with temperatures climbing to
the 60s this weekend.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  American Airlines (AAMRQ)  and  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  said service would resume later today after
suspending some or most operations yesterday. Cancellations
approached 2,200 from yesterday’s weather, adding to 20,000
scrubbed earlier because of Sandy, according to researcher
FlightAware.com.  FEMA Assistance  The New York area’s airports led canceled arrivals and
departures yesterday, with 589 at Newark Liberty, 421 at
LaGuardia and 228 at John F. Kennedy, according to
FlightStats.com’s website. More than 200 flights at Philadelphia
were scrubbed.  About 317,000 storm victims have registered with the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, which has paid out $320
million, mostly in housing assistance, FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate told reporters on a conference call today.  The agency has begun transporting about 100 manufactured-
housing units for those with severely damaged homes in the
region’s suburban and less densely populated areas and is
preparing to deliver more depending on demand, Fugate said.  More than 715,000 homes and businesses in six states from
Rhode Island to West Virginia had no power as of 9 a.m. local
time today, according the Energy Department. That compared with
651,000 yesterday morning. That total includes 397,000 in New
Jersey and 285,000 in New York, the department said.  Damaged Equipment  Con Ed, which serves New York City and suburban Westchester
County, reported yesterday’s nor’easter knocked out electricity
to about 55,000 customers. About 30,000 more customers, mostly
in Staten Island, Brooklyn and Queens, live in buildings with
electrical equipment damaged by floods that can’t be restored
safely without an electrician, the utility said.  Con Ed planned to get almost all of its customers back
online by the end of the weekend, John Miksad, senior vice
president of electric operations at Con Edison, said yesterday
in a call with media. Those who had lost power from Sandy would
be at the top of the priority list, he said.  In the hard-hit Rockaways section of New York’s borough of
Queens, more than 600 patients as well as workers had been
evacuated the evening before the nor’easter hit from three city
nursing homes and a health-care center in the affected areas,
Bloomberg said. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  