-- Obama May Levy Carbon Tax to Cut U.S. Deficit, HSBC Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-11-07T16:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/obama-may-levy-carbon-tax-to-cut-the-u-s-deficit-hsbc-says.html
Barack Obama  may consider introducing
a tax on carbon emissions to help cut the U.S. budget deficit
after winning a second term as president, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc.  A tax starting at $20 a metric ton of carbon dioxide
equivalent and rising at about 6 percent a year could raise $154
billion by 2021, Nick Robins, an analyst at the bank in London,
said today in an e-mailed research note, citing Congressional
Research Service estimates. “Applied to the Congressional
Budget Office’s 2012 baseline, this would halve the fiscal
deficit by 2022,” Robins said.  Hurricane Sandy  sparked discussion on climate protection in
the election after presidential candidates focused on other
debates, HSBC said. A continued Republican majority in the U.S.
House of Representatives means Obama’s scope for action will be
limited, Robins said. Cap-and-trade legislation stalled in the
 U.S. Senate  after narrowly passing the house in 2009.  North American discharges fell 1.3 percent last year amid
slowing economic growth. In China, the world’s biggest emitter,
 greenhouse gases  from fuel use rose more than 9 percent in 2011,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  statistics published on June 13.  “Cap-and-trade has been demonized” and Obama probably
won’t seek to install such a program in his second term, Richard Sandor, founder of the world’s biggest carbon trading exchange
in Europe, said today at the presentation in London of his book
titled Good Derivatives.  New carbon trading programs in California, China and Brazil
may encourage U.S. lawmakers to introduce greenhouse gas trading
by about 2020, Sandor said.  ‘Moral Authority’  “We’ve lost our moral authority in the U.S.,” he said.
“You haven’t here in Europe.”  Prices in the European Union carbon market, the world’s
biggest by traded volume, dropped to a four-year low in April on
surging supply and flagging demand.  Obama and the  U.S. Congress  should consider a carbon tax to
help meet the government’s looming need for revenue, according
to the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions in Arlington,
Virginia.  The tax would not necessarily add to the economy’s total
tax burden, according to Elliot Diringer, executive vice
president of the research group. Such a tax may free up space
for reductions in company taxes that dissuade employment, for
example, Diringer said in an interview from Arlington.  “We have lots of need for new revenue to address our
challenges,” which include priorities for conservatives such as
extending tax cuts, avoiding deep defense cuts, reducing the
corporate  tax rate , reforming tax territoriality, and deficit
reduction, the group said today in an e-mailed statement.  “While Sandy’s lessons are still fresh, the president
should be clear about the urgency of cutting  carbon emissions 
and strengthening critical infrastructure to protect Americans
against the rising costs of  climate change ,” the group said
yesterday in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  