-- Obama Wins Battleground of Nevada on Path to Second Term
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-11-07T05:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/obama-wins-battleground-of-nevada-on-path-to-second-term.html
President  Barack Obama  defeated
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in  Nevada , according to the
 Associated Press , a key victory in securing a second term.  The president prevailed in a state where the nation’s
highest unemployment and home foreclosure rates shaped the
campaign debate. With 12 percent of Nevada precincts reporting,
Obama led Romney by 53 percent to 45 percent, according to AP.  Polls consistently showed a close race for Nevada’s six
electoral votes, making it one of the nine states in which both
campaigns concentrated their efforts. Nevada also was viewed as
a bellwether. Over the last 100 years, it has sided with the
presidential winner more frequently than any other state,
missing only in 1976.  Obama carried Nevada by 12 percentage points in winning the
presidency in 2008. He faced more of a political struggle in the
state this year partly because of an 11.8 percent unemployment
rate in September that was the nation’s highest and up from 9.6
percent when he took office.  Also, about 59 percent of Nevada homeowners owed more than
the value of their homes in the second quarter of this year, an
“underwater” rate that was more than twice the national
average, according to CoreLogic Inc. of  Irvine ,  California .  Improving Economy  Improvements in Nevada’s economy helped the president as
the campaign played out. The state’s September unemployment rate
was down by more than two percentage points from 14 percent in
October 2010. CoreLogic data show that Nevada home prices rose 9
percent in August from a year ago, the biggest increase in the
campaign’s swing states -- those with a recent history of
supporting either major party’s presidential nominee.  The president benefited from Nevada’s politically active
labor unions, which lean Democratic and helped turn out voters
during Nevada’s early-voting period before Election Day. About
15 percent of Nevada workers were members of a union in 2011,
the highest percentage among swing states, according to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics.  A burgeoning Hispanic voting bloc, 27 percent of the state
population as of the 2010 census, helped Obama.  Romney was aided by an above-average concentration of
Nevadans who share his Mormon faith.  Obama, Romney and their surrogates aired television ads
21,200 times in metropolitan  Las Vegas  in the 60-day period
ended Oct. 29, according to data from Kantar Media’s CMAG, a New
York-based political ad tracker. Across the U.S., only Denver
stations ran more ads.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  