-- Obama and the Bolshevik Revolution
-- B y   M a r c   C h a m p i o n
-- 2012-11-07T21:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/obama-and-the-bolshevik-revolution.html
It's a sign of how differently  Europe  sees this U.S. election from the
Barack-o-mania of four years ago that at a session of the European Parliament in
Brussels today, Obama's victory got just one mention. It came from  Gabriele Zimmer , a German legislator with Germany's ex-communist
Die Linke party, who without irony ranked  Barack Obama 's election right
alongside the Nov. 7, 1917 Russian Bolshevik revolution. Europe's parliament is a great reminder that the U.S. political system isn't
alone in being spectacularly strange -- and for that matter expensive. The legislators had convened for a special session to hear from Germany's
 Chancellor Angela Merkel , on her way to meet with Britain's Prime Minister  David
Cameron  in  London . They hadn't heard directly from the woman now widely seen as
Europe's boss since 2007. Merkel delivered her stock lecture on how other EU countries must take the
medicine of reduced benefits and increased retirement ages that Germany
swallowed a decade ago. Then they should wait five years for the lower labor
costs that result to produce benefits, as  Germany  did, she said. In the
meantime, she called for a much-tighter union built around the euro, with powers
to intervene in the budgets of states that fail to meet fiscal targets. The heads of the two main center-right and center-left factions in
parliament, a Frenchman and an Austrian, went through the motions of debating
austerity. But they were a lot more interested in telling her what she should
say to Cameron, who has angered pretty much everyone in Brussels by refusing to
consider the  5 percent increase  they want to see in the EU's 2014-2020 budget,
even as national governments slash their own spending. Belgium 's  Guy Verhofstadt , the head of the liberal faction and an ardent EU
federalist, begged her to take Cameron some numbers he rolled out. These
demonstrated how countries, such as the U.S. and  Japan , that have real
governments and real budgets behind their currencies, but more debt than the
euro area average, are paying much lower  interest rates  to borrow. And yet, said
Verhofstadt, Cameron wanted to veto an increase that would bring the EU budget
to a lousy 1.05 percent of the bloc's combined GDP? That argument might be more compelling if it weren't coming from an
institution that has two locations -- one in Brussels and one in the French city
of Strasbourg -- and shuttles between them every month at huge expense for no
reason other than entrenched pork barrel politics. Cameron got no better treatment from the Britons in Brussels.  Nigel Farage ,
who heads the quixotic faction of parties in the European Parliament who don't
like Europe, urged Merkel to demand from Cameron an "amicable divorce" from the
EU. The U.K. prime minister would listen to her, said Farage, because he was
"weak." Dinner at Downing Street tonight looks like it will be fun, too. (Marc Champion is a member of Bloomberg View's editorial board.  Follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and editors at
the  Ticker .