-- Oil Tumbles the Most This Year as Obama Wins Re-Election
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-07T20:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/oil-falls-from-two-week-high-after-barack-obama-wins.html
Oil dropped the most this year in New
York after President  Barack Obama  won re-election and Greece
prepared to vote on austerity measures.  Futures slid 4.8 percent as Obama defeated Republican  Mitt Romney . He now faces negotiations with Congress to avoid more
than $600 billion in mandated tax gains and spending cuts.
Greece’s parliament votes today on a package to unlock bailout
funds. Oil extended losses after a government report showed that
U.S. crude and fuel supplies rose last week.  “The prospect of the fiscal cliff is a dark cloud over the
market,” said  Chip Hodge , who oversees a $9 billion natural-
resource bond portfolio as senior managing director at Manulife
Asset Management in  Boston . “We need the two sides to come to a
mutual deal that avoids this prospect, and I don’t know if I
would bet on that occurring after the bitter campaign.”  Crude oil for December delivery fell $4.27 to settle at
$84.44 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest decline since Dec. 14. Prices have decreased 15 percent
this year.  Brent oil for December settlement slid $4.25, or 3.8
percent, to $106.82 a barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  While Obama, a Democrat, received at least 303 electoral
votes to Romney’s 206, Republicans kept a majority in the  House
of Representatives . Democrats retained control of the Senate.  Grand Bargain  “We definitely need a grand bargain to get past the fiscal
cliff; whether we get one is an open question,” said  Sarah Emerson , managing director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “This is going to be an interesting
couple of months.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  each dropped 2 percent. The dollar climbed as
much as 0.6 percent against the euro. A stronger U.S. currency
reduces the appeal of dollar-denominated raw materials as an
investment. The S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell as
much as 2.6 percent, led by declines in crude and gasoline.  “With the election over, we can look ahead to other
issues,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “The focus will
be on the fiscal cliff and Europe, neither of which is cause for
celebration.”  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras seeks parliamentary
approval today for budget cuts to unlock bailout funds amid the
third general strike in six weeks.  The 238 pages of austerity measures range from raising the
 retirement age  two years to 67 to eliminating Christmas and
holiday payments for pensioners. Approval of the legislation is
the first of the votes required by Nov. 12 to unlock a 31
billion-euro ($40 billion) package of international aid.  U.S. Stockpiles  Oil  supplies  increased 1.77 million barrels to 374.8
million barrels last week, the Energy Department said today.
Stockpiles were forecast to gain 2 million barrels, according to
the median of 11 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Gasoline inventories  rose 2.88 million barrels to 202.4
million, the highest level since the week ended Aug. 17, the
report showed. Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that
includes diesel and heating oil, increased 131,000 barrels to
118.1 million, the first gain in eight weeks.  Total U.S.  fuel consumption  decreased 0.5 percent to 18.8
million barrels a day in the four weeks ended Nov. 2, the report
showed.  Gasoline demand  slipped 0.8 percent to 8.59 million
barrels a day, the lowest level since March.  Surging Output  U.S.  crude oil production  climbed 8,000 barrels a day to
6.68 million barrels a day, the most since December 1994, the
Energy Department report showed. Output has jumped for nine
straight weeks, the longest string of increases since 2008.  The department  reduced its crude-oil price projection for
2012 yesterday on speculation that global production will
outpace demand during the fourth quarter. Oil in  New York  will
average $94.51 a barrel this year, down from the October
forecast of $95.55, the department said in its monthly  Short-
Term Energy Outlook . Futures will average $88.29 in 2013.  “The global oil market is clearly oversupplied,” Emerson
said. “This will remain in the background as we move ahead.”  The Obama administration is likely to offer Iran a deal to
test whether diplomacy can end the country’s nuclear program or
if military force will be necessary, Robert Satloff, executive
director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, an
independent research center, said in an e-mail.  “Obama’s re-election reduces the likelihood of military
action against Iran,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis ,
which oversees $1.4 billion. “The reduced risk of conflict is
probably weighing on prices today.”  Iranian Sanctions  Iranian crude output fell 200,000 barrels a day to 2.65
million in October, the lowest level since February 1990,
according to a Bloomberg survey of  oil companies , producers and
analysts. Sanctions aimed at stopping the Islamic republic’s
nuclear program have hindered its ability to export crude oil.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 664,920
contracts as of 3:53 p.m. Volume totaled 590,709 contracts
yesterday, 14 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.61 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  