-- Holcim Chief Looking to Make Disposals as Europe Market Falters
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-11-07T10:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/holcim-chief-looking-to-make-disposals-as-europe-market-falters.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s largest
cement maker, is considering disposals as Chief Executive
Officer Bernard Fontana deals with a greater-than-expected
slowdown in  Europe .  “There are things cooking,” Fontana told journalists at a
press conference in Zurich. Any transactions would have to be
announced at the “right time,” he said.  Holcim may consider swapping some assets with competitors
given market conditions, Fontana said in an interview.  The Swiss company is now a “little bit more negative” on
Europe than at the start of the year, Chief Financial Officer
Thomas Aebischer said. Third-quarter profit missed analysts’
estimates because of restructuring at sites spanning Hungary and
Spain, and Holcim booked writedowns totaling 47 million francs
($49 million) at its European business.  Holcim, based in Jona,  Switzerland , dropped as low as 2.5
percent to 63.85 francs and traded at 64.75 francs as of 11:16
a.m in Zurich, giving the company a market capitalization of
21.3 billion francs.  Extended Revamp  Like its peers, the company needs to cut debt to adapt
European operations to a building slump.  Lafarge SA (LG)  and
 HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  report later this week, and both have debt
reduction plans in place. Holcim is the only major cement maker
to have retained its investment grade credit rating.  Any divestments would be smaller in scale than those
planned by peers, Aebischer said. Further adjustments to the
cost-base will be made in weaker markets and Holcim may book
more charges in the current quarter after initiating  a
“significant re-sizing” in Australia 10 days ago, he said.  Holcim expects to meet a target of raising earnings this
year. It sold more cement in  emerging markets , often at better
prices, with units from  India  to  Mexico  leading growth in cement
sales.[bn:PRSN=3799191]   Fontana [], who became CEO in February, reshuffled European
management as he seeks to boost earnings by 1.5 billion francs
by 2014 with better logistics and purchasing methods. He
confirmed today that Holcim is on track to meet the 150 million-
franc target of savings to come from his Leadership Journey
savings program this year.  Net income increased to 394 million francs from 356 million
francs. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey predicted 409.8 million
francs. Sales rose 9.8 percent to 5.84 billion francs, meeting
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  