-- Olympic Rugby Sevens May Spark Twenty20-Type Boom, Ritchie Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/olympic-rugby-sevens-may-spark-twenty20-type-boom-ritchie-says.html
Rugby sevens’ Olympics debut in 2016
may help the sport’s shortened format enjoy a surge in interest
similar to that experienced by Twenty20 cricket, England’s
leading rugby official said.  Sevens, a fast-paced, high-scoring game with eight fewer
players per team than the traditional form, was voted into the
Rio de Janeiro Games by the  International Olympic Committee  in
2009. Rugby was last played at the Olympics in 1924.  “I think being an Olympic sport in Rio in 2016 gives it a
fantastic growth opportunity,”  Ian Ritchie , chief executive
officer of England’s Rugby Football Union, said in an interview
in London yesterday. “Like cricket, we’re looking for different
types of the game. If that can engage more people it’s a good
thing, we’ll get more people to watch.”  Rugby sevens has been around for more than a century.
Established in  Scotland , the game typically consists of two
seven-minute halves and is played on full-size rugby pitches,
leading to greater try-scoring opportunities than in rugby’s 15-
a-side version. Those 80-minute matches put more emphasis on set
pieces, big tackles and kicking for territorial advantage.  “Sevens has the potential to attract entirely new
audiences to rugby,” said Ritchie, who previously ran Wimbledon
as CEO of the All  England  Club. “It’s faster, it’s quite
different to 15s. It also has the advantage of attracting
different kinds of players as well: those people that are
perhaps not so keen on the big physical contact.”  New Fans  Twenty20, cricket’s shortest format, was introduced less
than 10 years ago and has attracted new fans to matches lasting
about three hours played amid music, cheerleaders and big-
hitting. In contrast, elite international Test matches can last
as long as five days.  The popularity of Twenty20 led to the creation of new
domestic championships, notably the Indian Premier League where
players can earn as much as $2 million for a two-month season.  An annual international rugby sevens series is backed by
the sport’s global governing body, the International Rugby
Board, and sponsored by  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  It’s played at nine
venues including  Las Vegas , Dubai and  Hong Kong . The last Rugby
World Cup Sevens was held in Dubai in 2009 and  Russia  will host
the next edition in 2013.  “You get a different type of spectator coming to it,”
Ritchie said. “They are inclined to be younger, they are
inclined to be perhaps newer to rugby, so I think every way you
look at it there’s a potential plus point.”  Sevens Weekend  This year, the Rugby Football Union held a sevens weekend
at Twickenham in southwest London and attracted a total of
103,000 people, Ritchie said.  While Twenty20 cricket has enriched players, it hasn’t been
universally welcomed, with critics saying the money on offer is
luring talent away from longer forms of the game. A growth in
the popularity of sevens would complement the 15-a-side format,
Ritchie said.  “I don’t see it being in competition,” he said. “We’re
all looking for growth opportunities and I don’t think it
detracts or diminishes from the 15-a-side game. Hopefully
there’ll be a spillover and it will enhance that as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at  