-- Tombini Sees Brazil Prices on Target Without Rate Increase
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-11-07T20:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/tombini-sees-brazil-inflation-on-target-without-rate-increase.html
Brazil ’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said keeping the key  interest rate  unchanged
for a “prolonged time” is still the best strategy to ensure
inflation will slow to its target next year.  Tombini said today there is no need to change the bank’s
policy strategy outlined after it cut rates Oct. 10 to a record
7.25 percent, because it already took into account the lower
primary surplus announced by the government yesterday. He also
said the recent jump in prices doesn’t threaten the government’s
4.5 percent inflation target because wholesale prices are
already dropping.  Policy makers are signaling the government will rely on
alternative tools, such as tax cuts, to keep inflation under
control without raising the Selic rate, said Enestor  dos Santos ,
an economist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in  Madrid .
While Bloomberg estimates show traders see more than a 30
percent chance of Tombini being forced to raise rates in May,
Dos Santos forecasts that borrowing costs will remain at an all-
time low until at least December 2013.  “Our projections are still valid: the convergence of
inflation to the mid-point of the target in the third quarter of
next year with this monetary policy strategy,” Tombini said in
an interview from the central bank’s headquarters in Brasilia.
After policy makers reduced the benchmark rate last month, they
“signaled that the best strategy from there on was to keep the
stability of the monetary conditions for a sufficiently
prolonged time.”  ‘Inflation Relief’  While  inflation  accelerated for a second straight month in
October, prices as measured by the IGP-DI index, which is 60
percent weighted to the wholesale sector, dropped for the first
time in 10 months.  Consumer  prices  rose 0.59 percent in October, up from 0.57
percent in September, the national statistics agency said today.
Annual inflation accelerated to 5.45 percent.  Prices were fueled by a commodities supply shock stemming
from adverse climatic conditions, Tombini said.  Brazil arrived at an inflation peak this month and is
already seeing signs of price increases slowing to lower levels,
Finance Minister Guido Mantega said to reporters today.  The IGP-DI inflation index plunged 0.3 percent, led by a
1.9 percent drop in raw materials and 1.3 percent fall in
agricultural goods, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said today.  Wholesale prices suggest “inflation relief is on the
way,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do
Brasil SA, said by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “That could help
keep interest rates on hold in 2013.”  Balancing Act  The central bank has cut its benchmark lending rate since
August 2011 by  525 basis points , the most among the Group of 20
nations, in a bid to revive a flagging economy.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has also extended
tax cuts for consumer and industrial goods, cut bank reserve
requirements to boost lending, pressured banks to reduce spreads
and increased public spending to spur demand.  Government tax cuts have made it more difficult to reach
the primary surplus target of 139.8 billion reais ($68.7
billion), or about 3.1 percent of gross domestic product,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said to reporters in Brasilia.  Tombini said the central bank forecasts that faster
economic growth next year will allow the government to fully
meet its 2013 fiscal target.  ‘Focus Has Changed’  As part of the growth revival plan, Rousseff also ordered
cuts on energy rates that could reduce inflation by as much as
0.6 percentage points next year, BBVA’s dos Santos said. He
forecasts inflation will slow to 5.3 percent next year.  “Inflation won’t be nearing the 6.5 percent upper limit of
its target next year because of measures like this,” Dos Santos
said. “The government will use all available tools to keep
interest rates unchanged.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo, were unchanged at 7.33 percent at 3:58
p.m. local time.  Economists surveyed by the central bank forecast the
economy will grow 1.54 percent this year and 4 percent expansion
in 2013.  Faster growth may force the bank to reverse course and
start increasing rates in October, according to  Jankiel Santos ,
chief economist at Banco Espirito Santo Investment Bank, who
estimates inflation will accelerate to 5.5 percent next year.  “Apparently for the moment we have changed from an
inflation target regime to an economic activity target regime,”
Santos said by phone from Sao Paulo on Nov. 6. “We don’t
believe that is wrong, but you should at least warn people that
your focus has changed, and it has not been the case in terms of
the central bank.”  Economists cut their 2012 inflation forecast for the first
time since July, to 5.44 percent, according to the median
estimate in the latest central bank survey of about 100
economists.  “The information we have on Brazil’s inflation gives
support to the central bank’s view,” Tombini said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  