-- Home Prices Rise in 81% of U.S. Cities as Markets Recover
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-11-07T16:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/home-prices-rise-in-81-of-u-s-cities-as-markets-recover.html
Prices for single-family homes rose
in 81 percent of U.S. cities as the  property market  extends a
recovery from the worst crash since the 1930s.  The median sales  price  increased in the third quarter from
a year earlier in 120 of 149 metropolitan areas measured, the
National Association of Realtors said in a report today. In the
second quarter, 110 areas had gains.  Values are climbing after a six-year  slump  as buyers
compete for a shrinking supply of properties listed for sale.
U.S.  home prices  jumped 5 percent in September from a year
earlier, the biggest 12-month increase since July 2006,
CoreLogic Inc., an  Irvine , California-based real estate data
provider, said yesterday.  “The housing recovery still faces a number of potential
headwinds,”  Paul Diggle , property economist for Capital
Economics Ltd. in London, said in a note to clients after
CoreLogic’s report was released. “But our central case is that
tight supply conditions will mean that  house prices  will
continue to rise steadily next year.”  At the end of the third quarter, 2.32 million existing
homes were available for sale, 20 percent fewer than a year
earlier, according to the Chicago-based Realtors group.  Short Sales  The national median price for an existing single-family
home was $186,100 in the third quarter, up 7.6 percent from the
same period last year, the Realtors said. Foreclosures and short
sales, in which the price is less than the mortgage balance,
accounted for 23 percent of third-quarter deals, down from 30
percent a year earlier.  The share of all-cash home purchases fell to 27 percent in
the third quarter from 29 percent a year earlier. Investors, who
make up the bulk of cash purchasers and compete with first-time
buyers, accounted for 17 percent of all transactions, down from
20 percent a year earlier.  The best-performing metro area was Phoenix, where prices
increased 35 percent from a year earlier. Prices rose 28 percent
in the Cape Coral, Florida, area, and 27 percent in Akron, Ohio.  The Raleigh,  North Carolina , area had the biggest decline,
with the median selling price falling 16 percent in the quarter.
It was followed by York,  Pennsylvania , with an 9.4 percent
decrease; and Binghamton, New York, with a 6.6 percent drop.  A survey by  Fannie Mae , the nation’s biggest mortgage-
finance company, showed Americans expect home prices to increase
an average of 1.7 percent in the next 12 months. The share of
respondents who said they expect home prices to decrease fell to
10 percent last month, down 13 percentage points from a year
earlier and the lowest level since the monthly survey began in
June 2010, Washington-based Fannie Mae said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  