-- Longest Sugar Glut in Decade Extends on Indian Crop: Commodities
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-11-08T21:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/longest-sugar-glut-in-decade-extends-on-indian-crop-commodities.html
Indian farmers may reap at least 6
percent more sugar than forecast by the government and industry,
extending the longest global glut in more than a decade and a
 bear market  that began in September.  Output in the world’s second-biggest producer will reach
25.53 million metric tons in the season that began Oct. 1,
according to a survey of 820 farmers across an area responsible
for 93 percent of national output by Geneva-based  SGS SA (SGSN)  for
Bloomberg. While that’s 2.6 percent less than a year earlier,
the government expects output of 23.5 million tons and the
Indian Sugar Mills Association predicts 24 million tons.  The extra sweetener would expand global supply already
forecast by the  International Sugar Organization  to reach a
record this season. Producers from  Russia  to  Thailand  raised
output after prices averaged the most in three decades in 2011.
Futures fell 21 percent since March on prospects for a third
straight annual surplus, helping to contain the surge in global
food costs caused by droughts in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Australia .  “If the actual crop is going to be more than expected it’s
detrimental for the world market,” said  Sergey Gudoshnikov , a
senior economist at the ISO in London who has studied the
commodity for about three decades. “For the time being the
world sugar market is still in surplus.”  Raw-sugar futures fell 19 percent to 18.84 cents a pound
this year on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . Prices, which reached
36.08 cents in February 2011, the highest since 1980, may drop
to 18 cents by the year-end, based on the median of 15 trader
and analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg last month. It’s
this year’s third-biggest decliner in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 commodities, behind coffee and cotton.  World Index  Sugar’s slump this year contrasts with an  11 percent gain 
in the S&P GSCI Agriculture Index of eight commodities, as the
worst U.S. drought since 1956 parched wheat, corn and soybeans.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose 8.3 percent
since the start of January as Treasuries returned 2.4 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Farmers may harvest 381.7 million tons of cane this season,
6.7 percent more than last year, according to the SGS survey
from Sept. 25 to Oct. 18 across six states. About 65 percent may
be crushed for sugar, according to SGS, which used the average
recovery rate of 10.34 percent over about the past decade for
its output estimate. The rest will be used for jaggery, a local
sweetener, livestock feed and seeding.  Six Months  India ’s production in the past season was forecast at 24.35
million tons by SGS last November. The Indian Sugar Mills
Association’s final estimate was 26.2 million tons. A year
earlier, SGS predicted output of 23.27 million tons and the
producer group 25.5 million tons. The association lowered its
estimate to 24.2 million tons six months later.  A slower-than-average start to the monsoon, which provides
about 70 percent of India’s annual rainfall, may have hurt the
crop more than indicated by the survey. Narendra Murkumbi,
managing director of  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) , the country’s top
refiner, predicts production will be 23 million tons, 9.9
percent less than the SGS estimate.  A smaller-than-expected crop may  spur imports . While the
country didn’t buy any sweetener last year, it purchased 2.43
million tons in 2009-2010, equal to about 8 percent of global
stockpiles at the end of that marketing year, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show.  Raw Imports  India will probably produce 23 million tons this year and a
possible supply squeeze in December could lift imports in the
the fourth quarter,  Wayne Gordon , an analyst at UBS AG in New
York, wrote in an Oct. 25 report. Refiners are already using a
trade regulation which allows duty-free imports of raw sugar and
exports of refined sweetener, Murkumbi said in October.  Rising Indian demand for imports may not be enough to halt
the rout in international prices. World supply including
inventories will climb 3.7 percent to 240.6 million tons in
2012-2013 and imports will decline 6.5 percent, according to the
ISO. The group, which has more than 80  member states , estimates
the glut at 5.9 million tons.  Hedge funds  cut  bullish bets  on sugar by 75 percent since
early August, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. Open interest in raw-sugar futures declined about 8.7
percent since mid-June, bourse data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sugar had the biggest drop this year of any of five food
 indexes  tracked by the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization. The Rome-based group’s sugar  gauge  slumped 13
percent through the end of September even as the combined
measure across 55 edible commodities advanced 2.4 percent. The
index jumped 8 percent since June as drought damage spread.  Marketing Year  The decline in output from a year earlier and trade
barriers mean Indian growers still expect higher returns even as
global costs plunge. Farmers anticipate a 22 percent gain in
average cane prices this marketing year, the SGS survey showed.
Sugar futures traded in Mumbai climbed 21 percent in the past
year and touched 3,672 rupees per 100 kilograms (30.7 cents a
pound) in August, the highest level in more than 18 months.  “A rally in local sugar prices and expectations of better
cane returns encouraged farmers to plant more,” said Mark
Oulton, the market research director for SGS in Wilkes-Barre,
 Pennsylvania . “The crop was profitable.”  While farmers increased the amount of  land planted  with
cane by 9.8 percent this year, yields may drop 2.8 percent, the
survey showed. The delayed monsoon damaged crops and reservoirs
supplying irrigation had below-average water levels. About 19
percent of the cane was in poor condition this year, from 6
percent the previous season, the survey showed.  Cane Growing  The harvest in Maharashtra, the biggest sugar-producing
state, may decline 5.7 percent, with 3 percent of the crop
reported to be in good condition, from 38 percent a year
earlier, according to the survey. That contrasts with  Uttar
Pradesh , the largest grower of cane, which is expected to reap
almost 13 percent more. About 34 percent of fields were in good
condition, from 6 percent the previous season.  “There are no signs of the global surplus disappearing any
time soon,” said  Eugen Weinberg , the head of commodity research
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Supplies are very
comfortable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  