-- Paschi Cut ECB Funding After Reducing Italy Bond Holdings
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2012-11-07T12:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/monte-paschi-cut-ecb-funding-after-reducing-italy-bond-holdings.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena ,
Italy’s third-biggest bank, reduced borrowing from the  European
Central Bank  in the third quarter after cutting its Italian
sovereign bond holdings to 22 billion euros ($28 billion).  Monte Paschi cut its ECB funding by 4 billion euros to 29
billion euros, wiping out all borrowing to other than its three-
year borrowings obtained through the Longer Term Refinancing
Operation, Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola said in an
interview yesterday. In the quarter, the bank lowered holdings
of Italian government bonds by 3 billion euros.  “The improvement of the bank’s liquidity position, in
particular in the third quarter, allowed us to reduce the ECB
position, maintaining only the LTRO,” Viola said. The bank’s
deleveraging and asset disposals will allow the Siena-based
lender to pay down the remainder over two years, he said.  Monte Paschi is one of the 10 biggest users of the ECB’s 1
trillion-euro L onger-Term Refinancing Operation , which can be
repaid starting January. The lender also turned to  Italy  for 3.4
billion euros of funds to fill a capital shortfall identified by
the European Banking Authority, caused by potential losses
linked to its exposure to the country’s sovereign debt.  “A reduction of 4 billion euros in terms of ECB exposure
is great news for Monte Paschi,” said Fabrizio Bernardi, a
Milan-based analyst at Fidentiis Equities.  The bank rose as much as 1.8 percent in Milan and climbed
0.9 percent to 22.3 cents at 12:20 p.m.  The Bloomberg Banks and
Financial Services Index  increased 0.5 percent. Monte Paschi has
lost 11 percent this year compared with the index’s 19 percent
gain.  Further Cut  Monte Paschi will shrink its securities portfolio as
Italian  government bonds  mature, Viola said. It may also
consider selling some of that debt to repay LTRO should the
spread between the fixed-rate securities and German Bunds fall
further and eliminate losses, he said.  “We could be able to break even on our Italian sovereign
bonds portfolio at a point between a spread of 150 to 200 basis
points,” he said. “At that point, if this will happen, and we
hope it will happen soon, we will decide” whether to sell.  A narrower spread on the debt in the three months to
September allowed Monte Paschi to reduce unrealized losses on
its available-for-sale securities by about 400 million euros to
2.9 billion euros, Viola said. The difference between the yields
of  10-year Italian bonds  and German bunds narrowed 59 basis
points, or 0.59 percentage point, to 365 basis points in the
third quarter.  Sale Talks  Monte Paschi is in talks with a potential “industrial
partner” to sell its leasing unit, Viola said. He said the bank
aims to transfer the unit to a partner, keeping a minority stake
and deconsolidating the unit from its accounts.  “We are working very intensely in order to close a deal on
the leasing as soon as possible,” Viola said.  Monte Paschi, which expects revenue to fall 1 percent
through 2015, is selling assets, closing 400 branches and
eliminating 4,600 jobs as part of its three-year plan to boost
profit and repay state aid. Paschi, which posted a second-
quarter loss of 1.67 billion euros after a goodwill writedown,
will publish third-quarter results Nov. 13.  Monte Paschi will resume talks with unions to cut jobs,
Viola said, adding that he is confident that they will reach an
agreement. Viola reiterated the bank’s target to reduce
personnel  costs  to 1.9 billion euros in 2015 from 2.2 billion
euros in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Rotondi in Rome  at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  