-- MorphoSys Rises on Expanded Novartis Partnership: Munich Mover
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2012-11-07T13:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/morphosys-rises-on-expanded-novartis-partnership-munich-mover.html
MorphoSys AG (MOR)  rose the most in six
weeks after saying it will expand an  alliance  with  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
using new technology to boost the discovery of medicines with
the Swiss drug maker.  The German company’s shares  advanced  as much as 6.3
percent, the biggest gain since Sept. 24, and were up 4.4
percent at 26.22 euros at 1:25 p.m. in  Frankfurt . That extended
the stock’s gain this year to 50 percent.  MorphoSys said it will use its Ylanthia and Slonomics
technologies, among others, to identify antibodies that may make
effective treatments. Antibody drugs, used to treat diseases
such as cancer or arthritis, are based on substances found in
human immune systems. The company, based in Martinsried near
Munich, didn’t disclose financial terms of the agreement.  “The long-term alliance will now benefit from new
technologies that were not available when the current agreement
between the two companies was signed in 2007,” Morphosys said
in a statement.  The shares rose even as MorphoSys cut its 2012 sales
forecast.  “We are not concerned about the slightly lowered financial
guidance, as it reflects the degree of volatility underlying its
business,” Olav Zilian, an analyst at Helvea SA in Geneva, said
in a note to clients. “The news about the expansion of
MorphoSys’s collaboration with Novartis” is more important, he
said.  MorphoSys reduced its 2012 revenue forecast by 5 million
euros ($6.4 million) and now expects sales of 70 million euros
to 75 million euros, it said today. The company said its net
loss in the third quarter narrowed to 0.2 million euros from
2 million euros a year earlier, missing analysts’  estimates .  Revenue fell 7 percent to 15.9 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  