-- How Obama Can Make This Election Matter
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-11-07T19:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/how-obama-can-make-this-election-matter.html
The U.S. chose wisely in electing
President  Barack Obama  to a second term. How much difference his
re-election will make is another question: a lot, if one or both
parties draw the right lessons; not very much, if they don’t.  For at least a year, conservatively estimated, Congress and
the White House have been essentially shut down as campaigning
took priority over governing. You’d think an election that cost
billions of dollars and an incalculable expense of political
effort would have changed something. Yet the U.S. remains a
closely divided country, with a president lacking any clear
policy mandate, a deadlocked Senate and a House of
Representatives still run by the opposing party. As a matter of
political arithmetic, the election was an obscenely distended
nonevent.  It’s good for the country’s soul that its first black
president did not go down to defeat after his first term. And
 it’s good  that there’ll be no Romney administration intent on
dismantling health-care reform -- an important achievement
which, if implemented well, Americans will eventually come to
admire.  Mitt Romney  or no Mitt Romney, however, health-care
reform remains vulnerable to attrition at the hands of a hostile
Congress. More generally, defending the status quo just isn’t
good enough when you consider the challenges facing the U.S.,
especially the fiscal challenge.  Dueling Narratives  Much as the idea disgusts both sides, the country still
needs Democrats and Republicans to work together -- a task this
bitterly fought election has made more difficult. The main
problem is that narratives each side uses to justify digging in
and refusing to compromise will be easy to frame.  The Democrats won, after all. What else do you need to
know? Elections have consequences, as Obama told Republicans in
2009. The economy is bound to strengthen over the next four
years, Democrats will calculate, and they’ll be able to take
credit. Time is now on their side. Why should the president give
ground?  Then again, Republicans won too -- in the House. Speaker
John Boehner has noticed this, even if the country hasn’t yet
woken up to it. (I watched six hours of election coverage last
night. Less than 10 minutes was devoted to the House, co-equal
to the president in setting domestic policy. What a strange land
this is.) The economy’s prospects aren’t bright, Republicans
will reason, and implementing the health-care reform will be a
mess, especially if they can help it. In 2016, the party will
have a better presidential candidate. (That much, they’ll
decide, is obvious. What were they thinking, nominating Romney?)
Time is on their side. Why should the Republicans give ground?  Of these two scenarios, the Republican version is plainly
the more delusional. Romney was a weak candidate, to be sure,
but the party in its present form is all but designed to produce
weak candidates: It holds nominating contests among unelectable
conservatives, thereby forcing the eventual nominee to try and
turn himself inside out to have a chance in the general
election. The process offends independent voters twice over and
doesn’t even attempt to engage huge swaths of the U.S.
electorate.  The party needs to come back to the center, ditch its
nativist prejudices and above all embrace the Hispanic Americans
who could and should be a natural Republican constituency.
Cooperation with Democrats on comprehensive immigration reform
could emerge from that self-interested realignment. Let’s be
optimistic: That’s one way in which a serious Republican rethink
could yield good results for the party and the country.  Another Rethink  Obama’s need to rethink is less pressing -- he’s a two-term
president, after all, a truly historic figure. But this was a
smaller and meaner victory than he was capable of, and a
betrayal of the promises he made in 2008. To realize  his
ambition of  presidential greatness, he needs goals and
accomplishments in his second term. He shouldn’t settle for four
years of paralysis and disappointment.  He doesn’t need to move as much as the Republican Party,
but he does need to move. He can’t say he won this election
based on his plan for the next four years, because he doesn’t
have one. He ought to put that right -- and his proposals must
be calculated to appeal to a broader constituency than the
Democratic base. Then he must start exercising the leadership he
so conspicuously failed to provide in his first term, making the
case for his policies to the public.  The idea would not be to surrender to the Republicans in
the House -- the charge that many Democrats will level if Obama
does what I’m suggesting. It would be to outwit them. Seriously,
how hard can that be? If his opponents can be maneuvered into a
deal on Obama’s terms, the U.S. will move ahead and the
president will secure his legacy. If they can’t -- and the
country understands the fault lies with the Republican Party
rather than with the president or his party -- his opponents
will suffer the consequences in 2014.  Of course, all this begs the question of what, exactly,
Obama should be proposing. Here are two specific suggestions,
Mr. President.  First, without delay, propose tax and spending extensions
to avoid the fiscal cliff at year’s end. Second, take the
Simpson-Bowles debt-reduction plan down from the shelf, dust it
off, and in a renewed commitment to bipartisanship, make it your
own. It’s a shame you didn’t do this in the first place, but
voters have given you a second chance. Prove them right and put
the U.S. on course for fiscal stability with a better and fairer
tax system.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View. Subscribe to
receive a daily e-mail highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 