-- How Quickly Do Stock Markets Lose Their Obama Bounce
-- B y   M a r k   W h i t e h o u s e
-- 2012-11-07T20:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/how-quickly-do-stock-markets-lose-their-obama-bounce.html

(Corrects title of Mario Draghi in third paragraph.)  The U.S. stock market is tanking the
day after  Barack Obama  retook the presidency. What could it
mean? Our best guess: With the election decided, investors have
reawakened to the reality of an impending fiscal disaster in the
U.S. and a festering crisis in Europe.  Throughout October and the first week of November, markets
appeared to prefer the prospect of an Obama presidency (as we
noted in a  blog post  yesterday). That pattern held in the first
hours after Obama’s victory became evident: From 10 p.m. on Nov.
6 to 3 a.m. on Nov. 7, the December futures contract on the S&P
500 Index rose about 20 points. As late as 6 a.m., the stock
market looked set to open with a strong gain.  Then the Germans showed up on the scene. At 6 a.m.  New York 
time, their government reported a second monthly decline in
industrial production, a data point later amplified by European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi, who announced that Europe’s
debt crisis is “now starting to affect the German economy.”
Suddenly, a malaise that had seemed in remission was back in the
news.  Meanwhile, the largely unchanged balance of power in
Congress brought home an unsettling fact: Reaching agreement on
a plan that would get the U.S. government’s debt under control
without tanking the economy might be no easier than it was last
year, when political intransigence brought the country to the
brink of default. As a result, the recovery could fall off the
fiscal cliff, the combination of spending cuts and tax increases
coming at the end of this year unless Congress acts.  The lesson is clear. The U.S. and  Europe  will remain
extremely vulnerable to sudden changes in investor sentiment
unless they take ambitious steps to solve their respective debt
problems. In Europe, that means completing an inadequate
currency union. In the U.S., that means striking a balance
between short-term stimulus and long-term fiscal rectitude, as
well as between cutting spending and raising revenue.  Forward is the only way out.  (Mark Whitehouse is a member of the Bloomberg View
editorial board.  Follow  him on Twitter.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 