-- Pentagon Challenges Chinese Monopoly on Rare Earths
-- B y   L y d i a   M u l v a n y
-- 2012-11-07T16:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/pentagon-challenges-chinese-monopoly-on-rare-earths-commodities.html
The Pentagon and Toyota Motor Corp.
are trying to crack  China ’s global monopoly on mining the most
valuable rare earths used in unmanned military drones and
electric-car motors.  The U.S. Department of Defense and  Asia ’s biggest carmaker
are working with  Canada ’s  Ucore Rare Metals Inc. (UCU)  and  Matamec
Explorations Inc. (MAT) , which are developing North American mines
that would boost supplies of so-called heavy rare earths. Those
are the less-abundant members of a group of 17 chemically
similar elements critical to make a host of products from  wind
turbines  to high-performance magnets for cars and weapons.  Foreign buyers are being driven to find alternative
producers after China slashed exports in 2010, partly to
conserve material for its own industries. The Asian nation today
supplies about 95 percent of global demand, triple its market
share of 1990, presenting a risk for foreign makers of the next
generation of wind turbines and environmentally friendly
lighting technology.  “People won’t make a decision on manufacturing something
if they don’t know their supply is reliable,” said Jack Lifton,
a senior fellow at the Institute for the Analysis of Global
Security, which studies the links between energy and security.
“If you had a reliable American supply of heavy rare earths,
General Electric might decide to make magnets in the U.S.”  ‘Incredibly Complex’  Of more than 400 proposed rare-earth mines around the world
that are tracked by Technology Metals Research LLC, only five or
six have enough heavy rare earths and are sufficiently advanced
in their development to have a shot at making it into
production, said Gareth Hatch, a co-founder of the
Carpentersville, Illinois-based firm.  “The race is which deposit will be first at the finish
line,” said Andre Gauthier, chief executive officer of
Montreal-based Matamec.  There are risks in early-stage mining projects like those
planned by Matamec and Ucore. Development requires raising
hundreds of millions of dollars of funding. Mining rare earths
is “incredibly complex,” said Chris Berry, founder of New
York-based researcher House Mountain Partners LLC.  “The major risk is the understanding of the metallurgy and
successfully separating each of the rare-earth elements,” he
said.  Price Volatility  Rare-earth prices and stocks have been volatile over the
past two years. The commodities have slumped since mid-2011,
having surged as much 10-fold following Chinese export curbs.
 Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , which plans to produce rare earths in  California ,
quintupled in less than a year after a July 2010 initial public
offering. The  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based company now
trades below its IPO price. Australian producer Lynas Corp.
tripled in 2010 and since then has dropped 65 percent.  That hasn’t stopped exploration companies outside of China
touting their potential for producing heavy rare earths such as
dysprosium and terbium, all of which are harder to find and
therefore pricier than so-called light rare earths.  Toyota Tsusho, Toyota’s trading unit, has a 49 percent
stake in a joint venture with Matamec and is funding the
feasibility study at the Kipawa project in  Quebec . Toyota will
harvest dysprosium from the mine, while other deposits on the
same property also could be developed, Gauthier said.  Kipawa’s initial heavy rare-earth output will be about
2,000 metric tons and may rise with further exploration on the
property. Matamec is operating a pilot plant at the site.
Estimated capital expenditure will be about $315 million,
according to Edward Otto, an analyst at Toronto-based Cormark
Securities Inc.  Alaska Mine  “We think there are places for two to four heavy rare-
earth deposits in the world outside China,” Gauthier said in a
telephone interview on Oct. 26. “The first can reach better
agreements with end-users.”  Ucore’s Bokan Mountain deposit in  Alaska  may produce about
3,000 tons a year of rare earths by 2016, including enough
dysprosium to meet domestic needs, CEO Jim McKenzie said.  The project will likely get the permits it needs as Alaska
is a mine-friendly state and the project has the backing of
Senator  Lisa Murkowski  and Governor Sean Parnell, said House
Mountain’s Berry, who has previously consulted for Ucore. The
mine will cost about $150 million to build, according to Jon Hykawy, an analyst for Toronto-based Byron Capital Markets Ltd.  Mark MacDonald, vice president of business development at
Ucore, said in an e-mail yesterday that the company is
optimistic Alaska will help underwrite its  capital costs .  Pentagon Accords  The U.S. Department of Defense may already be forming a
nascent non-Chinese supply chain for high-performance magnets
used in weapons systems that require heavy rare earths, said
 Jeff Green , president of Washington-based lobbying firm J.A.
Green & Co.  Ucore said in October that the department initiated an
exploratory partnership. Also last month, Canadian magnet maker
Great Western Minerals Group said it was chosen by the
department to study the supply of yttrium oxide, which is used
in  jet engines , while closely held U.S. magnet maker Thomas &
Skinner Inc.  said  the Pentagon will invest in a study of
neodymium-iron-boron magnets.  Green lobbied the Pentagon on behalf of the three
companies.  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s patents for the magnets expire in
2014, he said in an interview.  “The floodgates should open then,” Green said.  Auto Demand  China consumes two-thirds of global rare earths supply,
while the U.S. consumes about 10 percent, data from Technology
Metals Research shows. Demand for dysprosium, yttrium and
terbium will exceed supply, according to the firm. Heavy rare-
earth production has remained almost unchanged over the past
five years at around 1,700 tons a year, Lifton said.  “There will never be enough heavy rare earths, and the
prices are going to be strong,” Lifton said. “That’s where
we’re stuck.”  The Matamec and Ucore mines may lead non-Chinese projects
in expanding production of heavy rare earths by 60 percent by
the end of the decade, according to Byron’s Hykawy.  The growth will be needed to satisfy expanding demand from
cars and consumer electronics in  emerging markets , according to
Lifton. Ucore’s McKenzie says the biggest demand for heavy rare
earths will come from the automotive and aerospace industries.  China hasn’t identified new rare-earth resources and
could exhaust its own in five to 30 years, while non-Chinese
rare-earth supply is projected to increase fivefold to 31
percent in 2016, Lifton said.  “China’s demand is going to be rapacious, and if the U.S.
has these materials, China could be a net importer,” McKenzie
said. “The U.S. can turn the tables now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lydia Mulvany in  New York  at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  