-- Peruvian Sol Weakens as U.S. Budget Concern Saps Risk Demand
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-11-07T22:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/peruvian-sol-weakens-as-u-s-budget-concern-saps-risk-demand.html
Peru ’s sol declined the most in more
than a week on concern that U.S. lawmakers will struggle to
reach a budget compromise and endanger the global recovery.  The sol depreciated 0.3 percent to 2.6080 per U.S. dollar
today in Lima, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit. It
has fallen 0.4 percent in November, the most among the six most-
traded Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The U.S., Peru’s biggest trading partner after  China , faces
a so-called “fiscal cliff” of $607 billion in mandated
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect
starting Jan. 1 if lawmakers can’t agree to reduce the deficit
following yesterday’s re-election of President  Barack Obama . The
Congressional Budget Office has said the world’s biggest economy
would slow by as much as 0.5 percent next year if no change is
made.  “Today’s move is most likely based on global risk and
concerns about the fiscal cliff,” said Kenneth Lam, a
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  Peru’s central bank bought $20 million in the foreign
exchange market today and said on its website is paid an average
2.6069 soles per dollar. The monetary authority has bought
dollars every day since Sept. 3 as part of a strategy to curb
currency speculation by making movements in the sol less
predictable. Previously the bank only purchased dollars to stem
sol appreciation.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 4.28 percent, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 0.18 centimo to 123.15
centimos per sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  