-- Poland Delivers First Rate Cut Since 2009 as Growth Slows
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-11-07T16:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/poland-delivers-first-rate-cut-since-2009-as-growth-slows.html
Poland ’s central bank cut borrowing
costs for the first time since 2009 as the European Union’s
biggest eastern  economy  slows amid the euro-area debt crisis.  The only central bank in the 27-nation EU to raise rates
this year lowered the  benchmark  25 basis points to 4.5 percent,
in line with forecasts of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
One predicted a 50 basis-point cut.  While central banks around the world have eased monetary
policy to avert a recession, Poland raised rates by a quarter-
point in May after inflation exceeded its 2.5 percent target for
two years. Pressure to reverse the move grew after economic
growth decelerated in the second quarter to the weakest since
2009 and  inflation  eased.  “The decrease in interest rates should support economic
activity and thus reduces the risk of inflation falling below
the target in the medium term,” the central bank’s Monetary
Policy Council said in a statement. “Should incoming data
confirm a protracted economic slowdown, and should the risk of
an increase in inflationary pressures remain limited, the
council will further ease monetary policy.”  The Monetary Policy Council lowered its range for 2012
inflation to 3.7 percent to 3.9 percent, compared with a July
projection of 3.6 percent to 4.2 percent, according to the
statement.  Industry Shrinks  Policy makers signaled last month they may cut borrowing
costs if the economy slowed further, as statistical data have
since confirmed. Industrial output shrank 5.2 percent in
September, the first fall since May 2009, while retail sales
grew at the slowest pace since August 2010.  The zloty traded at 4.1441 per euro at 4:49 p.m. in Warsaw,
down 0.6 percent from the previous close. The yield on zloty-
denominated two-year bonds jumped as high as three basis points
to 3.854 percent after the decision and was down one basis point
from the previous session.  Three-month forward-rate agreements were 60 basis points
below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, unchanged
from yesterday, implying a half-point in reductions by the end
of January. In August, they indicated expectations for a
quarter-point cut within three months, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. Twelve-month FRAs were at 101 basis points
below the three-month Wibor, signaling bets of four quarter-
point reductions within a year.  ‘How Far’  “The only question now is how far and how long this easing
cycle will last,” Timothy Ash, head of emerging-markets
research at Standard Bank Plc in  London , said in an e-mail. “A
lot depends on the zloty. It seems very strong in my mind.”  While the U.S. Federal Reserve is pursuing a third round of
so-called quantitative easing and the European Central Bank
unveiled an unlimited debt-purchase plan in September, Poland’s
central bank said last month it would wait for updated forecasts
before easing.  Poland’s inflation rate was 3.8 percent for a second month
in September, while the fourth quarter should bring an “evident
decline” in the annual rate, “perhaps even to below 3 percent
by year-end,” the Finance Ministry said Oct. 15. The central
bank’s 2.5 percent price-growth target allows a divergence of
plus or minus 1 percentage point.  ‘Slow Significantly’  “While headline inflation remains well above target, it
will probably slow significantly in the coming months and return
to the target in the first half of 2013,”  Maja Goettig , a
Warsaw-based strategist at KBC Securities, said by phone.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government is sticking to its
2.5 percent growth forecast for 2012, while trimming next year’s
outlook to 2.2 percent from a previously predicted 2.7 percent.
Tusk warned last month that 2013 “will be another critical
year, although nobody knows to what extent” growth will be
damped by the euro-area’s debt crisis.  Poland relies on the euro area to buy more than half its
exports, while the parent banks of five of its seven largest
lenders are based in the 17-nation currency bloc. The European
Central Bank forecasts a 0.4 contraction this year for the euro-
area economy. Poland’s gross domestic product expanded 2.3
percent from a year earlier in the March-June period, the
slowest pace in 11 quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  