-- Private Equity Lures Pensioners as Bond Yields Sink
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-11-07T17:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/private-equity-lures-pensioners-as-bond-yields-sink.html
Brazil’s top three pension funds are
leading a shift by local investors from lower-yielding
government debt to  private-equity  investments in infrastructure
as the country prepares to host the 2014 World Cup and 2016
Olympics.  The retirement funds for state-run companies  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  and Caixa Economica Federal,
which together manage $131 billion, are buying stakes of as much
as 25 percent in companies building dams, roads transmission
lines and airports, said Jose de Souza Mendonca, head of
Brazil’s pension fund association known as Abrapp. The group is
in talks with development bank BNDES to encourage smaller funds
to make similar investments, he said.  “Instead of speculating on the stock market, the big funds
are participating directly in the companies,” Mendonca said in
an interview in  Sao Paulo . “Infrastructure investments will
grow naturally, but smaller funds don’t have resources to buy
those sort of stakes in companies. One of the things we’re doing
with BNDES is to see how to structure infrastructure investment
funds” to attract smaller funds.  Pension funds holding 60 billion reais ($30 billion) of
Brazilian government debt maturing by 2014 are seeking
alternative investments after the central bank cut the benchmark
Selic rate to a record low of 7.25 percent, Mendonca said. The
rate reduction of 5.25 percentage points since August 2011 was
the most aggressive of any Group of 20 nation. The benchmark
rate exceeded 25 percent less than a decade ago.  Funds will have to take on new risks to boost returns,
Mendonca said. Pension funds in  Brazil  had an average annualized
return of 5.42 percent in the first half of this year, below
their target of 5.59 percent, according to Abrapp. The Bovespa
stock exchange dropped 4.2 percent in the first six months of
2012 and is up 2.8 percent this year to date.  Airports  Investimentos e Participacoes em Infra-Estrutura , a holding
company known as Invepar in which the top three pension funds
each hold 25 percent, is making some of the biggest investments
in infrastructure. A group led by Invespar won an auction in
February for a 20-year lease of the Sao Paulo international
airport for 16.2 billion reais.  Fundacao dos Economiarios Federais , the pension fund for
Caixa employees known as Funcef, also bought minority stakes in
Norte Energia, which is building the world’s third-largest
hydroelectric dam Belo Monte.  Funcef,  Petros  and Caixa de Previdencia dos Funcionarios do
Banco do Brasil, or Previ, account for more than half of the 596
billion reais managed by Brazil’s 265 pension funds, according
to Abrapp.  Economic Stimulus  The projects are part of President Dilma Rousseff’splan to
build 955 billion reais of infrastructure by 2014. Projects
related to the 2014  World Cup  in Brazil and 2016 Olympics in  Rio
de Janeiro , including the Transolympic highway run by Invepar,
will cost at least 80 billion reais, according to Ernani Torres,
a former head of research for Brazil’s development bank.  Rousseff’s plan is designed to help boost economic growth,
which is slowing to an estimated 1.5 percent in 2012, according
to economists surveyed by the central bank, less than  Japan  or
the U.S. The economy will grow 4 percent in 2013, according to
the same survey.  Investment Funds  Rousseff said in August that the government will sell
licenses to build and operate 7,500 kilometers (4,661 miles) of
roads and 10,000 kilometers of railways, requiring as much as
133 billion reais investment over 30 years.  In  Chile , private investments became the main financier of
infrastructure after reforms in the 1980s and 1990s protected
investors and created infrastructure bonds guaranteed by
insurance companies or the government, according to an Aug. 13
report by Moody’s Investors Service analyst Alexandre de Almeida
Leite.  Smaller pension funds are investing in infrastructure
projects through FIPs, or fundos de investimento em
participacoes, which are private equity-style funds that allow
investors to buy shares, bonds or other securities in companies
while participating in decision-making. Bolt Energias, an
electricity generator, plans to raise 450 million reais by
selling quotas in  FIP Atico Geracao de Energia  to pay for
greenfield projects and new plants, said Gustavo Almeida
Magalhaes, a board member of Bolt Energias.  “The interest of pension funds has increased due to the
falling Selic as their returns on sovereign debt are falling
below actuarial targets,” Magalhaes said in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo. “So they’ve sought to understand and invest in
these FIPs to try to manage their assets better.”  Legal Security  Pension funds began investing in FIPs in 2009. The
investments grew to 13.4 billion reais at the end of the first
half of 2012, or 2.3 percent of total investments, compared with
11.9 billion reais in 2011, according to Abrapp. That compares
to 372 billion reais invested in sovereign debt. Structured
investments including FIPs have paid pension funds an average
annualized 11 percent this year, compared to 8 percent for fixed
income and a loss of 0.6 percent for stocks, according to
Abrapp.  While demand for FIPs is growing, funds are concerned that
the government can intervene in infrastructure projects as they
are in the public interest, creating risk for investors, said
Jose Tarcisio Bezerra, head of pension fund Faelce, which
manages 822 million reais of investments for employees of energy
distributor Coelce.  Rousseff on Sept. 11 unveiled a plan to force power
companies to cut rates by as much as 28 percent to boost
competitiveness after manufacturers said the rates are the
world’s fourth-highest. The market value of Brazil’s 15 biggest
power utilities has declined by about $8.5 billion since.  “To become heavily invested in government infrastructure
like Chile, we still need more legal security,” Bezerra said.
“Look at the electricity sector. Imagine if we had invested in
a company like Cemig. The sector looks great on paper but there
came a moment when the government stepped in.”  Rising Demand  The volume of FIPs will outpace last year with seven new
funds registered through Nov. 1 for 3.1 billion reais and an
eighth fund for 500 million reais in the pipeline, according to
Brazil’s regulatory agency. Last year’s registered FIPs totaled
3.2 billion reais.  The pension fund association is in talks with BNDES to
create new investment vehicles, including a so-called fund of
funds in which the  development bank  could be involved to
encourage pension funds to invest, that would buy stakes in FIPs
of infrastructure companies, Mendonca said. A BNDES official in
Rio de Janeiro didn’t respond to requests for comment.  “At the end of the day, we need to pay out benefits to our
participants,” Mendonca said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  