-- Prudential Records $618 Million Loss on Derivatives
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-07T22:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/prudential-records-618-million-loss-on-derivatives.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, swung to a loss in the third
quarter as derivatives weighed on results.  The net loss of $618 million compares with a profit of
$1.59 billion a year earlier,  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential said today in a statement. Operating profit, which
excludes the results of policies sold before the firm went
public and some investments, was $1.53 a share, missing the
$1.67  average estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld is trimming
expenses and deploying cash for deals and buybacks as he targets
a return on equity of at least 13 percent next year. ROE, a
measure of profitability, was 11 percent to 11.5 percent last
year, Strangfeld said Feb. 15. The insurer uses derivatives to
guard against market risks such as interest-rate drops and
currency fluctuations.  “The U.S. business, with the low interest-rate environment
here, is going to be somewhat challenged,” Edward Shields, an
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said before results
were announced. “They’re either going to have to cut expenses
generally speaking, accelerate share buybacks, or increase the
bottom line contribution from the international segment,” to
achieve the ROE target.  Prudential boosted its annual dividend to $1.60 a share
from $1.45, the company said in a separate statement. The
insurer plans to begin making payouts quarterly in 2013.  Derivatives Loss  The insurer fell 42 cents to $54.97 at 4:48 p.m. in New
York after the announcement. It declined 4.6 percent to $55.39
earlier in regular trading. Prudential has climbed  11 percent 
this year, outpacing the 4.5 percent advance of  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,
the largest U.S. life insurer.  Prudential recorded a pretax loss of $684 million from
derivatives, including contracts used to hedge risks from
products it sells. The insurer also lost $521 million before
taxes on foreign currency derivatives, primarily from
fluctuations in the value of the yen.  A $698 million charge tied to long-term-care insurance
reflects updated loss projections, the firm said. Prudential
stopped selling group and individual policies this year, joining
rivals including MetLife in retreating from the industry amid
rising costs and low interest rates.  Prudential agreed in September to buy Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc.’s individual life-insurance business for
$615 million as Hartford focuses on property-casualty coverage.
The deal may help Prudential reach the ROE goal,  Eric Berg , an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets, wrote in a note in September.  Unit Results  The international insurance segment adjusted operating
income rose to $783 million in the quarter from $660 million a
year earlier. Prudential said in September that return on equity
in the international business may be as high as 19 percent next
year, compared with 17.5 percent in 2011. Prudential is working
to cut expenses after its 2011 acquisition of two Japan-based
life insurers from  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Adjusted operating income at the U.S. retirement-solutions
and investment-management unit surged to $504 million from
$42 million. The business sells annuities and oversees funds for
investors. Gross annuities sales rose 32 percent to $5.93
billion.  Prudential was the largest seller of the retirement
products known as variable annuities in the first six months of
this year, while MetLife was No. 3, according to industry group
 Limra . Low interest rates can weigh on profits from the savings
products while rising stocks can boost them.  Goodwill Expense  MetLife reported a $1.6 billion goodwill impairment in its
U.S. annuities unit in the third quarter as low interest rates
reduced expectations for future profits. The New York-based
insurer reported a net loss of $954 million as the impairment
and derivatives weighed on results.  The write-off “does not bode well for the industry” and
other insurers may report similar charges, Neil Strauss, a
senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service, wrote in a
Nov. 5 report. “A prolonged period of low interest rates is bad
for insurers, resulting not only in lower investment earnings
and profit compression on spread-based products, but also higher
reserve increases and meaningful writedowns of goodwill.”  Strangfeld, 58, is also boosting Prudential’s pension
business, agreeing last month to assume $7.5 billion of
retirement-plan obligations from Verizon Communications Inc.
General Motors Co. paid Prudential a premium of about $25
billion to take on pension obligations for about 110,000
retirees, the insurer said Nov. 2.  Book value was $79.51 a share at Prudential’s main business
as of Sept. 30. The measure of assets minus liabilities was
$78.07 three months earlier.  Prudential is in the final stage of a regulatory review to
be designated a non-bank systemically important financial
institution, the company said last month. Firms in that category
could see dividends and buybacks curbed as regulators try to
prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  