-- Qualcomm Value Surpasses Intel’s on Robust Smartphone Demand
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-11-08T16:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/qualcomm-forecasts-sales-profit-that-exceed-analysts-estimates.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  gained a bigger market
value than  Intel Corp. (INTC)  for the first time after it forecast
results that topped analysts’ predictions, adding to evidence
that smartphones are gaining ground at the expense of computers.  Shares of San Diego-based Qualcomm jumped 7.1 percent to
$62.24 as of 11:09 a.m. in  New York , giving the largest seller
of mobile-phone semiconductors a market capitalization of about
$106 billion, higher than Intel’s $105 billion.  Qualcomm reached the milestone after forecasting earnings
and sales this quarter that showed robust demand for handheld
devices. Under Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs , the company
is gaining as consumers in developed nations snap up pricey new
phones while those in  emerging markets  upgrade to devices that
provide Web access. Intel, a laggard in the market for mobile-
phone chips, is being hurt by slack personal-computer sales.  “Qualcomm has absolutely been one of the prime
beneficiaries in smartphones and tablets,” said Mike Burton, an
analyst at Brean Capital LLC. “This is a very strong report.”  The company said in a statement yesterday that this
quarter’s earnings will be 90 cents to 98 cents a share on
revenue of $5.6 billion to $6.1 billion. Analysts on average had
projected net income of 86 cents on sales of $5.33 billion,
according to data  compiled  by Bloomberg.  Qualcomm stock rose as much as 8.1 percent, the biggest
intraday increase in a year. It had increased 6.3 percent this
year through yesterday, while shares of  Santa Clara , California-
based Intel had slumped 14 percent.  Constraints Eased  Qualcomm’s Jacobs said earnings are being bolstered by
strong worldwide demand for smartphones, emerging-market
consumers upgrading to more expensive handsets and increasing
supply of his latest chips. The company sees those trends
persisting next year, even though its projections are based on a
“conservative” view of global economic growth, he said.  “There are a lot of trends that are coming together for
us,” Jacobs said in a telephone interview. “Demand continues
to go up.”  The company is also generating more revenue from its
licenses, which cover the technology that provides high-speed
data connections in smartphones.  Qualcomm had said earlier this year that limited supply
from contract manufacturer Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. was requiring it to increase spending and enlist other
vendors. Shortages had forced some customers to postpone the
introduction of new smartphone models. Those phones are now
going on sale, lifting Qualcomm’s chip sales and licensing
revenue.  Fourth Quarter  Net income in the fourth quarter, which ended Sept. 30, was
$1.27 billion, or 73 cents a share, compared with $1.06 billion,
or 62 cents, a year earlier. Sales rose 18 percent to $4.87
billion. Analysts on average had predicted sales of $4.65
billion.  Profit before certain items in fiscal 2013 will be $4.12 to
$4.32 a share on revenue of $23 billion to $24 billion, Qualcomm
said in the statement. Analysts on average had projected profit
of $4.13 a share and sales of $21.7 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  majority  of Qualcomm’s revenue comes from baseband
chips, which connect phones to cellular networks,  sold to 
wireless device makers such as Samsung Electronics Co., Apple
Inc. and  HTC Corp. (2498)  The bulk of the company’s profit comes from
the licensing of so-called code division multiple access
technology, a radio-communications standard used in other chips,
handsets and phone systems.  Microsoft’s Windows  Some 711.4 million smartphones will be sold this year, a
gain of 44 percent, Canaccord Genuity Inc. analysts projected in
a report. The market will grow 35.4 percent next year, the
analysts estimated.  Qualcomm’s licensing revenue is calculated as a percentage
of the average selling price of phones. That’s been bolstered by
increasing use of 3G connections in developing markets such as
 China , and growing demand for smartphones in Western Europe, the
U.S. and parts of  East Asia .  The company is also expanding into the market for
application processors, the chips that run programs in phones
and tablet computers, and will be supplying its Snapdragon
product to computer makers using the new version of Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows operating system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  