-- Rangers’ Darvish Won’t Pitch for Japan in World Baseball Classic
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/rangers-darvish-won-t-pitch-for-japan-in-world-baseball-classic.html
Yu Darvish of the  Texas Rangers  said
he won’t pitch for  Japan  at the World Baseball Classic, citing
his workload over the past few seasons and a desire to be rested
for the 2013 Major League Baseball campaign.  Japan captured the first two WBC titles and Darvish got the
win in relief in the 2009 championship game, when Japan defeated
 South Korea  5-3 in 10 innings.  “This was a very difficult decision for me as it is always
a tremendous honor to represent my native country,” Darvish
said in a statement. “I greatly enjoyed being a part of the
2009 championship ballclub and I will be supporting this year’s
team as they look to defend their title. There are many very
talented players in Japan and I am confident this team will
uphold Japan’s great tradition.”  The 2013 WBC begins March 2, when Japan opens pool play in
Fukuoka as part of a group that includes Cuba,  China  and a
regional qualifier to be determined. The WBC championship game
in  San Francisco  is scheduled for March 19, two weeks before the
Rangers open the regular season.  Darvish, a 26-year-old right-hander, came to the U.S. for
the 2012 major league season after the Rangers paid a record
$51.7 million fee for the right to negotiate with the two-time
Most Valuable Player in Japan’s Pacific League.  After receiving a six-year, $60 million contract, Darvish
had a 16-9 record with a 3.90 earned run average in 29 starts
for the Rangers and made the American League All-Star team.  “Given my substantial workload over the last few seasons
and the  numerous changes I’ve endured in my move to the  United
States , I have decided with my team of advisers that getting
ample rest is the most important thing for me right now as I
prepare for the 2013 season,” Darvish said.  Darvish said his ultimate goal is to help the Rangers win a
World Series and share that accomplishment with baseball fans in
Japan. After losing in the World Series in 2010 and 2011, the
Rangers went 93-69 during the 2012 season and were knocked out
of the playoffs with a 5-1 home loss against the  Baltimore
Orioles  in the AL wild card game. Darvish was the losing pitcher,
allowing three runs over 6 2/3 innings.  The Rangers said in a statement that they support Darvish’s
“very difficult decision.”  “He made an outstanding transition in his first year in
 Major League Baseball  and we look forward to another strong
season from him in 2013,” the team said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  