-- Treasuries Remain Higher After $24 Billion 10-Year Note Auction
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-11-07T18:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/treasuries-remain-higher-after-24-billion-10-year-note-auction.html
     Nov. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Treasuries remained higher after the
U.S. sold $24 billion of 10-year notes as President  Barack
Obama ’s re-election bolstered speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will stick to its policy of buying bonds to support the economy.  The notes drew a yield of 1.675 percent, compared with a
forecast of 1.674 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of
the Federal Reserve’s primary dealers. The  bid-to-cover  ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 2.59, versus an average of 3.08 for the
past 10 sales. Treasuries gained earlier as Obama and Congress
face the so-called fiscal cliff, $600 billion of tax increases
and budget cuts scheduled to take effect next year.  “Demand is pretty strong for the 10-year sector,”  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in  New York  at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said before the sale. As a primary dealer, the
firm is obliged to bid in U.S. debt auctions. “We still have
the fiscal cliff ahead of us, the Fed’s policy is not going to
change any time soon, and bond funds that were reluctant to buy
heading into the election are more willing to buy now.”  The  yield  on the current 10-year note dropped 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 1.64 percent at 1:04 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Earlier
it touched 1.62 percent, the lowest level since Oct. 3.  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 39.7 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 39.4 percent at the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 14.1 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 18.7 percent at the past
10 auctions.  Ten-year  U.S. debt  has gained 3.6 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes,
outperforming the 1.8 percent gain in the broader Treasury
market. The notes returned 17 percent in 2011, versus a 9.8
percent gain by Treasuries overall.  The Treasury is due to auction $16 billion of 30-year debt
tomorrow after selling $32 billion of three-year notes
yesterday.  While Obama, a Democrat, defeated Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  narrowly in the popular vote, he achieved an
electoral sweep by carrying the crucial states of Colorado, Ohio
and Virginia. With Florida too close to call, Obama had captured
303 Electoral College votes, well beyond the 270 needed to win
the White House.  Republican House  Republicans kept a majority in the  House of
Representatives , and Democrats retained control of the Senate.  Obama was re-elected with the highest jobless rate of any
president returned to office since  Franklin Roosevelt  in 1936.
Unemployment was at 7.9 percent in October.  Ever since  Lyndon B. Johnson  defeated  Barry Goldwater  for
the presidency in 1964, yields on 10-year Treasuries have
dropped about 40 basis points in the first month when a Democrat
wins, and risen 19 after a Republican victory, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. may lose its AAA credit rating next year if the
government fails to resolve the fiscal cliff, provide a timely
increase in the debt ceiling and reduce the deficit, according
to  Fitch Ratings . The automatic spending cuts and tax increases
might push the U.S. back into recession.  “Failure to avoid the fiscal cliff and raise the debt
ceiling in a timely manner as well as securing agreement on
credible  deficit reduction  would likely result in a rating
downgrade in 2013,” Fitch said today in a statement.  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit
rating on Aug. 5, 2011, after months of political wrangling that
pushed the nation to the deadline for an agreement to lift the
debt ceiling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  