-- Three Election Myths Busted by Obama’s Re-Election
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-11-07T04:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/three-election-myths-busted-by-obama-s-re-election.html
President  Barack Obama ’s victory
today instantly destroys three myths of this  election .  Pocketbook issues are decisive.  Throughout the year, the economy and jobs were the top
concerns of voters. And until the end,  polls  gave  Mitt Romney 
much better marks than Obama on the question of which candidate
would better handle the economy and create jobs.  It turns out that voters placed a greater premium on other
qualities and picked the candidate they thought would be “on the
side of people like me” and would “be better for the middle
class.”  The last time a president was re-elected when the
unemployment rate was above 7.2 percent was 1936, when Franklin D. Roosevelt won big. Republicans thought Obama would be like
Jimmy Carter in 1980 -- wiped out by a bad economy. But Carter’s
opponent, Ronald Reagan, wasn’t perceived as out of touch. Maybe
next time, Republicans won’t nominate a candidate who has a car
elevator in his house.  Aerial assaults beat ground troops.  For generations, campaign fundraising and strategy have
revolved around TV  ads . We had a bumper crop of them this year
-- and they were overwhelmingly negative on both sides -- but
they are no longer dominant.  Obama decided that he would spend most of his early money
building the largest and most sophisticated political
organization in U.S. history -- a new Digital Machine in the
Chicago home of the old Daley Machine.  Romney, in part out of necessity (the Republican primary
contests), opted for a huge aerial bombardment after Labor Day.
With the help of more than $300 million in ads by so-called
super-PACs, he bet that voters still get most of their
information from TV commercials during their favorite shows.  Yet the combination of new technology (people have more
ways to skip ads) and the focus on just a handful of
battleground states meant that pro-Romney forces quickly hit a
saturation point. Never have so many rich men wasted so
much money so quickly.  Obama’s crack field organization compensated for what had
appeared to be a decrease in enthusiasm this year compared with
2008. By also developing a successful small-donor program that
gave ordinary citizens a stake in the process, Obama struck a
blow for grassroots, small “d” democracy over TV ads.  U.S. democracy is seamless.  The Soviet-style three-hour lines at polling places in
several areas are disgusting and depressing. Voting is a sacred
right. No one should have to wait that long. Shouldn’t we be
able to agree on that?  In a second term, Obama can help repair democratic
traditions that were trampled on in this election.  (Jonathan Alter is a columnist for Bloomberg
View. Follow him  on Twitter .)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 