-- Renetec May Raise 30% of 1 Trillion Won Tidal Project in Equity
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-11-07T02:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/renetec-may-raise-30-of-1-trillion-won-tidal-project-in-equity.html
South Korea ’s  Renetec Co. , managing a
1 trillion won ($917 million) project to generate power from
tidal currents, said it will raise as much as 30 percent of
required funds in equity and the rest through  project financing .  “Our equity partners are being asked to get a certain
percentage of their energy from renewables so there won’t be any
challenge to raise 200 billion won to 300 billion won from
them,” Chief Executive Officer  Park Jong Seon , 52, said in an
interview in Seoul. “For the debt portion, we’ll start
fundraising in May 2014” as most funds will be needed starting
2015 and terms could be better then.  Renetec highlights a push by renewable energy companies to
tap larger industrial groups for funds. Backers of Renetec’s
project include  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP) ;  Hyundai Amco Co. , a
construction unit of Hyundai Motor Group; and the local
governments of Jeollanamdo and Jindo Island.  Globally, sixteen tidal projects of more than 200 megawatts
are in development using competing technologies, Milo Sjardin,
the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific analysis at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance, said in an email.  “Location is naturally important if you’re talking about
tidal, but once you have that as well as government support, you
still need a good, reliable technology and an experienced
project developer that can execute the project well,” he said.  Pilot Turbine  Renetec estimates its 200-megawatt tidal project 420
kilometers (261 miles) southwest of Seoul will be the world’s
first and biggest of its kind. The park will use tidal currents
to generate power for as many as 180,000 homes when the second
phase of installation is completed in 2016.  Seoul-based Renetec set up a venture in 2007 with Voith
Hydro Holding GmbH & Co., the world’s largest water power
generating group, to produce tidal turbines. The Wando island,
South Korea-based venture is set to install a 1-megawatt
prototype tidal current turbine off the U.K. coast in February
before manufacturing one for the Korean project, Park said.  Renetec, established in 2001, plans to almost double its
workforce next year, Park said, adding that an initial public
offering is planned for  Korea  in 2015. Renetec aims to obtain
related licenses and approvals for the 200-megawatt tidal
project by early 2014, Park said.  The company plans to ask the government to consider
offering incentives for power from tidal projects, said Park,
owner of a 25 percent stake in Renetec.  South Korea introduced a renewable-energy quota this year
requiring that the nation’s 14 generators boost renewable
sources to 2 percent. The mandatory quota for the proportion of
electricity generated by renewables will be increased to 10
percent in 2022.  “Once we finish the project, we will go to overseas
markets with that track record,” Park said. “We are already
tapping potential locations in  Asia  for tidal parks.”  The  Philippines ,  Malaysia ,  Indonesia ,  Australia  and  New
Zealand  would be the best potential destinations in Asia for
tidal parks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  