-- Republicans Keep House Majority While Losing Six Seats
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-11-07T21:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/republicans-keep-house-majority-while-losing-six-seats.html
Republicans retained control of the
 House of Representatives , losing a half-dozen seats to Democrats
even as President Barack Obama won a second term and Senate
Democrats expanded their majority.  Congressional redistricting, which Republicans controlled
in 26 states, plus the retirement of Democrats who represented
Republican-leaning districts helped minimize net gains by
Democrats.  With 98 percent of the 435 House races called by the
 Associated Press , Republicans won 236 seats, including one that
will be determined by a Louisiana runoff between two
Republicans. They were leading in one more. Democrats were
victorious in 191 contests and led in seven others. Control of
the chamber requires 218 votes.  Republicans currently have 240 seats compared with 190 for
Democrats and five vacancies. Two of the vacancies were held by
Republicans and three by Democrats.  House Speaker  John Boehner  challenged Obama to find common
ground with Republicans, who he said also received a mandate in
yesterday’s election. Obama’s agenda includes raising taxes on
the wealthiest Americans to help reduce the  U.S. budget deficit ,
while Republicans have resisted higher taxes on anyone.  “We need to plan for a serious process, focused on
substance, not on theatrics,” Boehner told reporters.  Democratic Districts  Defeated Republican incumbents such as Bob Dold and  Judy Biggert  in Illinois lost in Democratic-leaning districts. House
Democrats who lost were defeated in Republican-leaning
districts. They included Kathy Hochul in New York, Mark Critz in
Pennsylvania and Larry Kissell in  North Carolina .  Several freshman Republicans elected in 2010 with Tea Party
movement support were defeated. They included Chip Cravaack of
Minnesota,  Joe Walsh  of Illinois and Nan Hayworth of New York.
Two others, Frank Guinta of New Hampshire and Ann Marie Buerkle
of New York, both lost to Democrats whom they had unseated from
the House two years ago.  In Florida, freshman Republican  Allen West , who also rode
the Tea Party wave to Congress in 2010, was requesting a
recount. Democratic challenger Patrick Murphy led by 2,456 votes
out of 318,200 cast.  Medicare Plan  Hochul’s defeat in western New York by Republican
businessman  Chris Collins  was emblematic of House Democrats’
failure to score political gains by attacking the House
Republican plan to partially privatize Medicare. She won a
special 2011 election by accusing her opponent of supporting the
Medicare plan to finance tax cuts for millionaires.  Democratic House candidates redoubled their attacks on the
Medicare plan after its architect, House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, was picked by Republican presidential nominee
Mitt Romney to be his running mate.  “Democrats took their best shot on that issue and they
missed,” said  Jack Pitney , a political scientist at Claremont
McKenna College in Claremont, California.  “If I am a conservative Republican, I take this as an
indication that entitlement reform is not necessarily a killer
issue” for Democrats to use against Republicans, Pitney said.  The election may not make compromise on tax and spending
issues any easier.  Fiscal Cliff  Lawmakers may have to address the so-called fiscal cliff of
tax increases and spending cuts that would start in January if
Congress doesn’t act in a lame-duck session that begins later
this month.  Republicans, capitalizing on their control of 26 state
legislatures to redraw districts in those states, picked up
three seats in North Carolina.  Kissell was defeated by Republican businessman Richard
Hudson. Republicans also won seats vacated by Democrats Heath Shuler and  Brad Miller . Both decided to retire after their
districts were redrawn to include more Republican voters.  By controlling redistricting in so many states, Republicans
“were able to use that as a firewall to Democratic gains,”
said  David Rohde , a political science professor at  Duke
University  in Durham, North Carolina.  Republicans picked up a Democratic seat in Indiana due to
another House retirement. Republican Jackie Walorski defeated
Democrat Brendan Mullen for the seat now held by Democrat Joe Donnelly, who was elected to the Senate.  The defeat of socially moderate Republicans Biggert and
Dold along with Charlie Bass in New Hampshire means that in the
new Congress “Republicans will be more conservative,” Rohde
said.  Democratic gains in some places were offset by losses to
Republicans elsewhere. In  Kentucky , Democratic Representative
Ben Chandler was defeated by Republican Andy Barr in a rematch
of their 2010 contest.  Barr ran ads accusing Chandler of helping Obama wage a
“war on coal” by voting for climate-change legislation when
Democrats controlled the House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  