-- Republican Flake Defeats Carmona for Arizona U.S. Senate Seat
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-11-07T05:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/republican-flake-defeats-carmona-for-arizona-u-s-senate-seat.html
Six-term U.S. Representative Jeff Flake, a Republican, defeated Democrat Richard Carmona to win an
open U.S. Senate seat in  Arizona .  The race for the seat being vacated by retiring Senator  Jon Kyl , a Republican, grew tight in the final weeks of the
campaign. Carmona, a decorated Special Forces veteran and U.S.
surgeon general in President  George W. Bush ’s administration,
leveraged his biography and bipartisan credentials to cast
himself as an independent thinker.  Carmona, 63, said during his campaign that both parties
often got it wrong on health care and other issues, while
criticizing Flake’s record.  Flake, who entered the race as the front-runner, campaigned
on the issue of fiscal discipline. He sought to link Carmona to
President  Barack Obama , who encouraged Carmona to run, and said
he would be a “ rubber stamp ” for Democratic leaders. Flake,
49, also questioned Carmona’s temperament, with ads featuring a
former female boss who said Carmona had problems with his temper
and with women.  In the final weeks of the campaign, Carmona infuriated
Republicans with  a television ad  featuring clips of Kyl and U.S.
Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican and the party’s 2008
presidential nominee, praising Carmona during his 2002
confirmation hearings for the surgeon general post. Kyl and
McCain endorsed Flake and appeared in a  subsequent commercial  in
which they said Carmona’s ad showed a lack of integrity.  Outside groups  spent millions  of dollars in the final weeks
of the campaign as polls showed the candidates in a close race.
Tea Party-affiliated FreedomWorks for America and the Club for
Growth were among the groups supporting Flake, while Carmona
benefited from spending by the environmental group  League of
Conservation Voters  and the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees union.  Flake had the financial advantage: he raised about $1.2
million more than Carmona and had more outside spending on his
behalf, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a
Washington-based research group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  