-- Rio Says World Cup a Bust as Congress Strips State of Taxes
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-11-07T19:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/rio-says-world-cup-a-bust-as-congress-strips-state-of-taxes-2-.html
Rio de Janeiro state said it may not
be ready to host the 2014  World Cup  and 2016  Olympic Games  after
Brazil’s Congress voted to strip 6 percent of the state’s annual
budget.  Legislators passed a bill yesterday that would cost Rio 4
billion reais ($2 billion) next year by redistributing oil
royalties, according to Governor Sergio Cabral. The lower house
of Congress  voted  286-124 to give non-producing states and towns
a bigger share of offshore oil revenue, which amounted to 24.2
billion reais in 2011.  Facing $13.5 billion in stadium and transportation projects
planned for the events, with many behind schedule, Cabral said
the new law threatens to derail the games and send the state
into financial collapse. The state’s budget is 62 billion reais
this year, according to its  website .  “It’s absolutely not viable,” Cabral told reporters in
Brasilia today. “We are going to close our doors. We won’t do
the Olympics, we won’t do the Cup.”  The bill, which passed the Senate last year, now needs
President Dilma Rousseff’s signature. Oil-producing states say
that redistributing royalties from fields currently in
production amounts to breaking contracts, and have said they
will challenge the law in the courts. Rousseff won’t sign an
unconstitutional law, Cabral said.  New Blocks  The distribution of royalties in the world’s 13th-largest
crude oil producer must be established by the end of January in
order to hold the so-called Round 11 auction for new exploration
in May, according to Brazil’s oil regulator.  Oil companies 
including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  have
been waiting since 2008 for the country to offer new exploration
areas. No offshore blocks have been auctioned since 2007, when
it announced at least 50 billion barrels of crude reserves off
the southern coast.  Brazil plans to auction more pre-salt blocks, so named
because the oil lies under 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) of the
mineral, in November of next year, Energy Minister Edison Lobao
said in September.  The royalties bill has been stalled since 2009 because oil-
producing states, especially Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo,
have resisted demands from other states for a bigger share of
the bonanza, arguing that the producing regions must be
compensated for environmental risks and infrastructure costs.  Rising Output  As  Brazil ’s crude  output  has risen, total royalty income
jumped to 13 billion reais in 2011 from 9.9 billion reais in
2010, according to the country’s oil regulator.  Drawn-out conflict over the royalties bill could affect
plans for next year’s oil auctions, according to Joao Augusto de Castro Neves, a Latin America analyst at Eurasia Group.  “Resuming oil auctions next year is at stake,” Neves said
in a telephone interview from Washington D.C. “If you don’t
have a clear definition of what the legal framework is going to
be like, you could delay those auctions. I think it’s unlikely
that she will decide to veto, but there will be some noise.”  Rousseff is still studying the outcome of yesterday’s vote,
her press office said in an e-mailed statement.  The president will face pressure from all sides, according
to Andre Pereira, political analyst with consulting firm
Perspectiva.  Prolonged Battle  “She’s between a rock and a hard place, having to choose
between upsetting a few close allies and a lot of non-producing
states,” Pereira said in a telephone interview from Brasilia.
“This battle won’t be over soon.”  Brazil will definitely hold oil auctions next year,
Institutional Affairs Minister Ideli Salvatti said to reporters
in Brasilia today.  As the pre-salt fields go into production, offshore royalty
income is projected by Brazil’s  Energy Ministry  to gush to 54.5
billion reais by 2020. Including onshore output, the government
forecasts 60 billion reais in annual royalties in eight years.  The new rules don’t alter royalties paid by companies such
as state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s biggest
producer in waters deeper than 1,000 feet (305 meters).  Producers including Shell, Total and Statoil have expressed
interest in competing in Round 11, which includes 174
exploration licenses on land and off Brazil’s northeastern
coast.  Billionaire  Eike Batista  has granted  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  a $1 billion  put option  to help the  oil company 
he controls participate in the bidding.  Companies including Petrobras and OGX have found oil and
gas near the auction areas. One third of the oil found in the
world over the past five years is located below Brazilian
waters,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report on Sept. 12.  Oil companies will probably spend about $1 billion for the
rights to explore the 174 blocks, Joao Carlos de Luca, the head
of the Brazilian Institute of Petroleum, an industry group, said
Sept. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 