-- Romanian Leu Retreats From One-Month High; Bond Yields Decline
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-11-07T15:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/romanian-leu-retreats-from-one-month-high-bond-yields-decline.html
Romania ’s leu snapped a four-day
rally, retreating from its strongest level in more than a month.  The currency weakened 0.1 percent to 4.5183 per euro by
5:10 p.m. in Bucharest, after strengthening 0.2 percent to the
highest since Sept. 24 in intraday trading, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on 2019 Eurobonds declined five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.97 percent.  Governor Mugur Isarescu said on Nov. 2 he is limiting
funding at the central bank’s weekly repurchase agreement
auctions and intervening in the foreign-exchange market to
support the currency. Policy makers may also use other tools
should the “pressure on the  exchange rate  continue,” he said
today at a conference in Bucharest.  “The challenge now for the central bank is to maintain an
optimal mix between capping liquidity -- so that the money
market rates do not increase dramatically -- and the
intervention in the foreign-exchange market,” analysts
including Bucharest-based Mihaela Neagu from OTP Bank Nyrt.
wrote in a note today.  The central bank maintained a cap on funding to lenders at
4 billion lei ($1.1 billion) on Nov. 5, compared with 5 billion
lei it offered on Oct. 22, 6 billion lei on Oct. 8 and 12.6
billion lei on Oct. 1. Demand at the repo auction was 15.6
billion lei.  The relative strength index on euro against the leu fell to
33 yesterday, indicating the leu rallied too far relative to the
common European currency. The pair rebounded to 35 today.  “If the pressure on leu by investors’ positions or by
other internal and external elements will continue then we may
have to take other measures” to prop up the currency, Isarescu
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net 
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  