-- Romania Raises CPI Forecasts on Food, Weighs Policy ‘Carefully’
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-11-07T14:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/romania-raises-cpi-forecasts-on-food-weighs-policy-carefully-.html
Romania ’s central bank raised its
inflation forecasts through next year as a jump in food prices
prompted policy makers to “carefully” look at ways to tighten
monetary policy during a time of faltering economic growth.  Inflation will end this year at 5.1 percent, above the
bank’s target, and slow to 3.5 percent at the end of 2013, Banca
Nationala a Romaniei Governor Mugur Isarescu said in a news
conference on the bank’s quarterly inflation report in Bucharest
today. That compares with an Aug. 6 forecast of 3.2 percent for
this year and 3 percent for end-2013.  “This year’s target will be exceeded mainly because of an
increase in volatile prices, which the central bank cannot
control through its interest-rate policy,” Isarescu said. “We
have a demand deficit that will permanently drag the inflation
rate down. We have to think carefully about the policy
tightening because of the significant demand deficit.”  Romanian policy makers have kept  interest rates  unchanged
at a meeting on Nov. 2, this year’s last, to aid a faltering
economic recovery and turned to other means to tighten monetary
policy as inflation jumped temporarily to a one-year high.  The central bank maintained a cap on funding to lenders at
4 billion lei ($1.1 billion) for a second week on Nov. 5,
compared with 5 billion lei it offered on Oct. 22, 6 billion lei
on Oct. 8 and 12.6 billion lei on Oct. 1.  Isarescu said the central bank is limiting liquidity at
weekly repurchase operations and intervening in the foreign-
exchange market to prop up the currency, which reflects a
tightening of monetary policy. The recent pickup in inflation is
“transitory,” he said.  Food, Energy  Inflation accelerated more than forecast to 5.3 percent,
the fastest in more than a year in September, because of rising
food and energy costs, above the central bank’s third-quarter
forecast of 3.5 percent.  The bank has a 2012 inflation target of 2 percent to 4
percent and a stationary target of 2.5 percent, plus or minus
one percentage point, from 2013. The median estimate of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for inflation to end this
year at 5.2 percent.  The inflation rate will peak at 5.6 percent in the second
quarter of next year because of higher food prices, which have a
33 percent weight in Romania’s inflation basket, one of the
highest in  Europe , Isarescu said. The rate will drop within the
targeted band in the first quarter of 2014, according to the
bank’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  