-- Rottneros Shares Rise After $52.6 Million Bid From Arctic Paper
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2012-11-07T10:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/rottneros-shares-rise-after-52-6-million-bid-from-arctic-paper.html
Rottneros AB (RROS)  climbed the most in more
than a year in Stockholm after  Arctic Paper SA (ATC)  made an  offer 
that valued the Swedish maker of pulp at about 351 million
kronor ($52.6 million).  The shares rose as much as 12 percent, the biggest intraday
jump since October last year. Stockholm-based Rottneros traded
6.5 percent up at 2.14 kronor as of 11:01 a.m.  Shareholders would get 0.1872 new Arctic Paper shares for
every Rottneros share, Arctic Paper said today in a statement.
Holders of 2,000 or fewer shares may also opt for a cash offer
of 2.30 kronor per Rottneros share. The bid offers a premium of
14.4 percent compared with the price when trading in the shares
was halted yesterday, according to the statement.  The new company will have better operational capacity, a
stronger balance sheet and better access to the  capital market ,
Kostrzyn, Poland-based Arctic Paper said. The maker of graphic
fine paper has two paper mills in  Sweden , one in Poland and one
in Germany while Rottneros operates two pulp mills in Sweden.  “The merger creates a natural hedge against fluctuations
in the pulp price for the new group,” Arctic Paper said in the
statement. “The merger will also mean decreased exposure for
the new group toward non-European currencies, mainly the  U.S.
dollar .”  Rottneros’ board unanimously supports the offer and
shareholders representing 28.7 percent of shares and votes have
stated they’re in favor of bid.  Arctic Paper predicted annual savings of about 80 million
kronor would be fully realized within 12 to 18 months. The
company plans a listing in  Stockholm  beside the primary listing
in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 