-- Trulia’s Sales Surge as Real Estate Agents Use Mobile
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/trulia-s-sales-surge-as-real-estate-agents-use-mobile.html
Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , the real estate-
information website that sold shares to the public in September,
said third-quarter sales surged 76 percent as agents and
advertisers bolstered spending on mobile devices and the housing
market showed signs of recovery.  Revenue climbed to $18.5 million from $10.5 million a year
earlier, the San Francisco-based company said yesterday in a
statement. The net loss widened to $1.69 million, or 19 cents a
share, from $1.5 million, or 22 cents. Analysts predicted sales
of $17 million, according to the average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Trulia is taking on larger rival  Zillow Inc. (Z) , which sold
shares to the public in July 2011, by developing smartphone
applications designed to reach prospective homebuyers on the
move. That’s leading agents to buy mobile subscriptions so they
can communicate with more consumers and luring advertisers who
need to reach those users. The company is also benefiting from a
recovery in the housing market after a six-year slump.  “Our business works well in a downturn, but we feel better
in an upturn,” Chief Executive Officer Pete Flint said in an
interview yesterday. “With momentum in the housing market, the
amount of money in the ecosystem expands.”  Prices for single-family homes rose in 81 percent of U.S.
cities in the third quarter, according to a report yesterday
from the National Association of Realtors. U.S. home prices
jumped 5 percent in September from a year earlier, the biggest
increase since July 2006, data provider CoreLogic Inc. said this
week.  Mobile Growth  Trulia forecast revenue in the current quarter of $18.8
million to $19.2 million, an increase of at least 60 percent
from prior year sales of $11.7 million. Analysts on average
predicted sales of $18 million.  The  stock  declined less than 1 percent to $21.46 at
yesterday’s close in  New York , and has jumped 26 percent since
the IPO.  Zillow plunged 18 percent on Nov. 6 after forecasting
fourth-quarter sales that trailed analysts’ estimates. The
Seattle-based company said revenue in the third quarter rose 67
percent to $31.9 million.  Trulia generates revenue by selling subscriptions to real
estate professionals that allow them to reach homebuyers and by
selling ads on the Web and mobile devices. Monthly unique
visitors rose to 25 million from 22 million as of June and
average monthly revenue per subscriber rose 45 percent to $154
from a year earlier.  The number of mobile users more than doubled from the
previous year to 5.8 million a month.  “Trulia’s mobile apps also drive engagement by arming
consumers with detailed property insights regardless of
location, and serve as a significant lead generation for
agents,” wrote Kerry Rice, an analyst at Needham & Co., in an
Oct. 15 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  