-- Russia Relieved Obama Keeps Critic From White House
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-11-13T13:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/russia-relieved-obama-keeps-kremlin-critic-from-white-house-2-.html
(Corrects story published on Nov. 7 to fix analyst’s job
title in 11th paragraph.)  Russia welcomed President  Barack Obama ’s re-election, expressing relief at the defeat of a
Republican candidate who named Russia the No. 1 U.S.
geopolitical foe.  Speaking today to reporters in Hanoi, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said he was “happy the president of such a major and
very influential state won’t be someone who considers Russia
enemy No. 1.” President Vladimir Putin sent congratulations to
his U.S. counterpart, saying he hoped for more “constructive
joint work,” according to the Kremlin.  Romney declared during the campaign that Russia is the top
rival to U.S. interests, prompting Democratic criticism that his
approach to the veto-wielding United Nations Security Council
permanent member is naive as the two countries are cooperating
on areas such as talks over Iran’s nuclear program and the anti-
Taliban drive in  Afghanistan .  Obama’s victory over  Mitt Romney  “means that there won’t
be a political twin of George W. Bush and an open enemy of
Russia in the White House,” Alexei Pushkov, head of the lower
house of parliament’s foreign affairs committee, said on his
 Twitter Inc.  account. “This is better for the outside world.”  Efforts to improve relations with the U.S. under Obama’s
so-called “reset” policy were spearheaded by then-President
Medvedev, who agreed last year to make way for Putin’s return in
March elections. While the world’s two biggest nuclear powers
still share a number of interests such as speeding a U.S. troop
withdrawal from Afghanistan, they disagree about uprisings in
Arab nations and missile defenses in  Europe .  Continued Reset  “There’s a high probability that the reset will
continue,” Mikhail Margelov, head of the upper chamber’s
foreign affairs committee, said in a phone interview. “Mutual
willingness is needed to make the reset truly successful and
bilateral. There’s such willingness from our side.”  Still, relations between Russia and the U.S. have worsened
even after Obama worked to reduce tensions that existed under
his Republican predecessor Bush. Putin, who extended his 12-year
rule after unprecedented protests against voter fraud, has
criticized Obama’s administration over its bid to remove Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad and its efforts to promote democracy
in Russia.  Same Problems  “It would be more difficult to talk to Romney and it is
easier to deal with Obama, but the problems are the same,”
Nikolai Zlobin of the Washington-based World Security Institute
said by phone. “Relations are damaged and are going to get
worse. Putin’s aim is to limit American influence in the
world.”  Obama in March told Medvedev, who was then Russia’s
president, that he would have more flexibility over missile
defense after his re-election.  The plan for missile defense facilities in Europe, which
the U.S. has said is aimed at thwarting an attack from a rogue
nation such as  Iran , has been a source of friction with Russia,
which says it will weaken its nuclear deterrent.  “Putin has an instinctive distrust of the U.S.,” Cliff Kupchan, a senior analyst at Eurasia Group in New York, said by
phone. “Relations will continue to be mixed, a combination of
cooperation and discord.”  The number of Russians who have a negative attitude to the
U.S. increased by 5 percentage points to 32 percent since 2010,
according to a poll released today. The share of those who are
positive decreased by 6 percentage points to 53 percent,
according to the state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of
Public Opinion, or VTsIOM, which interviewed 1,600 Russians from
Sept. 15-16. The margin of error was 3.4 percentage points.  Russian Backers  A survey published last month by VTsIOM showed that Obama
had more support among backers of Putin’s United  Russia  party
than among all Russians. Forty-four percent of respondents who
back the governing party said Obama would be a better U.S.
leader for Russia, more than the average 42 percent for all
Russians.  While Obama is more pragmatic on Russia, a Romney
presidency may paradoxically have been useful by presenting
Putin with a clear opponent to justify an anti-U.S. foreign
policy and military build-up, said Masha Lipman, an analyst at
the Carnegie Moscow Center. “Maybe a tough Romney policy on
Russia would even have been helpful for Putin,” she said by
phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  