-- Sale of $32 Million Moore Must Be Stopped: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-11-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/sale-of-32-million-moore-must-be-stopped-martin-gayford.html
Bureaucrats will today decide whether
to go ahead with the sale of a Henry Moore sculpture -- a
decision which has put them at odds with  London ’s art world.  Moore’s “Draped Seated Woman,” better known as “Old Flo,”
belongs to the public and has an estimated market value of as
much as 20 million pounds ($32 million). A sale would be idiotic
and rob London of a bronze work that is part of its history.  Last month, the Council of  Tower Hamlets  in East London
decided to “explore the possibility” of the disposal of the 1.7-
ton bronze.  Even the best of public sculpture isn’t popular with
everybody. While Michelangelo’s “David” was being installed in
Florence in 1504, vandals threw stones at it. At no point,
however, did the civic authorities try to sell it off because it
was too expensive to insure, and because they could use the cash
for other purposes.  This is the threat faced by Flo, created by Moore in 1957-
8. A sale is necessary, says the mayor of Tower Hamlets, Lutfur
Rahman, because of 100-million-pound budget cuts that he is
obliged to make. A final decision will be made by his council’s
cabinet.  Opponents, including  Danny Boyle , the artist’s daughter
Mary, and Nicholas Serota, director of Tate, deplored the
anticipated decision. In a letter to the Observer newspaper,
they declared that it went against Moore’s “belief that
everyone, whatever their background, should have access to works
of art of the highest quality.”  Social Housing  Boyle’s Olympic opening ceremony championed the same
values, with its theme of “This is for everyone.”  In that spirit, it was argued, Moore in 1962 had sold the
sculpture to the municipal authority for 6,000 pounds, well
below its market price. The artist was pleased that Flo would be
in an area of social housing. In the era of postwar idealism,
his works were installed in residential developments and town
centers. But moods and values change with time.  For 35 years, “Draped Seated Woman” sat in the middle of
the  Stifford Estate , attracting affection, criticism and
vandalism. The 17-story tower blocks were demolished in the late
1990s, by which time modernist housing plans had come to be seen
as incubators of crime and social isolation.  “Old Flo” was moved to northern  England  for restoration.
For the last 15 years she has been on loan to the  Yorkshire
Sculpture Park , taking a well-deserved country break.  Heavy Metal  The question is, if not in a housing estate that no longer
exists, is there anywhere suitable in the city to put it? One
problem is that nowadays, even very heavy metal items may
disappear.  In 2005, a bronze was stolen from the Henry Moore
Foundation in Hertfordshire. It was 2.1 tons in weight, and then
valued at 3 million pounds. Police said it was removed by lorry,
sold for perhaps 1,500 pounds and melted down -- and may
ultimately have been used to make electrical components in
 China .  However, a claim that “Draped Seated Woman” is
“uninsurable” has been challenged. Such worries certainly didn’t
prevent the installation of a 20-ton bronze sculpture of a
pregnant woman by  Damien Hirst  in the seaside town of
Ilfracombe. (Now that would make a pile of Chinese electrical
goods).  There have been plenty of suggestions as to where “Old Flo”
may go. Queen Mary College of London University and the  Museum
of London  have both volunteered to give her a home.  It certainly would be good to see her back somewhere in
east London, such as at the Olympic Park. The fact is that
public sculpture is always at some risk.  In 1511, an over life-size statue of Pope Julius II by
Michelangelo was melted down by the citizens of Bologna and
turned into a cannon. The Bolognese would surely love to have it
now. That showed lack of foresight. So does the sale of “Draped
Seated Woman.”  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  restaurants
and  Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 