-- HSBC Liable for Ignoring Madoff-Linked Loss: Investors
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-11-07T15:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/hsbc-liable-for-ignoring-madoff-linked-loss-investors.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  failed to keep
millions in clients’ assets invested with Bernard Madoff safe
“under lock and key,” investors in an Irish fund said.  Kalix Fund Ltd. invested in  Thema International Fund Plc (TIFHUQE) ,
which in turn invested with Madoff. London-based HSBC, as
Thema’s custodian, didn’t act in time to protect investors’
money from fraud, even though it knew of the risks of dealing
with Madoff, a lawyer for Kalix told  Judge Peter Charleton  in a
Dublin court today. The lender also handed over custodian duties
to Madoff and then tried to conceal it, the lawyer said.  “The fund was paying a custody fee to HSBC where the bank
had delegated that role to somebody else who wasn’t charging,”
said John O’Donnell, the lawyer for Kalix. “The obvious and
most egregious mistake” by HSBC was taking “no steps from
outside the Madoff organization to make sure that the assets
were safe.”  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest lender by market value, faces more
than 50 complaints in Ireland -- including from Thema, Kalix, AA
(Alternative Advantage) Plc investors, and  Unione di Banche
Italiane ScpA (UBI)  -- for allegedly failing in its duties as
custodian for Thema. That fund is trying to recover about 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in assets lost after Madoff’s
arrest. The Kalix complaint is the first of them to reach trial.  HSBC said in an e-mailed statement it has good defenses to
the claims made against it, wasn’t aware of the fraud prior to
Madoff’s confession and also lost $1 billion of its own assets.  Exiting Relationship  Thema was a European-regulated fund, known as Undertakings
for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities, or UCITS.
Custodians are responsible for managing deposits and payments.  “If HSBC had done its job it would never have engaged
Madoff as sub-custodian” and would have “exited the
relationship” with him, said O’Donnell, adding Kalix “invested
in excess of 26 million euros” with Thema in May 2005.  The European Commission in Brussels, the European Union’s
executive agency, unveiled tougher rules for banks in July to
safeguard investment funds’ assets in a bid to prevent another
fraud similar to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Under the new bloc-wide rules, banks and other institutions
that act as custodians for UCITS funds will “have an incentive
to pay a lot of attention to the information they provide and
the services they offer,” Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial
services chief, said in June.  “It’s quite a simple case: It’s about the obligation
imposed upon a custodian to keep safe the assets that are
entrusted to it,” said O’Donnell. “This implies security and
imparts that the assets are under lock and key.”  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history and is
serving a 150-year sentence in U.S. federal prison. The fallout
of the fraud included the liquidation of four UCITS funds, a
type of investment vehicle targeted at retail investors that is
allowed to operate across the EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Dublin via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  