-- Sharp Needs Viable Plan Before Any Bailout, LDP Amari Says
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-11-07T04:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/sharp-needs-viable-plan-before-any-bailout-ldp-policy-head-says.html
Japanese electronics company  Sharp
Corp. (6753)  must put together a plan to revive its fortunes before any
injection of public funds can be considered, the policy chief of
the main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  said.  Sharp, the world’s worst performing major stock this year,
is hemorrhaging  cash , and  Fitch Ratings  last week cut its  credit
rating  to junk status.  Japan ’s electronics sector is struggling
to overcome a strong yen, poor demand for televisions and
competition from South Korea’s  Samsung Electronics. (005930)   “Sharp must have a plan to show what kind of technology it
wants to build on to survive,” Akira Amari, who has served as
both labor minister and trade minister, said in an interview.
“They can’t just ask for public funds or assistance with
rebuilding unless they can show how they will beat the
competition afterwards.”  Any government bailout may follow the rescue two years ago
of  Japan Airlines Corp. (9201)  as a precedent. Japanese electronics
firms including Sony Corp. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  have reported
record losses and are responding by closing factories, firing
workers and cutting costs. Sharp employs about 63,700 people
globally and about 31,000 in Japan.  Amari, 63, who worked at Sony before becoming a politician,
said the government’s role in the electronics industry may be to
encourage mergers. Part of the reason for the poor performance
of Japanese companies compared with  South Korea  is too many
competitors, he said.  Reorganizing Industry  “Japanese firms are using up their energy on domestic
competition, which leaves them unable to make it on the
international stage,” he said. “As a result, they have less
funds for research and development and they don’t offer good
products. If the public sector were to step in, it would in a
way be a chance to reorganize the industry.”  Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, Sharp
warned on Nov. 1 it expects a record loss of 450 billion yen
($5.6 billion) in the year to March 31 and said there was
uncertainty about its ability to survive. Shares fell 2.6
percent to 152 yen at the 11:30 a.m. midday break in Tokyo,
bringing this year’s decline to 77 percent.  The Osaka-based company is the  worst  performer of 2012
among more than 1,600 stocks in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
developed countries.  China Dispute  Polls show Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s  Democratic Party 
of Japan is likely to lose to the LDP in the next election,
which must be held by August. A victory would return power to
the party that governed for more than half a century until
ousted in 2009. Japan is teetering on the brink of recession,
hit by plummeting exports and a territorial dispute with  China ,
its biggest trading partner.  Japan two months ago bought uninhabited islands also
claimed by the Chinese government, prompting violent
demonstrations against Japanese business in China. Amari said
China should take note that such demonstrations would endanger
its status as an investment destination for foreign companies.  “Companies all around the world will tend to focus their
new investment on other places,” Amari said. “If China doesn’t
realize that, it will slow down its own economy.” He added that
the effect of the dispute on the world’s second and third
largest economies was very serious and that recovery would not
be a simple matter.  Japanese Economy  Nomura Securities said on Oct. 30 it expects the Japanese
economy to contract an annualized 5.1 percent in the three
months to September, followed by a 0.3 percent shrinkage in the
next quarter. Citigroup and Credit Suisse Group AG are also
among those forecasting two quarters of contraction through
year-end.  Separately, Amari criticized  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa for not being to overcome more than a decade of
deflation and suggested he be replaced when his term is up in
April. The central bank should adopt a two percent inflation
target, Amari said.  “The governor of the Bank of Japan is not just a
bureaucrat,” he said. “He has to be in a sense like a
politician. Someone whose words have a great effect on the
markets. Mr Shirakawa came up from the bureaucracy.”  Amari declined to specify what kind of candidates should be
considered for the role and said the government should not have
the power to fire the central bank governor for failing to reach
targets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  