-- Siemens Scaling Back Creates Chance to Reload Leadership
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-11-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/siemens-scaling-back-gives-loescher-chance-to-reload-leadership.html
Two years after proclaiming an end to
more than a decade of restructuring,  Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Loescher  is back in familiar territory.  Loescher will present a plan to rekindle growth and lower
costs when  Europe ’s largest engineering company reports earnings
tomorrow. The executive said last month that Siemens needs
simpler processes and must eliminate redundant functions and
laggard units. He gave a first taste of his vision when he
pulled the plug on the solar-power business in October.  Loescher is in his second five-year term, and has stumbled
in recent years with botched takeovers, missed profit goals and
an aggressive foray into renewable energy that Siemens is now
scaling back. The Austrian national added complexity with the
creation of a fourth division, bundling building technologies,
trains and power grids into a disparate line of businesses that
analysts say will probably bear the brunt of the cost purge.  “Siemens really is at a critical junction,” said  Nicholas Heymann , an analyst at William Blair in  New York . “Loescher is
in danger of marginalizing his past successes if he fails to set
the course for Siemens’ future now. Soul searching on cost-
cutting or selling peripheral businesses is not enough. The road
to success is doing fewer things on a truly global scale.”  The company, based in Munich, will  report  profit from
continuing operations of 1.44 billion euros ($1.85 billion) for
the fourth quarter ended Sept, 30, according to analyst
 estimates  collected by Bloomberg. That would bring profit for
the year to 5.5 billion euros, ahead of the company’s target of
5.2 billion euros to 5.4 billion euros.  Cutting Targets  Siemens cut a previous target of 6 billion euros in April,
the third reduction in five years. Handelsblatt reported on Nov.
2 that the company earned about 5.2 billion euros in 2012,
citing people familiar with the numbers. Sales are expected to
climb 4.4 percent to 21.2 billion euros, the 10th consecutive
quarterly gain, the Bloomberg survey showed.  The company has gained 8.2 percent this year, compared with
a 25 percent gain for  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  and 21 percent for
 General Electric Co. (GE)  Of the three, Siemens is the last company
to report quarterly earnings.  Schneider, which competes in areas such as building
technologies, cut its target for 2012 revenue on Oct. 25 and
said it may step up restructuring as austerity measures deepen
Europe’s economic slump. GE cut its 2012 sales target on Oct. 19
amid lower finance-unit revenue and reporting weaker third-
quarter demand for some industrial equipment.  Low-Cost Employees  Loescher announced last month that he’d sell Siemens’s
offerings in solar thermal energy and photovoltaic, three years
after creating the business through  acquisitions . A one-time pet
project of the CEO in his quest to get more revenue from
renewable sources, solar failed to live up to his expectations,
forcing Loescher to backtrack and dispose of the business.  Siemens wrote down the value of the solar operations by 231
million euros last year, and the company will book an additional
250 million euros in the fourth quarter, Financial Times
Deutschland said on Nov. 5, citing people familiar with the
matter. Siemens spokesman Wolfram Trost declined to comment.  Among Siemens’s challenges is its focus on  Germany  and
Europe. Compared with European peers, Siemens has the smallest
proportion of employees in lower-cost countries, while the
average salary per employee tops the ranking,  Societe Generale (GLE) 
analyst Gael de Bray wrote in a note on Oct. 12.  Identifying Cuts  Siemens has identified about 8,000 positions that may be
cut globally, with the number potentially rising toward 10,000
by year-end, a person familiar with the plans told  Bloomberg
News  in October. Loescher has said job cuts “are not the
starting point´´ of the new program.  Siemens needs to save as much as 5 billion euros within two
years, JPMorgan analyst Andreas Willi estimates. Martin Prozesky
of  Sanford Bernstein  estimates Siemens may be able to deliver
1.5 billion euros in cuts. Savings of 3 billion euros or more
would be positive, while 1.5 billion euros or less would
disappoint, said Citigroup analyst Mark Fielding.  After bursting onto the German corporate scene from
relative obscurity in 2007, Loescher pulled Siemens from a near-
death experience following a bribery scandal, and built his
reputation on making the company less complex and earnings more
reliable. His fortunes started slipping early last year, with
mounting charges and a botched attempt at an initial public
offering of the Osram lighting subsidiary.  Two Phases  ‘‘There have been two distinct phases to Peter Loescher’s
tenure as Siemens CEO,’’ Fielding said in a Nov. 1 note to
investors. ‘‘The cost reduction phase of 2008-11 was in our view
a significant success. However, a transition to a ‘growth’
agenda since 2011 has been less successful.’’  Loescher set a goal last year to exceed 100 billion euros
in sales, a target that would put the company on par with GE,
his former employer. The target may require large-scale
acquisitions, a risky proposition given Loescher’s track record
on past deals.  Revenue this year probably reached 77.8 billion euros,
analysts estimate. Loescher has said the corporate structure
will not change, and that he’ll stick to his sales goal.  The CEO, who was recruited by supervisory board Chairman
Gerhard Cromme, is the first outsider to run Siemens in its 160-
year history. His plan for revenue growth risks eclipsing a push
for profitability because it incentivizes managers to seek
revenue over returns, said investors including Christoph Niesel,
a  fund manager  at Union Investment in  Frankfurt .  ‘‘Loescher is not an engineer, and he seems not as well-
connected within Siemens as he should be,” he said. “Siemens
needs a knowledgeable steering hand, an industrial manager with
technological know-how.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  