-- Slovenian Economy Seen Shrinking in 2013 as Bailout Looms
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-11-07T13:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/slovenian-economy-seen-shrinking-in-2013-as-bailout-looms.html
Slovenia will have the only economy
among the European Union’s eastern members to contract next year
as the country teeters on the brink of needing an international
bailout, the European Commission said.  The euro-area nation’s gross domestic product will contract
2.3 percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2013 before returning
to growth of 0.9 percent in 2014, the commission said in its
autumn economic forecasts, published today in Brussels. All of
the nine other post-Communist countries in the bloc will post an
expansion next year, the EU’s executive arm said.  “The downturn will continue well into next year,” the
European Commission said in the report. “The stabilization in
the international environment from 2013 is expected to trigger
stronger growth in export volumes, but this is not enough to
overcome weak domestic demand.”  The government has been pushing for a bank recapitalization
plan, the creation of a wealth fund and other measures to
overhaul the economy, mired in its second recession in three
years, as it seeks to avoid becoming the sixth euro-region
nation after  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal , Spain and Cyprus to
require assistance.  Bad Banks  State-owned banks including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. are
at the center of investors’ concern that the Adriatic nation may
be forced to ask for a bailout to prop up the financial
industry. Prime Minister Janez Jansa wants to create a so-called
bad bank that would take non-performing loans from lenders in
exchange for government-guaranteed bonds of as much as 4 billion
euros ($5.13 billion), according to Finance Minister Janez Sustersic.  “The banking system remains fragile despite the second
recapitalization of the largest bank in June,” the European
Commission said in its report today.  The government boosted capital at Nova Ljubljanska, the
nation’s biggest bank, by 381 million euros in July. Finance
Minister Sustersic has said the nation’s three largest lenders
may need as much as 1 billion euros of additional capital.  The ratio of bad loans at banks in Slovenia continues to
rise and reached 13 percent of all liabilities at the end of
August,  Bostjan Vasle , director of the government’s forecasting
institute said today in Ljubljana. He said lenders have repaid 7
billion euros of debt since the start of the crisis.  Slovenia’s general government deficit is forecast to
decline to 4.4 percent of total output by year’s end from 6.4
percent in 2011, the commission said. By the end of 2013, the
gap will be at 3.9 percent, above the threshold set for euro
region nations in the stability pact.  Gross government debt is set to rise to 62 percent of gross
domestic product from a 47 percent level at the end of last
year, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  