-- Soco Rises to 14-Month High After Pertamina Bid for Coastal
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-07T14:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/soco-rises-to-14-month-high-after-pertamina-bid-for-coastal.html
Soco International Plc (SIA) , a U.K.
explorer with assets in  Vietnam , rose to a 14-month high in
 London  trading after Indonesia’s state-owned oil company offered
to buy  Coastal Energy Co. (CEN)   PT Pertamina said it submitted a takeover proposal to major
shareholders of Coastal, which has assets in  Thailand  and
 Malaysia .  Soco rose as much as 4.1 percent to 375 pence, the highest
level since September last year, and traded at 365.10 pence as
of 1:40 p.m. local time.  State-oil companies in Asia are seeking expansion
opportunities to meet their growing domestic energy needs. Soco,
whose largest production project is in Vietnam, said output rose
400 percent to an average 13,755 barrels of oil equivalent a day
in the first nine months of 2012 from a year ago.  “I certainly know that many of those national companies
have been in many data rooms in the very recent past,” Soco’s
Chief Financial Officer Roger Cagle said today in a phone
interview. “They are hungry for ensuring sovereign supply
resources and I am kind of surprised more hasn’t happened on
that front.”  He declined to say whether Soco has received any
approaches.  “Many people in the analyst community always say that we
are the target,” Cagle said. These “proxies for sovereign
companies” may face hurdles in overseas expansion and “would
prefer to stay close at home.”  In  Canada , approval for  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion bid for
 Nexen Inc. (NXY)  has been delayed, while an offer by Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. of Malaysia for  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ) 
has been blocked.  “We expect the energy supply deficit to deteriorate
further” in Asia, Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec
Securities Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed report. That
provides opportunities for local “explorers as governments
recognize the importance of developing domestic resources in
addition to securing energy supply on the global stage.”  Salamander Energy Plc (SMDR) , which has licenses in Indonesia and
Thailand, gained 2.4 percent to 198.40 pence in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  