-- South African Business Confidence Little Changed on Economy
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-11-07T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/south-african-business-confidence-little-changed-on-economy.html
South African business confidence was
subdued in October because of an outlook for weak growth in
 Africa ’s biggest economy even as companies welcomed Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan ’s mid-term budget.  The  business confidence index  rose to 92 from 91.7 in
September, staying close to the 12-year low of 90.9 recorded in
July, the Johannesburg-based South African Chamber of Commerce
and Industry said in an e-mailed statement today. The index is
compiled from 13 economic indicators, including retail sales,
 inflation  and financial gauges, such as a stock-market index and
currency.  “It is cardinal that delivery on the mid-term budget
framework prioritizes those aspects which are key to economic
growth,” Sacci said. “The outlook for the South African
economy remains uncertain and will respond to critical policy
decisions that will be taken by the governing party at its
leadership conference in December 2012.”  Gordhan on Oct. 25 pledged to freeze spending targets for
the first time since 1998 as he seeks to rein in the  budget
deficit  in the wake of downgrades in  South Africa ’s credit
rating by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s . A
series of strikes since August cut 0.5 percentage point from
gross domestic product this year, Gordhan said yesterday.  The National Treasury lowered the forecast for economic
growth this year to 2.5 percent, compared with growth of 3.1
percent in 2011  Sacci said it’s “concerned” that the current account
deficit may reach 7 percent of GDP in 2012 if export and import
trends continue. The deficit on the current account, the
broadest measure of trade in goods and services, widened to 6.4
percent in the second quarter, the highest in almost four years,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  