-- Anglo, Xstrata Coal Units Sign Pact to Raise S. Africa Wages
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-11-07T14:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/south-african-coal-producers-to-raise-entry-level-pay-by-5-.html
South African coal producers who are
members of the Chamber of Mines, which represents companies
including units of  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , agreed to
raise wages for entry-level workers by 5 percent.  Anglo American Thermal Coal,  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) ’s Exxaro
Coal Mpumalanga, Kangra Coal and Xstrata Coal will make the
adjustment to so-called category four workers’ pay effective
from Nov. 1, according to a copy of the agreement that was
signed in Johannesburg today. The National Union of Mineworkers,
Solidarity and UASA were the unions that signed the agreement.  “This is the result of collective bargaining’s best
practice,” Solidarity General Secretary Gideon du Plessis said
after the signing. The negotiations were part of a 2009-11 wage
agreement.  Walkouts that began at platinum mines and spread to coal,
gold, chrome, and iron-ore operations have cut production as
mining companies grapple with rising costs.  Thermal-coal prices at  Richards Bay ,  Africa ’s biggest
terminal for shipping the commodity, dropped on Nov. 2 to the
lowest level since December 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Anglo, Kangra Coal, Optimum Coal Holdings and Xstrata will
make a one-time payment of 2,000 rand ($232) to workers in
categories five to eight with the December payroll, it said.  Wages Strikes  Coal of Africa Ltd. , a producer of the fuel in  South
Africa , will reduce costs after increasing wages to end a five-
week strike, Chief Executive Officer John Wallington said at a
mining conference in Johannesburg yesterday, declining to give
details of the cost-cutting measures. The company started
consultations on jobs at its Mooiplaats operations, Coal of
Africa said in a statement.  The strike at the Mooiplaats colliery east of Johannesburg,
which started Sept. 25, was called off by the  National Union of
Mineworkers  on Oct. 30, the company said last week. A settlement
with the union increases costs per ton of saleable coal by about
1 percent, Coal of Africa said.  Gold producers represented by the chamber signed an
agreement with labor unions Oct. 25 covering changes to pay and
job categories that will see workers getting increases of 3
percent to 11 percent on top of those contained in an existing
two-year wage accord, according to the NUM. The deal also moves
entry-level workers to a higher pay category.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  