-- Spain Delays Signing Onto Desertec Sahara Solar Project
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-11-07T15:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/spain-delays-signing-onto-desertec-sahara-solar-project.html
Spain  delayed signing onto a pact
that would have cleared the way to build the first 600 million-
euro ($768 million) solar plant in a network of generators
envisioned to stretch across the Sahara desert.  Germany, France, Italy, Malta, Luxembourg and Morocco
support plans to export renewable energy in the form of sun
power via cables under the Strait of Gibraltar to  Europe  while
Spain’s agreement is pending, according to a statement today.  The memo of understanding Spain hasn’t agreed to would have
allowed Desertec Industrial Initiative GmbH to move forward with
a 150-megawatt plant in southern Morocco to be built with the
Moroccan Agency for  Solar Energy .  “I am confident that the governments will sort out the
negotiations,” Paul van Son, chief executive officer of Dii,
said today at the venture’s third annual conference in Berlin.
“The MOU will be a big step forward as it would bring renewable
energy across borders from Morocco to Europe.”  Three years after the founding of Dii, the initiative that
wants to generate electricity from the sun from  Egypt  to
Morocco, it’s still waiting construction of its first project.  The whole project, which may total as much as 400 billion
euros in investments by 2050 should all that’s planned come to
fruition, would help satisfy North Africa’s energy demands amid
a growing population and provide cash for economic development,
according to the Desertec initiative.  The Munich-based company’s shareholders include utilities
such as EON AG and  RWE AG. (RWE)  Deutsche Bank AG,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 Munich Re , also shareholders, would help finance the project
while Dii wants to obtain state-backed grants and loan
guarantees to entice more investment.  Desert Power  The Germany-led initiative envisions a network of solar-
thermal plants feeding electric grids both in Africa and Europe.
The plants would have mirrors concentrating sunlight on heating
liquids that spin turbines. Photovoltaic generators and wind
turbines also will be worked into the project.  Desert power from North Africa and the  Middle East  could
cover about two-thirds of the region’s energy needs and provide
as much as 15 percent of Europe’s demand by 2050, according to
the Dii  initiative .  Dii favors Morocco for the first plant because the nation
has a government that backs renewable energy, van Son said in
October 2011. Morocco is linked to Europe via two undersea
cables stretching 25 kilometers (15.5 miles) across the Strait
of Gibraltar with a free capacity of 400 megawatts to 1,000
megawatts, van Son said.  Dii was dealt a blow on Oct. 22 when  Siemens AG (SIE)  pulled out
of the venture and closed its unprofitable solar business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  