-- Spain Said to Consider Palace Sales to Raise Cash
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-11-08T09:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/spain-said-to-consider-palace-sales-to-raise-cash.html
The Spanish government is considering
a sale of a small, century-old  palace  in the heart of  Madrid ’s
business district as part of a plan to raise cash from 100 prime
properties, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Castellana 19, built in 1903 and later used to house
Spain’s stock-market regulator, would be sold outright rather
than leased, said the person, who asked not to be identified as
the plan’s details aren’t public. The property was valued at
 28.7 million euros  ($37 million) in 2010, the year before the
agency moved out. The government said last month it had selected
100 buildings that could be privatized by the end of 2016.  The properties, mostly in Madrid, will be sold outright or
leased for as long as 30 years, the person said. They won’t be
part of sale-and-leaseback deals because that would be too
costly for the state in the long term, the person said.  Spain  is
seeking to generate more money from its real estate as it tries
to avoid following  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  by requesting a
full bailout.  Another small  palace , owned by the Economy and  Finance
Ministry , may be leased, the person said. The historically
protected property on Calle Duque de Medinaceli was designed by
Gabriel Abreu and Fernando Garcia Mercadal and built in the
1920s. It was purchased by the state in 1928 and became the
Spanish National Research Council’s library in 1952.  Castellana 19 was designed by architects including Miguel
de Olabarria, who helped conceive the Almudena Cathedral in
Madrid.  Still Working  A Budget Ministry spokesman in Madrid said officials are
still working on the plan and no decision has been made on the
assets to be included in the sale process.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is struggling to cut Spain’s
budget deficit and reduce borrowing costs as the country copes
with its second recession since 2009. In September, he announced
a fifth package of budget cuts and tax increases, bringing
planned savings to about 150 billion euros, or 15 percent of
annual gross domestic product by the end of 2014.  Spain’s budget shortfall will amount to 6.4 percent of
gross domestic product in 2014, compared with a target set by
the European Union of 2.8 percent. “Fiscal consolidation hardly
advanced in the first eight months of 2012,” the EU’s executive
arm said yesterday in Brussels.  The state has more than 40,000 properties in the province
of Madrid alone, excluding buildings owned by the state, police
stations, social security and tax offices and museums belonging
to the Culture Ministry, according to a 2010 study by Aguirre
Newman.  Space Renovation  The state could raise 2.87 billion euros if it renovates
the 777,000 spare meters of space it doesn’t need and sells it
for office use, according to the Madrid-based real estate
consultant. A further study is in progress, the firm said.  Greece last year said it would seek to raise 50 billion
euros by 2015, about 70 percent of it from real estate deals, to
meet the conditions of its bailout. The country has brought in
1.8 billion euros so far and on Oct. 31 it reduced the revenue
target to 11.1 billion euros by 2016.  Italy may generate as much as 5 billion euros from real
estate sales in the short term, Radiocor news agency reported,
citing Italian Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli .  Public-sector property sales in Europe increased to 2.3
billion euros last year from 1.1 billion in 2010, with Germany,
the Netherlands, Sweden, Russia, the U.K. and France accounting
for 75 percent of the total, according to CBRE Group Inc.  Catalonia Rejection  Madrid’s regional government plans to sell 100 office
buildings in the city center over three years to cut its deficit
and pay for services. The Catalonia region in January rejected a
bid by Och-Ziff Management Europe Ltd. and Moor Park  Capital
Partners  for a batch of 26 buildings including the Barcelona
stock market because the offer was too low.  Andalusia hired BNP Paribas SA last year to help raise at
least 400 million euros selling 76 properties, including the
cultural department in Granada and youth centers in Malaga. It
offered to pay about 30 million euros a year to lease the
buildings after their sale. No deal was reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net .
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  