-- Spanish Industrial Output Falls for 13th Month Amid Slump
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-11-07T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/spanish-industrial-output-falls-for-13th-month-amid-slump.html
Industrial production  in  Spain , the
euro-area’s fourth largest economy, dropped for the 13th
straight month in September amid a deepening recession that’s
left a quarter of the workforce jobless.  Output at factories, refineries and mines adjusted for the
number of working days fell 7 percent from a year earlier, after
declining a revised 2.5 percent in August, the National
Statistics Institute in Madrid said in an e-mailed statement
today. That’s the most since April. Economists forecast a drop
of 3.5 percent, according to the median of seven estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who is implementing
the toughest budget cuts in the country’s democratic history,
said on Nov. 6 he doesn’t expect the economy to recover from its
second  recession  since 2009 before 2014. Borrowing costs have
surged after Spain’s budget deficit ballooned to the second-
largest in the euro area last year, tailing Ireland’s and
matching  Greece ’s.  Acerinox SA (ACX) , Spain’s largest steelmaker, reported its first
loss this year in the third quarter, saying economic uncertainty
weighed on demand.  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s biggest
maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, cut its target for
2012 revenue as sales posted a “strong double-digit” decline
in Spain and dropped in Western Europe.  Spanish unemployment rose to 25.8 percent in September, the
most since at least 1976 and the highest in the 17-nation
single-currency bloc.  In unadjusted terms, industrial production declined 11.7
percent in September from a year earlier after a 2.5 percent
drop in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  