-- Standard Bank Boosts Funding for S. African Clean-Power Projects
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-11-07T12:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/standard-bank-boosts-funding-for-s-african-clean-power-projects.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Africa ’s
largest lender, increased funding for wind and solar projects in
South Africa and took equity stakes in four clean-power ventures
as the country expands its renewable-energy industry.  Standard Bank will underwrite 9.4 billion rand ($1.1
billion) of debt for 11 of the 28 projects approved by the
government in the first bidding round, the Johannesburg-based
lender said today in an e-mailed statement. In May, the bank
said it would provide 8.1 billion rand in funding.  South Africa has embarked on a renewable-energy drive to
boost generation capacity after power shortages caused mines and
smelters to halt in 2008. The initial 28 projects, set to add
1,416 megawatts, were approved in December last year and the
Department of Energy signed agreements with the developers on
Nov. 5, opening the way for bank financing deals to be struck.  The projects will require 47 billion rand of fixed
investment, and about 57 percent of that will be funded by debt,
Standard Bank said. As well as underwriting the debt, it will
provide clients with interest and currency hedges, carbon-
trading credits and guarantee facilities, it said. The bank
didn’t specify which projects it has taken an equity stake in.  “Standard Bank will be ready to disburse funding for most
of the projects as soon as all documentation is finalized and
hedges are closed,” said Alastair Campbell, the lender’s head
of power finance. “We are financing five out of the eight wind
projects and six of the 18 solar photovoltaic projects, and so
will underwrite about a third of all project debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  