-- Swiss Stocks Drop on Debt Concern; Adecco, Holcim Fall
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-11-07T17:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/stocks-in-switzerland-advance-as-america-re-elects-obama.html
Swiss stocks  dropped the most in two
weeks, erasing earlier gains, as investors’ focus returned to
the euro-area debt crisis and impending U.S. fiscal tightening
after President  Barack Obama  won re-election.  Adecco SA, the world’s biggest supplier of temporary
workers, and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  paced declining shares.
 Holcim (HOLN)  Ltd. fell 2.4 percent after earnings missed analyst
estimates.  Barry Callebaut  AG, a chocolate maker, rallied to a
two-month high as full-year profit and sales beat projections.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  decreased 0.7 percent to 6,697.63 at
the close in Zurich, having earlier climbed as much as 0.9
percent. The gauge has still  rallied 17 percent  from a June 4
low as European Central Bank policy makers approved an unlimited
bond-buying plan and the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round
of quantitative easing. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
lost 0.7 percent today.  “The election result leaves the status quo firmly in place
-- divided government which accentuates the sharp ideological
differences between Democrats and Republicans,” Nicholas Spiro,
managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , wrote
in an e-mail. “Attention will swiftly turn to the bigger
challenge of averting the U.S. fiscal cliff.”  Obama defeated Republican  Mitt Romney , winning at least 303
Electoral College votes, more than the 270 needed for victory in
yesterday’s election. Obama faces a partisan divide in Congress,
with Republicans retaining their House majority while Democrats
kept control of the Senate, and the so-called fiscal cliff of
automatic spending cuts and tax increases set to begin next year
unless a compromise is reached.  Growth Forecast  The European Commission cut its growth forecast for the
euro zone as the debt crisis ravages southern Europe and gnaws
at the economic performance of export-driven Germany. The 17-
nation euro economy will expand 0.1 percent in 2013, down from a
May forecast of 1 percent, the Brussels-based commission said
today. It cut the growth outlook for Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, to 0.8 percent from 1.7 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  warned that
the debt crisis is starting to hurt Germany.  “Germany has so far been largely insulated from some of
the difficulties elsewhere in the euro area,” Draghi said at a
conference in  Frankfurt  today. “But the latest data suggest
that these developments are now starting to affect the German
economy.”  Greek Austerity  In  Greece , Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will seek
parliamentary approval for austerity measures needed to obtain
further aid from the European Union.  Lawmakers began debating the 238 pages of proposals, which
range from raising the  retirement age  two years to 67 to
eliminating Christmas and holiday payments for pensioners,
today, with a vote expected after 8 p.m. Athens time. Parliament
also needs to approve the 2013 budget before Nov. 12 for the
country to get the next 31 billion-euro ($40 billion) portion of
international aid.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the SMI
was 41 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Adecco (ADEN)  fell 3.1 percent to 45.14 Swiss francs. The stock
climbed 3.2 percent yesterday as the company reported third-
quarter profit that best estimates.  Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, slid 3.6
percent to 21.98 francs, the biggest drop since September.  Holcim, the world’s largest cement maker, retreated 2.4
percent to 63.90 francs as third-quarter earnings trailed behind
analysts’ forecasts.  Barry Callebaut  Barry Callebaut climbed 2.9 percent to 910 francs, the
highest price since Aug. 28. Full-year profit of 241.1 million
francs ($256 million) exceeded the 234.8 million-franc average
estimate. The company reported revenue of 4.83 billion francs,
beating the 4.72 billion francs that  analysts had projected .  Leclanche SA jumped 43 percent to 3.60 francs for the
biggest increase in the SPI. The shares had plunged 75 percent
over the previous two days after the maker of batteries for the
Swiss Army said its 2012 loss will be bigger than previously
predicted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  