-- Storm on U.S. East Coast Threatens Region Damaged by Sandy
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-11-07T15:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/storm-on-u-s-east-coast-threatens-region-damaged-by-sandy-1-.html
A coastal storm will bring high
winds, flooding, rain, sleet and snow across the U.S. Northeast
today, where evacuations have been ordered in  New Jersey  and
flights into New York City have been scrubbed.  Rain from the storm is already moving across New Jersey and
should arrive in New York in a matter of hours, said Lauren
Nash, a  National Weather Service  meteorologist in Upton, New
York. Winds and storm surge are expected to start rising this
afternoon as the nor’easter makes its way up the coast.  The storm threatens to bring high winds and isolated
patches of wet snow to a region that’s still recovering from
last week’s strike by  Hurricane Sandy . As of yesterday, 931,000
customers were still without power, according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  “We are forecasting moderate coastal flooding,” Nash said
by telephone. “It is hard to say what the impacts to the area
are going to be because all the dunes have been washed away and
new inlets have been created.”  The storm has the potential to delay restoration efforts
and may even bring about more blackouts, according to a
statement from  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , which provides service
to New York City and Westchester County.  Sandy struck the U.S. and Caribbean last week, killing at
least 177 people, according to the  Associated Press . The storm
hit New York and New Jersey hard as it came ashore near Atlantic
City on Oct. 29. About 8.5 million homes and businesses were
without power at its peak and $10 billion to $20 billion in
insured damage may have been done, according to  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX) , the
biggest Lloyd’s of  London  insurer by market value.  Water Levels  A storm surge of 2.5 to 5 feet (76 to 152 centimeters) is
expected along the coast of New Jersey to southern Long Island,
Nash said. In New York City’s Battery Park, which flooded last
week during Sandy, the surge may send water about 3 feet above
normal high tide, which constitutes moderate flooding, according
to Nash.  The level would be lower than the record 13.88 feet set on
Oct. 29 at the height of Sandy, according to the weather
service.  In New Jersey, Brick Township ordered residents to evacuate
the waterfront yesterday and those near Middletown Township are
urged to leave today.  “The sand dunes have been removed by Sandy,” said  Paul
Walker , a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania . The water won’t be “as high as Sandy but with the
dunes gone there is going to be some problems caused by coastal
flooding with this storm.”  Travel Delays  Nash said the storm’s sustained winds are expected to be 20
to 25 miles per hour, with gusts as intense as 60 mph in some
areas. The winds are expected to cause air travel delays as at
least 1,054 flights into or out of U.S. airports have been
canceled, according to Flight Aware, a Houston-based tracking
service.  The most of those are in  Newark  followed by New York’s La
Guardia and John F. Kennedy airports, according to the company.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s biggest air
carrier, suspended most flights to and from the New York area
for 24 hours starting at midday.  Philadelphia Snow  The storm may bring as much as 1 inch of rain across New
Jersey and New York, Nash said. As much as 4 inches of snow may
fall on interior regions of the East Coast from  Maryland  to
 Maine , according to the weather service.  Philadelphia may receive four inches of snow, while
Baltimore gets an inch, according to the weather service.  The mountains in New York to New Hampshire may get as much
as 6 inches of snow, though the storm probably won’t signal an
early start to the ski season because temperatures will rise
this weekend, melting it away, Walker said.  A gradual improvement in the weather will begin in  New York 
and the Mid-Atlantic states starting tomorrow, Walker said.  High temperatures behind the storm are expected to rise
into the mid-50s Fahrenheit in many areas of the Northeast,
Walker said. The high in New York City may be 61 on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  