-- Sumitomo Osaka Cement Counts on Biomass for Fuel
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-11-08T03:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/sumitomo-osaka-cement-counts-on-biomass-to-cut-coal-dependence.html
Sumitomo Osaka Cement Co. (5232) , a Japanese
producer of energy fueled by organic materials, plans to cut its
dependence on coal by using more biomass such as wood chips, a
senior executive said.  “As an industry that consumes a lot of power, we need to
take measures to promote energy conservation,” Senior Corporate
Executive Officer Masafumi Nakao said in an interview at the
company’s Tokyo headquarters. “Wood chips are now in the
spotlight as a fuel source.”  Using more biomass is one way Japanese companies are
seeking to reduce greenhouse gas emissions after the Fukushima
Dai-ichi nuclear accident last year.  Japan  introduced a feed-in
tariff program in July to provide incentives for companies that
produce electricity from clean sources.  Sumitomo Osaka Cement, which currently gets about a third
of its fuel from sources such as wood and industrial waste,
plans to meet 40 percent of its needs from alternatives within
three years and 50 percent in the longer term, Nakao said. It
burns a mix of wood chips and coal to make electricity at its
Tochigi and Kochi plants.  A government  task force   forecast  in September that enough
electricity could be generated to serve 4.6 million households.
That depends on the country tapping its unused biomass,
including  food waste  and timber from thinning forests. That
would be equivalent to 5 percent of the nation’s greenhouse gas
emissions, the task force concluded.  Sumitomo Osaka Cement shares rose 1.2 percent to 261 yen at
the 11:30 a.m. trading break on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Biomass Use Expands  Japan’s fixed-premium rates for renewables are the highest
in the world. The program premium for power derived from
recycled wood is 13.65 yen per kilowatt hour for 20 years and
33.6 yen for unused wood, including from thinned forests.  “Cement and paper producers, both of which use heat and
electricity for their core businesses, have technologies and the
accumulated know-how to use biomass,” said  Yugo Nakamura , an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Tokyo. “The new
incentive will create an opportunity for them to expect stable
earnings from power sales.”  Sumitomo Osaka Cement, which added its first biomass power
plant in Tochigi in 2009, is seeking to increase the proportion
of wood used in biomass operations to almost 100 percent from
about 80 percent now, Nakao said. It’s also considering building
more such facilities in Japan.  The company sold about 45 percent of the 2.1 million
megawatt-hours of power it generated and internally used the
remainder at its facilities in the financial year ended March
31, according to Nakao. Fuel and electricity make up more than
one third of cement’s costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  