-- Swedish Central Bankers Argue on Policy Amid Unemployment
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-08T08:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/swedish-central-bankers-fight-over-policy-basics-as-jobs-vanish.html
A split at Sweden’s central bank over
what poses the biggest threat to the largest Nordic economy is
growing deeper.  Deputy Governor Barbro Wickman-Parak said yesterday that
more rate cuts would have limited effect, arguing domestic
policy can’t help when economic pain comes via exports. Deputy
Governor Lars E.O. Svensson, who taught economics at  Princeton
University  alongside Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in
2001 and 2002, said in a separate interview that his bank’s
failure to deliver more rate cuts is destroying Swedish jobs.  The rift follows comments by Governor Stefan Ingves last
month signaling he’s more concerned about a credit-driven
housing bubble than job losses. The bank a week later opted to
keep its  main rate  at 1.25 percent, while leaving the door open
for a December cut. Meanwhile,  inflation  in Sweden is 0.4
percent, well below the bank’s 2 percent target, and some of the
country’s biggest companies are resorting to mass job cuts as
their export markets contract.  Inflation “is now far below the target and unemployment is
far above any reasonable estimate of a long-run sustainable
rate, so the costs of the current policy is very high,”
Svensson said yesterday in an interview in Oslo. “Policy has a
very small effect on housing prices and indebtedness, but a
substantial effect on inflation and unemployment.”  Rate Probability  The probability of a Swedish rate cut in December sank to
34 percent, down from 39 percent yesterday, overnight index swap
calculations by Bloomberg show. The probability of an unchanged
rate rose to 66 percent from 61 percent. The probability of a
reduction to 1 percent in February was 50 percent.  While households are borrowing more to finance spending,
Swedish exports are declining and companies including Ericsson
AB, the world’s largest maker of wireless equipment, are cutting
jobs as the European Union sinks into a recession.  Ericsson said yesterday it will cut 1,550 jobs to stay
competitive. TeliaSonera AB,  Sweden ’s biggest phone company,
said last month it will eliminate 2,000 jobs, following similar
announcements from truckmaker Volvo AB, paper maker Holmen AB
and steel manufacturer SSAB.  “The problem is that things have caught a snag abroad and
mainly in many of our big  export -areas,” Wickman-Parak said
yesterday in an interview in  Stockholm . “We can’t change that
with monetary policy.”  Already Low  Sweden would have little to gain from another reduction in
interest rates because the Nordic economy is battling an
external crisis that domestic policies can’t fix, she said.  “I haven’t been inundated with demands for an even lower
 rate ,” she said. “Everyone thinks the rate already is low and
that it will stay low for a long period,” while households are
“consuming decently already,” she said.  Her comments sent the krona higher. Sweden’s currency,
which had traded as much as 0.2 percent weaker against the euro
before Wickman-Parak spoke, rose to 0.4 percent versus the
single currency.  The six-member Riksbank board last month lowered its
economic forecasts and predicted higher unemployment. Growth in
the $500 billion economy will slow to 0.9 percent this year from
3.9 percent in 2011, while  unemployment  will rise to an average
7.9 percent next year from 7.7 percent in 2012, the bank said.
Inflation won’t return to the bank’s target until March 2014, it
said.  Deflation Struggle  “They ought to cut rates to ease real interest rates,”
said John Zhu, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London .
“Central banks on the whole generally know what to do when you
get high inflation. They struggle with deflation and, of course,
deflation is just about the worst thing that can happen when you
have a lot of debt.”  Yet Wickman-Parak argues that the central bank’s repo rate
is already “extremely low” and “would have to go very, very
low to have significant effects. You should remember that we
will have a negative real  interest rate  for several years.”  Higher central bank rates in Sweden than in the  euro zone 
are only playing a “small” role in strengthening the currency,
she said. The  European Central Bank ’s key rate is 0.75 percent,
while the U.S. Federal Reserve’s rate hovers around zero.  Krona Stable  The krona has risen 7 percent against the euro since May
after Sweden emerged as a haven from the debt crisis thanks to
its relatively strong public finances. Debt as a share of gross
domestic product will fall to 27.1 percent in 2016 from 38.4
percent last year, the government forecasts.  A “roughly stable“ krona and rising unit labor costs will
return inflation to the central bank’s 2 percent target,
Wickman-Parak said.  According to Svensson, the bank is running out of time if
it is to avoid a deflationary spiral.  “There is some risk that the zero lower bound might bind
in the future and that is actually a reason to lower sooner and
more rather than later,” he said.  The Riksbank’s main forecast shows that Sweden’s economy
probably won’t need more monetary stimulus after Governor Stefan Ingves expressed concern that cheaper credit could lead to a
repeat of the country’s 1990s financial crisis.  Ingves again today told a parliamentary hearing in
Stockholm that the bank needs to take into account high debt
levels when setting monetary policy.  The bank said last month that  household debt  as a share of
disposable income will remain largely unchanged at about 170
percent through 2015, after having risen from 90 percent in
1996, if it doesn’t cut rates further.  “It won’t primarily be indebtedness that will govern what
we will do with the rate going forward but how things develop in
the real economy, how things go with employment and  inflation ,”
Wickman-Parak said. “We should keep an eye on it,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  