-- Swiss Consumer Prices Continue Slump in October
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-11-07T08:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/swiss-consumer-prices-continue-slump-in-october-correct-.html
(Corrects number of economists in second graph, import of
goods in fifth.)  Swiss  consumer prices  extended their
longest slump in at least four decades in October as the franc’s
strength continued to erode costs of imports.  Consumer prices declined 0.2 percent from a year ago after
falling 0.4 percent in September, the  Federal Statistics Office 
in Neuchatel said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s the
13th straight annual decline, the longest stretch since at least
1971, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices rose 0.1
percent in the month. Both yearly and monthly figures were in
line with the median estimate of 12 and 11 economists,
respectively, in a Bloomberg News survey.  Prices have continued to fall even after the  Swiss National
Bank  imposed a franc ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro in
September 2011 to fight deflation threats. While the Swiss
currency has weakened since the  European Central Bank  pledged in
August to purchase government bonds of distressed nations, SNB
President Thomas Jordan said last week that the franc remains
“very strong.”  “The Swiss franc is massively overvalued despite the
recent intervention from the SNB” Ursina Kubli, an economist at
Bank Sarasin in Zurich, wrote in a note to customers yesterday.
“The franc is set to remain overvalued given the remaining
risks of the euro crisis.”  The cost of Swiss imported  consumer goods  dropped 1.2
percent from a year ago and rose 0.5 percent in the month,
today’s report showed. Prices of domestic goods were up 0.1 in
the year and unchanged in the month.  The Zurich-based SNB on  Sept. 13  forecast Swiss consumer
prices would drop 0.6 percent in 2012, before increasing 0.2
percent and 0.4 percent in the following two years. Any further
strengthening of the franc would have a “serious impact” on
the economy and price developments, it said on that day.  “The current strength of the Swiss franc is not due to
economic fundamentals, but the fears of financial markets that
reinforce its position as a safe haven,” Jordan said last week.  Under a European Union harmonized method, Swiss  consumer
prices  fell 0.1 percent from a year earlier. Prices increased
0.1 percent in the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  