-- Symrise Chief Considers New U.S. Plant Amid Inflated Valuations
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-07T14:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/symrise-chief-considers-new-u-s-plant-amid-inflated-valuations.html
Symrise AG (SY1)  Chief Executive Officer
Heinz-Juergen Bertram said he will expand flavors and fragrance
factories or add new sites in the U.S. to fulfill growth
ambitions if potential acquisition targets remain over-priced.  Symrise must expand in the U.S. as it’s under-represented
there, Bertram said. The Holzminden, Germany-based company is
gaining market share as it competes with  Givaudan SA (GIVN) ,
 International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (IFF) , Firmenich International
SA as well as smaller, regional players, according to the CEO.  “An acquisition would help,” Bertram said in a telephone
interview today. “Before we do something dumb, we will wait and
react level-headedly. If nothing comes along, we’ll do it
organically.”  The North American market -- which generates about 18
percent of Symrise’s $2.1 billion in annual sales -- is ripe for
consolidation as there are a large number of regional flavor
companies, according to Bertram. While Symrise has the financial
clout for an acquisition and has looked at various options, the
price tags placed on assets are “expensive” and prevent deals
from being executed, he said.  The growth ambitions coincide with the temporary shutdown
of two production plants in the U.S. affected by the blackouts
and flooding caused by  Hurricane Sandy . Power is expected to be
restored to both sites by the end of the week, and there will be
no significant costs attached to the stoppages, Bertram said.  ‘Black Eye’  “We’ll get away with a black eye,” Bertram said, adding
that one of the sites makes liquid aromas for drinks and sweets,
and stores citrus that has to be kept cool so the  power failure 
may result in supplies becoming unusable. The other plant
manufactures savory ingredients such as yeast.  Sales in  North America  in the first nine months of 2012
gained 19 percent, helping offset near stagnant western European
markets as consumers scaled back spending amid the region’s debt
crisis and worries about jobs.  The maker of perfume ingredients for Dior’s Fahrenheit is
also growing in  emerging markets  and is “significantly”
expanding its Asian headquarters in Singapore, Bertram said
today. Singapore will help serve the growing markets of  Vietnam ,
Indonesia, Myanmar,  Thailand  and China, he said. The company now
generates almost half of its sales from emerging markets.  Symrise’s revenue in the most recent quarter gained a more-
than-estimated 14 percent to 448 million euros ($574 million),
with earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization totaling 90.3 million euros, in line with
predictions. Analysts estimated sales of 434 million euros.  Bertram, who today reiterated a full-year sales goal of 3
to 5 percent growth, said the company would reach the top end of
the range “comfortably.” Analysts predict Symrise will beat
its own sales target by about 2 percentage points, according to
a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  