-- U.K. Home Prices Seen Falling for a Second Straight Year
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-11-07T11:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/u-k-home-prices-seen-falling-for-a-second-straight-year.html
U.K. home prices will fall 2 percent
next year, the second straight decline, as values in every
region of the country decrease for the first time since the
financial crisis began in 2008,  Knight Frank  LLP said.  The biggest drops will be in Wales and  Scotland , while
 London  properties will depreciate the least, the property broker
said in a statement today. Knight Frank forecast a 1 percent
increase in 2014 residential properties prices and a 2 percent
gain a year later.  “There’s been a complete reversal of the optimism that we
saw in the summer,” Grainne Gilmore, head of U.K. residential
research at the London-based firm, said in an interview. “There
are weak economic conditions, there is nervousness among
potential buyers, there’s difficulty getting mortgages for
first-time buyers and people moving up the housing chain.”  Britain’s uncertain economic prospects and fragile  consumer
confidence  have dented demand for homes and banks are reluctant
to lend. A real estate market recovery is unlikely without
sustained economic growth, Hometrack Ltd., a London-based
property research group, said last week.  The U.K. emerged from a recession in the three months
through September with the strongest growth since 2007. Even so,
recent reports have shown signs of weakness. Manufacturing
output gained less than economists forecast in September, adding
to evidence that the economy’s rebound is faltering.  Welsh Decline  Welsh home prices will slide 3.8 percent in 2013, extending
an expected drop of 3.6 percent this year, Knight Frank said.
Scottish values will fall 3.2 percent next year, the broker
said. In London, residential property prices will decline 0.6
percent, according to the firm.  “There’s no  job creation  and that is definitely weighing
on the market,” Gilmore said by telephone. “We’re seeing this
gentle erosion of prices.”  Loans for home purchases are likely to total 79 billion
pounds ($126 billion) this year, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders 
said in a statement today. That’s about 15 percent higher than
the 68 billion pounds the London-based industry association
forecast at the start of the year.  Knight Frank forecast that luxury-home prices in central
London will be little changed in 2013. That would be the worst
year for properties with an average value of 3.7 million pounds
since 2008, when values slumped by about 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 