-- U.K. GDP Forecasts Cut by European Commission After ‘Bleak’ 2012
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-11-07T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/u-k-gdp-forecasts-cut-by-european-commission-after-bleak-2012.html
Britain’s near-term outlook remains
“very weak” and subdued spending and trade will hold back the
economic recovery next year, the European Commission said as it
cut its U.K. forecasts.  Gross domestic product  will rise 0.9 percent in 2013 after
falling 0.3 percent this year, the European Union’s executive in
Brussels said in a twice-yearly report published today. In May,
it projected growth of 0.5 percent in 2012 and 1.7 percent in
2013.  “The outlook for the remainder of 2012 remains bleak,”
the commission said. “It is increasingly unlikely that net
trade will give a positive contribution to growth this year and
it will remain subdued next year.”  The commission cited risks to the U.K. from the euro-area
debt crisis and weaker-than-expected consumption and investment.
While the economy emerged from recession in the third quarter
with the strongest growth in five years, recent surveys have
 pointed to weakness  at the start of the current quarter.  Low credit availability “continues to weigh down on growth
prospects, even as the demand for credit remains weak in some
sectors,” the commission said. It expects the Bank of England’s
Funding for Lending Scheme to ease credit conditions over the
coming months and said it may have contributed to a recent
increase in mortgage lending.  Echoing other commentators such as Britain’s National
Institute of Economic and Social Research, the commission said
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will miss his target
to have government debt falling as share of GDP by 2015. It also
sees the government overshooting its borrowing target in the
current fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  