-- U.S. Affirms Penalty Solar Duties for China’s Suntech, Trina
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-07T17:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/u-s-affirms-penalty-solar-tariffs-for-china-s-suntech-trina.html
The U.S. International Trade
Commission said domestic makers of solar cells were harmed by
competitors in  China , upholding duties on imports from companies
including  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)   The six-member commission, an independent agency that
administers trade laws, sided unanimously today with a group of
American producers of the goods, led by the U.S. unit of Bonn-
based  SolarWorld AG. (SWV)   “It’s a win for the American workers,” Gordon Brinser,
president of SolarWorld Industries America of Hillsboro,  Oregon ,
told reporters after the commission’s vote. He said his company
has invested about $27 million in the past year to make its
products more efficient.  The ruling, the final step in the U.S. investigation,
raises the profile of a trade dispute between the world’s two
largest economies on government support for clean-energy
products. President  Barack Obama , re-elected yesterday, has
touted his enforcement of trade laws against China. The
government in Beijing tomorrow begins a once-a-decade leadership
change.  The U.S. Commerce Department on Oct. 10 set final duties on
imports of the Chinese solar goods to counter government
subsidies and to prevent the products from being sold below
cost. The decision has split the U.S. solar industry, with
installers and some manufacturers saying that the higher price
of imports will raise production costs and lead to unemployment.  “Unilateral tariffs and a trade war in today’s
interconnected global marketplace are unnecessary and
detrimental to effective and efficient business competition,”
Jigar Shah, president of the Coalition for Affordable Solar
Energy, which represents companies that oppose duties, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We will continue to encourage dialogue
and negotiation between the U.S. and Chinese governments to seek
a constructive resolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  