-- U.S. Warned by Fitch on Fiscal Cliff; Moody’s Stands Pat
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-07T22:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/u-s-warned-by-fitch-on-fiscal-cliff-moody-s-stands-pat-on-view.html
Fitch Ratings  warned that the U.S.
may be downgraded next year unless lawmakers avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff and raise the  debt  ceiling in a timely manner,
while Moody’s Investors Service said it will wait to see the
economic impact should the nation experience a fiscal shock.  Congress and President  Barack Obama  must confront more than
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to take
effect in 2013 or risk the economy tipping back into recession.
 Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating on
Aug. 5, 2011, after months of political wrangling that pushed
the nation to the deadline an agreement to lift the debt
ceiling.  The U.S. rating depends on “a stabilization and then a
downward trend in the ratio of federal debt” to gross domestic
product next year, according to a Moody’s statement. Fitch also
said that the nation may lose its AAA ranking next year if the
government fails to reduce the deficit.  Moody’s would likely “await evidence that the economy
could rebound from the shock” of the U.S. falling off the
fiscal cliff before considering restoring the nation’s stable
outlook from negative, according to the company’s statement.  “It’s simply not our task to tell people to dispense with
the political circus or go about it in a certain way,” Bart Oosterveld, managing director and head of sovereign risk
division at Moody’s in  Washington , said in a telephone
interview. “We’re indifferent over the set of outcomes.”  Debt Limit  The  U.S. Treasury  reiterated Oct. 31 that it expects to
reach the federal debt limit “near the end of 2012.” The
agency said in a statement that it can use “extraordinary
measures” that would “provide sufficient ‘headroom’ under the
debt limit to allow the government to continue to meet its
obligations until early in 2013.”  Failure to reach even a temporary arrangement to prevent
“the full range of tax increases and spending cuts implied by
the fiscal cliff and a repeat of the August 2011 debt ceiling
episode” would probably result in a downgrade, Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  