-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise Most in Six Weeks; Celanese Plans Bond
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-07T22:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-climb-as-greece-votes-on-austerity.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
increased the most in six weeks as lawmakers confront an
impending fiscal crisis after voters elected President  Barack Obama  to a second term.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 3.5
basis points to a mid-price of 99.8 basis points at 4:26 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. It’s poised
for the biggest advance since Sept. 25 when the measure rose 4.1
basis points.  Uncertainty regarding the ability of legislators to reach a
budget compromise may heighten investor concern that the
economic recovery will weaken, impairing corporate balance
sheets. Democrats in the U.S. retained the presidency and
control of the Senate, even as Republicans kept their majority
in the  House of Representatives . Lawmakers face a so-called
fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts that will start in January if Congress doesn’t
act.  “The biggest issue now is the fiscal cliff,”  Adrian Miller , director of global market strategy at GMP Securities LLC
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “With Obama winning
the election the current thinking by many is that the tail risk
to an unsuccessful outcome of the fiscal negotiation
increases.”  Bailout Funds  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras today was seeking
approval of austerity measures from raising the  retirement age 
to eliminating holiday payments for pensioners in an effort to
obtain more bailout funds. The vote comes amid the third general
strike in six weeks.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Contracts tied to General Electric Capital Corp. were the
most actively traded U.S. company swaps by gross notional value
for the week ended Nov. 2, according to the  Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. , which runs a central credit-swaps repository.  The total gross notional value of all single-name contracts
dropped 31 percent to $99.2 billion last week, according to the
New York-based DTCC, as  Hurricane Sandy  prompted a close in
trading of U.S. fixed income securities at noon Oct. 29 and kept
the market shuttered the following day.  Celanese Offering  Celanese Corp. (CE) , the world’s biggest producer of acetic
acid, plans to issue $500 million of bonds in its first sale
this year. The Dallas-based company, through Celanese US
Holdings LLC, may sell 10-year notes to yield about 4.625
percent more than similar-maturity Treasuries as soon as today
to repay outstanding term loans, according to a person familiar
with the offering who asked not to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt climbed
2 basis points, led by spreads on the subordinated bonds of
financial institutions and communication company debt, both of
which widened 4 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Credit-default swaps protecting the debt of U.S. defense
contractors against default rose today. Contracts tied to
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  rose 7.7 basis points to 50.5 basis points, the
highest since July, as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The cost of credit swaps tied to  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
rose 6.7 basis points to 49.2 and contracts protecting the debt
of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  rose 4.8 basis points to 69, according
to CMA. If budget cuts that are part of the fiscal cliff take
effect as scheduled in January, $55 billion, or about 9 percent,
may be cut from the Pentagon’s budget request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  