-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Nov. 2 (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-11-07T15:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-nov-2-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:   Summary of Weekly Petroleum Data for the Week Ending
November 2, 2012
U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 14.7
million barrels per day during the week ending November 2,
183 thousand barrels per day below the previous week’s
average. Refineries operated at 85.4 percent of their
operable capacity last week. Gasoline production decreased
last week, averaging 8.9 million barrels per day. Distillate
fuel production increased last week, averaging about
4.6 million barrels per day.
U.S. crude oil imports averaged 8.0 million barrels per
day last week, up by 89 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports
have averaged about 8.3 million barrels per day, 441 thousand
barrels per day below the same four-week period last year.
Total motor gasoline imports (including both finished
gasoline and gasoline blending components) last week
averaged 270 thousand barrels per day. Distillate fuel
imports averaged 55 thousand barrels per day last week.
U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those
in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 1.8
million barrels from the previous week. At 374.8 million
barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are above the upper
limit of the average range for this time of year. Total
motor gasoline inventories increased by 2.9 million barrels
last week and are in the middle of the average range.
Both finished gasoline inventories, and blending
components inventories increased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories increased by 0.1 million barrels last week
and are well below the lower limit of the average range for
this time of year. Propane/propylene inventories decreased
by 0.3 million barrels last week, but remained above the
upper limit of the average range. Total commercial petroleum
inventories increased by 0.7 million barrels last week.
Total products supplied over the last four-week period
have averaged over 18.8 million barrels per day, down by
0.7 percent from the same period last year. Over the last
four weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged
8.6 million barrels per day, up by 0.2 percent from the
same period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied
has averaged over 3.6 million barrels per day over the last
four weeks, down by 15.3 percent from the same period last
year. Jet fuel product supplied is 3.9 percent higher over
the last four weeks compared to the same four-week period
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ainhoa Goyeneche in Washington at 
 agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  