-- U.S. Consumer Credit Rose More Than Forecast in September
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-11-07T21:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/u-s-consumer-credit-rose-more-than-forecast-in-september.html
Consumer credit  in the U.S. increased
in September for a second month, led by a pickup in borrowing
for education and automobiles.  The $11.4 billion gain followed a revised $18.4 billion
jump in August, Federal Reserve figures showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 34 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a $10.2 billion increase in September.  Improving labor and housing markets may be giving
households enough confidence to take on more debt as they
finance purchases that account for about 70 percent of the
economy. Auto sales in September that were the  strongest  in more
than four years showed some Americans took advantage of cheaper
borrowing costs.  “It’s pretty clear that  consumer confidence  has risen,”
said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc. in  Detroit . “I think what’s really driving that
improvement in consumer confidence is that average Americans are
seeing the value of their homes now recover somewhat or rebound
somewhat after four or five years of steady declines.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for  consumer credit 
ranged from gains of $7 billion to $19.5 billion after a
previously reported August gain of $18.1 billion.  The consumer credit report doesn’t track debt secured by
real estate, such as home equity lines of credit and home
mortgages.  Auto Sales  Non-revolving debt , such as that for college tuition or
auto purchases, increased $14.3 billion in September after a
$14.1 billion gain in August. Demand for automobiles remains an
area of strength for the economy. Cars and light trucks sold in
September at a 14.9 million annual rate, the  fastest  since March
2008, after a 14.5 million pace a month earlier, according to
Ward’s Automotive Group.  An improvement in the labor market may be giving Americans
the wherewithal to borrow. The economy added 171,000 jobs in
October after 148,000 a month earlier, Labor Department data
show. For the third quarter, payroll growth averaged 174,000
compared with 67,000 in the prior three months.  Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
educational loans, climbed by $13.8 billion in September before
adjusting for seasonal variations. President  Barack Obama , re-
elected yesterday to a second term, signed into law on July 1 a
bill that kept student-loan  interest rates  from doubling.  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, decreased by
$2.9 billion in September after a $4.3 billion increase.
Revolving credit has declined in three of the four months to
September.  “Credit card spending is the easiest portion of  consumer
spending  to contain, because it’s revolving, and because many of
those related expenses are discretionary,” Guy LeBas, chief
fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, said before the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  