-- UBS Denies Blocking Employees From Testifying for Adoboli
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-11-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/ubs-denies-blocking-employees-from-testifying-for-adoboli.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s top employment lawyer in
 Europe  denied claims by former trader Kweku Adoboli that bank
workers are barred from testifying in his defense at a trial
over a $2.3 billion trading loss.  While UBS contracts may prevent current or former employees
from disparaging the Zurich-based bank or sharing intellectual
property, there’s nothing stopping them from answering questions
in litigation, Jamie Howard, the bank’s head of employment law
for Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa, said yesterday in
London.  Regardless of the “implied duty of fidelity” in such
contracts, employees may testify against the bank “if required
by law,” Howard said.  Adoboli, originally from Ghana, is on trial for fraud and
false accounting over the loss caused from unauthorized trades.
Prosecutors asked Howard to testify after Adoboli’s lawyer
suggested workers were being prevented or discouraged from
helping bolster the former trader’s defense.  Adoboli ended eight days of testimony by saying  text
messages  between him and his girlfriend in the days before his
arrest on Sept. 14, 2011, support his claim that he didn’t act
alone. He denied allegations by prosecutors that the texts may
have been staged in anticipation of a future defense.  Adoboli is accused of hiding the risk of his trades by
booking fake hedges at the Swiss bank and then hiding profit to
cover future losses before market fluctuations made his
positions untenable. As part of his defense, he claimed three
others on the exchange-traded-funds desk knew of or took part in
the activities and chose to let him take the fall alone.  None of the other traders have been charged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  