-- UBS’s Friedman Says U.S. Economy on Right Path, Likes China
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-11-07T01:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/ubs-s-friedman-says-u-s-economy-on-right-path-likes-china.html
Alex Friedman, global chief
investment officer at  UBS AG (UBSN) , comments on the outlook for the
 U.S. economy  following the presidential election, and his
investment strategies for the U.S.,  Europe  and  China . He spoke
in an interview with Zeb Eckert on Bloomberg Television.  On U.S. election:  “Regardless of who wins the presidential election, the
rhetoric we’ve seen will give way to the realities of having to
tackle what is an unsustainable fiscal path today.  “Whoever is president is going to have to cut spending and
they’re going to have to deal with the existing entitlement
process that is unsustainable.”  On U.S. investment strategy:  “The U.S. is basically on the right trajectory. It’s
skirted recession, it’s growing sub-trend but it is growing.
Housing has turned a corner but very slowly. So we continue to
see the U.S. moving positively. We’re overweight U.S. equities,
we’re overweight U.S. high yields, we’re overweight investment-
grade credit in the U.S. We’re taking a lot of our risk on the
credit side.”  On Europe:  Europe still presents some real risk, although Draghi has
taken off some of the near-term risk with his bond purchase
program, essentially stepping in as a lender of last resort.  On China and  emerging markets :  “China, we are more positive on, and have been for a while.
The emerging markets generally present an attractive story and
ironically their fiscal profile is much better than the
developed markets.  “Investors like clarity so as we move past this week in
China, it’s a positive story. Emerging market currencies overall
are very positive for us. A basket of currencies is an
interesting way for investors to get exposure to this region and
helps diversify some of the risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  