-- Human Whale Seeks Salvation in ‘Moby-Dick,’ Jonah: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-11-07T14:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/human-whale-seeks-salvation-in-moby-dick-jonah-stage.html
You can’t avert your eyes from the
central character in “ The Whale ” even if you want to. He fills
a sizable chunk of the stage, leaving only a few times to use
the bathroom.  Charlie is a gay man in his mid-40s weighing in at around
600 pounds and confined mostly to a sagging couch in the living
room of a shabby apartment somewhere in the blank vastness of
northern  Idaho .  He isn’t a pretty sight. Played with arresting conviction
by Shuler Hensley, he takes us beyond the patronizing sympathy
we might feel for this freakish vision.  With his tiny, tousle-haired head bobbing and wheezing
precariously atop a mountain of denim-swaddled flesh, Charlie
breaks up the hours he spends teaching expository writing on
line by watching porn and devouring fast food.  Most of his students are idiots, whom he nonetheless
treats with compassion and only mild sarcasm.  When a submission strikes him as beyond redemption, he
refers to a favorite essay about “Moby-Dick” whose author was
particularly saddened by those boring chapters about whaling
because “I knew the author was just trying to save us from his
own sad story, just for a little while.”  Crashing Symbols  Allusions to Jonah and the sounds of waves crashing
intermittently through the play’s very long single act (not to
mention a circular window at one end of the set), connect the
dots between the whales, in case we missed the point.  So subtlety isn’t playwright Samuel D. Hunter’s strong
point. Charlie is attended by his best friend, Liz (Cassie
Beck), a nurse who insists he try to save himself, yet brings
him doughnuts and meatball heroes; an earnest Mormon missionary
(Cory Michael Smith); Charlie’s truculent teenage daughter
(Reyna De Courcy) and, finally, the ex-wife (Tasha Lawrence) who
still loves him, if dubiously.  Director Davis McCallum, who did a splendid job with
“February House,” pumps some air into the gloomy business of
“The Whale” with a sure, easy hand. The performances are
grounded and Jane Cox’s lighting of Mimi Lien’s realistic set
all play wisely against the depressing story at hand.  Most of all there’s Hensley’s deeply humane and engaging
performance. “The Whale” has some of the schlock inevitability
of “Leaving Las Vegas.” Charlie stayed with me for a good
while, though.  Through Dec. 9 at Playwrights Horizons, 416 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com .
Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and  Greg
Evans  on TV.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 