-- Munich Re Shrugs Off Sandy to Raise 2012 Profit Target
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-11-07T09:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/munich-re-raises-profit-target-as-third-quarter-net-soars.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, shrugged off losses from Hurricane Sandy to raise its
full-year earnings forecast after an almost fourfold increase in
third-quarter profit.  Net income rose to 1.13 billion euros ($1.45 billion) from
286 million euros a year earlier, the Munich-based reinsurer
said in a  statement  today. That beat the 756 million-euro
average estimate of 15 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Investment income surged 65 percent to 2.22 billion euros.  “Despite Hurricane Sandy, we are very optimistic of
realizing a profit in the region of 3 billion euros for 2012,”
Chief Financial Officer Joerg Schneider said in the statement.  Munich Re Chief Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard had
said in August he expected the company to “slightly surpass”
its full-year profit target of about 2.5 billion euros. Claims
from  Hurricane Sandy , which slammed into  New York  and  New Jersey 
last week, are expected to be “in the mid three-digit million-
euro range,” based on provisional estimates, Munich Re said.  Munich Re rose 2.7 percent, the most in three months, to
131.25 euros at 10:05 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has climbed
39 percent this year, valuing the reinsurer at 23.6 billion
euros. Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-biggest reinsurer,
which reports third-quarter results tomorrow, has advanced 38
percent.  While it’s “too early to make a definite announcement
regarding the  dividend  for 2012,” Schneider said that if Munich
Re reports a “good” annual result, it plans a bigger payout
than last year’s 6.25 euros per share. The  Bloomberg dividend
forecast  predicts a 2012 payout of 6.50 euros per share.  Investment Income  The main reason for Munich Re’s better-than-expected result
“seems to be a positive surprise on the investment side,”
 Christian Muschick , an analyst at Silvia Quandt Research in
Frankfurt with a neutral rating on the shares, wrote in a report
to clients today.  Hannover Re , the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, said
yesterday it expects record earnings “in excess of” 800
million euros this year after reporting a 63 percent increase in
third-quarter profit. While Hannover Re said it’s too early to
make “reliable statements” on claims from Hurricane Sandy, the
reinsurer doesn’t expect claims to let it exceed its annual
budget of 560 million euros for major losses.  Hurricane Sandy  Sandy hit New York and New Jersey Oct. 29, barreling
through the most populous region of the U.S., killing more than
100 people and leaving as many as 8.5 million homes and
businesses without power. The storm may cost insurers and the
reinsurers, which help shoulder risks in return for a share of
the premiums, $10 billion to $20 billion, according to  Eqecat
Inc. , a provider of catastrophic risk models.  Last year, the  insurance industry  and government-funded
insurance programs paid out a record $105 billion of claims for
disasters, including the earthquake and tsunami that hit  Japan 
and floods in  Thailand . That helped reinsurers push through
higher prices in contract renewals this year.  Negotiating further increases may be more difficult as 2012
didn’t see disasters on the same scale and reinsurers’ capital
recovered. The industry accumulated a record $480 billion of
capital at the end of June, according to a  report  by Aon
Benfield, the world’s biggest reinsurance broker and a unit of
 Aon Plc (AON) , which mediates contracts for primary insurers.  Munich Re reiterated today that the company expects prices,
terms and conditions to at least remain stable in the January
round of renewals in most markets.  Price Outlook  “It is foreseeable that Hurricane Sandy will lead to a
further rise in prices in U.S. property business and for non-
proportional natural catastrophe covers,” said management board
member  Torsten Jeworrek , who heads the reinsurance business.  Hurricane Isaac, which hit the U.S. Gulf Coast at the end
of August with heavy rain and gale-force gusts, is expected to
cost Munich Re about 80 million euros. Claims from the
earthquakes that hit northern  Italy  in the second quarter had to
be adjusted to 150 million euros from 79 million euros, the
reinsurer said, adding that it reduced provisions for losses
from prior accident years by nearly 100 million euros.  Net income at Munich Re’s reinsurance unit more than
tripled to 1.04 billion euros in the quarter, helped by a below
average burden from major losses. The property and casualty
reinsurance unit’s combined ratio improved to 93.6 percent in
the first nine months of the year from 118.1 percent a year ago.
A ratio above 100 percent means claims and costs exceed premium
income, leaving a loss from underwriting.  Life Reinsurance  The life reinsurance unit is “well on track” to exceed
the annual target of a technical result of 400 million euros,
Munich Re said in a  presentation  filed on its website. After the
first nine months, the figure stood at 370 million euros. Munich
Re has said it expects life reinsurance premiums to grow as the
business takes on more risk from insurers trying to meet tougher
 capital requirements .  Under the so-called capital relief deals, reinsurers assume
risks, such as mortality claims on a primary insurer’s life
insurance portfolio, for a defined period of time in return for
a share of future premiums. Those transactions, mainly in  North
America , have driven premium growth over the past three years,
Joachim Wenning, management board member responsible for life
reinsurance, said in an interview on Oct. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  