-- Unions Spend Big, Win Big in California
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-11-07T20:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/unions-spend-big-win-big-in-california.html
Efforts to rein in the power of
 California ’s public-employee unions, and to reform out-of-
control compensation costs that are eroding services and  busting 
public budgets, came to a crashing halt on Tuesday in
California.  The idealistic hope that California voters would keep a
firm grasp on their wallets, thus forcing the state to rein in
pay and other costs, was a pipedream. Californians, who
typically vote “no” when it comes to initiatives that directly
increase taxes, gave Governor  Jerry Brown ’s income- and sales-
tax boost (Proposition 30) a surprisingly decisive win, with
nearly 54 percent of the vote.  The governor embraced modest pension changes and vetoed
union-backed spending measures only at the last minute of the
legislative session as a way to convince voters that he was
serious about reform and that they should vote for 30. With  new
money  coming into the state coffers, there will be little
impetus to rein in spending -- at least until the Democratic-
dominated Legislature blows the new money.  Union-backed advertisements not only boosted Brown’s tax
increase measure, but  crushed  Proposition 32, a paycheck-
protection initiative that would have restricted unions’ ability
to automatically deduct political funds from members’ paychecks.
The union side mustered a 56 percent “no” vote -- not
unexpected, but discouragingly high nonetheless.  Those of us who look, desperately perhaps, for evidence of
a reform movement have at least been able to champion efforts at
the local level, where city council members have been able to
move the needle in confronting public-sector benefits. But the
unions mostly did well in municipal elections too.  The biggest disappointment:  U.S. Representative Bob Filner, a Democrat and close union ally, appears to have won a
slim victory in the San Diego mayor’s race over Republican
policy wonk Carl DeMaio. A Filner victory essentially spells the
end of a pension reform measure that voters approved in June
given that the mayor will have endless tools at his disposal to
evade the tough new law.  In Orange County, the city of  Costa Mesa  had become
something of a national example on how to take on union power,
as its council majority promoted outsourcing and pension
changes. While voters there re-elected reformers, they  rejected 
a city charter measure that would have allowed the majority to
have more latitude in carrying out changes. Unions from across
the state flooded the campaign with money, outspending charter-
reform backers by 10 to 1.  For many Californians, the road forward might be one of the
freeways  headed  toward Nevada or  Arizona .  ( Steven Greenhut , a Bloomberg View contributor based in
 Sacramento , California, is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 