-- United Technologies Directors Sued Over China Export Fine
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-11-07T21:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/united-technologies-directors-sued-over-china-export-fines.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the maker
of Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Sikorsky helicopters, was
sued by a shareholder alleging mismanagement and seeking to
replace the company’s board.  Directors of the Hartford, Connecticut-based industrial
conglomerate should have exercised better oversight to avoid
U.S. fines for supplying  China  with software used in developing
attack helicopters, the Harold Grill 2 IRA contends in a lawsuit
filed Nov. 5 in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Board members violated their duties “by abdicating their
responsibilities of supervision and oversight” and as a result
“sullied United Technologies’ reputation as a defense
contractor, undermined its claims to good governance, and
exposed it to criminal charges,” the investor claimed.  In June,  United Technologies  units pleaded guilty to
violating the Arms Export Control Act and making false
statements in connection with exports of software used to
develop the  Z-10 helicopter , supplied to the Chinese army
beginning in 2009, U.S. federal authorities said.  The company’s Pratt & Whitney Canada unit and its U.S.-
based Hamilton Sundstrand unit agreed to pay more than $75
million as part of a settlement with the U.S. Justice Department
and State Department, according to prosecutors.  Congress imposed a ban on licenses or approvals of defense
articles to China in February 1990, specifically including
helicopters.  ‘Without Merit’  “The allegations in this lawsuit are entirely without
merit,”  John Moran , a United Technologies spokesman, said today
in an e-mailed message. He said the company “is committed to
conducting business in full compliance with all export control
regulations and achieving its goal of best-in-class
performance.”  “We accept responsibility for these past violations and we
deeply regret they occurred,” Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  said in a statement June 28, when the prosecution was
resolved. The company had already established full reserves for
settlement payments.  “These violations revealed important opportunities to
strengthen our export compliance program. We have taken
considerable steps to improve our export controls and to enhance
our compliance infrastructure,” Chenevert said.  “The company also has dedicated more than 175 executives,
managers and professionals full-time to export compliance, and
hundreds more on a part-time basis,” he said.  ‘Geopolitical Competitor’  In the lawsuit, lawyers contend the company “secretly
participated” in the Chinese military helicopter development
“in violation of a U.S. arms embargo and federal arms traffic
control statutes,” placing restricted technology in the hands
of “the U.S.’s biggest geopolitical competitor.”  According to Military-today.com, the tank-destroyer Z-10
prototype, powered by dual Canadian Pratt & Whitney engines, had
armor plating to protect a gunner and pilot and could carry 30
millimeter cannon; anti-tank missiles, air-to-air missiles and
rockets, and used radar-foiling stealth technology.  The investor asked a judge to remove and replace the
directors, order a new election, appoint a receiver for
management in the interim, and award the company damages to be
paid by the directors.  United Technologies fell 2.9 percent to $77.68 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Grill v. United Technologies, CA7999, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  