-- Veolia Jumps After Confirming Asset Sale Plan to Cut Debt
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-07T12:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/veolia-earnings-drop-25-as-bond-buybacks-planned-to-cut-costs.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the biggest
water company, jumped the most in eight months in Paris trading
after confirming financial targets and saying it will buy back
bonds by the end of the year to cut borrowing costs.  Veolia climbed as much as 8.3 percent, the most since
March, and was up 6.5 percent at 8.11 euros as of 12:50 p.m.
local time.  Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot wants to cut debt
and scale back global operations to boost profits. The company
has “some headroom” to buy back bonds given its cash position
of close to 6 billion euros ($7.7 billion), Chief Financial
Officer Pierre-Francois Riolacci said on a conference call.
Third-quarter adjusted operating  cash flow  rose to 562 million
euros from 544 million euros.  Bond repurchases may “eliminate lingering market concerns
over the possibility of a capital increase,” Citigroup Inc.
said in a report. The results are “evidence Veolia’s
restructuring is underway.”  The utility will keep the market “in suspense” about
which bond maturities it will target, Riolacci said.  Adjusted operating income fell 25 percent to 840.9 million
euros in the first nine months from a restated 1.12 billion
euros a year earlier, according to a statement. Waste-handling
volumes fell 1.1 percent because of the economic slowdown.  The utility plans to sell 5 billion euros of assets and cut
investment this year and next. It will also reduce operating
costs by 270 million euros in 2013.  Cash Flow  Veolia confirmed targets given in December for annual sales
growth of more than 3 percent from 2014 and adjusted operating
cash flow to increase by an average of more than 5 percent.  Frerot has fought off a bid to oust him this year and has
also overseen the sale of the utility’s U.K. regulated-water,
U.S. waste-management and Baltic waste businesses. A new chief
operating officer will be named in December to take charge of
cost-cutting efforts.  Veolia has said it will narrow its geographic reach to
about 40 countries. Former CEO  Henri Proglio ’s expansion spree,
begun in 2006, took the utility to 77 nations. Proglio now heads
Electricite de  France  SA.  Net financial debt stood at 15.2 billion euros at the end
of September, up from 14.7 billion euros at the end of 2011. The
utility sold 1.66 billion euros of assets in the first nine
months of the year and said debt will drop by 2.5 billion to 3
billion euros in the fourth quarter after the sale of the U.S.
waste handling business closes as early as next week.  The U.S. sale will reduce Veolia’s debt by 1.5 billion
euros while changes in the shareholding of Berlinwasser, a water
utility in the German capital, will take off another 1.4 billion
euros, Riolacci said.  Beat Target  “There is absolutely no question” Veolia will complete
the 5 billion-euro asset sales target and even exceed it,
Riolacci said. It may not be necessary to sell all of the assets
slated for disposal, he said, while an extra 200 million to 400
million of other assets may be sold before the end of the year.  “We expect strong  capital gains  on the disposal of our
U.S. operations so we are confident that the second half of the
year will be overall positive in terms of net income,” Riolacci
said.  The utility wants to lower its holding in the Transdev
transport unit to 20 percent within about two years, the CFO
said. Veolia is in talks with the local Berlin government on its
holding in Berlinwasser, which the utility would prefer to keep,
and isn’t in discussions with Suez Environnement on asset sales,
he said.  Veolia wants to retain its stake in energy-services
division Dalkia, he said. EDF has sued the utility over the
right to own 50 percent of Dalkia. Veolia owns 66 percent of
Dalkia in France while EDF holds the rest.  Riolacci today reiterated that EDF lost its right in 2005
to raise its holding in Dalkia.  Frerot wants to cut borrowing to less than 12 billion euros
at Veolia by the end of 2013 and will trim the dividend to 70
euro cents a share this year and next, from 1.21 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  