-- Vial Says World Crisis Trumps Chile Overheating as Threat
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-11-07T20:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/vial-says-world-crisis-trumps-chile-overheating-as-worst-threat.html
The threat of a global collapse remains
the greatest risk to Chile’s economy, preventing tighter monetary
policy even after  Europe ’s debt crisis had a smaller impact on the
Andean nation than anticipated, policy maker Joaquin Vial said.  Domestic growth has beaten expectations as a mining boom in
the northern desert helps prop up  consumer spending , Vial said in
an interview in his office in Santiago today. Credit growth isn’t
high enough to indicate that domestic demand is excessive, he
added.  “If you want to weigh the dangers of overheating in the
local economy and the threat of a strong shock in external demand
and  consumer confidence  coming from abroad, the two are quite
balanced,” Vial said. “But if pressed to say where the biggest
threats come from, there are more threats abroad than at home.”  Chile’s central bank has kept its  key interest rate  unchanged
at 5 percent since January, when it surprised economists by
cutting borrowing costs by a quarter-point. Analysts surveyed on
Oct. 9 by the bank expected policy makers to keep rates on hold
for 17 months, and then raise rates.  Economic growth  in the world’s top copper miner exceeded
analyst forecasts in six of the first nine months of 2012, with
gross domestic product expanding about 5.4 percent from last year.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast  Chile  will grow 5 percent
this year, surpassing the region’s biggest economies Brazil and
 Mexico .  Domestic Strength  Retail sales leaped 8.4 percent in the first nine month of
2012 while bank credit expanded 12 percent in September from last
year, according to government data. Unemployment fell to 6.5
percent in the three months through September from 7.4 percent in
the same period of 2011.  “We probably have a problem that internal demand is growing
stronger than we had anticipated,” Vial said. “Consumption,
investment, credit and employment are growing at high rates, as
well as salaries, which have moderated a little bit in recent
months. Clearly it’s all a little bit higher than what would be
considered the optimal trajectory.”  While domestic growth hasn’t put pressure on inflation rates,
it has fed a current account deficit that poses potential risks to
the Chilean economy if, for example, copper prices fall below $3 a
pound, he said. The metal, which accounts for more than half of
Chile’s exports, settled at $3.4415 a pound today on the Comex in
 New York .  Vulnerabilities  Vial’s comments come a day after central bank President
Rodrigo Vergara said current rates of internal demand growth
create vulnerabilities in an economy where the current account
deficit is expanding. While Vergara called on authorities to
contain spending, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain at the same
forum said investment rather than spending is largely to blame.  Chile’s current account deficit will expand to 3.2 percent of
GDP this year from 1.3 percent in 2011 as imports climb 4 percent,
according to central bank forecasts published in September. The
 trade surplus  will shrink to $4.2 billion from $10.8 billion over
the same period, it said.  Vial, who was appointed by President Sebastian Pinera and
approved by the Senate in January this year, is the newest member
of the central bank board. He previously was chief economist for
 South America  at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA.  Vial has a PhD in economics from the  University of
Pennsylvania  and was budget director in the government of
President Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle from 1997 to 2000. He was later
chairman of BBVA’s Chilean pension fund AFP Provida SA, where he
oversaw more than $40 billion in assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 