-- Vietnam Tech Exports Overtaking Garments Eases Trade Gap
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-08T07:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/vietnam-luring-tech-companies-narrows-trade-gap-southeast-asia.html
Vietnam ’s cost advantage has drawn
investments from U.S. and South Korean technology companies,
whose exports have overtaken garments and provided a bright spot
for a government struggling to revive economic growth.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL) 
are among a growing roster of companies setting up or expanding
in Vietnam, spurring exports amid a global slowdown that has
damped demand for goods from other Asian nations. Shipments of
mobile phones and other electronics from Vietnam surged 91
percent in the first 10 months of the year to $16 billion,
making them the biggest source of  export  revenue.  The boost from global technology companies may help damp
investor concern about the  economy , which is set to grow at the
slowest pace since 1999 amid credit downgrades and an
undercapitalized banking system. Rising costs from  Singapore  to
Thailand, as well as tensions between  China  and  Japan  may
precipitate a manufacturing shift to Vietnam, which may help cut
the trade deficit to its smallest in more than a decade.  “The country is realizing its cost advantage and is now
becoming a rising assembly point for global technology firms,”
said Vincent Conti, a Singapore-based economist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “This rapid growth has helped to
diversify Vietnam’s trade profile and improve the structure of
its vulnerable trade balance.”  The benchmark VN Index rose 1.2 percent today and has
gained 8.4 percent this year after sliding 27 percent in 2011.  Market Share  Vietnam’s shipments of electrical machinery, a category
that includes modems, telephones and wiring sets, to the U.S.
climbed 58 percent in the first eight months of the year,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. By
comparison, China’s sales to the U.S. in the category rose 11
percent,  Malaysia ’s grew 4 percent,  Thailand ’s slid 5 percent
and  Indonesia ’s fell 16 percent in the period, the data showed.  Garment exports to the U.S., Vietnam’s top market, reached
$6.5 billion last year, making Vietnam the second-biggest
supplier of apparel to the American market after China. Garment
exports were $47 million a decade earlier, before a tariff-
cutting trade agreement buoyed Vietnamese access to the U.S.
market and helped spark six years of Vietnamese economic growth
exceeding 7 percent annually starting in 2002.  “Vietnam is taking technology market share from other
Asian countries in the region,” said Than Trong Phuc, the Ho
Chi Minh City-based managing director of technology-focused
investment fund DFJ VinaCapital LP. “There is a combination of
factors, but it’s primarily driven by labor costs.”  Doubled Investment  Jabil, a Florida-based electronics manufacturer, plans to
increase its total investment in a factory in Ho Chi Minh City
that currently makes point-of-sales terminals and routers to
$100 million from $50 million over the next three years, said
Mike Matthes, senior vice president of global operations.  The company may employ as many as 5,000 workers in Vietnam
within five years, up from 1,400 now, Singapore-based Matthes
said in an e-mail. Jabil’s three top clients were  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Research in Motion Ltd.  last year, based
on company filings.  Samsung plans to invest $700 million in a new mobile-phone
plant in northern Vietnam, Yonhap News reported Oct. 13. The
plan marks the second phase of its investment in the country,
with an annual production capacity at its first plant at 150
million units, Yonhap News reported.  Intel, Nidec  Production at Intel’s $1 billion factory in Ho Chi Minh
City is “ramping up smoothly,” said Rick Howarth, general
manager of Intel Products Vietnam.  Intel opened its assembly and testing plant in Ho Chi Minh
City in 2010, the largest such facility for the world’s largest
semiconductor maker.  “We’re looking to increase the complexity of work that’s
being done in Vietnam,” Howarth said. “Over time we can expect
to see an ecosystem of high-tech design and manufacturing grow
in Vietnam, increasing the country’s relevance in the industry
globally.”  Japan’s  Nidec Corp. (6594) , the world’s biggest maker of disk-
drive motors, said in June it would open its seventh Vietnamese
factory in Ho Chi Minh City by the end of the year. Its
workforce in Vietnam’s biggest city will reach 25,000.  China Reliance  Vietnam is also benefiting from a move by manufacturers to
diversify away from China, said Alessandro Parimbelli, a
Bergamo, Italy-based senior vice president of global business
units at Jabil.  “We’re trying to offer alternatives to our customers for
whom some products are made in China, who whether because of the
currency’s appreciation or for other reasons, don’t want to have
all their eggs in one basket,” Parimbelli said. A “much
cheaper” cost structure in Vietnam also contributed, he said.  The Vietnamese dong was little changed as of 2:32 p.m. in
Hanoi. It’s also little changed against the U.S. dollar since it
was devalued by about 7 percent in February last year. China’s
 yuan  has gained 5.6 percent in the same period.  Vietnam’s tech exports are surging in an economy that Prime
Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said would struggle to grow even 5.2
percent this year, the slowest pace since 1999. Exports are
helping to offset slowing consumer demand domestically. Retail
sales growth slowed to 17.1 percent in October from a year
earlier, the eighth straight month the figure has declined.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Vietnam’s debt rating on
Sept. 28 for the first time since 2010, citing the country’s
growth prospects and banking system weaknesses.  Narrowing Gap  The higher export revenue is helping narrow Vietnam’s trade
deficit. The nation has posted a shortfall every year since
1993, peaking at about $18 billion in 2008, according to data
from the General Statistics Office in Hanoi. In the first 10
months of the year, the deficit totaled $357 million, compared
with $8.9 billion at the same time in 2011.  “The improvement is basically a sustainable one,” said
David Kadarauch, the Ho Chi Minh City-based managing director of
investment banking at Saigon Securities Inc. “Tech is part of
the story, as is overall strong foreign investment in export-
oriented manufacturing.”  The smaller deficit represents an improvement in one of
Vietnam’s key risk indicators, Standard & Poor’s said in a
statement in October.  “The days of very large trade deficits in Vietnam seem to
be over,” said Johanna Chua, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian
economic research at Citigroup Inc. “Part of that is due to
weaker imports, but Vietnam is also benefiting from a structural
transition. A lower trade deficit means that concerns about
foreign-exchange risks should dissipate and reserves should be
more ample, which improves confidence in the currency and in
overall macroeconomic stability.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  