-- Voters Pass at Least $15.5 Billion of Local-Debt: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-07T19:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/voters-pass-at-least-10-9-billion-of-local-debt-muni-credit.html
U.S. voters from  California  to
 Florida  passed at least $15.5 billion of bond issues with
 interest rates  on municipal debt close to the lowest since the
1960s.  Local governments sought approval for about $37 billion of
borrowings yesterday, 45 percent less than in 2008. It’s the
sharpest drop in six decades for a presidential election year.  “There is a reluctance to commit to new ongoing spending
given the uncertainty of revenue,” said Tracy Gordon, a state
and local-finance economist with The  Brookings Institution , a
nonprofit public-policy group in  Washington . “Similarly, there
is a hesitancy on the part of voters to incur debt when they are
still recovering from the recession.”  At least 18 of the 20 largest issues up for consideration
received authorization, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Two
were too close to call. The average pass rate in presidential
election years since 1948 is 76.3 percent, according to New
York-based Ipreo, a financial-market information provider.  The vote tally, dominated by debt for schools in  San Diego ,
Houston and Miami and highway construction in  Arkansas ,
represents a decline from the $67 billion put to voters in 2008,
according to Ipreo.  Budget Gaps  Even as municipal yields are close to the  lowest  since
1967, cities and states are hesitant to take on debt as they
rebound from the 18-month recession that ended in 2009.
Municipal borrowing fell in 2011 for the first time since 1996,
according to Federal Reserve data.  States had to close cumulative budget deficits exceeding
$500 billion in the past four years as the flagging economy
sapped revenue, according to the Washington-based Center on
Budget & Policy Priorities. While revenue has grown for 10
straight quarters, collections are still below the 2008 peak,
according to the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government
in  Albany , New York.  In yesterday’s ballots,  New Jersey  sought funding for
higher education, while  Dallas  had the largest borrowing for
consideration for a city, including funding for sewer
improvements.  ‘Issuer Austerity’  Voters and elected officials remain reluctant to increase
borrowing even as revenue and local-employment improve, said
Matt Fabian, managing director of Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors. Muni issuers face another year of
rating cuts outpacing increases, he said.  “Issuer austerity is alive and well,” said Fabian.
“Public officials are not getting rewarded by voters for
bringing large capital projects.”  The nationwide vote tally is the least since at least 1948
for a presidential ballot year. California removed a water bond
this year as Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  lobbied for new
taxes to avoid budget cuts.  Municipalities have reduced borrowing for new projects. Of
the $307 billion in issuance through Oct. 25, about 63 percent
has been to retire higher-cost debt, the highest percentage
since 1993, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  As far as net new municipal sales, “we continue to
shrink,” said John Loffredo, co-head of MacKay Municipal
Managers in Princeton, New Jersey, which oversees $6.8 billion.  “That trend is going to continue as voters across the
country continue to feel the need to keep debt at a low level,”
said Loffredo, speaking about the low amount of bond
referendums.  Following are the largest bond issues before voters,
according to Ipreo, and reports from local press or unofficial
tallies from election districts:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  