-- Wall Street Might Need to Make Up With Obama
-- B y   J a m e s   G r e i f f
-- 2012-11-07T22:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/wall-street-might-need-to-make-up-with-obama.html
After yesterday’s electoral victory
by President  Barack Obama  is there any reason to think relations
between the administration and Wall Street will be any warmer?  Based on where the nation’s biggest financial firms put
their money, a healthy measure of skepticism is understandable.  Of the 10 biggest donors to Obama during the 2012 election
cycle, none were from Wall Street, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Topping the list was the U.S. government, or rather
its employees -- they gave a combined $325,295. The rest of
Obama’s donor list was dominated by Silicon Valley and
universities.  Compare that to the donor roster for losing candidate
Republican  Mitt Romney : Eight of his top 10 contributors were
either commercial or investment banks, accounting firms or
investment funds. Topping the list was Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which was responsible for $502,930, followed by Morgan Stanley,
with $406,330. Again, all amounts attributed to the companies
reflect contributions by employees.  The reversal from four years ago is in keeping with  Wall
Street ’s antipathy to one of the signature pieces of legislation
Obama signed into law, the  Dodd-Frank  Act of 2010. The law, a
response to the financial crisis of 2008, places restraints on
some of Wall Street’s most profitable activities and is designed
to make the financial system less susceptible to meltdowns.  In the 2008 election, Goldman Sachs and its employees gave
even more to Obama than they shipped to Romney this year --
$572,544. JPMorgan Chase & Co. was next among financial industry
donors, giving Obama $468,431. This time the firm didn’t crack
Obama’s top 10.  Romney, of course, along with the  Republican Party ,
promised to roll back Dodd-Frank, which they blamed for
everything from disappointing economic growth, to banks’
reluctance to lend, to the declining competitiveness of the U.S.
financial industry.  Dodd-Frank wasn’t the only issue that aggravated Wall
Street. Obama, according to the financiers’ jeremiad, was
“ demonizing ” them after the president tossed off a few choice
barbs about “fat cat bankers” back in 2009.  OK, so maybe that was a trifle unkind, but it was
understandable politically. The rhetoric, remember, was in line
with the general sentiment at the time -- that bankers were
unrepentant for the part they played in the near-collapse and
wanted nothing so much as a return to business as usual. (When
did bankers become so sensitive, anyway?)  And yet there is room for a reset. Obama won without the
financial industry’s backing and may not feel much of an
obligation to play nice. But Wall Street needs him.  Think about it.  Sherrod Brown , Democrat of  Ohio , won re-
election. He is the sponsor of a  bill  to break up or cap the
size of the nation’s biggest banks. Then there’s the industry’s
bete noire,  Elizabeth Warren , who won the race for a Senate seat in
 Massachusetts . She was the architect of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, which bankers have tried every which way to
neuter.  So it might not hurt if Wall Street had a friend in Obama
again.  (James Greiff is a member of Bloomberg View’s editorial board.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 