-- WellPoint Net Rises in First Results Since Braly’s Exit
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-11-07T21:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/wellpoint-profit-rises-1-2-percent-as-medical-costs-moderate.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health insurer, said profit rose 1.2 percent, in its first
earnings report since former chief executive officer Angela Braly left amid complaints about the company’s performance.  Net income  increased to $691.2 million, or $2.15 a share,
in the third quarter, from $683.2 million, or $1.90, a year
earlier, the Indianapolis-based carrier said in a statement
today. Earnings excluding one-time items topped by 26 cents the
$1.83 average of 15 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Braly resigned Aug. 28 amid investor unrest about
disappointing profits and a stock that lagged behind competitors
like  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest health plan. The
company nonetheless benefited in the quarter from acquisitions
she orchestrated, gaining revenue from its new eye wear retailer
1-800-Contacts and new members from CareMore Health Group, an
insurer for elderly Medicare patients.  “It looks very much like the CareMore deal, as well as
1-800 Contacts, continue to support earnings,” said Thomas A. Carroll, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst in Baltimore, in a
phone interview. “And that comes against the backdrop of
medical cost trends that remain relatively stable.  Revenue Unchanged  Revenue was $15.4 billion, including $130.6 million from
the 1-800 Contacts unit the company bought in June for $900
million. That was unchanged from a year earlier. Enrollment in
WellPoint’s medical plans fell to 33.5 million from 34.4
million, as increases in Medicare and Medicaid membership
couldn’t balance a loss in commercial enrollment.  Medicare is the U.S.-backed program for the elderly and
disabled, while Medicaid is a joint state-federal program
covering the poor. In July, WellPoint announced the $4.9 billion
 acquisition  of  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  that will make it the biggest
private provider of Medicaid plans once the deal closes this
year.  WellPoint, owner of 14 state Blue Cross plans, was the last
major health insurer to report earnings for the quarter. It
followed rivals like  Minnetonka , Minnesota-based UnitedHealth
and  Aetna Inc. (AET)  of Hartford,  Connecticut  in beating analyst
estimates partly on the strength of health-care costs that
stayed moderate.  Share Buybacks  WellPoint’s numbers were also helped by a lower-than-
expected tax rate benefit, lower compensation costs and a share
repurchase plan that bought back $2.5 billion through October,
Carroll said.  The earnings may matter less to investors in the near term
than the results of yesterday’s election, Carroll said.
President  Barack Obama ’s victory over  Mitt Romney  keeps alive
his 2010 health-care law, which is expected to cut profit
margins for insurers even as it produces millions of new
customers for the industry.  The company fell 5.5 percent to $57.85 at the close in New
York. The shares have fallen 13 percent this year. Other
insurers also declined. UnitedHealth, based in Minnetonka,
 Minnesota , dropped 3.8 percent to $54.26.  Humana Inc. (HUM) , based in
Louisville,  Kentucky  fell 7.9 percent to $70.16.  Large insurers like WellPoint ‘‘likely would have preferred
a victory by Romney, who would have made significant changes to
health reform,” said Michael Wiederhorn, an Oppenheimer & Co.
analyst in New York, in a note to clients today. “Nevertheless,
we would be buyers on any weakness in the group as we believe
fears about the impact of reform have been overblown.”  WellPoint directors named General Counsel John Cannon as
interim CEO in August and said he wasn’t interested in the full-
time job. The company said in September that it expected to pick
a permanent replacement in three to six months.  The company is still conducting an “internal and
external” search for a CEO and that it may stretch into the
first quarter, Cannon said today during a conference call with
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  