-- WestJet Tops Profit Estimates After Filling Record Seats
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-11-07T21:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/westjet-tops-profit-estimates-after-filling-record-seats.html
WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA) , Canada’s
largest discount carrier, posted higher third-quarter earnings
than analysts estimated after flying fuller planes and posting
increased average revenue from each available seat.  Profit rose 80 percent to C$70.6 million ($71.1 million),
or 52 cents a share, from C$39.3 million, or 28 cents, a year
earlier, the company said in a statement today. The average
estimate from 14 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was 44 cents.  The company filled 85 percent of its seats, an improvement
of 4.5 points from a year earlier, and posted occupancy records
each month. Demand for non-premium fares from discounters such
as WestJet has held steady since last year while premium-fare
bookings of large network carriers fell 13 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Unit revenue climbed 9.5 percent.  “Demand for  air travel  in Canada has been very strong, ”
 Chris Murray , an analyst with PI Financial Corp., said in a
telephone interview in Toronto. “And what we’ve seen,
particularly with WestJet in the last few months, is muted
capacity growth but very strong traffic growth.”  Murray has a buy  rating  on the stock and estimated adjusted
profit of 43 cents a share for the third quarter.  WestJet climbed 0.6 percent to C$18.07 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have increased 54 percent this year.  Full-Year Costs  Unit sales growth will slow in the fourth quarter, the
Calgary-based company said, and fuel expenses will be 91 to 93
Canadian cents a liter. WestJet maintained its earlier
projection that full-year costs for each seat flown a mile,
excluding fuel and profit-sharing, will rise as much as 3.5
percent.  WestJet has stepped up its competition with Air  Canada  this
year, resuming flights to  New York ’s LaGuardia airport in June
and working to start a regional unit in 2013 which will serve
locations now only reached by Canada’s largest airline. The
first group of communities WestJet will serve with the new unit,
to be called WestJet Encore, will be announced in early 2013,
the company said in the statement.  WestJet is also modifying its fleet to offer premium
economy seating with extra legroom in an attempt to woo business
travelers, even as Air Canada moves to open its own low-cost
carrier with service to holiday destinations in  Europe  and the
Caribbean.  WestJet’s modifications to its single-aisle Boeing 737s
should be complete by the end of the year, marking the end of
its tradition of all-coach seating. The carrier announced a
code-sharing agreement with British Airways on Sept. 24,
allowing the U.K.-based carrier to sell flights operated by the
Canadian airline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  