-- White House Should Be Ready for a Debt-Limit Deal
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-11-07T15:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/white-house-should-be-ready-for-a-debt-limit-deal.html
Barack Obama ’s victory last night
reflects discipline and foresight on the campaign trail. Now
let’s hope that, back in  Washington , his staff was exercising
similar discipline with regard to the fiscal cliff, the more
than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts scheduled
to take effect at the end of the year.  Obama has an opportunity to make necessity his friend and
cut a path-breaking fiscal deal -- but doing so requires him to
navigate several major obstacles.  The election results were not particularly helpful for the
prospect of getting a deal done before the end of the year.
Despite the president’s winning margin in the Electoral College,
the political configuration is basically status quo: a Democrat
in the White House, Democrats controlling the Senate and
Republicans running the House.  Thus, no one was really punished for the debt limit debacle
of 2011. And, as we saw most vividly at that time, the form of
divided government we have returned to office doesn’t always
work so well.  The crucial obstacle at this point is the controversy over
what to do with the expiring Bush-era tax cuts. The White House
has insisted that for people with incomes above $250,000 the
cuts should vanish at the end of the year, while the House
Republicans have insisted that all of them be extended.  Raised Threshold  One idea that has been floated to resolve this impasse is
to raise the $250,000 income threshold to, say, $1 million, so
that all the tax cuts for people with incomes below $1 million
would be extended, and the rest would expire. Earlier this week,
however,  John Boehner , the speaker of the House, said he would
not support that option.  Nothing in the election results should lead us to believe
that Boehner and the House Republicans will change course. After
all, they lost only a couple of seats (as of Wednesday morning)
and so are unlikely to interpret the election as a major rebuke.  The White House, therefore, has three options. First, it
could drive us temporarily over the fiscal cliff, let all the
cuts expire, and aim for a deal in January with the clean slate
that would occur once all the tax cuts are gone. This approach
would create maximum anxiety and uncertainty, though. It’s not
clear how quickly in January a deal could come together.  Second, rather than insist on raising marginal tax rates
above $250,000 in income, the White House could suggest scaling
back tax breaks for that cohort.  House Republicans  would be much
more amenable to this type of approach. Still, it would be a
major concession from a White House that is presumably feeling
vindicated by the election. And it is always hard to trim tax
expenditures such as the mortgage interest deduction and state
and local tax preferences -- especially now, at a moment when
the economy is still recovering from a housing-led downturn and
state and local governments still face significant deficits that
need to be closed.  Placeholder Tax  Finally, the White House could push for a placeholder tax
cut while negotiations are ongoing. The “ tax reform refund ” I
proposed in a previous column should be easier for the
Republicans to swallow than any tax-expiration scheme. This
refund would amount to $1,600 a year for anyone who works or
receives  Social Security  benefits, and it would remain in place
until a deal could be reached or, failing that, until the
economy recovered more.  The other requirement for any deal -- entitlement change --
is just as challenging. A team put together by the Center for
American Progress, which included me, has proposed a  variety of
steps  to continue slowing the growth of health-care costs, but
almost all of these would be impossible to get through the
House, with the possible exception of our proposal for medical-
malpractice reform.  So the most promising approach may be to compromise on
Social Security -- even though it is not a significant driver of
our long-term deficits.  This would have several benefits for the White House. For
one, Democrats should leap at the chance to restore solvency to
the program while keeping private accounts off the table. (That
may not always be a possibility.) Raising the $110,000 cap above
which the  payroll tax  no longer applies is perhaps the single
most popular way to raise revenue. And, by making the annual
Social Security benefit more progressive, the administration
could address the growing gap in  life expectancy  by income and
education in the U.S.  What’s more, it is possible to enact but defer Social
Security changes, as history has shown. Consider that the
gradual increase in the normal  retirement age , which did not
begin until 2000, was enacted as part of reforms passed in 1983.  Today, given the still-weakened state of the labor market,
it is better to enact fiscal authority that is delayed, rather
than immediate -- and Social Security reform offers a good way
of doing that. (Ideally, the delayed fiscal austerity would be
enacted alongside another round of stimulus, in a “barbell”
 fiscal policy .) And finally, the political value would be high
because Social Security looms larger in people’s minds than it
does in the numbers. Reforming it would give the administration
fiscal credibility disproportionate to the actual impact on the
long-term deficit.  Which specific reforms to Social Security should the White
House embrace? There are many sound options. Not surprisingly, I
am partial to the plan that the economist  Peter Diamond  of the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and I have  proposed .  It would be nice to think that over the past couple of
months all of them have been the focus of White House staff
discussions.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  the dangerous rise of euro-
skepticism ; Jonathan Mahler on  why sports leagues should embrace
New Jersey gambling ; Randal C. Picker on  how tech companies tie
their hands  with antitrust settlements.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  