-- Why Californians Reformed Their ‘Three Strikes’ Law
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-11-07T17:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/why-californians-dumped-their-three-strikes-law.html
(Corrects headline, third, fourth and fifth paragraph of a
story published Nov. 7 to reflect that the vote would reform
 California ’s sentencing law.)  California’s tax-increase and union-
reform initiatives received most of the national  attention  in
the run-up to Election Day. But two significant criminal-justice
initiatives also came before voters.  The lack of attention to them showed how much attitudes
have  changed  in a state where liberals and conservatives were
once locked in a law-and-order arms race.  One proposition called for ending the state’s infrequently
used death penalty. It lost but not overwhelmingly, and I
wouldn’t be surprised if this issue comes up again. Political
discussions in California often start with a statewide
initiative.  The second proposition -- to reform California’s notorious
“three strikes and you’re out” sentencing law -- was approved
by about  69 percent of voters  and marks a political turning
point for conservatives as well as liberals.  Conservatives had long championed “three strikes” as a
way to crack down on career criminals and take liberal judges
out of the process. The law mandated severe sentences for people
who committed a third offense -- even if that third conviction
is for a nonviolent and nonserious felony. The law proved
extremely costly and has produced highly publicized unjust
treatment. In one case, a man’s third strike came after he stole
a slice of pizza. The new proposition reforms the three-strikes
law passed in 1994: The third strike won’t lead to a life
sentence if it isn’t serious or violent.  A number of prominent California conservatives backed the
shift, driven perhaps by frustration at the powerful prison-
guards union and its members’ lavish pay and benefit packages.  The passage of the initiative signified more than a change
in thinking among the state’s declining Republican-oriented
electorate. Many California Democrats had refused to be
outflanked by the right on law-and-order issues. In his
successful race for governor in 1998, Democrat  Gray Davis 
 ratcheted  up the hysteria when he pledged to execute 14-year-old
killers. He beat Republican Dan Lungren, then the state attorney
general, who championed his role in pushing the three-strikes
law and other harsh policies.  Lungren, who went on to become a congressman representing a
district south of  Sacramento , appears to have lost his re-
election campaign this year. Public-safety issues were barely
mentioned.  ( Steven Greenhut , a contributor to Bloomberg View, is vice
president of journalism at the Franklin Center for Government
and Public Integrity.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 