-- Writing Marijuana Law for Your Backyard
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-11-07T15:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/writing-marijuana-law-for-your-backyard.html
Colorado and  Washington  became the
first states to  legalize  marijuana for recreational purposes
yesterday, and  Massachusetts  voters approved an initiative
eliminating civil and criminal penalties for the medicinal use
of the drug.  Will these  measures  be a further move toward the
localization of drug policy? Can the U.S. turn away from a
national drug ban toward more local heterogeneity and control?  The drug-policy debates have typically been waged between
stiff-necked, anti-drug warriors and die-hard libertarians.
The anti-drug abolitionists point to the toll that drugs can
take on the lives of users and their families. The libertarians
argue that our legal drugs, especially alcohol, can also wreak
tremendous harm and that the war on drugs appears to be both
costly and at best moderately effective.  I have always wondered why there hasn’t been more support
for a more localized, even Nimbyist, approach toward drug
policy. The Nimbyist looks at drugs the same way he looks at
real-estate development. He doesn’t think that drug use,
especially the medical use of marijuana by adults, is any
terrible thing. He doesn’t really care what others do in the
privacy of their own homes. But he doesn’t want marijuana use in
his backyard.  Why doesn’t the Nimbyist like the local sale or public
consumption of marijuana? Perhaps he doesn’t like the smell.
Perhaps he doesn’t want his children exposed to marijuana ads at
the local drugstore. My hometown in  Massachusetts  dropped its
150-year tradition of banning the public sale of alcohol a few
years ago. It now allows the local supermarket to sell wine, but
not alcohol or beer. If beer is forbidden, surely my neighbors
don’t want marijuana for sale.  The Nimbyist, or localist, approach to controlling
marijuana recognizes that this isn’t some absolute moral issue,
but rather an issue for local regulation. Some communities will
embrace marijuana and attract dedicated smokers. Other
communities will try to stay clean. That heterogeneity would
seem to allow different rules for different Americans.  The big challenge facing localism is that moving marijuana
within the U.S. is always going to be extremely easy. Indeed, a
primary appeal of waging a national  war on drugs  is that it
offers some chance of totally stopping supply. The experience of
the past 30 years, however, suggests that the U.S. is no better
at keeping drugs off our soil than it was making the U.S.
cocktail-free in the 1920s.  Perhaps the state-level medical marijuana approach offers a
tool for reducing this illicit trade within the U.S. We should
be confident that there will be plenty of people using medical
marijuana in Massachusetts without a really good medical reason,
just as there were plenty of drinkers getting booze by
prescription at the local drugstore during the 1920s. But the
medical rules could limit the ability to export large amounts of
marijuana across state lines.  There is a lot to be said for the American system of local
control. It allows grass-roots innovation and plenty of variety.
Maybe it’s a good thing that state governments are taking more
control over their drug policies.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a columnist for Bloomberg View.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and
editors at  the Ticker .
 