-- Tymoshenko’s Health Worsens Amid Hunger Strike Against Elections
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-11-07T17:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-07/tymoshenko-s-health-worsens-amid-hunger-strike-against-elections.html
Jailed Ukrainian opposition leader
Yulia Tymoshenko’s health has worsened as her hunger strike in
protest at the ruling party’s victory in a parliamentary
election last month continued for a ninth day, her lawyer said.  “Tymoshenko’s health deteriorated sharply,” Oleksandr
Plakhotnuk said today in remarks broadcast by Channel 5, a
private TV station. “Today, she can hardly move.”  President Viktor Yanukovych’s Party of Regions got more
votes than its rivals in an Oct. 28 ballot that the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in  Europe  has said lacked
transparency and fairness. Tymoshenko, who was handed a seven-
year sentence last October for abuse of office while premier,
began a hunger strike Oct. 29, saying the election was rigged.  Opposition parties have rallied in the capital, Kiev, to
demand election results be annulled in 13 constituencies where
they claim Yanukovych’s party or affiliated candidates won
illegally. In some cases, ballot papers backing the opposition
were replaced with votes for the ruling party, they said.  It was impossible to determine the winners in five
constituencies and the voting there will be re-run, Volodymyr
Shapoval, the Election Commission’s head, said Nov. 5.  “Tymoshenko will continue her hunger strike until the
elections are recognized as falsified,” Plakhotnyuk said. She
is seeking recounts rather than new elections, he said.  Yanukovych ordered Prosecutor General Viktor Pshonka to
investigate violations in the constituencies in question,
according to a  statement  posted on the president’s website.
Pshonka will report on his findings on Nov. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  