-- 
Visa, MasterCard Seek Fee Suit Dismissal Over Payment Issue

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-11-02T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-02/visa-mastercard-seek-fee-suit-dismissal-over-payment-issue.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the
world’s biggest payment networks, will try to persuade a federal
judge to dismiss multibillion-dollar lawsuits accusing them of
price fixing because the merchants suing don’t directly pay the
fees at issue.  Visa and MasterCard will also argue before U.S. District
Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn, New York, today that the
behavior alleged is covered under an earlier settlement.  They will also try to convince the judge that they and
banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  can’t be accused of a conspiracy because the
payment-card operators are now public companies, which set the
fees themselves, rather than joint ventures of the banks. The
fees on credit cards, which average about 2 percent of the
purchase price, add up to $40 billion a year for retailers, not
including debit cards.  “When you consider the damages, when you consider the
banks are under significant regulatory scrutiny now and their
profitability has gone down, this is quite a substantial
litigation,” Matthew L. Cantor, a lawyer at Constantine
Cannon LLP in New York who has represented merchants and
payment-card issuer Discover Financial Services in antitrust
litigation, said in a phone interview.  Merchants such as D’Agostino Supermarkets Inc. in
Larchmont, New York, and  Collective Brands Inc. (PSS) ’s Payless
ShoeSource in Topeka,  Kansas , accuse Visa, MasterCard and the
biggest U.S. banks of violating antitrust laws by illegally
inflating swipe fees, or interchange, charged to merchants on
payment-card purchases.  Individual Suits  The merchants estimate damages in the case “will range in
the tens of billions of dollars,” according to their complaint.  In addition to a class action, individual suits before the
judge include those filed by  Publix Super Markets Inc. (PUSH) , the
Lakeland, Florida-based supermarket chain;  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD) , the
 Camp Hill , Pennsylvania-based drugstore chain; and Englewood,
Colorado-based Liberty Interactive Corp.’s QVC, the home-
shopping channel.  Visa, MasterCard and the banks argued in court papers that
the cases have to be tossed because the merchants have no
standing to bring them: They don’t directly pay the interchange
fees -- the merchants’ banks pay them to the cardholders’ banks,
which in turn seek payment from the merchants.  “The undisputed evidence shows that plaintiffs do not pay
directly the interchange fees they assert were illegally set,”
the defendants wrote in court papers.  They cite a 1977 U.S. Supreme Court decision that said
indirect buyers can’t claim they were injured by an antitrust
violation. Courts have refused to apply the 1977 case when the
direct purchaser is a co-conspirator, as the merchants’ banks
are, the plaintiffs argue.  ‘Real Merits’  “The defendants are making what we think are not well-
founded arguments, like the scope of the release and the
standing issue, that don’t address the real merits of the
case,” K. Craig Wildfang, a partner at  Robins, Kaplan, Miller &
Ciresi LLP  in  Minneapolis  and a lawyer for the merchants, said
in a phone interview.  The lawsuits threaten a revenue source for banks that U.S.
lawmakers left untouched in passing the Dodd-Frank Act last
year. Congress opted to cap only debit-card interchange fees,
which typically had cost merchants about half of what they pay
to accept credit cards. The debit caps may cut annual revenue at
the biggest banks by $8 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Government.  Merchants say the fee hurts consumers because they lead to
higher prices for products and services. A judgment or
settlement could result in a rate reduction, they claimed.  Summary Judgment  Both sides have asked Gleeson for summary judgment in their
favor now that discovery, or information-gathering, is done.
They say a trial isn’t needed, at least on most counts, because
there are no facts in dispute for a jury to decide. Gleeson is
scheduled to hear arguments on those motions today.  The litigation, dating back to 2005, has produced more than
82 million pages of documents and sworn testimony from almost
500 witnesses, according to court papers.  The lawsuits contain allegations that the networks’ rules,
including those prohibiting merchants from steering customers to
cheaper forms of payment, violate U.S. competition law. Last
year, Visa and MasterCard settled with the U.S. government on
such anti-steering allegations. New York-based  American Express
Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by purchases, is fighting
that suit.  ‘Proof Points’  “We welcome the opportunity to present arguments on
motions seeking dismissal of the litigation and will offer
strong proof points demonstrating our practices serve to benefit
consumers and enhance competition,” James Issokson, a spokesman
for Purchase, New York-based MasterCard, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Wednesday’s hearing is simply the next step in the
litigation process,” Denise Dunckel, a spokeswoman for San
Francisco-based Visa, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Plaintiffs’ claims against a centralized system for setting
interchange rates are without merit and overlook the fact that
interchange has been upheld as legal in every direct challenge
made in U.S. courts.”  Laura Lubin Rossi, a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan;  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America; and Emily Collins, a spokeswoman
for New York-based Citigroup, declined to comment. The three
banks are the biggest in the U.S. by assets.  Economic Realities  Steven Semeraro, a professor at San Diego-based Thomas
Jefferson School of Law, who has written on interchange fees,
said in a phone interview that the merchants will likely win on
the standing argument.  “There’s so much in the case law that says what matters is
the economic realities and not the form,” Semeraco said.  Michael Simkovic, an associate professor at  Seton Hall
University School of Law  in  Newark ,  New Jersey , said the appeals
court covering  Brooklyn  has taken a narrow view of the co-
conspirator exception.  “The defendants have some pretty strong arguments there
and they might be able to win on that basis,” he said. “The
merchants are focusing on the  cash flow , but contractually
that’s not how it works. Contractually, everything goes through
the intermediary.”  In 2003, Visa and MasterCard settled a separate antitrust
class action, called In re Visa Check, for $3 billion. That
case, which Gleeson presided over, targeted debit-card rules.  As part of that settlement, the merchants can’t sue over
conduct occurring before 2004. Visa and MasterCard argue that
release covers their current rules, which date from before 2004.  Additional Changes  “Rather than negotiate additional changes to the existing
rules in the Visa Check settlement, plaintiffs negotiated ‘the
largest antitrust settlement in history,’” they wrote.  The merchants argue they are alleging new antitrust
injuries that came after the rules were reauthorized and new fee
rates established.  “Each time a new interchange fee is set or charged, a new
price-fixing agreement occurs,” they wrote.  The defendants also argue the banks no longer control the
payment networks now that they are publicly traded, and don’t
control the rate of the interchange fees. MasterCard conducted
an initial public offering in May 2006, Visa in March 2008.
Before that, they were joint ventures owned by the banks.  The merchants argue that, even after the IPOs, the banks
continue to control rules and interchange rates in a way that
restrains competition or at least threatens anticompetitive
effects.  New Entities  “Far from disavowing the goals of their conspiracy, bank
defendants merely set up new entities to continue to administer
those conspiracies and ensure that they continued to profit from
their activities,” the merchants wrote.  The merchants are also seeking to have the IPOs unwound,
contending they lessen competition. Gleeson previously dismissed
that argument, though he allowed the merchants to re-file it.  Merchants accuse MasterCard of committing a “fraudulent
conveyance” when, in its IPO, it eliminated the ability to
assess the banks for litigation costs and got nothing in return
for it. The merchants say that move hurts their ability to
recover any judgment in the case.  In February, Visa, MasterCard and the banks reached an
agreement about how they would divvy up a global judgment or
settlement involving all the defendants, according to regulatory
filings. Visa would pay two-thirds and MasterCard one-third.
MasterCard’s agreements with its banks limit its portion to 36
percent of that, with banks picking up the rest.  The case is In Re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-1720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 