-- Australia Beats Argentina 23-19 as All Blacks Extend Rugby Lead
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-15T14:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/all-blacks-beat-springboks-to-close-on-rugby-championship-title.html
Australia  rallied for the second
straight week in the Rugby Championship to beat Argentina 23-19
and move into second place behind New Zealand, which extended
its lead with a 21-11 win against  South Africa .  In the first rugby Test to be played on the  Gold Coast ,
tournament newcomer Argentina led 19-6 with 23 minutes left last
night before inside center  Pat McCabe  and winger Digby Ioane
scored converted tries for Australia. Replacement back Kurtley Beale added a last-minute penalty.  “It was a great deal of courage and commitment to come
back with 20 minutes left to pull that back and finish so
strongly,” Australia captain  Nathan Sharpe  said in an interview
with Fox Sports. “We’re very happy with the resolve we showed.
We’ve done a couple of tough weeks in chasing teams down.”  The Wallabies, who also fought back to beat the Springboks
last week, avoided a first home loss to Argentina since 1983 to
leapfrog South Africa in the southern hemisphere championship
standings after four rounds. The All Blacks lead with 16 points
and will secure the inaugural title by winning either of its
remaining games in Argentina or South Africa.  Full-back Israel Dagg and replacement scrum-half  Aaron
Smith  scored tries and Aaron Cruden kicked three penalties and a
conversion for top-ranked New Zealand in Dunedin. Winger  Bryan Habana  went over for South Africa’s only try and Morne Steyn and
Johan Goosen added penalties for the Springboks, who missed
seven other shots at goal.  “Normally those kickers will put them over,” All Blacks
captain Richie McCaw said in a televised interview. “We’re
thankful for that. I was proud of the way the guys held their
composure, it was a good old ding-dong.”  Pumas Tries  Australia scored the final 17 points at Skilled Park after
Argentina plundered two tries in two minutes from a charge-down
and chase by replacement flanker Tomas Leonardi and a 70-meter
counterattack that was finished off by fellow back-rower Julio
Farias Cabello. Pumas fly-half Juan Martin Hernandez, who booted
two first-half penalties, missed both conversions, though added
a 57th-minute penalty to make it 19-6.  McCabe crashed over with an angled run on the hour mark and
Ioane was put into space on the wing nine minutes later. Berrick Barnes converted both tries to make it 21-19 before Beale, on as
a replacement for the injured Dom Shipperley, extended the
margin of victory with a 38-meter kick in the final minute.  “It was close, we are very disappointed,” said  Argentina 
captain Juan Martin Fernandez Lobbe, whose team remains winless.
“We need to try learn how to close out these games. These type
of teams, they don’t stop until the last minute.”  Off-Loads  In Dunedin, the All Blacks led 5-3 at the break after
scoring the only try of the first half in the 19th minute when
forwards Sam Whitelock and Kieran Read worked the ball via quick
off-loads to Dagg, who finished in the corner.  South Africa went 8-5 up nine minutes into the second half
when Habana chipped over the last defender and re-gathered his
kick to score in the corner. Steyn missed the conversion and
Cruden’s penalty made it 8-8 it four minutes later.  Smith, who came on as a halftime substitute after being
dropped from the starting lineup for a breach of team protocol,
scooted through the Springboks’ defense in the 62nd minute to
break the tie with an opportunist try that Cruden converted.  South Africa replacement fly-half Goosen landed his team’s
second successful kick at goal from nine attempts with 11
minutes left. Cruden then added two penalties in the final six
minutes to seal the victory.  “Our goal kicking wasn’t great tonight,” Springboks
captain Jean de Villiers told Fox Sports. “We had the
opportunities, but at this level you can’t make that many
mistakes and not capitalize on your opportunities and then think
you’re gonna to win the game.”  The fifth of six rounds is scheduled for Sept. 29, when
Argentina hosts  New Zealand  in  La Plata  and Australia takes on
South Africa in  Pretoria .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  