-- Man Tied to Anti-Islam Film Questioned in Parole Probe
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i ,   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-09-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/man-tied-to-anti-islam-film-questioned-in-parole-probe.html
The California man associated with
the online movie clip that sparked protests in the Middle East
was questioned by U.S. authorities investigating whether he
violated terms of his parole.  Nakoula Basseley Nakoula was escorted voluntarily from his
Cerritos home early yesterday, according to Steve Whitmore, a
spokesman for  Los Angeles  County Sheriff Lee Baca. He was
questioned by federal probation officials for less than 45
minutes and then left. Nakoula said he was not returning to his
home, Whitmore said.  The U.S. Probation Office in Los Angeles is looking into
Nakoula’s role in the film, “Innocence of the Muslims,” which
was posted on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, according to Karen Redmond,
a spokeswoman for the administrative office of the U.S. courts.
Nakoula, 55, has a criminal history that includes bank fraud by
using false identities and a drug conviction.  Under the terms of his release, Nakoula is prohibited from
representing himself with anything other than his true legal
name, and is barred from using the Internet without permission
from his probation officer.  The 14-minute  trailer  shows a fictional attack by Muslims
on a Christian family, followed by an account of the origins of
Islam depicting Muhammad as a womanizer. YouTube blocked access
to the clip in  Egypt  and  Libya  following attacks on the U.S.
missions in those countries. The company said on Sept. 14 it
would restrict access in  India  and  Indonesia  to comply with
local laws. It isn’t clear whether a full-length movie exists.  Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in
Los Angeles, said he couldn’t confirm Nakoula is the same person
who identified himself as the director, Sam Bacile, in
interviews last week.  Protests Ease  Protests against the film, which denigrates Islam, eased in
the  Middle East  following violence in Libya,  Tunisia ,  Sudan  and
 Yemen . Clashes in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  stopped yesterday after
Egypt’s main Islamist groups called for calm. In Tunis, where
smoke billowed from the U.S. Embassy a high security presence
deterred protesters from taking to the streets yesterday.  A four-hour assault on the U.S. diplomatic mission in
Benghazi on Sept. 11 killed Christopher Stevens, the U.S.
ambassador to Libya, and three embassy employees.  Details of the movie’s origins remain a mystery. A man
calling himself Sam Bacile gave interviews last week to the
 Associated Press  and the Wall Street Journal claiming he was the
filmmaker. He said he was an Israeli-American real estate
developer.  Alias Linked  Following press reports that the name was a pseudonym, the
AP traced the mobile-phone number it had for Bacile to Nakoula,
a Coptic Christian living in suburban Los Angeles. In an
interview, Nakoula told the  news agency  he managed logistics for
the company that made the movie. He said he wasn’t the director,
according to the AP.  Tim Dax, an actor in the film, told the  Los Angeles Times 
that he was paid $75 a day in checks drawn from a bank account
of Abanob Basseley Nakoula, a name linked to Nakoula’s address
in public records. Dax, reached through his Facebook profile,
declined to comment further.  Nakoula was sentenced to one year in jail in 1997 for
intent to manufacture methamphetamine, according to Jane
Robison, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles County District Attorney
Steve Cooley. He was given another year for violating probation
in 2002.  Nakoula pleaded guilty to one count of bank fraud and was
sentenced to 21 months in prison and ordered to pay $794,700 in
restitution, according to the June 24, 2010, sentencing document
by U.S. District Judge Christina A. Snyder in Los Angeles.  Web Restrictions  Accused of fraudulently opening bank and credit-card
accounts with a combination of real and fictitious information,
Nakoula spent time in federal prison before being released from
a halfway house in December 2010, according to the  federal
Bureau  of Prisons. He had been in detention from the time of his
arrest in June 2009.  During a five-year probation period, Nakoula is only
allowed to use identification with his true legal name; can’t
have a device with online access without prior approval; can
only use computers, screen or user names, passwords and e-mail
accounts that have been approved by his probation officer; and
can only use approved computers for his work, according to court
records.  James Henderson, the lawyer who represented Nakoula in the
federal case, didn’t return a call for comment. Attempts by
Bloomberg News to reach Nakoula directly were unsuccessful.  Actors Duped  “Innocence of Muslims” was shot in August 2011 at Blue
Cloud Movie Ranch in Santa Clarita, north of Los Angeles,
according to Paul Audley, president of Film LA, which assists
movie makers. Permits to make the movie, then called “Desert
Warrior,” were taken out by a group called Media for Christ,
based in the Los Angeles suburb of Duarte, Audley said. A man
named Sam Bossil was identified as the producer.  The film permit was removed from a Los Angeles County
online database temporarily due to public-safety concerns raised
by the U.S. State Department and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , Ryan J. Alsop, assistant to county Chief
Executive Officer William T. Fujioka, said in a statement.  Actors were duped into making a movie that attacked Islam
and inflammatory dialogue was dubbed in later, the Los Angeles
Times reported.  “The entire cast and crew are extremely upset and feel
taken advantage of by the producer,” the Times reported, citing
a statement issued on behalf of the crew members. “We are 100
percent not behind this film and were grossly misled about its
intent and purpose.”  Calls to the Media for Christ office weren’t returned.  Concerned Citizens  Bacile was a pseudonym, according to Steve Klein, a
Southern California insurance salesman and anti-Islamic activist
who said he advised the filmmaker on finding actors.  Klein, 62, heads the group Concerned Citizens for the First
Amendment, which stages rallies and educational events,
contending Islam is a threat to U.S. democracy and freedom. His
involvement with the picture couldn’t be independently verified
by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  