-- Arab Protests Ease After Violence Fueled by Anti-Muslim Film
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-09-16T03:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/arab-protests-ease-after-violence-against-anti-muslim-film-2-.html
Protests against a film denigrating
Islam eased after mobs stormed the American embassy compound in
 Tunisia  and targeted diplomatic missions in  Sudan  and  Yemen .  Clashes in Cairo’s Tahrir Square stopped yesterday after
 Egypt ’s main Islamist groups called for calm. Police secured the
square and arrested 220 people, the country’s  Interior Ministry 
said in a statement. In Tunis, where smoke billowed from the
U.S. embassy on Sept. 14, a high security presence deterred
protesters from taking to the streets.  The U.S. State Department has ordered all non-emergency
personnel and dependents to leave Sudan and Tunisia, according
to travel warnings posted yesterday that cited attacks on
embassies in Tunis and Khartoum.  The days of turmoil across the Arab and Muslim world put
new leaders in nations such as Tunisia and Egypt on the
defensive as Islamists showed their power to exploit popular
discontent. The violence also kept President  Barack Obama  under
pressure over his support for the Arab revolutions known as the
Arab Spring and over questions about whether his administration
was caught unprepared for the threats to U.S. personnel and
property.  “It would appear there’s some leveling off on the violence
that we thought might take place,” U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told reporters aboard a U.S. military plane on his way
to  Asia  today. “Having said that, we have to continue to be
very vigilant because these demonstrations are likely to
continue over the next few days, if not longer.”  Benghazi Attack  The bodies of the four Americans killed in a Sept. 11
attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,  Libya , were returned
to the U.S. Sept. 14 in a ceremony at Andrews Air Force Base
near  Washington . Obama and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
paid tribute to the fallen Americans, including slain ambassador
Christopher Stevens, who played a pivotal role in helping Libyan
rebels topple the Muammar Qaddafi dictatorship.  “Even as voices of suspicion and mistrust seek to divide
countries and cultures from one another, the  United States of
America  will never retreat from the world,” Obama told an
audience of more than 200 in an open hangar.  Investigations are still under way to determine who or
which groups carried out the attack in Libya, Panetta said today
adding that the government of Libya is assisting in the effort.  Planned Attack  Mohammed Yussef Magariaf, president of Libya’s General
National Congress, said in an  interview  on Sept. 14 with Al
Jazeera that the attack in Benghazi was the work of
“experienced masterminds” who had planned well in advance.  A  California  man associated with the online movie clip that
sparked the protests was questioned by U.S. authorities
investigating whether he violated terms of his parole. Nakoula
Basseley Nakoula was escorted from his Cerritos, California,
home early yesterday, according to Lieutenant Kim Manatt, a
spokeswoman for  Los Angeles  County Sheriff Lee Baca.  Nakoula pleaded guilty to one count of bank fraud and was
sentenced to 21 months in prison and ordered to pay $794,700 in
restitution, according to the June 24, 2010, sentencing document
by U.S. District Judge Christina A. Snyder in Los Angeles.
Nakoula spent time in federal prison before being released from
a halfway house in December 2010, according to the federal
Bureau of Prisons.  Under the terms of his release, Nakoula is prohibited from
representing himself with anything other than his true legal
name, and is barred from using the Internet without permission
from his probation officer.  Seeking Calm  Saudi Arabia ’s Grand Mufti Sheikh Abdulaziz al-Sheikh said
yesterday that Muslims have the right to condemn “acts of
defamation” against Islam without resorting to violence and the
destruction of property, according to a statement on the
official Saudi Press Agency. Saudi Arabia didn’t witness
protests against the film.  In Cairo, where calls for a mass rally Sept. 14 had raised
concerns that violence would escalate in the Arab world’s most
populous nation, more than 1,000 people -- including members of
President Mohamed Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood -- headed toward
the U.S. embassy after Friday prayers, seeking to calm the
situation.  Justice Without Blood  “We will get justice for the prophet, but without blood,”
Mazhar Shahine, a prominent cleric, told the crowd, referring to
the made-in-America movie that sparked the protests. Protesters
skirmished into the night with police, and  Al Jazeera  reported
two died.  In Tunisia, birthplace of the Arab Spring, the police
presence was high around the U.S. embassy yesterday. Protesters
penetrated the U.S. embassy grounds Sept. 14 after scaling the
walls, and a cloud of smoke hung over the compound. Tunisian
security forces fired shots and entered the embassy grounds,
chasing the demonstrators, who didn’t get into the main embassy
building.  President Moncef Marzouki asked Tunisians to denounce the
violence and groups behind it, Al Arabiya television reported.  In Sudan’s capital, Khartoum,  Germany ’s embassy was set
afire Sept. 14 and crowds also gathered outside U.S. and British
missions. German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said in
Berlin that all personnel at the embassy in Sudan were safe.  Sudan rejected a U.S. request to send Marines to increase
security at the embassy, according  to SUNA , Sudan’s official
news agency.  Sudan’s government “has recommitted itself both publicly
and privately to continue to protect our mission,”  Victoria Nuland , U.S. State Department spokeswoman, said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. As a result of the Sept. 14 damage to the
embassy “we have requested additional security precautions”
and “we are continuing to monitor the situation closely,” she
said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  