-- Isner, Querrey Need Wins to Avoid U.S. Davis Cup Loss to Spain
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-15T23:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/bryan-brothers-win-as-u-s-davis-cup-team-trails-2-1-to-spain.html
Americans  John Isner  and  Sam Querrey  must win their singles matches today during  Davis Cup 
semifinal play versus host Spain, which leads the U.S. 2-1
heading into the final day.  The Czech Republic holds a 2-1 lead over Argentina in the
other semifinal, in Buenos Aires.  U.S. twins Bob and Mike Bryan beat Spain’s Marcel Granollers and Marc Lopez 6-3, 3-6, 7-5, 7-5 yesterday on clay
in Gijon, Spain, to keep alive the U.S.’s chances of reaching
the Davis Cup final, which is scheduled for Nov. 16-18.  Isner, ranked No. 10 on the ATP World Tour, plays fifth-
ranked  David Ferrer , and No. 26 Querrey takes on 12th-ranked
Nicolas Almagro. Ferrer beat Querrey in four sets and Almagro
topped Isner in five to give Spain a 2-0 lead two days ago.  “I am sure Spain is ready to put us away, but we have two
guys ready to fire tomorrow,” U.S. Davis Cup captain  Jim Courier  said in comments e-mailed by the U.S. Tennis
Association. “We’ll take our chances and see what happens.
Until it is over, I think  Yogi Berra  said it best. ‘It ain’t
over.’” Berra was a Hall of Fame New York Yankees baseball
player.  The Bryans’ win improved their record playing doubles
together in the competition to 20-2.  “They’re pretty good in the clutch, and they get us to
Sunday when we’re in this position all the time,” Courier said
on the  Davis Cup  website. “We’ve got a chance.”  Spain, playing without injured world No. 3  Rafael Nadal , is
seeking its second consecutive championship, and fourth in five
years at the premier men’s tennis team event.  On clay in  Buenos Aires , Tomas Berdych and Radek Stepanek
beat Carlos Berlocq and Eduardo Schwank 6-3, 6-4, 6-3 to give
the Czech Republic the lead.  In today’s singles, Berdych plays Juan Martin Del Potro and
Stepanek faces  Juan Monaco .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  