-- Canadian Dollar Rises to 13-Month High as Fed Spurs Risk Demand
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-09-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/canadian-dollar-rises-to-13-month-high-as-fed-spurs-risk-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened to a
more than 13-month high against its U.S. counterpart as stimulus
measures by the  Federal Reserve  spurred global demand for higher
returning assets such as stocks and commodities.  The dollar gained for a third week versus the greenback and
rallied against 11 of its 16 most-traded peers as investors
bought the currencies of commodity producing nations including
Canada on a bet global economic growth will accelerate. Crude
oil, the nation’s biggest export, climbed above $100 yesterday
for the first time since May.  Statistics Canada  will release
data on Sept. 17 showing whether international investors added
Canadian securities in July.  “The Canadian dollar is up quite a lot after the Fed
decision and its complete textbook currency behavior,”  Eric Lascelles , chief economist at Toronto-based Royal Bank of Canada
Global Asset Management said in a phone interview. “With
quantitative easing, the U.S. dollar weakens, commodity prices
strengthen and both those things are like catnip for the
Canadian dollar.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, gained 0.7 percent to 97.14 cents
per U.S. dollar this week. It touched 96.33 cents yesterday, the
strongest level since August 2011. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.02944.  The Fed said it will expand holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month and hold the federal funds rate near zero until at
least the middle of 2015.  Relative Strength  The weekly gain was tempered yesterday after Canadian
factory sales fell to an 11-month low and technical measures
indicated the rally is approaching levels that traders suggest
may be overdone.  The 14-day relative strength index for the Canadian dollar
versus the U.S. dollar was 67 yesterday. A reading above 70
indicates an asset may have rallied too far, too quickly and may
be due for a retracement.  “The Canada dollar had a pullback after such a push over
the past few days, but it was more of a correction than a
reflection of the greater economic picture,” Chris Gaffney, co-
chief investment officer of EverBank Wealth Management Inc.,
said in a phone interview from  St. Louis .  The loonie has traded at levels stronger than its 50-, 100-
and 200-day moving averages since July 26. It reached parity
with the U.S. dollar on Aug. 3 for the first time in 11 weeks
and has traded beyond that every day since.  Resistance Levels  The next resistance levels to Canadian dollar appreciation
against the greenback are 96.34 cents and 94.93 cents,  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed income and currency
strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, wrote to clients
yesterday. Support is where sell orders may be clustered.  Canadian factory sales unexpectedly dropped in July,
falling to the lowest since August, as investors worry that
global weakness is undermining the country’s recovery. Sales
fell 1.5 percent, the biggest one-month drop since January, to
C$48.3 billion, Statistics Canada said yesterday in Ottawa.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey with 21 responses forecast
a 0.4 percent gain.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday that the
Canadian government is prepared to take additional measures to
bolster the recovery if needed following stimulus in the U.S.  ‘Economic Success’  “We’re always flexible and pragmatic,” Flaherty told
reporters in Oshawa, Ontario. The government is closely
monitoring the country’s unemployment rate, he said.  Recent gains in the country’s currency reflect in part
Canada’s economic success, he said, adding he’s always worried
about sudden changes in the value of the Canadian dollar.
Canada’s fiscal and economic fundamentals “are sound and to
some extent that’s reflected in our currency, in which people
around the world have some faith.”  Canadian bonds fell, with the yield on the 10-year
benchmark rising 12 basis points, or 0.12 percent to 1.97
percent. The 2.75 percent security fell C$1.07 to C$106.87 this
week. Thirty-year bonds declined as the yield on the 30-year
security advanced 11 basis points to 2.54 percent.  Crude oil for October delivery advanced 69 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $99 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
yesterday, the highest settlement since May 3. Futures touched
$100.42 in intraday trading.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.9 percent after
the equity benchmark yesterday rallied to its highest level
since 2007 following the Fed decision on Sept. 13. The MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index jumped 4.7 percent.  “The longer that the U.S. keeps their  interest rates  low,
two things happen,” Tim Gardiner, managing director at TD
Securities Inc., said in a phone interview from Toronto. “One,
the opportunity cost remains low and secondly for people who
don’t operate in U.S. dollars, the U.S. dollar has weakened
which means things like gold become cheaper. That will lead to
increased demand, fueling commodity-linked currencies like
Canada’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  