-- Chelsea, QPR Tie in Premier League Soccer; Arsenal Wins 6-1
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-09-15T17:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/chelsea-qpr-tie-in-premier-league-soccer-arsenal-wins-6-1.html
Premier League leader Chelsea tied
0-0 at Queens Park Rangers, dropping its first points of the
season against its west London rival. Manchester United beat
Wigan 4-0, and Arsenal downed Southampton 6-1.  Chelsea, the European champion which finished sixth in last
season’s standings, stays atop the 20-team league with 10 points
from four matches. United rises to second with nine points and
Arsenal goes third with eight points.  Manchester City, the defending champion, was held 1-1 at
Stoke City, whose defender Ryan Shawcross cleared  Edin Dzeko ’s
chipped shot off the goal-line in second-half stoppage time.
City has eight points from four games.  Chelsea coach Roberto  di Matteo  said the goalless draw at
QPR’s Loftus Road was a “feisty derby with tackles flying in,”
according to the British Broadcasting Corp.  “It’s a clean sheet and a draw away from home, and we will
take it,” Di Matteo told the BBC.  QPR’s Anton Ferdinand ignored the offer of a handshake from
Chelsea captain  John Terry  before the match, the BBC reported on
its website. In July, a London court found Terry not guilty of
racially abusing Ferdinand -- the younger brother of Manchester
United defender Rio -- in a game last year.  Manchester United got all four goals in the second half at
Old Trafford.  Paul Scholes , in his 700th appearance for United,
scored first in the 51st minute, jabbing in after Wigan
goalkeeper Ali al Habsi parried Nani’s cross. It was the
midfielder’s 155th goal for the Reds.  Javier Hernandez  -- who had a first-half penalty kick saved
by Al Habsi -- made it 2-0 after 62 minutes when he turned in a
shot by Alex Buttner.  Scholes’ 700th Match  Buttner scored three minutes later when he dodged three
Wigan defenders in the penalty box and squeezed a shot in.
Buttner, 23, joined from Vitesse Arnhem last month. Nick Powell
also scored on his Manchester United debut, making it 4-0 with a
shot from outside the box.  At Stoke’s Britannia Stadium,  Peter Crouch  gave the host
the lead after 15 minutes, with Manchester City’s Javi Garcia
leveling in the 35th minute with a headed goal on his debut. The
Spanish midfielder joined from Benfica last month for as much as
23 million euros ($30.2 million).  Crouch handled the ball before scoring his goal, City coach
 Roberto Mancini  said, according to the BBC. “It was basketball
-- not football,” Mancini was quoted as saying.  Arsenal beat Southampton 6-1 at the Emirates Stadium,
handing the newly-promoted team its fourth straight loss on its
return to the top division.  Gunners Pounce  The Gunners were 4-0 up within 37 minutes on strikes by
 Lukas Podolski  and Gervinho and own goals by Jos Hooiveld and
Nathaniel Clyne. Danny Fox got a goal back for Southampton
before Gervinho and  Aaron Ramsey  added two more for Arsenal in
the second-half.  In other matches,  Dimitar Berbatov  scored twice in his
first home match for Fulham as the London team beat 10-man West
Bromwich Albion 3-0. West Brom had  Peter Odemwingie  ejected in
the first half.  Aston Villa beat Swansea 2-0, handing the Welsh team its
first league loss this season. Norwich and West Ham tied 0-0.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff through the London news desk or at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  