-- Dollar Drops Most in 11 Months as Fed Follows ECB With Stimulus
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-15T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/dollar-drops-most-in-11-months-as-fed-follows-ecb-with-stimulus.html
The dollar fell by the most in 11
months against the euro after the  Federal Reserve  said it would
start a third round of asset purchases to boost the economy,
which tends to debase the currency.  The greenback completed its longest stretch of weekly
losses against the 17-nation currency since October 2010 after
the  European Central Bank  said last week it would purchase bonds
to address the region’s debt crisis. The dollar touched its
lowest level in seven months against the yen before Japanese
officials signaled they are ready to intervene to stem the
currency’s strength. The  Bank of Japan  holds a policy meeting
Sept. 19.  “The shift in the policy statement from the Fed was a
welcomed surprise for risk-loving investors,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at  Miller Tabak  in  New
York . “The other driver behind the scenes is the ECB, which has
launched the boldest action in defense of the euro.”  Wilkinson said he expects the euro to rally to $1.3450 by
year-end.  The U.S. currency fell 2.5 percent this week to $1.3130,
after reaching a four-month low of $1.3169 yesterday. It rose
0.2 percent to 78.39 yen, after touching 77.13 on Sept. 13, the
least since Feb. 9. The euro added 2.7 percent to 102.93 yen.  Dollar Bears  Futures traders boosted aggregate bets the dollar would
fall against eight major currencies to a 13-month high.  Net-bets for a dollar decline were 228,176 in the week
ended Sept. 11, up 72 percent from 132,997 the previous week,
according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data compiled
by Bloomberg. That is the highest since Aug. 5, 2011.  The U.S. currency fell 1.3 percent this week versus the
currencies of nine developed nation counterparts, according to
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen had the
biggest decline with 1.5 percent.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners,  declined  for a fourth
week. The 1.8 percent loss is the biggest since October 2011. It
fell to 78.851 after touching 78.601, the lowest since Feb. 29.  The Fed said it will expand its holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion a month of
mortgage debt in a third round of quantitative easing. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  said it would probably hold the
federal funds rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.”
Since January, the Fed had said the rate was likely to stay low
at least through late 2014.  Liquid Markets  Anticipation of additional liquidity from the bond-buying
program pushed the Australian currency, where  interest rates  are
3.5 percent, to a one-month high of $1.0625 versus the
greenback. New Zealand’s dollar rallied to a six-month high of
83.54 U.S. cents.  The shared currency was buoyed against major counterparts
as ECB President  Mario Draghi  said last week that policy makers
agreed on an unlimited debt-buying program to address region’s
debt crisis. A German court dismissed motions this week seeking
to block the region’s bailout fund, while setting a cap of about
190 billion euros ($249 billion).  “The ECB actions were expected by the markets; it is
helping the market to move away from two key risks, namely the
financing of the U.S. and peripheral risks in  Europe ,”
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York said Sept. 13.  The cost of options granting the right to buy the euro
against the Swiss franc climbed above the price allowing for
sales for the first time since April 4. So-called three-month
25-delta risk reversal rate climbed to three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, yesterday.  Bank Cap  The  Swiss National Bank  put a cap of 1.20 per euro on the
franc in September 2011 to limit its strength after investors
sought the currency as a refuge from the euro-area’s debt
crisis.  The euro’s rally versus the dollar may stall as the 14-day
relative strength index for the shared currency versus the
greenback surged to 79.1. A reading of more than 70 indicates an
asset may have moved too far, too quickly and may be due for a
correction.  The yen fell against a majority of its 16 most-traded peers
after Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  signaled he’s ready to
intervene to weaken the currency.  Japan ’s Azumi told reporters yesterday that he’ll take
“decisive action,” if necessary. Azumi ordered the Bank of
Japan to sell yen in markets on Oct. 31 after the yen
strengthened to a postwar record of 75.35 per dollar.  Speculative Trades  Vice Finance Minister Takehiko Nakao told reporters in
 Tokyo  on Sept. 13 the recent surge in the yen against the dollar
has been “obviously speculative” and that Japan can’t overlook
such moves.  There are “heightened intervention concerns, an easing of
safe-haven demand for yen, and building expectations that the
Bank of Japan, under increasing government pressure, may ease
monetary policy next week,”  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London , said
yesterday.  The rand fell against all of the most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg as unrest in  South Africa ’s mining industry
outweighed Fed stimulus measures. Workers at mines are holding
illegal protests to demand higher pay, causing their companies
to lose thousands of ounces of production each day.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest economy weakened against
major currencies, falling 0.4 percent to 8.2059 per dollar.  Russia’s ruble had the biggest advance against the dollar
among major global currencies after the country’s central bank
raised the refinancing rate to 8.25 percent from 8 percent, the
first increase since April 2011.  The currency rose 3.8 percent to 30.4579 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  