-- Ethiopian Ruling Party Confirms Hailemariam as Meles’s Successor
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-09-15T16:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/ethiopian-ruling-party-confirms-hailemariam-as-meles-s-successor.html
Ethiopia’s ruling party confirmed
acting Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn as the successor to
the late Prime Minister Meles Zenawi.  Meles, who led Ethiopia for 21 years and who oversaw one of
 Africa ’s fastest-growing economies, died on Aug. 20 from an
infection contracted while he was recovering from an undisclosed
illness. Hailemariam, Meles’s deputy in the Ethiopian Peoples' 
Revolutionary Democratic Front and a former foreign minister, 
took over in an acting capacity the next day.  “Out of three candidates, Hailemariam has got the unanimous
vote of council members and will serve as chairman of EPRDF and
Demeke Mekonen will serve as well as deputy chairperson of
EPRDF,” Communications Minister Bereket Simon said in the
capital, Addis Ababa. “Whoever’s elected as chair and deputy
chair of party will automatically be the nominees for the
premiership and deputy premiership. So both Mr. Hailemariam and
Mr. Demeke will represent the party and be candidates and be
presented to parliament for approval when it starts its formal
session in early October.”  Ethiopia, the continent’s second-most populous nation, is a
key U.S. ally in its battle against al-Qaeda in the region.
Ethiopian troops in December invaded Somalia for the second time
in four years to join the battle against al-Shabaab, al-Qaeda’s
Somalia affiliate.  The federal parliament, which has only one opposition
lawmaker out of 547, is expected to swear in Hailemariam on Oct.
8, Bereket said.  At Meles’s funeral on Sept. 2, Hailemariam vowed to
continue with his state-led development model that channeled
loans, aid, investment and domestic revenue into infrastructure,
industry and public services. The result was growth that
averaged 10 percent in the past eight years, according to the
government.  Human-rights groups criticized the government for cracking
down on civil liberties and introducing anti-terrorism laws in
2009 that have been used to jail opposition politicians and
journalists.  The EPRDF is a coalition of four parties representing the
Amhara people, the Oromo, the Tigray and a collection of
southern groups. Meles was leader of the Tigray People’s
Liberation Front, which led the ouster of a military junta in
1991, while Hailemariam hails from the southern bloc. His deputy
is from the Amhara National Democratic Movement.  The EPRDF’s council, which has 45 representatives from each
bloc, chose Meles’s successor from the 36-member executive
committee of the party. Ethiopia’s next parliamentary elections
are scheduled for 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  