-- EU Lawmakers Pledge to Defend Basel Liquidity Rule From Backlash
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-15T08:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/eu-lawmakers-pledge-to-defend-basel-liquidity-rule-from-backlash.html
European Union lawmakers are
resisting a push by the  European Central Bank  and the bloc’s
executive arm to water down a planned bank liquidity rule amid
concerns that the measure may harm economic recovery.  Philippe Lamberts, a member of the European Parliament who
is leading work on the draft law for the assembly’s Green group,
said that officials from the European Commission in Brussels
have argued in favor of “reconsidering the EU’s approach to
liquidity” and for delaying any commitment to apply the measure
until an international review is completed.  “The parliament’s negotiation team responded firmly that
we stick to our approach that we must commit now for binding
liquidity ratios,” Lamberts said by telephone from the Belgian
capital.  The measure, known as a liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR,
would oblige banks to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive
a 30-day credit squeeze. The requirement was included by global
regulators in an overhaul of bank rules that was agreed on by
the Group of 20 nations following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  The LCR is scheduled to take effect starting in 2015 and
must be enshrined in national laws before it can come into
force. The EU published its draft rule last year.  “This is too important to be left hanging in the air,”
Lamberts said. “We shouldn’t roll back on our promise” to
fully apply the international standards, he said.  Interbank Lending  The LCR was discussed yesterday at a meeting of EU finance
ministers and central bank governors in Nicosia, Cyprus, said
Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief.  Barnier said at the meeting that the rule needs to be
“well calibrated” so that it supports lending to the real
economy and doesn’t disrupt interbank lending, De Rynck said.  Europe ’s banks had a collective shortfall of approximately
1.2 trillion euros ($1.6 trillion) in the liquid assets needed
to meet the LCR at the end of June 2011, according to figures
published by the European Banking Authority.  Banks have cautioned that the measure may force them to
scale back loans to businesses if left unchanged. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  has also criticized the standard, saying it
discourages banks from lending to each other.  The EU’s rule-making should be flexible so that the LCR can
be adapted to any changes to the measure agreed on at
international level, Lamberts said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which brings
together regulators from 27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and
 China , is aiming to complete a review of the LCR by the end of
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Nicosia, Cyprus, at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  