-- EU Split on Pace for ECB Bank Oversight as Germany Urges Caution
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-09-15T08:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/eu-split-on-pace-for-ecb-bank-oversight-as-germany-urges-caution.html
The French and Belgian finance
ministers pressed for rapid progress toward common European bank
oversight during talks in Cyprus, while  Germany  cautioned
against rushing to enact the plan.  “It is important to keep up the pace,” Belgian Finance
Minister Steven Vanackere told reporters today in the Cypriot
capital Nicosia before European Union finance ministers convened
to discuss the plan for a single supervisor, with its promise of
direct aid for troubled lenders.  EU leaders called for a single supervisor in June as a
condition for allowing  euro-area banks  direct access to the
region’s firewall funds. Vanackere said the  European Central
Bank  needs to take up this new role quickly to support the 17-
nation bloc’s biggest and most troubled banks.  “It would be obvious that it would then encompass systemic
and state-supported banks first and is rolled out further,”
Vanackere said. This first group of banks would include  Dexia
SA (DEXB) , which is being broken up by the French and Belgian
governments and has received more than 50 billion euros ($65.7
billion) in state guarantees.  The European Commission is pressing to finish debate on
bank supervision this year so the ECB can assume the role in
January. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the EU
risks a backlash from financial markets if it takes longer than
expected to enact the plan.  ‘Raise Expectations’  “My concern is always that there is the risk to raise
expectations with financial-market participants that can’t be
fulfilled later,” Schaeuble told reporters yesterday. “I don’t
see the possibility of a direct bank capitalization from the
European Stability Mechanism as of Jan. 1.”  Germany has broadly backed the banking union plans, while
emphasizing the need for national regulators to monitor most of
the euro area’s more than 6,000 banks. The U.K. has voiced
concerns that it and other non-euro nations might be drowned out
of financial rulemaking if the plan goes through as offered.  Schaeuble’s call for careful deliberations, along with
strong conditions for countries whose banks receive aid,
contrasted with  France ’s plea for speed. French Finance Minister
 Pierre Moscovici  said EU leaders agreed to the clear aim of a
rapid setup.  “The direction set by the European Council is very
clear,” Moscovici told reporters. “It’s to complete the
discussion in 2012 and to go fast. Otherwise everything remains
theoretical and our problems are concrete.”  Capital Injections  The EU can’t afford to “waste time” in its efforts to
tame the crisis, he said. “There’s no reason for us, the member
states, to drag our feet. The crisis is there and is affecting
everybody, including Germany.”  EU taxpayers have provided 4.5 trillion euros in capital
injections, guarantees and other forms of support to their
lenders since 2008, exacerbating strains on public finances that
have led  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,  Spain  and Cyprus to seek
external aid. ECB President  Mario Draghi  and the Brussels-based
commission want the single supervisor to be the first step in
separating bank backstops from national balance sheets.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said a common
supervisor shouldn’t be considered in isolation.  “It’s very important that if we do a banking union that we
analyze also the issues regarding the resolution fund, that we
analyze the issue of fiscal backstops,” Frieden said in an
interview. “We have to see how in a single market, where there
is the European passport of financial services, there will be an
interaction between those countries that are in the euro zone
and those that are outside.”  Common Supervisor  The proposed common supervisor needs to be approved by all
27 EU members. Non-euro members would be allowed to opt in,
there also are proposed safeguards to keep the ECB from
dominating disputes among the bloc’s supervisors.  Schaeuble said nations whose banks want to tap the fund
must also hold talks with euro-area authorities.  “Even when there’s a European banking supervision
authority, for a bank capitalization to happen the member state
always has to not only make a request, but also agree on the
necessary memorandum of understanding with the necessary macro-
economic adjustments,” Schaeuble said. “Conditionality is not
annulled.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Nicosia, Cyprus, at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Maud Van Gaal in Nicosia at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  