-- Fed’s Lacker Opposed QE3 as Tantamount to Fiscal Policy
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-09-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/fed-s-lacker-opposed-qe3-as-tantamount-to-fiscal-policy.html
Richmond  Federal Reserve  President
 Jeffrey Lacker  said that he opposed the central bank’s third
round of quantitative easing in mortgage-backed securities
because allocating credit should be the province of fiscal
authorities such as the U.S. Treasury or Congress.  “I strongly opposed purchasing additional agency mortgage-
backed securities,” Lacker said in a statement released
yesterday by the Richmond Fed. “Such purchases, as compared to
purchases of an equivalent amount of U.S. Treasury securities,
distort investment allocations and raise interest rates for
other borrowers.”  Lacker said that “channeling the flow of credit to
particular economic sectors is an inappropriate role for the
Federal Reserve.”  Lacker was the lone dissenter to the Federal Open Market
Committee’s Sept. 13 decision to purchase $40 billion a month in
mortgage debt until the labor market improves and to hold
 interest rates  near zero until at least mid-2015. Lacker has
dissented from every FOMC decision this year.  The Fed said in last week’s statement that “highly
accommodative” monetary policy will “remain appropriate for a
considerable time after the economic recovery strengthens.”  The Richmond Fed chief said he also opposed this language
and that “an implied commitment to provide stimulus beyond the
point at which the recovery strengthens and growth increases
would be inconsistent with a balanced approach to the FOMC’s
price stability and maximum employment mandates.”  Lacker, 56, has been president of his regional bank since
2004. He was previously the Richmond Fed’s director of research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  