-- France to Extend ‘Social’ Rates for Power, Gas, Ayrault Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-15T16:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/france-to-extend-social-rates-for-power-gas-ayrault-says.html
France  will extend to 4 million
households lower rates for electricity and natural gas to make
energy more affordable while at the same time raising taxes on
industries that pollute the air, Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said today.  Making more people eligible for so-called “social”
utility rates will make energy more accessible, he said in a
speech at an environment conference in Paris. Existing law
allows for 1 million households to benefit, he said.  The 2013 budget will include a “general tax” on
businesses that contribute to air pollution, he said. The
government also plans to review the CSPE tax on electricity
bills that goes toward paying the higher costs of renewable
energy.  President  Francois Hollande  has embarked on a plan to lower
France’s reliance on nuclear power and overhaul energy costs for
consumers.  Electricite de France SA  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, the Paris-
based former monopolies, have the rates that they charge
households in their home market regulated by the government.  A draft law aimed at boosting  energy efficiency  and
lowering demand would make rules on the tariffs more complex
because they will depend on home insulation and revenues.  “I want to encourage moderation in energy use,” Ayrault
said today. Under the plan, the government wants 1 million homes
renovated annually for which financial aid will be available, he
said.  Business Costs  “What worries us the most is how much this will cost and
who will pay,”  Laurence Parisot , head of the business
organization Medef, said after the conference on the
government’s energy policies and the planned pollution tax. “We
can’t keep raising costs for companies without a big impact on
jobs and competitiveness.”  The government will also start tenders by the end of the
year for two offshore wind parks near Le Treport in the Channel
and Noirmoutier island off the Atlantic coast, as well as large-
scale solar installations, Ayrault said. This will be
accompanied by a streamlining of administrative procedures for
development of onshore turbines.  EDF and partners including turbine maker Alstom SA won in
April a French government tender to build three offshore wind
farms, while  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  got one. That first round was for
almost 2,000 megawatts that will add an estimated 1.1 billion
euros to household electricity bills when the wind farms are
running, the government has said.  France, which doesn’t yet have any offshore wind power,
plans to install 6,000 megawatts of offshore wind, tidal and
wave power by 2020 to boost clean energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  