-- Germany Leads Push Against March to ECB Bank Oversight
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-09-15T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/germany-leads-push-against-march-to-ecb-bank-oversight.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  led criticism of the euro area’s rush toward common
bank oversight as  France ,  Spain ,  Italy  and the European
Commission pressed for speedy action.  European Union finance ministers were sharply divided over
proposals to introduce a single supervisor in January within the
17-nation currency zone. Schaeuble, backed by ministers from
 Sweden , the Netherlands and  Poland , said the EU must be cautious
before the  European Central Bank  takes on its supervisory role,
with the promise of direct bank bailouts from the euro’s
firewall fund.  Schaeuble said it will take time to build the “sizeable
apparatus” required for the ECB to oversee more than 6,000
euro-area financial institutions. Banks that could pose broad
risks should move to the new system first, he said.  “We plead very much that stress tests be conducted before
systemically-relevant banks get transferred from the national
supervisor to the European,” Schaeuble told reporters yesterday
after the meeting of ministers in Nicosia, Cyprus.  Schaeuble’s comments raised the prospect of excluding
troubled banks from the new supervisor’s purview. Stress tests
could be used to limit taxpayer exposure to losses, similar to
requiring physical examinations for people who want to buy
health insurance, Guntram Wolff of the Brussels-based Bruegel
research institute said in an interview in Nicosia.  Health Checks  The German finance minister did not mention such health
checks in the negotiating room yesterday, according to two
officials who sat in on the deliberations. The Brussels-based
European Commission wants troubled banks that already receive
government aid to be in the first group of lenders to come under
ECB oversight.  Germany  has broadly backed the banking union plans, while
emphasizing the need for national regulators to monitor most of
the euro area’s banks. “As far as the issues are concerned,
we’re not that far apart,” Schaeuble said.  EU leaders called for a single supervisor in June as a
condition for allowing  euro-area banks  direct access to the euro
are’s 500 billion-euro ($656 billion) permanent bailout fund,
the European Stability Mechanism. Spain, in the early stages of
a 100 billion-euro bank bailout, would benefit if the new system
is in place fast enough to take over capital injections into
Spanish lenders.  “We need to stick to the timetable,” Spanish Finance
Minister Luis De Guindos told reporters. “The objective for now
has to be ambitious.”  ‘Ambitious Timetable’  French, Belgian and Italian finance ministers also pressed
for rapid progress. “We can’t waste time,” French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said.  “We, the government, absolutely support the project and
the commission’s ambitious timetable,” Italian Finance Minister
 Vittorio Grilli  said at a press conference.  It is “obvious” that the new system would apply first to
systemic and state-supported banks, Belgian Finance Minister
Steven Vanackere told reporters. This initial group of banks
would include  Dexia SA (DEXB) , which is being broken up by the French
and Belgian governments and has received more than 50 billion
euros in state guarantees.  “It is important to keep up the pace,” Vanackere said.  The European Commission is pressing to finish debate on
bank supervision this year so the ECB can assume the role in
January. EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier 
defended the “ambitious” timetable, telling reporters “it’s
possible and it is necessary.”  Oversight Systems  The proposed common supervisor needs to be approved by all
27 EU members. Non-euro members would be allowed to opt in.
There also are proposed safeguards to keep the ECB from
dominating disputes among the bloc’s supervisors.  The ECB is investigating ways to allow non-euro members to
have a say in oversight decisions if they volunteer to sign on
to the common system, said ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio .
He also pledged the ECB would abide by decisions taken by the
European Banking Authority, a London-based agency that mediates
disputes among financial regulators.  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said his nation
opposed the common supervisor because it didn’t include enough
protection for those outside the currency union.  “It’s undesirable and not acceptable to have the ambition
to take these decisions by year-end,” Borg said. “There are
some fundamental problems here where we cannot really assess the
risk.”  Capital Injections  EU taxpayers have provided 4.5 trillion euros in capital
injections, guarantees and other forms of support to their
lenders since 2008, exacerbating strains on public finances that
have led  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland, Spain and Cyprus to seek
external aid.  Ministers from euro-area nations emphasized the need for
national regulators to continue to play a strong role after the
ECB takes on its new duties. The U.K., which has voiced concerns
that it and other non-euro nations might be drowned out of
financial rulemaking if the plan goes through, mostly stayed on
the sidelines. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  did
not comment publicly.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said euro-area
efforts to create a common bank supervisor should take place
alongside talks on how to backstop  bank deposits  and when to
shut down failing banks.  Frieden said the ECB could be phased in as the common
supervisor, without necessarily taking up an immediate mandate
over all of the banks in the currency zone.  “Luxembourg believes that all banks should come under the
ECB supervision, but for practical reasons there might be a need
to adopt a step by step approach,” Frieden said in an
interview. “This also depends on the other aspects that we
believe should be discussed in parallel, such as resolution and
deposit guarantee.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  