-- Greece Reaps Euro Goodwill in Break From Past Crisis Scoldings
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-09-15T13:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/greece-reaps-euro-goodwill-in-break-from-past-crisis-scoldings.html
Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras arrived at this week’s debt-crisis talks like his
predecessors often did, without all the budget cuts demanded by
creditors. Unlike them, he left with prospects for aid intact
and public doubts on  Greece ’s future in the euro silenced.  The country emerged from the Sept. 14-15 meeting of
European finance chiefs in Cyprus with a chance to gain extra
time to narrow its spending gap. Officials calculated that a
confrontation with the  Athens  government would drive it further
off track and shatter newfound market confidence in the
management of the crisis that has lasted almost three years.  Creditors led by Germany and the  International Monetary
Fund  may now grant Greece more leeway to narrow its deficit
after their austerity-first policy helped mire the country in a
fifth year of recession, and two Greek elections produced a
shaky governing alliance of pro-euro politicians under constant
attack from the anti-bailout opposition.  “Greece has already produced a huge effort but will have
to continue to do so,” IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
told reporters during the meeting in Nicosia, the Cypriot
capital. “There are various ways to adjust. Time is one. That
needs to be considered as an option.”  Fiscal Cliff  Stournaras, Greece’s fifth finance chief since the country
stumbled off the fiscal cliff in late 2009, is seeking to win
the release of aid blocked since June. He showed up in Nicosia
days after Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s three-party
coalition failed to agree on 11.5 billion euros ($15.1 billion)
of savings in 2013 and 2014.  Samaras, head of the New Democracy party, faced resistance
to planned cuts in wages and pensions from socialist Pasok and
Democratic Left. It fell to Stournaras, an Oxford University-
educated economist close to Pasok, to convey the news that
Greece hadn’t done its full homework, and to make a renewed plea
for two extra years to meet fiscal targets.  Past Greek shortfalls had met with instant rebukes from
creditors. They culminated in a threat in November 2011 by
German Chancellor Angela Merkeland then-French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  to expel the country from the supposedly
“irrevocable” euro.  Punishments for fiscal misbehavior included a summons in
May 2011 to then-Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou 
to a Luxembourg chateau for an unpublicized meeting of select
finance chiefs to address Greece’s budget slippages.  Street Protests  A month later, as street protests raged in Athens, euro
officials welcomed  Evangelos Venizelos  to the job of Greek
finance minister by delaying the green light for a 12 billion-
euro payment until Greek lawmakers endorsed further austerity.  In February 2012, Venizelos confronted another aid delay,
this time as Greece’s caretaker government hadn’t delivered 325
million euros in extra savings.  “We can’t live with this system while promises are
repeated and repeated and repeated, and implementation measures
are sometimes too weak,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs euro finance meetings, said then.  This time, there was no blowup. Officials from  Austria  and
the Netherlands echoed the IMF in speaking of extending the
deficit-cut timetable, making Greece the latest beneficiary of a
European tilt against austerity that gained strength with the
election of Socialist French President  Francois Hollande  in May.  ‘More Time’  “More time to reduce the deficit has always been the
position of the Netherlands, but more money is not needed,”
Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager said in an interview.
Saluting Greece’s budget plans as “very ambitious,” Austria’s
Maria Fekter offered to “give the Greeks the time they need,
but there probably won’t be more money.”  With Europe’s policy makers focusing on the creation of a
centralized banking regulator and the startup of a permanent
rescue fund to shore up distressed nations that also include
Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Cyprus, Stournaras summed up the
experience in Nicosia as “positive” and described Greece as
“a small part” of the talks there.  Germany ’s public shift in tone dates to Merkel’s Aug. 24
meeting with Samaras, when she sympathized with Greeks’ economic
distress and said she reads a Greek media digest every day
“because I want to know what is being said, felt and thought
from the Greek point of view.”  Greece narrowed its deficit from more than 15 percent of
gross domestic product in 2009 -- five times the European Union
limit -- to 9.1 percent in 2011. The spending gap is due to
shrink to about 7 percent of GDP this year.  Syriza’s Rise  The softening of the European and IMF approach follows the
rise of Greek anti-bailout party Syriza, which overturned four
decades of political dominance by New Democracy and Pasok in May
and June elections to become the No. 2 party in the parliament.  Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras has called on the Greek
government to boycott aid talks with creditors, saying “this
austerity plan leads the country to bankruptcy, closer to a euro
exit.” He said Samaras’s bid for another two years to meet
deficit-reduction goals was “like asking for more rope to hang
ourselves with.”  While ruling out an increase in the 240 billion euros in
aid pledged for Greece since 2010, the euro area and IMF
signaled an awareness that diplomatic defeats for the Samaras
government in  Europe  risk strengthening Syriza and weakening the
Greek austerity push.  “The country has really serious, serious problems and it
will take a lot to get this adjustment done,” Guntram Wolff of
the Brussels-based Bruegel research institute said in an
interview in Nicosia. “You cannot just do it with a stick. You
need to provide incentives for the country to grow.”  Verdicts on Greece’s fiscal plans and the release of the
next aid tranche were put off until October, when they may
feature at a mid-month meeting of European heads of government.  For now, Greek euro-exit talk is off the agenda. “You were
perfectly right by excluding the scenario that Greece would
leave the euro area,” Juncker told a reporter. “That’s not an
information but a confirmation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Nicosia, Cyprus, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Nicosia, Cyprus, at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  