-- Guindos Pledges No New Austerity While Telling EU Spain May Act
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-09-15T13:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/guindos-pledges-no-new-austerity-while-telling-eu-spain-may-act.html
Spain  sent mixed messages on the
state of its finances as Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
its 2012 deficit target can be met without more spending cuts,
after telling European colleagues extra measures had already
been prepared.  The Spanish government is facing mounting skepticism about
its ability to narrow the budget gap without further austerity
after the central government exceeded its full-year deficit
target in the first six months due to the cost of propping up
the regions. Spain has introduced more than 100 billion euros
($131 billion) of spending cuts and tax increases to try to
limit the shortfall to 6.3 percent of gross domestic product.  “We think those measures are sufficient for meeting our
objectives,” De Guindos said at a press conference in Nicosia,
Cyprus today after a meeting of European finance ministers.
“The Spanish government is committed to the budget deficit
target.”  De Guindos is trying to balance his government’s domestic
concerns -- thousands of people took to the streets of  Madrid  to
protest against budget cuts today -- with the demands of
European officials and investors that it rein in borrowing. He
offered a more nuanced position to his European partners during
yesterday’s talks, according to their accounts.  “The Spanish colleague very convincingly laid out that
Spain is on the right track with its budget policy decisions and
that Spain will fulfill its commitments,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said at a press conference today.
“He also said that if the worsening economic development” were
to lead to “additional problems, they would take additional
measures.”  Fiscal Targets  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chaired
the meeting, told reporters De Guindos pledged Spain would make
more cuts if necessary to meet its budget targets while European
Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  indicated
those measures have already been prepared by Spanish officials.  “Minister De Guindos today expressed very clearly that
Spain is ready to take the necessary action to meet the fiscal
targets,” Rehn said.  Spain’s attempt to restart its economy and boost tax
revenue is being set back by deteriorating world economic
prospects. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for
2013 global growth in July as the euro region slips deeper into
recession.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro last month signaled the
government will use the downturn as an explanation should he opt
for more cuts.  “With what we’ve done already and what social security and
employment have done, we’ll have enough margin so long as the
economic scenario is supportive,” he said in an Aug. 16
interview.  ---With assistance from Rainer Buergin in Nicosia. Editors:
Andrew Atkinson, Craig Stirling  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  