-- NHL Lockout-Bound With Talks Stalled Prior to Tonight’s Deadline
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-15T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/nhl-lockout-bound-with-talks-stalled-prior-to-tonight-s-deadline.html
The  National Hockey League  appears
headed for a lockout, with the current labor accord set to
expire tonight and no formal talks planned between owners and
players.  It would be the second time in the past seven seasons that
owners locked out players following the expiration of a
collective bargaining agreement. The previous lockout resulted
in the loss of the entire 2004-05 season and the first year
since 1919 that the  Stanley Cup  wasn’t awarded.  The NHL and its  Players’ Association  last met on Sept. 12,
when both sides rejected fresh proposals. Those talks were
followed by separate meetings in New York, after which league
Commissioner Gary Bettman and union Executive Director Donald Fehr criticized the other side for impeding progress.  “If you are dedicated to the negotiating process, you can
move this along quickly,” Bettman told reporters on Sept. 13.
“If for whatever reason you’re not interested in making a deal,
you drag it out.”  Fehr questioned whether or not the owners’ approach was
“reasonably calculated to lead to an agreement as opposed to a
dispute.”  There’s no legal requirement for a lockout in the absence
of a new agreement, because the sides can continue to operate
under the old accord while negotiations proceed. The players
have said they’re willing to compete while talks continue.  Negotiations, which began during the offseason, have
focused mainly on player compensation and revenue sharing.  Under the current agreement, the players receive 57 percent
of hockey-related revenue. The NHL’s most recent proposal was a
gradual reduction to 47 percent; under the union’s latest offer,
should league revenue grow at the same rate as in the past 10
years, the players’ share would fluctuate and remain above 52
percent.  -- Editor: Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  