-- NYSE Data Violations Extend U.S. Exchanges’ Reputation Woes
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-09-15T00:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/nyse-data-violations-extend-u-s-exchanges-reputation-woes.html
NYSE Euronext’s $5 million penalty
over rule violations for giving certain customers trading data
before the public delivers a fresh blow to the reputation of
securities exchanges.  The  New York  Stock Exchange sent data through two
proprietary feeds to paying customers before relaying the
information to the so-called consolidated feed, which sells
trade and quote data to the public, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in an  administrative order  filed yesterday.
Investigators are conducting similar reviews of other exchanges,
according to two people with knowledge of the probes, which
aren’t public.  The SEC action follows the Nasdaq Stock Market’s flubbed
initial public offering of Facebook Inc. in May and Bats Global
Markets Inc.’s withdrawal of its IPO after a technology glitch
in March, both of which undercut investor confidence that
exchanges are in command of their technology systems. The agency
is considering a new rule to mandate that exchanges and possibly
brokers employ adequate automated systems to operate their
markets and related platforms, according to Dave Shillman, an
executive in the SEC’s trading and markets division.  “The overall reputation of exchanges has taken a bit of a
battering in the last few months,” Sang Lee, managing partner
at research firm Aite Group LLC in  Boston , said in an interview.
“Something like this certainly doesn’t help. At the end of the
day, exchanges are supposed to be unbiased, providing market
services fairly to all participants.”  ’Ground Shipping’  The SEC penalty, the first of its kind against an exchange,
comes as lawmakers and regulators question whether retail
investors are being harmed in an increasingly fragmented
marketplace of high-speed, computer-driven trading. The NYSE’s
practice was discovered in the SEC’s investigation of the so-
called flash crash of May 2010, in which $862 billion was erased
from equity prices in 20 minutes before recovering.  “The NYSE chose ground-shipping for sending market data to
the consolidated feed but used next-day air for its paying
customers,” Sanjay Wadhwa, deputy chief of the SEC’s market
abuse unit, said in an interview.  The practice violated Regulation NMS, which obliges
exchanges to give the public fair access to market information,
the SEC said. The NYSE flouted SEC rules “over an extended
period of time” starting in 2008 by failing to monitor the
speed of its proprietary feeds compared to the consolidated
feed, the agency said in its order. The disparity in data
dissemination ranged from single-digit milliseconds to multiple
seconds, the SEC said.  ‘Rigged Game’  “How does a retail or institutional investor not think the
game is rigged when you see something like this,” Joseph Saluzzi, partner and co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading
LLC in Chatham,  New Jersey , said in an interview. “It’s not
much different from knowing what’s in an earnings report a
minute before everyone else.”  The violations stemmed from technology advantages that
benefited NYSE’s Open Book Ultra and PDP Quotes proprietary data
feeds. One information stream used a faster path to get data to
customers while another operated independently of the system
that sent data to the public feed. According to the SEC, about
80 percent of the NYSE’s trading volume is attributable to
proprietary products, which customers use to make rapid
decisions through computer algorithms.  The NYSE also had a software problem that made its public
data feed susceptible to delays during times of high trading
volume. While the exchange began to address the problem in
February 2010, only about half of the relevant computer servers
had been fixed by May 6, 2010, the day of the flash crash, the
SEC said.  Old Software  Under the stress of record trading volume that day, the
servers still running on the old software experienced delays of
as long as 10 seconds on quotes they processed. During two five-
minute periods starting at 2:40 p.m. New York time, the average
delays for quotes were 3.7 seconds and 5.3 seconds, while the
average processing time for the two proprietary data feeds were
less than 2 milliseconds and 16 milliseconds, the SEC said.  “The timing differentials stemmed from technology issues,
not from intentional wrongdoing by the exchange or any of its
personnel,” NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer , said in a statement. The company, which operates
exchanges in the U.S. and  Europe , will “ensure that our market
operates with the utmost fairness and transparency,” he said.  Market Data  U.S. securities exchanges aren’t allowed to release data
about trades and their best bids and offers to clients faster
than they send it to the organizations that collect and
disseminate it publicly. Exchanges earn money from the sale of
subscriptions to proprietary and public data feeds.  Still, proprietary market data from an exchange enables
high-frequency and other clients to get transaction-related
information faster than the public since the content doesn’t
have to be collected from all venues trading the securities and
aggregated. The data may also include information that’s not
public, such as the number of shares available at different
prices. Exchanges share the revenue they receive collectively
from the public feeds.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)   received  $193 million for the sale of cash
equities market data last year, according to a regulatory
filing. That segment includes the sale of public data in the
U.S. and some of the data revenue generated in Europe. It
doesn’t include proprietary U.S. market data.  Automated Trading  As part of the SEC’s focus on high-speed automated trading,
the commission plans to boost requirements for exchanges by
converting and expanding its automated review policy program
into an “enforceable rule,” Shillman, associate director of
the trading and markets division, said on Sept. 13 at a
conference in New York. The rule may extend beyond trading
systems to “market data provision, routing services, issuer
services and the like,” he said.  While the SEC has previously faulted exchanges for
misconduct by employees, yesterday’s action marks the first time
the agency has fined an exchange for having inadequate systems
that violated securities rules.  Direct Edge Holdings LLC and two electronic exchanges it
operates were faulted by the SEC last year for having weak
controls that led to about $2.8 million in trading losses and a
systems outage. Bats Global Markets Inc., the third-largest U.S.
exchange operator, said in February that it received a request
from the SEC for information on its use of order types and
“communications with certain market participants.”  Technology Issues  NYSE Euronext completed systems modifications in 2010 and
2011 that eliminated the technology issues that were the subject
of the investigation, according to its statement. The company,
which didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing, also agreed to hire an
independent consultant to assess its compliance systems.  “As investors and traders we need to understand that
information is being distributed fairly and equally to the
market,”  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of research firm
Tabb Group LLC in New York, said in an interview. “Depending
upon the investment style of different investors, the time delay
may not be material, but we can’t have a market where structural
inequalities present the optics that one class of investors has
an advantage over another.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  