-- Peru Posts Fastest Growth in 11 Months on Construction Boom
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-09-15T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/peru-posts-fastest-growth-in-11-months-on-construction-boom.html
Peru ’s  economy  expanded at its
fastest pace in 11 months in July as a booming construction
activity and consumer demand offset a slump in metal exports.  Economic activity rose 7.2 percent from the same month a
year earlier after a 7.1 percent expansion in June, the
government’s statistics agency said today in an e-mailed report.
The median estimate of 11 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was
for growth of 6.9 percent.  Construction of copper mines, malls and highways in Peru is
fueling the fastest economic growth in South America. Surging
consumer demand from a growing middle class is boosting the
retail, service and banking industries and will underpin
economic growth of 6 percent this year and next, Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla told Congress Sept. 11.  “The middle class is buying because incomes have
increased, and that’s sustaining growth,” said  Pedro Tuesta , a
Washington-based Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc. “The
weaker global economy is preventing Peru from growing at rates
of about 9 percent. We don’t see any sources of weakness in the
coming months.”  Peru’s central bank cited a weaker global economy, a
sustainable pace of domestic growth and tolerable levels of
inflation as reasons for keeping the benchmark  interest rate  at
4.25 percent at its Sept. 7 meeting.  The  construction industry  expanded 21 percent in July and
retail rose 6.9 percent while manufacturing climbed 4.8 percent
on rising textile exports, the agency said.  Peru posted a trade deficit of $192 million in July as
metals led a 20 percent drop in exports and imports climbed 23
percent, the agency said Sept. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  