-- Trio of Strategists Agree S&P 500 to Reach Record in 2013
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o u l d   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-09-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/trio-of-strategists-agree-s-p-500-to-reach-record-in-2013.html
The first three  Wall Street 
strategists to make forecasts for 2013 agree that the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  will reach an all-time high following five
years without a record.  Bank of America Corp.’s Savita Subramanian yesterday joined
Citigroup Inc.’s Tobias Levkovich and  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s  Brian
Belski  in predicting the benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks will
top the high of 1,565.15 set on Oct. 9, 2007. The rest of the 15
strategist Bloomberg tracks have yet to make a 2013 estimate.  While the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to buy mortgage securities
helped extend the S&P 500’s 2012 rally to 17 percent this week,
bulls are pointing to more than just a third round of
quantitative easing as reasons to buy stocks. Subramanian cited
forecasts for record earnings next year, reduced concerns about
risks to the global economy and an abundance of bearishness on
Wall Street that’s bound to change.  “Investors are feeling a little bit calmer,”  Abby Joseph
Cohen , senior U.S. investment strategist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc, said in a Sept. 13 interview with  Trish Regan  and  Adam
Johnson  on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.” “It’s
important to distinguish between the underlying fundamentals and
that other key element of risk and fear. One thing that has been
happening is investors risk tolerance is improving somewhat.
It’s still not back to normal.”  117 Percent  The S&P 500 has surged 117 percent since March 9, 2009,
after companies in the index posted 11 quarters of  earnings
expansion . Stocks were also boosted as the Fed took
unprecedented measures to stimulate the  U.S. economy . Retailers,
restaurants and financial firms have led the gains. The index
rose 1.9 percent this week to 1,465.77, the highest level since
December 2007.  Strategists estimate earnings will keep rising next year to
a record $106.68 a share for the  S&P 500 . All but one of the 12
estimates compiled by Bloomberg are higher than $100 a share.
Subramanian’s 2013 forecast of 1,600 represents a 9.2 percent
advance from yesterday’s closing level. The prediction compares
with Belski’s 1,575 and Levkovich’s 1,615.  Stocks climbed this week as the Fed said it was committed
to buying bonds until the U.S. labor market recovers
“substantially.” The central bank said it will expand its
holdings of long-term securities with open-ended purchases of
$40 billion of mortgage debt a month.  ‘Fed Put’  The Fed introduced two previous rounds of bond purchases
totaling $2.3 trillion in an attempt to revive the economy and
boost asset prices. It has held the main  interest rate  close to
zero since December 2008 and said this week it would probably
keep it that low through mid-2015.  “People like the idea of a Fed put, the idea the Fed will
stand behind the economy and step in to intervene,” said
 Charles Bobrinskoy , director of research at Ariel Investments in
Chicago, speaking on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers”
yesterday.  Subramanian said that the rally wouldn’t be a “straight
line up.” The S&P 500 fell as much as 19.4 percent from April
to October last year, putting the benchmark gauge for American
equity on the brink of a bear market after S&P cut the U.S.’s
AAA credit rating. The S&P 500 surpassed her 2012 estimate for
1,450 on Sept. 13, the day of the Fed’s announcement.  ‘Artificial Stimulation’  “Economic growth could disappoint in the second half and
early next year, as uncertainty weighs on business and consumer
spending in anticipation of the fiscal cliff,” Subramanian
wrote, referring to $600 billion in tax increases and spending
cuts that may go into effect if Congress fails to act. “This
could add to the drag on growth from the recession in Europe and
decelerating trends in  emerging markets .”  Baring Asset Management Inc.’s  Hayes Miller  says equity
gains have gone too far too fast. Stocks will fall as investors
realize profit margins have peaked and the Fed’s stimulus has
driven most of the rally, he said.  “QE3 is another dose of artificial stimulation that kicks
the can further down the road,” Miller, the Boston-based head
of  asset allocation  in North America at Baring, which oversees
$47.5 billion, said in a phone interview. “We still have to
work through excess debt that needs to be restructured, we still
have to work through the fiscal cliff, we still have to work
through the fact that we have been on peak profits.”  The rally has not brought individual investors back to
equities. Mutual funds that buy U.S. stocks have posted net
outflows for a fifth year through 2011, the longest streak in
data going back to 1984, according to the  Investment Company
Institute  in Washington. Withdrawals have exceeded $80 billion
this year, ICI data show.  “There are a lot of investors with too much cash on the
sidelines who are capitulating and moving into the market,”
Andrew Slimmon, Chicago-based managing director of global
investment solutions at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, said in a
telephone interview. His firm has $1.7 trillion in client
assets. “We’ve gotten an awfully good move, and it’s caught a
lot of investors way too cautious in a very strong year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda Gould in  New York  at 
 agould27@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  