-- Sony Declines to Comment on Report of Tie-Up Talks With Olympus
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-09-15T03:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/sony-declines-to-comment-on-report-of-tie-up-talks-with-olympus.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  today declined to
comment on media reports it’s near agreement to invest in
 Olympus Corp. (7733) , the Japanese endoscope maker that admitted to
accounting fraud last year.  Sony has made no decision and wasn’t the source of the
reports, the consumer electronics maker said in a statement to
the Tokyo Stock Exchange today. Olympus yesterday denied a
report by public broadcaster NHK that the two companies are in
the final stages of talks.  “We haven’t narrowed down the candidates for capital
alliance,” Tsuyoshi Oshima, a spokesman for Olympus, said by
phone yesterday.  Sony will invest about 50 billion yen ($640 million) in
Olympus and set up a company to manufacture medical equipment,
NHK reported. Tokyo-based Olympus was in discussions with  Terumo
Corp. (4543) ,  Asia ’s biggest maker of medical devices, Sony and
 Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901)  about possible tie-ups, Olympus Chairman
Yasuyuki Kimoto said in July.  The Nikkei newspaper also reported the 50 billion yen
investment today, saying an agreement may happen within a month.
Nikkei didn’t give a source for the information.  Olympus restated  earnings  last year, taking a $1.3 billion
cut in total equity, after admitting it paid inflated fees on
takeovers and overpaid for three Japanese companies to conceal
past investment losses.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus is the world’s biggest maker of endoscopes, used to look
inside the body. It controls about 75 percent of the global
market for the instruments, which are used to diagnose diseases
such as colorectal cancer.  Olympus gained 1.9 percent to 1,555 yen in Tokyo trading
yesterday before the NHK report. The shares have gained 54
percent this year, following a 59 percent plunge last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  