-- S. Korea Halts Crude Imports From Iran After Insurance Lost
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-09-15T04:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/south-korea-halts-crude-imports-from-iran-after-insurance-lost.html
South Korea  stopped buying crude
oil from  Iran  in August after its refiners lost insurance
coverage on ships carrying the fuel from the Persian Gulf nation.  Purchases fell to zero last month, reducing imports from
Iran for the first eight months of this year by 34 percent from
a year earlier to 5.39 million tons, according to data posted on
the  Customs Service ’s website today. South Korea bought 1.14
million tons of crude oil, or 36,738 tons a day, from Iran in
August 2011.  South Korean refiners reduced Iranian crude purchases this
year as the U.S. and European Union ratcheted up sanctions to
pressure the Persian Gulf nation to halt a nuclear program that
the U.S. and  Israel  say is aimed at developing atomic weapons.
An EU ban introduced on July 1 prevented Korean refiners from
insuring their tankers.  Iran offered to provide its own tankers to supply the oil,
a South Korean government official said on June 29, asking not
to be identified because the matter is confidential. SK
Innovation Co., one of the two buyers of Iranian crude in the
Asian country, said on Aug. 17 it would resume imports in
September as it is near agreement on using Iran’s tankers.  The U.S. exempted South Korea,  India  and five other
economies from its financial sanctions on oil imports from the
Islamic Republic because they have demonstrated commitments to
cut purchases of Iranian crude, Secretary of State  Hillary
Clinton  said on June 11. India and  Japan  offered state-backed
insurance for cargoes from Iran. Indian insurers have agreed to
give as much as $100 million of cover per voyage, Shipping Corp.
of India Chairman Sabyasachi Hajara said in August. In June,
Japan’s parliament passed a bill to provide $7.6 billion of
sovereign insurance for owners of tankers that carry Iranian oil.  Iran was the sixth-largest supplier of crude to South Korea
last year, accounting for 9.4 percent of its overall oil
purchases, Korean government data showed. Iran’s share in Korean
oil imports fell to 6.3 percent as of the first eight months of
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  