-- UN Envoy Brahimi Says Syrian Crisis Threatens ‘Entire World’
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-09-15T21:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/un-envoy-brahimi-says-syrian-crisis-threatens-entire-world-2-.html
United Nations special envoy
Lakhdar Brahimi said the Syrian conflict is “getting worse”
and has ramifications for the “entire world” as government
forces and rebels battled across the country.  The crisis “is  getting  worse and has serious
consequences on the Syrian people, the region and the entire
world,” Brahimi, who spoke at a televised news conference, said
after a meeting with President Bashar al-Assad in Damascus
yesterday. “This crisis is becoming worse by the day and it is
terribly important and urgent to address it in a proper
manner.”  International efforts to end the 18-month conflict have
failed to stop the violence, which the opposition U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  claims has killed more than
26,000 people. Brahimi, who succeeded  Kofi Annan , the former UN
secretary-general who ended his mission last month without
making any progress on resolving the crisis, told reporters he
had “no plan” now to solve the conflict.  “We, however, will set the plan that we will follow after
listening to all internal, regional and international parties,”
he said in an e-mailed statement with his comments yesterday.
This may “manage to open channels towards ending the crisis.”  As Brahimi held talks with the government, representatives
of the opposition and civil society, fighting raged across the
country. Syrian government forces killed 148 people across the
country yesterday, Al Jazeera television reporter, citing the
Syrian Network for Human Rights.  Nine government personnel died in the fighting, the
opposition Syrian Observatory said in an e-mailed statement. In
Aleppo, the country’s largest city, Assad’s forces used attack
helicopters against rebel-held neighborhoods and a large number
of regime forces tried to storm the Hajar al-Aswad neighborhood
in the capital, the group said on its Facebook page. Clashes
also took place in other cities, including Homs and Hama, it
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  