-- Wal-Mart Fails to Agree on Terms for First New York Store
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-09-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/wal-mart-fails-to-agree-on-terms-for-first-new-york-store.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, said it failed to agree on economic terms for
opening its first store in New York.  The retailer remains committed to expanding into New York,
the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said in a  statement  on
its website yesterday. The store would have occupied a retail
development located in East New York, a neighborhood in
Brooklyn.  The chain has been kept out of New York amid opposition
from organized labor and some politicians, who have said it
would hurt local businesses. While Wal-Mart hasn’t been able to
expand into the most populous U.S. city, competitors  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  each have a handful of
locations in New York.  The  United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 1500 ,
New York state’s largest grocery workers union, said it played a
role in ending Wal-Mart’s attempt to secure an outlet by
supporting the efforts of ShopRite, a supermarket chain that
wanted to occupy the site. ShopRite, part of Wakefern Food
Corp., a Keasbey, New Jersey-based cooperative of supermarkets,
has been in talks with Related Cos., the developer overseeing
the retail project.  Union Opposition  “It’s a win all around, but it’s more about the win for
the community, then a loss for Wal-Mart,” said Patrick Purcell,
a spokesman for the union. The union will continue to oppose
Wal-Mart’s entry into New York, he said.  Wal-Mart declined 0.9 percent to $74.50 at the close in New
York yesterday. The shares have gained 25 percent this year.  David Tovar , a Wal-Mart spokesman, declined to comment, as
did  Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for Related. ShopRite has been
pursuing the location for some time and should be able to
confirm its status soon, Karen Meleta, a ShopRite spokeswoman
said in an e-mailed statement.  Wal-Mart thanked the office of Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and
Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz for their support.
The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  