-- Yankees, Orioles Lose to Remain Tied on Top of AL East Division
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-15T04:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-15/yankees-orioles-lose-to-remain-tied-on-top-of-al-east-division.html
The Tampa Bay Rays won 6-4 in the
opener of a three-game series at the  New York Yankees , who
remained tied for first place in the American League East
division when the Baltimore Orioles lost at Oakland.  The Yankees and Orioles, who fell 3-2 against the
Athletics, both are 81-63 after the losses last night.  Elliot Johnson and Desmond Jennings had run-scoring singles
as the Rays (78-66) scored three runs in the fifth inning.  Ben
Zobrist  added an RBI single in the seventh and B.J. Upton had a
solo homer in the eighth.  Tampa Bay is three games behind New York and Baltimore in
the AL East and is also three games back in the race for the
second AL wild-card spot. The first wild-card position is held
by the Athletics (83-61). The top two non-division winners in
each league earn wild-card spots in the postseason.  Steve Pearce had an RBI single in the second inning for New
York.  Curtis Granderson  hit a solo homer in the fifth, his 38th
of the season, and  Alex Rodriguez  had a two-run homer in the
eighth inning.  Derek Jeter’s fifth-inning infield single for the Yankees
allowed him to pass Willie Mays and move into sole possession on
the Major League Baseball career list with his 3,284th hit.  David Price  (18-5) gave up two runs on five hits in seven
innings for Tampa Bay and Fernando Rodney got the final five
outs for his 43rd save of the season. CC Sabathia (13-6) allowed
four runs on six hits in 6 2/3 innings for the Yankees.  In Oakland, California, Yoenis Cespedes hit a two-run homer
as the A’s defeated Baltimore and ended the Orioles’ three-game
winning streak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  