-- 
’Top Chef’ Anita Lo Warms Up Montreal Fest With $125 Scallops

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/-top-chef-anita-lo-warms-up-montreal-winter-festival-with-125-scallops.html
Ever since  Anita Lo  out-cooked  Mario Batali  on the “Iron Chef America” and appeared as a contestant
on “Top Chef,” food enthusiasts have been flocking to her
Manhattan restaurant, Annisa.  “’Top Chef’ was a breakthrough for me,” said Lo at the
restaurant’s bar. “I now get recognized on the streets.”  Known for country-hopping dishes such as wild-boar belly
with eel or South African lamb, Lo is joining more than 50 women
winemakers and guest chefs who will serve up their favorites at
Montreal’s best restaurants during the annual  High Lights
Festival  that runs through Feb. 27.  “We wanted to choose a chef who has great personality and
who has a signature dish and is well-renowned in  North America .
And I think she will blend well with the others,” Jean-Francois
Demers, a spokesman and special adviser to the festival, said by
phone.  “Celebrating Women” is the theme of the 12th annual
winter party during the city’s coldest month. Music performers
include French actor and vocalist  Carole Bouquet , jazz singer
 Lizz Wright  and Haiti-born opera singer  Marie-Josee Lord .  Anne-Sophie Pic , the three Michelin-star chef of La Maison
Pic in Valence, France, is the honorary chairman of the
festival’s wine and dine experience, sponsored by Air  France .  Participating chefs include Mexican-Cuban fusion expert
 Monica Patino ; San Francisco-based pastry wizard Elizabeth
Faulkner; Aurora Mazzucchelli of the Michelin-starred  Ristorante
Marconi  near Bologna,  Italy ; Claudia Schroter of  Taku  in
Cologne,  Germany ; and Vancouver-based Lisa Yu of  Boneta .  More Women Needed  “I still think the culinary industry has a long way to go,”
said Lo. “If you look at the percentage of female chef-owners to
male chef-owners,  New York City  is particularly bad, I think. If
you look at women who are doing fine dining, that percentage is
even smaller.”  Lo will cook for two nights at Montreal’s  Koko  Restaurant &
Bar, a stylish newcomer, in the chic Opus Hotel. She will serve
a $126 five-course tasting menu that includes sashimi tuna with
mentaiko mushrooms and radishes; sea urchin with lotus root;
grilled sea scallops, sweet miso and bacon; and her signature
lamb with South African flavors and warm poppy-seed bread-and-
butter pudding with lemon curd.  “I bring in influences from all over the world,” she said.
“I’m constantly trying to expand my knowledge of the world. My
food is adventurous.”  Tips From  Mongolia   Trained at Paris’s famed  Ecole Ritz-Escoffier , where she
graduated first in her class with honors, Lo started Annisa
(which means “women” in Arabic) in 2000. After its launch, Food
& Wine magazine named her one of the 10  best new chefs in
America  the following year.  A fire destroyed the restaurant in 2009. While it was
rebuilt, she traveled to Mongolia and  Egypt  to expand her
culinary knowledge. She was chosen to appear on the first season
of Bravo’s “Top Chef Masters” and finished fourth out of 24
cooks.  Lo said she squeezes charity work into her schedule
regularly, donating her cooking and time to City Harvest charity
tastings. She has also donated money to  Share , a New York-based
nonprofit that provides a support network for women who have
survived breast and ovarian cancer.  “As a chef and restaurant owner, you have a forum and
there’s a certain amount of privilege in that, and I think with
that privilege comes responsibility,” Lo said.  (The 12th annual  Montreal  High Lights Festival
“Celebrating Women” runs through Feb. 27. Information:
 http://www.montrealenlumiere.com/volets/table/en_bref_en.aspx  or
+1-855-864-3737)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 