-- 
AGL Energy Holds Off on $2 Billion of Wind Farm Plans on Australian Prices

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-02-23T10:22:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/agl-energy-holds-off-on-2-billion-of-wind-farm-plans-on-australian-prices.html
  AGL Energy Ltd ., the Australian
utility building the southern hemisphere’s largest wind farm,
said it will likely hold back $2 billion of additional projects
until prices for renewable-energy credits increase.  “Add to that the fact that we don’t have a price on carbon
and no price signal to proceed with new wind farms,” Managing
Director Michael Fraser said by phone today after the company
reported a 3.7 percent drop in underlying first-half profit.  While the country has yet to impose a cost on carbon
emissions, power retailers have to buy renewable energy
certificates from clean generators under the government’s plan
for 20 percent of electricity to come from alternatives to coal
and petroleum by 2020. Government subsidies for solar power
producers prompted an increase in household panel installations,
causing a glut of the certificates that pushed down prices.  The market for the certificates has remained “soft and
soggy” even after the government revised the program to
encourage larger-scale projects, Fraser said. “It’s going to
take, in our view, until around 2014 or 2015 for that surplus to
wash through the system.”  AGL dropped 1.4 percent to close at A$14.46 a share in
Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.2 percent.  The company estimated it would spend as much as A$6 billion
in the next decade on gas-fired power stations and renewable
energy projects if the Australian government imposes a price on  carbon emissions , said Fraser. He serves on a business group set
up by the government to tackle greenhouse gas pollution.  ‘Business Certainty’  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor Party government has
“a very clear view on introducing a carbon tax by July 1 of
next year,” he said. “The ball is in the court of the Greens
Party and the opposition as to whether they are going to play
ball and give business the certainty they are looking for.”  AGL is developing 672 megawatts of renewable energy
capacity, including the 420-megawatt Macarthur wind farm in
Victoria, and planning to make a final  investment decision  on
the Dalton gas-fired power station in the second half of 2011,
it said in its earnings statement to the Australian stock
exchange today.  First-half profit excluding one-time items dropped to
A$226.2 million, in line with company’s estimates, after a
lower-than-expected earnings from the Loy Yang coal-fired power
station in Victoria, AGL said. The plant’s contribution to
profit dropped by 98 percent, or A$22.4 million, because of
lower pooled electricity prices in the state.  The power and gas retailer added 42,000 New South  Wales 
electricity customers in the last six months, and “that’s
before we’ve put our foot on the accelerator,” Fraser said.  AGL in December set a target of adding as many as 500,000
accounts in the state during the next three years after failing
to acquire any assets in New South Wales’ sale of power
retailers and contracts to trade electricity production.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 