-- 
Thai Baht Falls as Middle East Tension Boosts Appeal of Dollar

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-02-22T09:01:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/thai-baht-falls-as-middle-east-tension-boosts-appeal-of-dollar.html
  Thailand ’s baht declined by the most
in three weeks on speculation the escalating political turmoil
in the Middle East will spur demand for the relative safety of
the dollar.  The currency fell for the first time in seven days as the
MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares had its biggest drop
since June. Crude oil rose 8.9 percent from Feb. 18 as anti-
government protests intensified in  Libya , holder of  Africa ’s
largest oil reserves. The Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against the currencies of six major trading partners,
advanced for a second day.  “The worsening situation in Libya encouraged investors to
avoid taking risks, leading to sell-offs of stocks and  Asia ’s
emerging-market currencies,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist
at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “Tensions in
the Middle East also raise concern about oil prices and
inflation in the region, which could derail economic growth.”  The baht weakened 0.3 percent to 30.64 per dollar as of
3:38 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency may fluctuate between 30 and 31 through the end of
March, Nishihama said.  The Bank of Thailand, which has raised borrowing costs four
times since June, will boost rates further this year to tame
inflationary pressures, Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-
general at the National Economic and Social Development Board,
said yesterday. The board raised its 2011 inflation forecast
yesterday to as much as 3.8 percent from a maximum of 3.5
percent estimated in September.  “What I am concerned about is indirect impact,” central
bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul told reporters today. “If
the situation gets worse, it will raise  oil prices  and that may
affect the global recovery.”  The onshore one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, declined 5.5 basis points
to 2.405 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield on the 3.125 percent debt due December 2015 added four
basis points to 3.5 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  