-- 
Airlines Tumble as Oil Rises, Carriers Cancel Libya Flights

-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-02-22T15:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/airlines-tumble-as-oil-rises-carriers-cancel-libya-flights.html
European airline stocks tumbled as
the price of oil rose to its highest in more than two years and
British Airways, KLM and BMI canceled flights to Libya amid
intensifying violence.  Futures for April delivery in  New York  rose as much as 9.8
percent and London-traded Brent surged to the highest since
September 2008, as soldiers deserted Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi’s government and diplomats resigned. Brent may trade as
high as $110 a barrel in coming weeks if the unrest persists,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Willie Walsh, Chief Executive Officer of International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, said rising oil prices would
“inevitably” translate into higher fares. British Airways, one
of IAG’s two carriers, has raised its fuel surcharge twice since
December.  “It’s difficult for the industry to cope with volatility
on oil prices,” Walsh said at the ICBI Aircraft Finance and
Commercial Aviation conference in Geneva today. “It’s going to
impact on ticket prices, no question, if oil prices continue to
be at these levels.”  International Consolidated Airlines fell as much as 4
percent in London trading, and was down 1.9 percent at 235 pence
as of 2:56 p.m. in  London .  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  was down 2
percent in  Frankfurt  and  Air France-KLM  Group traded 3.2 percent
lower in Paris.  Lufthansa,  Europe ’s second-largest carrier, said it’s
continuing daily flights from Frankfurt to Tripoli, though it’s
prepared to react to developments. The German carrier is using a
larger Airbus A340 wide-body jet for flights from the Libyan
capital in order to get more passengers out of the country,
spokesman Thomas Jachnow said by phone today.  KLM, a unit of Air France-KLM, said it canceled flights to
Libya scheduled for tomorrow and Thursday. Air France does not
fly to Tripoli.  British Airways and BMI, a unit of Lufthansa, said they
will review flight plans for tomorrow.  Delta Air Lines Inc. and AMR Corp.’s American Airlines do
not fly to  Libya .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  