-- 
Alibaba Shares Tumble After Fraud Leads to CEO Departure

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-02-22T23:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/alibaba-com-downgraded-by-morgan-stanley-after-ceo-wei-resigns.html
  Alibaba.com Ltd . fell the most in
more than a year after the company said an internal probe found
more than 2,300 vendors used its website to defraud global
buyers, prompting the chief executive officer to quit.  Some Alibaba employees were responsible for letting sellers
create bogus storefronts, China’s biggest electronic-commerce
company said yesterday. CEO David Wei and Chief Operating
Officer Elvis Lee, who weren’t accused of wrongdoing, resigned
to take responsibility for the “systemic breakdown” of
integrity, it said.  Alibaba, controlled by billionaire Jack Ma, lost $933
million in market value in Hong Kong trading on concern the
frauds and management shakeup will erode customer confidence and
sales. Analysts at Morgan Stanley,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc .
and Mirae Asset Securities Co. cut their investment ratings on
the company, which matches Chinese suppliers with global
companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . and Procter & Gamble Co.  “For Alibaba, the reputation of their website and service
is all-important,” said Jake Li, who rates the stock
“neutral” at Guotai Junan Securities in Shenzhen. “The scale
of the problem doesn’t seem to merit such a high-level
reshuffle, but Alibaba is taking quite decisive action to shore
up the confidence of its users.”  Yahoo Slumps Too  The flagship unit of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which
counts Yahoo! Inc. as its biggest shareholder, tumbled 8.6
percent, the most since Sept. 15, 2009, to HK$15.24. Alibaba
provides a marketplace for customers to trade everything from
organic fruits to personal computers.  Yahoo, owner of the largest U.S. portal, fell 4.3 percent
to $16.91 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Yahoo owns about 40 percent of Alibaba Group, which has an
estimated value of $20 billion to $40 billion, said Ben
Schachter, an analyst at Macquarie Capital in  New York .  “This came out of the blue and was such a shock,” said
Schachter, who rates Yahoo “neutral” and doesn’t own it.
“It’s a reminder that there’s a lot of uncertainty with Chinese
companies.”  The frauds typically involved vendors offering small
quantities of electronics at attractive prices, with payments
settled using “less reliable” methods, Alibaba spokesman John Spelich said. The company created a fund in 2009 to compensate
buyers who were defrauded, he said.  Customer Impact  Executive changes at the company may slow customer
additions, Richard Ji, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a
report today. The bank cut its investment recommendation for
Alibaba’s stock to “equal-weight” from “overweight.” Mizuho
lowered its rating to “hold” from “buy.”  Jonathan Lu, who heads the Taobao.com online retailing
affiliate, was named Wei’s replacement.  Lu, 41, joined Alibaba in 2000 and led the team that formed
Alipay, an online payment service, in 2004, according to the
company. Lu, who holds a master’s degree in business
administration from  China  Europe International Business School,
served as Alipay’s president before moving to Taobao in 2008.  The frauds, noticed by senior management from late 2009,
won’t have a “material financial impact” and the value of the
average claim was below $1,200, Alibaba said. The company found
1,219 of its “gold” suppliers in 2009 and 1,107 in 2010
engaged in fraud, according to the statement.  ‘Fraudulent Storefronts’  The investigation found that about 100 of the company’s
5,000 salespeople, as well as some supervisors and managers,
were either intentionally or negligently allowing the vendors to
evade the company’s authentication and verification measures to
form “fraudulent storefronts” for international customers.  The fraudulent vendors represented about 1.1 percent of the
company’s “China Gold Supplier” subscribers in 2009 and 0.8
percent in 2010, the company said. Alibaba has terminated all of
the fraudulent storefronts, it said.  “Although the management claimed that there is no material
impact to company financials, we are concerned that the clean-up
of fraudulent accounts puts near-term revenue growth under
pressure,” Muzhi Li, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho, wrote
in a note today. “We believe the company could benefit from
this shake-up in the longer term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  