-- 
Amazon to Stream TV Shows, Movies to Home-Delivery Customers

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-02-22T21:35:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/amazon-com-will-stream-5-000-tv-shows-movies-to-home-delivery-customers.html
  Amazon.com Inc ., the world’s largest
online retailer, is offering instant streaming of more than
5,000 movies and TV shows to customers of its Amazon Prime home-
delivery service starting today.  The service is an add-on to Amazon Instant Video, which
offers more than 90,000 commercial-free movies and TV shows to
buy or rent, the Seattle-based company said in a statement
today. A membership to Amazon Prime, which costs $79 a year, is
required to have access to the unlimited free streaming.  Amazon is competing with  Netflix Inc . and Hulu Plus for
online subscribers and is challenging traditional pay-TV
services including  Comcast Corp . and Time Warner Cable Inc. Last
month, Amazon agreed to purchase the remaining shares of
Lovefilm International Ltd., a U.K.-based DVD and Internet film-
rental service, for $320 million.  “While Amazon’s initial video library is inferior to
Netflix’s digital catalog, we believe Amazon’s library will
continue to grow, especially considering its roughly $9 billion
in cash,” Ralph Schackart, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in  Chicago , said in a note today to investors. “We expect more
digital video competition going forward.”  Amazon’s new service comes as Netflix is seeking deals to
expand its video streaming library. Under a new two-year
agreement announced, Netflix signed a nonexclusive deal to
stream TV shows from  CBS Corp ., including “Medium,”
“Flashpoint” and full seasons of shows such as “Frasier” and
“Cheers.” Terms were not disclosed, the company said today in
a statement.  Market Drop  Amazon fell $6.08, or 3.3 percent, to $180.42 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained
less than 1 percent this year. Netflix declined $13.91, or 5.9
percent, to $221.60 at 4 p.m., the biggest drop in more than
seven months.  Total online video views jumped 45 percent in January from
a year ago, according to a Nielsen report released earlier this
month. Netflix, which introduced instant streaming of movies in
January 2007, had more than 200 million online streams last
month, up 38 percent from December, Nielsen said.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , offers about
20,000 movies and TV shows on its streaming platform. Its
streaming-only option, announced in November, costs $95.88
annually.  ‘Dragon Tattoo’  Amazon’s selection of movies and TV shows include “The
Girl with the Dragon Tattoo” trilogy, “Fawlty Towers” and
“Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood.”  “The bottom line is that this offering from Amazon will
not likely cause much of an exodus from Netflix in the
beginning,” Ben Schachter, an analyst at Macquarie Capital in
New York with an “outperform” rating on the shares, said in a
note to investors. “This current offering should serve to
remind Amazon’s most loyal customers that Amazon has a very
strong offering of streaming rentals at $3.99 each.”  Of the 100 most popular movies currently being watched on
Netflix, only one, “Syriana,” is available for free streaming
to Amazon Prime Members, Schachter wrote. If Amazon’s library
ever approached Netflix’s size, the company would take
“significant” market share from Netflix, he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Clifford Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  