-- 
Ambani May Add Assets After BP Deal Doubles Reliance Cash

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-02-22T10:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/ambani-may-add-energy-assets-overseas-after-bp-deal-doubles-reliance-cash.html
  Reliance Industries Ltd .,  India ’s
biggest company by market value, may add overseas energy assets
after doubling its cash to $14 billion through the sale of
stakes in domestic oil blocks to  BP Plc , investors said.  BP will pay the Mumbai-based energy explorer $7.2 billion
for a 30 percent interest in 23 oil and gas areas in India,
Reliance Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  said on a conference call
yesterday. Reliance said Jan. 21 it had cash and equivalents of
318.3 billion rupees ($7.1 billion) as of Dec. 31.  Billionaire Ambani and BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  sealed two years of talks with a deal that may increase
in size to $20 billion with future performance payments and
investment. Reliance committed $3.4 billion to U.S. shale gas
projects last year and has said it may buy fields in the  Gulf of
Mexico  and  Brazil  to hedge the risk of investing in India.  “Reliance will certainly acquire more assets now,” said
Taina Erajuuri, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.2 billion
of emerging-market stocks, including Reliance shares, at
Helsinki-based FIM Asset Management Ltd. “All that cash will
come into the balance sheet and give the company that much
confidence.”  Shares Gain  Reliance gained 3 percent, the most since Dec. 10, to
984.85 rupees at the close in Mumbai. BP fell 1.1 percent at
10:21 a.m. in  London , extending yesterday’s 0.3 percent decline.
Reliance’s $1 billion in 4.5 percent bonds due in 2020 rose
above 93 cents on the dollar today for the first time since Jan.
28, according to ING Groep NV. The yield fell to 5.427 percent
from 5.48 percent, ING prices show.  The investment by BP will accelerate development and
production from Reliance’s fields in India, Ambani, the
country’s richest man, said yesterday. He didn’t say how the
company plans to use the money from the stake sale.  Reliance may get an additional $1.8 billion from London-
based BP if the two companies discover more oil or gas in some
of the blocks covered by the agreement, according to yesterday’s
statements.  The transaction includes a stake in India’s biggest natural
gas deposit, the KG-D6 block in the  Bay of Bengal , where reduced
pressure at the reservoir has forced Reliance to cut production
and delayed a plan to reach its peak output. A technical review
of the field is under way, Ambani said.  “Reliance is cashing in on assets in India which have been
partially explored and production is behind schedule,” said
Walter Rossini, who manages $350 million of Indian assets,
including Reliance shares, at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan.
“Maybe Reliance is de-risking its India business and will use
the money it gets to buy fields in other parts of the world.”  Refining, Diversification  Declining gas production at the KG-D6 block resulted in
Reliance shares rising 0.7 percent in the past year, trailing
the 13 percent gain in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark
Sensitive Index. Reliance has the highest weight in the 30-stock
index.  Reliance, which operates the world’s largest oil-refining
complex, is relying on profits from fuel production to boost
earnings and is diversifying its business after delays in
increasing gas production.  Crude oil in New York jumped to the highest in more than
two years as violence intensified in  Libya . Crude for April
delivery rose as much as $8.77 to $98.48 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange and was at $98.07 at
8:55 a.m. London time. Reliance is shielded from government
controls on fuel prices in India because it exports gasoline and
diesel.  Atlas Venture  The company agreed to form a $1.7 billion venture in April
with  Atlas Energy Inc . to develop gas fields in  Pennsylvania . On
Jan. 10, Reliance wrote to Atlas’s directors that it was
surprised at not being apprised of the negotiations that led to
Chevron Corp.’s $3.6 billion offer for the company. Atlas
shareholders approved Chevron’s takeover bid Feb. 16.  In addition to acquiring U.S. shale-gas assets, Ambani
plans investments in telecommunications and power generation.
Reliance has said it wants to bid for 4,000 megawatt power
projects the government plans to auction in India, each
requiring investments of about 160 billion rupees.  Reliance plans to spend $30 billion on petrochemicals, oil
and gas exploration and telecommunications in the five years
ending March 2015, said Sandeep Randery, an analyst with Brics
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, citing estimates given by Reliance in
an investor conference this month. As much as $4.7 billion may
be spent on telecommunications, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 