-- 
America Last Among Peers With No Paid Federal Maternity Leave

-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/america-last-among-peers-with-no-paid-federal-maternity-leave.html
It took Elin Betanzo eight years to
stay home for three months with her first child.  She stockpiled leave for that long so she could dip into her
time-off account at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
after her son’s birth. She forgot to plan for falling ill later.  “What I hadn’t thought about in advance was the need for
me to have plenty of sick leave when I came back,” said
Betanzo, 35, an engineer. “I wish that when I started working
someone would have told me, ‘Save for a house, save for
retirement -- save if you ever want to take maternity leave.’”  The U.S. government doesn’t provide a benefit many on  Wall
Street  take for granted and that the European Union, Japan and  Russia  require. A  bill  introduced Feb. 10 to give federal
employees four weeks paid time off to care for new children
isn’t likely to make it to a vote.  The measure’s probable fate underscores that the U.S. has
“the most family-hostile public policy” in the developed
world, said Joan Williams, director of the  Center for WorkLife
Law  at the  University of California ’s Hastings College of the
Law in  San Francisco .  The U.S. is one of three nations of 181 studied by Harvard
and  McGill  universities that don’t guarantee working mothers
leave with compensation, and researchers say it pays the price
in lost productivity and health risks for children. The two
other countries are  Papua New Guinea  and Swaziland.  “It’s absurd that we don’t have it,” said Janet Gornick, a
professor and director of the  Luxembourg Income Study Center  at
the City University of New York Graduate Center. “Our
employment profile no longer looks very good for women overall.
The absence of leave is part of the story.”  Twelve Unpaid Weeks  The U.S. government employs about 2.85 million, 1.22
million of them women, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  India ’s central government payroll is 31.6 million,
3.06 million of them female, and  Indonesia  has 4.6 million civil
servants, of whom 2.14 million are women, according to
government data. Chinese government agencies employed 11.93
million in 2008, while  Brazil  has 1.11 million federal workers,
official statistics not broken down by gender show.  In the U.S. -- where  47 percent  of the workforce is female
-- anyone employed for at least 12 months by a business with a
payroll of at least 50 may take 12 unpaid weeks and not lose
their jobs under the Family Medical Leave Act. The 1993 law
covers about half the workforce, including federal employees.  ‘Economic Losses’  While maternity leave with pay is a perquisite at  Bank of
America Corp .,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and other big financial
institutions, most employers in the U.S. don’t provide the
benefit. The number offering fully paid leave fell to 16 percent
in 2008 from 27 percent in 1998, according to a study by the New
York-based  Families and Work Institute .  A 2010 survey of human resources managers at 534 companies
by the  Society for Human Resource Management  in Alexandria,  Virginia , found 17 percent offer leave with pay and another 7
percent plan to reduce or eliminate it within 12 months.  “If we don’t make motherhood and work compatible, there
are long-term economic losses,” said Robert Drago, research
director at the  Institute for Women’s Policy Research  in  Washington . They include productivity and earning power lost
when women have to interrupt work and costs when employers have
to find and train replacements, he said.  After nine years in the EPA’s ground and drinking water
section, Betanzo quit to take a job she said better fit her
expertise, with the Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission.  “I have been saving money so I can take leave without pay
if I am lucky enough to have another child,” she said. “Saving
time off has not been as much of an option as it was when I did
not have a child.”  Military Maternity Leave  For Representative Carolyn Maloney, 65, the New York
Democrat who is the main sponsor of the federal parental leave
bill, the motivation is partly personal. The mother of two
daughters, she was the first women to give birth while on the
New York City Council. When she became pregnant while working
for the New York State Assembly in the 1970s, she said in an
interview, “they just expected me to quit. No woman had ever
come back after having a baby. That’s what they told me.”  Her measure would cost $938 million over five years in
salaries the U.S. doesn’t now have to pay when new parents stay
home, the  Congressional Budget Office  concluded.  The bill wouldn’t cover the military, which has its own
paid policy: six weeks for women and 10 days of paternity leave
for married active duty service members.  Moving to  Canada   Federal workers “should not have to choose between a
paycheck and getting their newborn home and settled in,”
Maloney said when she introduced the bill, which she’s done in
every Congress since 2000. The house passed the legislation in
2009 and it stalled in the Senate. Maloney said she doesn’t
expect it to come to a vote this year.  The EU is considering increasing the minimum paid maternity
leave from the 14 weeks mandated since 1992.  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development  countries provide an
average of 18 weeks, according to the Paris-based organization.  Amanda Boyce, a program officer at the National Institutes
of Health in Bethesda,  Maryland , stayed home with her daughter
in 2007 for 10 weeks. For six of them, she used paid time she
got from a leave bank, into which employees deposit days they
can’t use or want to contribute to others.  “If I put it in the perspective of the people I know, I
had it pretty good,” Boyce, 36, said. “If I put it in
perspective of the rest of the world, I did not get off good.
But it’s too late to move to Canada.”  Family Friendly  Employers with maternity leave offer it to attract and
retain workers, according to interviews with company officials.  “It’s the price of admission,” said Maryella Gockel,
flexibility strategy leader for the accounting firm Ernst &
Young LLP in Secaucus,  New Jersey . “We want women to return to
work and we want women to succeed.”  Ernst & Young, with a payroll of more than 140,000, gives
new mothers 12 weeks paid and 10 weeks unpaid time off. It was
one of the top 10 family friendly companies in 2010, according
to the New York-based Working Mother Research Institute.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , was
also among the top 10. It pays new parents of either gender for
12 weeks and allows them to take a total of 26 weeks.  Goldman, on the Working Mother’s register of 100 most
family friendly, offers 16 weeks time off with pay to new
mothers and 4 weeks to new fathers. (The bank in November
settled a lawsuit by a former vice president who claimed she was
demoted after taking maternity leave and fired when she chose to
return to work part-time.)  Jury Duty Pay  The U.S. government could save $50 million a year by
offering paid time off for new parents because the perquisite
would encourage women to stay in the federal workforce, keeping
down hiring and retraining expenses, according to a 2009
Institute for Women’s Policy Research analysis.  A November report by the Partnership for Public Service,
using U.S. Office of Personnel Management data from 2006 to
2008, found that 24 percent of new federal hires left within two
years. Some 48 percent of federal employees, and 67 percent of
supervisors, will be eligible for retirement by 2015, according
to the report.  U.S. government workers are allowed seven days of leave
with pay after donating bone marrow or an organ and are paid for
jury duty. Those who stay home with babies amass sick and
vacation days, borrow from co-workers or their future holidays.  ‘Expensive New Benefit’  Foes of Maloney’s bill cite costs and contend government
workers don’t need more benefits. Republican Representative
Darrell Issa of  California  publicized his opposition with a 2009
YouTube video that has since been removed. It showed Maloney
saying countries with leave laws “cannot be wrong” and ran
photographs of the leaders of North Korea, Cuba, Iran and
Venezuela under text saying, “Could these guys be wrong on paid
parental leave?” according to accounts in the Washington Post
and the Media Matters Action Network website.  Issa is chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform, which has jurisdiction over the Maloney
legislation. His spokesman, Frederick Hill, said in an e-mail
that the congressman “hasn’t changed his position that the
current economic situation is the wrong time to offer federal
employees an expensive new benefit.”  Carrie Lukas, executive director of the Washington-based
 Independent Women’s Forum , which supports limited government,
said granting federal employees the benefit might encourage the
government to mandate it for all employers.  Generous Policy Now  “There are real costs to businesses,” said Lukas, 37, the
mother of three children. “If you start making it such a
disadvantage to hire women, I’m going to think gosh, this is a
30-year-old women who may pop out a bunch of kids, I don’t want
to take the risk.”  Dena Hixon, a doctor at the Food and Drug Administration in
Washington, said the time-off policy is generous enough that
prospective parents can accumulate and borrow enough leave to
spend time with their newborns, as she did when her twin
daughters were born 11 years ago.  “The public already begrudges us the benefits that we
get,” Hixon, 56, said. “It is really hard to justify asking
for more, particularly when most people have even less sick
leave or maternity leave.”  Data comparing the U.S. to other countries shows the
consequences of failing to marry work and motherhood, according
to Gornick of the Luxembourg center. The U.S. is 26th among the
34 OECD members in employment of women with higher education.  Wage Gap  Seventy-one percent of mothers with children under 18 were
in the labor force in 2008, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, up from 47 percent in 1975. Mothers earn 60 cents
for every $1 that fathers earn, while childless women make 94
cents for every $1 made by men without children, according to
Michelle Budig, an associate professor of sociology at
University of Massachusetts Amherst.  A reason for the gap is a lack of maternity leave, Budig
said in testimony to Congress in 2010. “A significant portion
of gender-based differences in employment, earnings and
experiences of discrimination are increasingly related to
parenthood,” she testified.  The lack of a paid leave mandate has spurred family
responsibility discrimination lawsuits in the U.S., according to
the Center for WorkLife Law’s Williams. She said the number of
suits, claiming harassment of women who become pregnant or
retaliation against workers who take care-giving leave, has
climbed 400 percent in 10 years.  Immunizations, Checkups  In California and New Jersey, programs that are financed by
payroll taxes on employees allow most workers in the private and
public sectors to take time off with compensation to take care
of family members, including infants. Washington state in 2007
adopted a law to do the same, delaying implementation until 2012
because of a budget shortfall.  The benefits of paid leave can be far-reaching, with
children of mothers who return to work within 12 weeks less
likely to receive immunizations and regular checkups, according
to a study by University of Wisconsin and Columbia University
professors published in the Economic Journal in 2005.  “The  United States  is really out of the loop when it comes
to maternity leave,” Williams said. Not having a paid leave
mandate means “a squandering of human capital that is something
that we can ill afford in today’s rapidly globalizing world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 