-- 
Mammograms Miss Second-Round Tumors in Breast Cancer Survivors, Study Says

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-02-22T23:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/mammograms-miss-second-round-tumors-in-breast-cancer-survivors-study-says.html
Mammograms are more likely to miss
new tumors in women who have had  breast cancer  before than in
those without a history, a  study  published today found.  While the imaging technology found cancer at an early stage
in women with a history of the disease, it had a lower accuracy
compared with screening of women who didn’t have breast cancer
previously, according to a study in the  Journal of the American
Medical Association . It failed to detect new tumors on average
35 percent of the time where the disease had resurfaced in
breast cancer survivors compared with 24 percent for women who
didn’t have the disease earlier, said  Diana Miglioretti , a study
author.  The reasons for the discrepancy are unclear, said
Miglioretti, a researcher at the  Group Health Research Institute 
in  Seattle . The difference may be related to the treatments
women with breast cancer undergo or to a more aggressive nature
of the second cancer in previous sufferers, causing it to
develop between mammograms, she said.  “Women who have had breast cancer are also more alert to
changes in their body and may seek additional screenings even if
their mammogram turned up negative,” Miglioretti said.  Twice as Likely  Breast cancer survivors are twice as likely to have the
disease recur than those who haven’t developed tumors before.
The study reviewed 58,870 mammograms for 19,078 women with a
history of the disease and the same number of screenings for
55,315 women with no history.  There’s no evidence in the study that suggests more
frequent mammograms would necessarily remedy the difference in
detection, Miglioretti said, although breast cancer survivors
tend to have more tests than those without a history.  The study also showed that women with a history of the
disease are more likely to be called back for follow-up tests.
Eighteen percent of women who had breast cancer had follow-up
tests ordered versus 8 percent for those without a history. Of
1,000 women who have had breast cancer, about 1 percent can be
expected to develop the disease again in a year, she said.  An estimated 207,000 breast cancer cases were  diagnosed  in
2010 and the disease killed about 40,000 women, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  