-- 
Mandy Patinkin Shouts, Sings Yiddish in Anne Frank Play: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/mandy-patinkin-shouts-sings-in-yiddish-hawks-anne-frank-s-diary-review.html
In “Compulsion,” an over-the-top
psychodrama at New York’s  Public Theater , Mandy Patinkin plays a
literary critic and novelist who nursed a decades-long obsession
to bring his adaptation of Anne Frank’s diary to the stage.  Playwright  Rinne Groff  based the character on Meyer Levin,
whose 1952 New York Times review of “The Diary of a Young
Girl” helped make the translation a best seller.  He wrote that the voice of the brilliant girl -- who was
hidden with seven others in Amsterdam during World War II and
perished of typhus and malnutrition at the Bergen-Belsen
concentration camp in 1944 -- represented “the voice of six
million vanished Jewish souls.”  A complicated, ultimately sympathetic man, Levin protested
as her story became “infantilized, Americanized, homogenized
and sentimentalized,” as Cynthia Ozick wrote in the  New Yorker .
Believing he had the rights to dramatize the diary, he sued Otto
Frank, Anne’s father, for fraud and breach of contract.  No Kidding  As written by Groff and played by Patinkin, the Levin
character, here named Sid Silver, is shrill, humorless and given
to bellowing. Two actors (Hannah Cabell and Matte Osian) play
all his foils, including publishing executives and his wife.
That highlights his paranoia but gives the show, staged by
Public Theater artistic director  Oskar Eustis , a boxed-in feel.  Projections and video by Jeff Sugg are used to remarkable
effect. Marionettes, including one for Anne Frank, are lifelike
and mesmerizing. But a second-act scene of Anne talking with the
wife -- Patinkin provides Anne’s voice -- is as tasteless as it
sounds. It ends with Patinkin as Levin singing in Yiddish.  “The Diary of Anne Frank,” by screenwriters Frances
Goodrich and Albert Hackett, opened to great acclaim on Broadway
in 1955 (a 1997  revival featured  Natalie Portman  in the title
role). Levin, who died in 1981, complained that the show
downplayed Anne’s Jewishness.  “Compulsion,” in contrast, is a meticulous if anemic play
of ideas. As Levin learned most painfully, seriousness of intent
is no guarantee of success.  Through March 13 at 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-
967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org 
Rating: *  (Philip Boroff is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 