-- 
Antipsychotics During Pregnancy May Harm Newborns, FDA Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-02-22T18:30:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/antipsychotics-during-pregnancy-may-harm-newborns-fda-says-1-.html
  Johnson & Johnson ’s Risperdal
and  Eli Lilly & Co .’s Zyprexa are among more than 20
antipsychotic drugs that U.S. regulators said may pose
risks to newborns when taken by mothers during pregnancy.  The  Food and Drug Administration  updated labeling for
antipsychotic drugs to show potential side effects to
children born to mothers on the medicines in the third
trimester, the agency said today in a  drug safety 
communication.  The labeling change is the first in six years to cover
all drugs in the class known as atypical antipsychotics.
The medications, used for conditions such as schizophrenia
and bipolar disorder, may cause abnormal muscle movements
and withdrawal symptoms in newborns, the FDA said. Symptoms
can include tremor, sleepiness and difficulty with
breathing or feeding.  “In some newborns, the symptoms subside within hours
or days and do not require specific treatment; other
newborns may require longer hospital stays,” the FDA said.    Bristol-Myers Squibb Co .’s Abilify,  AstraZeneca Plc ’s
Seroquel and  Novartis AG ’s Clozaril are among the other
antipsychotic drugs cited in the FDA notice.  The change has been implemented to standardize
labeling language, Sandy Walsh, an FDA spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mail. The agency made “the labels consistent
regarding an issue most prescribers have known about for a
long time,” she said.  Reported Symptoms  The FDA received 69 reports through Oct. 29, 2008, of
abnormal muscle movement or withdrawal among newborns whose
mothers took antipsychotic drugs, according to the safety
notice. While most cases were “confounded by other
factors” such as premature birth and the use of other
medications, some suggest side effects “may occur with
antipsychotics alone,” the agency said.  Patients who become pregnant shouldn’t discontinue
antipsychotic drugs without consulting their doctors,
because stopping the medications abruptly “can cause
significant complications for treatment,” the FDA said.  The labeling change for the entire drug class was the
first for atypical antipsychotics since 2005, when the FDA
required the addition of a boxed warning to show risks to
older patients with dementia, Walsh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  