-- 
Apple, FDA, U.S. Patent Office; Nokia: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-02-22T14:05:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/apple-fda-u-s-patent-office-nokia-intellectual-property.html
  Apple Inc .’s growing competition
from Google Inc. and tablet makers may shield it from possible
antitrust concerns over its iPad newspaper subscriptions
services, said European Union regulators.  The European Commission, which probes alleged abuses of
monopoly power in the 27-nation region, said it couldn’t judge
whether Apple has a dominant position because the tablet market
is “relatively new and evolving.”  “Alternative applications platforms exist and several
companies have recently launched or are expected to launch in
the near future a number of devices similar in terms of
functionality to the iPad,” Andris Piebalgs, an EU
commissioner, wrote in a response dated Feb. 11 to questions
from a Belgian member of the European Parliament.  Apple said on Feb. 15 it was starting a subscription
service for publishers to sell newspapers and magazines on the
iPad and other devices through the company’s online App Store.
It will take a 30 percent cut of any subscription purchased
through the App Store. Publishers that participate will have to
offer their lowest subscription rates within Apple’s store.  The following day, Google unveiled a rival service in which
the company would keep 10 percent of fees charged by publishers.
It will run on tablet computers made by  HTC Corp ., Samsung
Electronics Co. and others, running Google’s Android operating
system.  Belgian lawmakers have made antitrust complaints about
Cupertino, California-based Apple after  European newspapers 
raised  concerns  over changes to its iPad subscriptions policy.  Apple’s App Store offers more than 350,000 applications to
users of the iPhone, iPod and iPad, according to the company.
About $1.1 billion of applications were sold through the App
Store in 2010, making Apple’s revenue share about $317 million,
according to estimates from  Brian Marshall , an analyst at
Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco.  The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday that the U.S.
Justice Department and the  Federal Trade Commission  are
examining whether Apple’s new media subscription service
violates antitrust laws, according to two people familiar with
the matter.  The agencies haven’t decided whether to pursue a more
formal investigation as the examination is at a preliminary
stage, said the people, who requested anonymity because the
matter is confidential.  The FTC has been reviewing separate allegations that Apple
is engaging in anti-competitive tactics to restrict rivals in
the mobile-advertising market. The Justice Department is looking
into Apple’s business practices regarding its iTunes digital
music service.  Google Competitor Files EU Antitrust Complaint Over Ads    Google Inc ., the world’s leading search engine, has been
accused of blocking smaller companies from generating
advertising revenue, a competitor said in a complaint to
European Union regulators.  1PlusV sent a complaint to the European Commission today
claiming Google refused to allow so-called vertical search sites
to use its advertising service, the French Web publisher said.  “1PlusV accuses Google of pursuing a strategy of
foreclosure against vertical search engines,” the company said
in a statement. Vertical search engines limit their answers to
one category, such as travel information. Google,  Microsoft
Corp .’s Bing and others offer horizontal search engines that
comb all categories for information.  Google also appears to give preferential treatment to its
Google Books pages in searches and includes some websites in its
search results without their consent, 1PlusV said in a
statement. The EU is already investigating Google over claims it
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting rival ads. Microsoft’s Ciao
from Bing was among those that made that complaint.  Google will “continue to work cooperatively with the
European Commission, explaining many aspects of our business,”
Al Verney, a spokesman for the company in Brussels, said in an
e-mailed statement. There’s always “room for improvement and so
we’ll be working with the commission to address any concerns.”  Amadeu Altafaj Tardio, a spokesman for the European
Commission, said in an e-mailed statement that regulators “will
give Google the opportunity to comment on the allegations raised
before deciding on what, if any, further steps to take.”  The EU’s antitrust probe of Google requires “careful
analysis” to make “a thorough assessment of the allegations”
against the company,  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition
commissioner, said earlier this month.  For more, click here.  Patents  FDA’s Rules for Copying Amgen, Roche Drugs Coming ‘Very Soon’  U.S. regulators plan to unveil rules for reviewing the
first copies of biologic medicines “very soon,” according to
Food and Drug Administration Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg .  The health-care overhaul passed last year included a
provision authorizing a process for approving cheaper copies of
compounds made from living cells. The FDA is evaluating whether
to require extensive clinical trials to judge whether the so-
called biosimilars work as well as the products they copy. The
outcome may differ from generic versions of common drugs now
substituted at pharmacies to keep costs down.  Americans would  save  $25 billion in a decade through
government rules allowing copies of biotech drugs. The products
would be patterned on drugs made by companies such as  Amgen Inc .
and  Roche Holding AG  that have been on the market at least 12
years and whose patents have expired, according to the
Congressional Budget Office.  “This is critically important,” Hamburg said Feb. 18 in
an interview. “We obviously have been thinking about this for
some time as different models have been discussed and debated.
We will be more formally implementing in the very near term time
frame.”  The FDA isn’t focused on a proposal in the White House
budget to shorten exclusivity to seven years to generate
additional savings because that would require Congress to change
the law, Hamburg said. She declined to say when the first so-
called biosimilar products may be approved under the new rules.  To listen to the interview, click here.  U.S. Patents Held Hostage by Lawmakers in Budget Fight  Efforts to make the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office more
efficient for businesses may be derailed by the inability of
Congress to agree on a federal budget.  The office, one of the few self-funded federal agencies,
may not be able to use an estimated $200 million in fees to be
collected from patent and trademark owners in fiscal 2011
because of a budget impasse in Congress. Director David Kappos
has said that money is needed to hire examiners and speed up new
patent reviews to reduce a  backlog  of 700,000 applications, many
of them by technology companies such as  Intel Corp .  “It’s infuriating, fees are being paid into the office
that aren’t being used for the work they were paid for,” said
Q. Todd Dickinson, former head of the patent office who’s now
executive director of the American Intellectual Property Law
Association in Arlington, Virginia. “It’s scandalous.”  Getting to the money wouldn’t be an issue if the patent
office was given the power to keep all its fees. Instead, a
budget is set for the agency based on estimates of what it will
collect. Any money above that figure is put into the U.S.
general treasury, where Congress can use it for other purposes.  “I don’t see why Congress treats user fees specifically
designed to fund the patent office as if they were taxpayer’s
funds,” Paul Michel, the former chief judge of the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit who retired last year, said
in an interview. “Not a single dollar of tax money is involved.
The funding is private money from private corporations.”  More than $800 million has been kept by Congress since a
1990 law mandated the office pay for itself through fees,
according to the agency’s 2010 performance report. President
Barack Obama has sought to change that. His federal budget
proposal for fiscal 2011 would have boosted the patent office’s
preapproved spending about 23 percent to $2.3 billion and let
the agency keep any fees it collects above that.  Five months into the 2011 fiscal year, Congress has yet to
vote on that budget. Obama on Feb. 14 presented his fiscal 2012
spending proposal, which includes a 34 percent increase for the
patent office over 2010 levels. House leaders have said there
may be a need to set all federal spending at 2008 levels for the
rest of this fiscal year, which would amount to about $1.98
billion for the  patent office .  That may mean no new hiring and overtime, and delays on
information technology improvements as 2010 budget levels are
insufficient, Kappos told a House subcommittee on Jan. 25.  For more, click here.  Nokia Loses IPCom Case Over Sales of Some 3G Handsets in  Germany     Nokia Oyj  lost a patent ruling in a German court last week
over technology used in some 3G mobile-phone handsets.  The Regional Court of Mannheim granted patent holding
company IPCom GmbH & Co. an injunction that could allow it to
ban the sales of such devices in Germany, IPCom said in an e-
mailed statement Feb. 18. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said in a
separate statement the ruling doesn’t affect its German
business.  “We are pleased that the courts have finally ruled in our
favor in this matter after three years,” said Bernhard
Frohwitter, IPCom’s managing director. “We hope that Nokia will
return to the negotiating table, so that we can together find a
mutually acceptable solution.”  IPCom, based in Pullach, Germany, is seeking to force Nokia
to pay royalties for a portfolio of mobile-technology patents it
acquired from Robert Bosch GmbH in 2007. The two companies are
entangled in patent litigation across  Europe .  IPCom can enforce the ruling after posting a bond of 30
million euros ($40.7 million), the company said.  Nokia, the world’s largest maker of mobile phones, said it
no longer uses the technology at issue in the case and the
feature at stake has never been used by a mobile network in
Germany.  The case is LG Mannheim, 7 O 100/10.  Mitsubishi Sues LG Electronics Over Handset Patents, Kyodo Says    Mitsubishi Electric Corp . sued  LG Electronics Inc . in
Japan, claiming the South Korean company infringed its mobile-
phone related patents, Kyodo News reported, without saying where
it got the information.  Mitsubishi is seeking 380 million yen ($4.6 million) in
damages and an injunction against imports of the handsets,
according to the report.  Nespresso Patent Suit Rejected by Zurich Court, SDA Reports  The commercial court in Zurich rejected a lawsuit by  Nestle
SA  and its Nespresso unit against Swiss supermarket chain Denner
AG and Alice Allison SA over alleged patent violations, SDA
reported, citing the court’s written decision.  The judges decided that Denner’s sale of coffee capsules
that are compatible with Nespresso machines doesn’t violate
patent laws, according to the newswire. Denner commissioned
Alice Allison to produce the capsules which it sold at a lower
price than Nespresso capsules, SDA said.  Regulations  FCC May Ask Internet Providers to Police Web, Costing Millions  U.S. regulators may ask Internet-service providers such as  AT&T Inc . and  Comcast Corp . to adopt a voluntary standard for
fighting computer viruses that may cost millions of dollars in
network upgrades.  The Federal Communications Commission set up a working
group last year to provide recommendations for securing
residential broadband systems, and in December the panel  issued
a report  identifying best practices for the industry. The agency
is now weighing whether to ask companies to endorse those
suggestions.  The debate over industry standards illustrates the tension
between the need to protect against rising cybercrime and the
potential cost for ISPs of bolstering network defenses.  “Government involvement is good in its intent, but if it
doesn’t get the details right, it could be very detrimental to
business,” Mike Glenn, the director of risk at Denver-based
Internet-provider  Qwest Communications International Inc ., said
in an interview. “If a mandatory clean-up action comes down
from the FCC, or through legislation, the security program we
have in place might not be in compliance.”  Fifty percent of U.S. personal computers have been infected
with viruses and malicious software, according to  a report  last
month from  APWG , a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based industry
association that tracks Internet scams. Cybercrime costs large
U.S. companies an average of $3.8 million each annually, and
about 9 million Americans have their identities stolen each
year, a group of U.S. senators said Jan. 26 after introducing a
bill aimed at tightening Web security.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 