-- 
Apple's New IPad Shipments May Be Delayed to June, Yuanta Securities Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-02-22T09:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/apple-s-new-ipad-shipments-may-be-delayed-yuanta-says.html
  Apple Inc .’s shipments of a new
version of its iPad tablet computer may be delayed to June from
April because of “production bottlenecks” at manufacturer Hon
Hai Precision Industry Co., Yuanta Securities Co. said.  The delay arose after Cupertino, California-based Apple
made design changes before the Lunar New Year, according to a
report by Vincent Chen and Alison Chen, analysts at Yuanta. Jill Tan, an Apple spokeswoman in  Hong Kong , declined to comment on
the report.  Edmund Ding , a spokesman for Hon Hai, didn’t answer
calls to his Taiwan and China mobile phones.  “Our checks suggest new issues are being encountered with
the new production and it is taking time to resolve them,” said
Chen in the report. “As a number of Android 3.0 tablets are
being launched in April and May, the delay in iPad 2 shipments
may give the Android camp a brief window of opportunity.”  Hon Hai, the Taipei-based contract manufacturer for Apple,
dropped 2.2 percent to NT$111.50 at the close of Taipei trading,
the lowest level since Dec. 2.  A two-month delay in introducing the iPad could lower the
tablet computer’s shipments to 23 million units this year, as
compared with the brokerage’s current forecast of 30.6 million,
according to the report.  The iPad, introduced in April, accounted for 17 percent of
sales last quarter. The company has sold more than 15 million
iPads so far, Vice President Eddy Cue said on Feb 2. The iPhone
is Apple’s top-selling product, accounting for 39 percent of
revenue last fiscal year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Faster Chips  Apple started producing an updated version of the iPad, the
Wall Street Journal reported earlier this month citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter. The new version is
thinner, lighter, has more memory and uses faster chips than its
predecessor, the newspaper said. It also has a front-facing
camera that would enable videoconferencing, the Journal said.  Samsung Electronics Co.,  HTC Corp . and  Hewlett-Packard Co .
are also offering tablets to compete with Apple. Global
shipments of tablet devices will more than double this year, led
by Apple and Google Inc.’s Android-based models, according to
 researcher  IDC Corp.  The iPad faces intensifying competition from Android
tablets made by Samsung, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and
Acer Inc. The Apple product accounted for 75 percent of global
tablet shipments last quarter, according to research firm  Strategy Analytics . Android tablets captured 22 percent of the
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  