-- 
Arab League Bars Libya From Meetings, Citing Forces’ ‘Crimes’

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-02-22T18:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/arab-league-bars-libya-from-meetings-citing-forces-crimes-.html
The  Arab League  suspended the
participation of Libya in its council meetings, citing the North
African government’s crackdown on protesters.  The Arab League “condemns crimes against the current
peaceful popular protests and demonstrations in several Libyan
cities,” Secretary General Amr Moussa told reporters in Cairo
today after the group met. He said the security forces’ use of
live rounds, heavy weapons and foreign mercenaries is a “grave
breach of human rights.”  The organization calls for “respecting Libyans’ right to
freedom of protest and expression” as they demand democratic
change, he said. Humanitarian aid must be allowed into the
country, the Arab League leader said.  Libya will be barred from taking part in the Arab League’s
meetings until leader  Muammar Qaddafi  responds to the
organization’s demands, Moussa said.  Qaddafi’s crackdown on a weeklong uprising has already left
more than 200 dead, according to  Human Rights Watch , and driven  oil prices  to a 2 1/2-year high. In Benghazi, the independence
flag of the constitutional monarchy overthrown by Qaddafi in
1969 flew on streets and over several buildings and there were
no security forces in evidence except traffic police, witnesses
said. In Tripoli, bodies are still in the streets after an
attack on protesters by pro-Qaddafi gunmen, the opposition
National Front for the Salvation of Libya said.  Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, is the
latest nation to be rocked by protests ignited by last month’s
ouster of Tunisia’s president and fanned by the Feb. 11 fall of
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  . While violent unrest has also
spread to Bahrain, Iran and Yemen, none of those regimes has
used as much force to quell protesters as Libya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 