-- 
Bacon, Warhol, New Buyers Boost Auctions as Sales Increase 56%

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-02-22T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/bacon-warhol-new-buyers-boost-contemporary-auctions-as-sales-surge-56-.html
London’s February series of evening
contemporary-art auctions raised 56.2 percent more than last
year, boosted by works by  Francis Bacon  and  Andy Warhol , and
phone bidding from a widening range of international clients.  The auctions at Sotheby’s, Christie’s International and
Phillips de Pury & Co. raised 155.1 million pounds ($251
million), up from 99.3 million pounds last year, according to
Bloomberg News calculations.  “There’s a feeling among investment-driven collectors that
art has been tested and it’s passed,” Anders Petterson, founder
of the London-based research company ArtTactic, said. “People
have been surprised how quickly the market has recovered and how
blue-chip works have held their value.”  Dealers said the sales were helped by Russian and Asian
buyers and the sale of the 43.7 million-pounds of contemporary
works from a private collection. These boosted the  Sotheby’s 
total to 88.3 million pounds. Christie’s raised 61.4 million
pounds, the most for a contemporary-art auction in the U.K.
capital since July 2008, as New York dealer  Larry Gagosian  paid
10.8 million pounds for a Warhol self portrait. Two years
earlier, during the financial crisis, the auction house’s entire
sale raised 8.4 million pounds. Phillips added 5.4 million
pounds to the tally.  In the summer of 2008, at the peak of the contemporary art
market boom, equivalent London sales totaled 205.4 million
pounds. Then the catalogs proliferated with works by fashionable
favorites such as  Jeff Koons ,  Damien Hirst  and  Richard Prince ,
whose values declined by up to 50 percent during the crisis. Now
classic pieces by Warhol,  Jean-Michel Basquiat  and Gerhard Richter predominate, supported by an ever-changing roster of
younger names that appeal to international buyers.  Telephone Bidders  “The whole system has changed,” the London-based dealer
Alan Hobart said after seeing most of the lots at Sotheby’s and
Christie’s fall to telephone bidders represented by lines of
more than 50 employees.  “The auction houses know where the big clients are and
they’re becoming more dominant,” said Hobart, who spent 6.3
million pounds on a sculpture and a painting by  Alberto Giacometti .  Among living contemporary artists, Richter emerged as the
investors’ choice. Patti Wong, chairman of Sotheby’s  Asia , took
the winning phone bid of 7.2 million pounds for the German
artist’s 1990 “Abstraktes Bild” on Feb. 15, while at
Christie’s, Sandra Nedvetskaia, an auction house employee who
looks after Russian clients, handled a double-estimate phone bid
of 3.2 million pounds for a smaller abstract from the same year.  Global Context  “We curated the sale with a global context in mind,”
Francis Outred, Christie’s European head of contemporary art,
said. “Collectors begin with artists from their own country,
then move onto international names.”  Sotheby’s and Christie’s made 203.6 million pounds for
their evening sales of Impressionist and modern art, an 8.9
percent decline on 2010.  “The contemporary sales were stronger,” Jonathan P.
Binstock, a New York-based senior art adviser at Citi Private
Bank, said. “There were five or six bidders for most of the
lots. Existing collectors feel more confident in the market and
they’re willing to buy.”  Bidders who represent Russian collectors were prominent
buyers, snapping up a Pablo Picasso work for 25.2 million pounds
and a Bacon portrait for 23 million pounds, both at Sotheby’s.  “Russian and Chinese buyers tend to be interested in the
top lots,” said Binstock. “It’s still primarily a European and
American market, though that is changing. The art market is
global for the auction houses. Galleries aren’t having the same
international experience.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 