-- 
Bahrain Pro-Government Crowd Hears Sunni Cleric Call for Calm

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-02-22T00:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/bahrain-pro-government-crowd-hears-sunni-cleric-call-for-calm.html
Thousands of Bahraini supporters of
the government gathered for a rally outside the main mosque in
the capital, Manama, to hear a prominent Sunni cleric call for
calm after street protests there.  “We can’t relinquish our country’s stability,” Sheikh
Abdul Lafit al-Mahmoud said in an address to the crowd late
yesterday. “Everyone must work together to calm the situation
down.”  Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, has had a
wave of anti-government protests since Feb. 14 as mainly Shiite
activists seek greater democracy.  Bahrain  canceled the March 13
season-opening Formula One race to “focus on immediate issues
of national interest,” Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa
said in a statement yesterday.  This was the largest pro-government rally in Bahrain since
the political unrest started. At the rally, people chanted
slogans backing the royal family, held national flags and
criticized demonstrators camped in the central Pearl Roundabout
in the capital.  Sheikh Abdul Latif called on Al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite
political group in the country, to start talks with the
government after the crown prince called for national dialogue.
He also urged the government to “take a strong stand against
corruption” and address economic problems by raising salaries
and providing houses.  “What do the people in the roundabout want?” Muneera
Mohammed, a 26-year-old employee at the country’s information
ministry, said. “They don’t represent the country. Look at the
economy, it is going to drop.”  Protests  Opposition groups are still drawing up demands and
discussing the government’s call for dialogue, said Ebrahim
Sharif, head of the National Democratic Action Society. Seven
opposition groups are planning a demonstration today in the
afternoon.  Thousands of mainly Shiite demonstrators are camped in the
central Pearl Roundabout, after tanks, armored personnel
carriers and riot police withdrew on the orders of Crown Prince
Salman. Protesters have set up tents, a media center and stalls
serving food and drinks, and banners called for democracy,
regime change and unity among the Persian Gulf island state’s
Shiite and Sunni communities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  