-- 
Banking Industry Unites on ‘Swipe’ Fees, Presses Fed for Changes

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-02-22T20:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/banking-industry-unites-on-swipe-fees-presses-fed-for-changes.html
Trade groups representing banks such
as  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Bank of America Corp . urged the  Federal Reserve  to delay and revise its proposed caps on debit-
card “swipe” fees to study the rules’ impact on smaller firms.  The proposal, in its current form, could “dramatically
lower the revenue” of banks and credit unions, which may result
in increased costs to consumers, industry groups including the
Financial Services Roundtable and the  Clearing House  wrote in a
comment letter filed with the Fed today.  The 72-page letter, which was endorsed by nine groups
including the Independent Community Bankers of America and
National Association of  Federal Credit Unions , represents the
financial-services industry’s closing argument against the plan
to cap so-called  interchange fees  charged to retailers at 12
cents per transaction. Bankers have united against the proposal,
part of the central bank’s rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act.  “With virtually unprecedented unanimity, every major bank
and credit union trade association is writing to express
opposition to the rule proposed by the Board  of Governors of
the Federal Reserve system,” the groups said in the letter,
which termed the Fed proposal “legally defective.”  In congressional testimony last week, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  and
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  aired
concerns that could slow implementation of the rules.  Two-Pronged  The banking industry is using a two-pronged approach to
attack the measure since it was released for comment in
December, with member firms filing hundreds of comment letters
seeking changes, while trade groups lobbied lawmakers for
legislative fixes. The comment period on the rule closes today.  The largest U.S. banks stand to lose more than $12 billion
in annual revenue under the Fed’s proposal to limit debit-card
swipe fees under a Dodd-Frank directive to align the charges
with the cost of processing the transactions. The cap was
favored by retailers, which stand to benefit from lower fees.  Retail groups representing 7-Eleven Inc. and Home Depot
Inc. have defended the proposal, saying the savings they would
reap under the caps could lower costs for consumers and help
merchants recover from the 2008 credit crisis.  “Such relief is crucial as retailers continue to struggle
to recover from the worst recession of our lifetime,” Jan
Teague, chief executive officer of the  Washington  Retail
Association, wrote in a Feb. 11 comment letter.  Dodd-Frank requires the Fed to complete work on the cap
provision by April 21 and have the rules take effect in July.  Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee that he was
“not certain” that an exemption for banks and  credit unions 
with assets under $10 billion would help smaller lenders.  Raskin, testifying before the House Financial Services
Committee the same day, echoed Bernanke and said the rule may
result in “significant market changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  