-- 
Barclays Kenya Annual Net Surges on Unit Sale; Shares Jump

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-02-22T16:10:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/barclays-kenya-annual-net-surges-on-unit-sale-shares-jump-3-.html
  Barclays Bank of Kenya Ltd ., the
country’s second-biggest lender, rose by the most in more than
four years after it said full-year profit jumped 74 percent on
the sale of its custody business and increased loans.  The stock rose 9.6 percent to 68.5 shillings as of the 3
p.m. close in Nairobi, the biggest rise since Jan. 2, 2007,
according to Bloomberg data.  Barclays Kenya’s doubling in its dividend to 5.45 shillings
a share and a four-for-one share split boosted the shares, said
Onesmus Nzioka, an analyst at Sterling Investment Bank Ltd.  “The dividend payment: that’s a positive signal to the
investors,” Nzioka said. “The other positive thing is the
split
of the share. It makes it much more affordable and very liquid.
People may be investing immediately because there is a window of
opportunity to get into the share.”  Bank earnings in East Africa’s largest economy have been
growing as accelerating economic expansion spurs more Kenyans to
take out loans, open accounts and demand other financial
services. The industry’s combined pretax profit surged 46
percent to 66 billion shillings ($806.8 million) in the eleven
months through November on loan growth and higher income from
fees and commissions, the  Central Bank  of Kenya said on Feb. 11.  Profit Surges  Barclays said net income surged to 10.6 billion shillings
in the 12 months through December from 6.09 billion shillings a
year earlier. Net interest income, the money banks earn from
interest on loans, rose 5.9 percent to 15.7 billion shillings,
it said in a statement handed to reporters.  In May, Barclays Kenya shareholders approved the 3.5
billion-shilling sale of the company’s custody business to
Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Ltd.  Kenya’s banks are poised to increase earnings by an average
of 30 percent this year as the difference between the interest
they pay on savers’ deposits and what they charge for loans
widens, African Alliance Securities  Kenya  Ltd. said on Jan. 21.  The failure by commercial lenders in Kenya to lower lending
rates prompted the central bank to unexpectedly reduce the
benchmark interest rate last month to a record low of 5.75
percent. The move was its eighth cut since December 2008 as
central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u seeks to boost Kenya’s
economic growth, which may accelerate to 5.7 percent in 2011
from 5.2 percent last year, according to government estimates.  Lending Rates  The average lending rate of Kenyan banks was 13.87 percent
in December, compared with a deposit rate of 3.59 percent,
according to data on the central bank’s website.  Barclays plans to cut 200 management-level jobs, or about
six percent of its workforce, to lower costs, Nuru Magambi, the
company’s spokeswoman, said on Jan. 19.  Barclays Kenya is a unit of London-based  Barclays Plc , the
third-largest U.K. bank. The lender ranks behind  Equity Bank
Ltd . as Kenya’s second-biggest bank by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 