-- 
Barclays Conflict Cited in Revised Del Monte Investor Suit

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-02-22T14:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/barclays-sued-by-del-monte-shareholders-over-5-billion-kkr-deal.html
  Barclays Plc  helped directors of Del
Monte Foods Co. arrange the sale of the company to a group led
by KKR & Co. for an inadequate price, as the bank worked on both
sides of the deal, Del Monte shareholders alleged in newly filed
court papers.  London-based Barclays is wrongly acting as deal-adviser to
Del Monte and at the same time providing a loan under lucrative
terms, investors’ lawyers said in a partly redacted Delaware
Chancery Court complaint filed late yesterday.  “Barclays intended to force through a sale” and
“intended to secure for itself not only substantial fees for
serving as the sell-side financial adviser, but also additional
fees for providing financing to any buyer, said plaintiffs’
lawyer Stuart M. Grant in court papers.  San Francisco-based  Del Monte  was sued in December by a
shareholder seeking more than the $5.3 billion, $19-a-share bid.  ‘‘Del Monte directors breached their fiduciary duties by
failing to exercise adequate oversight,’’ allowing Barclays ‘‘to
engage in outright fraud’’ so the sale process ‘‘was
irreconcilably corrupted,’’ Grant said in court papers.  The amended, consolidated complaint asks Delaware Chancery
Court Judge J. Travis Laster to block the takeover and to award
damages and legal fees.  Shareholders were scheduled to vote on the buyout last
week. After hearing a presentation by Grant on Feb. 11, Laster
postponed the vote until March 7 to allow investors time to
digest additional data about the process.  Evaluating Fairness  Del Monte directors’ lawyer Raymond DiCamillo said in a
brief for the Feb. 11 hearing that there’s no evidence
Barclays’s status as one of nine lenders in the buyout
compromised Barclays’s objectivity in evaluating fairness of the
deal.  He said the company contacted 53 possible buyers, and the
offering price is above the highest Del Monte ever traded. He
said Del Monte also hired Perella Weinberg Partners LP for a
second opinion.  Barclays’ financing role, in a minority position, was fully
disclosed and specifically authorized by the company and its
counsel,” and the company expects “to set the record straight
in court,” said Kerrie-Ann Cohen, a Barclays spokeswoman, in
an e-mailed statement.  The buyout would give New York-based KKR access to Del
Monte’s pet-food business, which has more than doubled sales in
the past four years.  Del Monte fell 3 cents to $18.94 when last traded on the
New York Stock Exchange Feb. 18.  The case is In re  Del Monte Foods Co . Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  