-- 
Barnes & Noble Sinks Most Since June After Halting Dividend

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-02-22T21:14:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/barnes-noble-falls-after-dividend-halt-same-store-sales-rise.html
  Barnes & Noble Inc ., the largest
U.S. bookstore chain, declined 14 percent for the largest drop
in almost eight months after suspending its dividend to conserve
cash and invest in electronic books.  Barnes & Noble previously offered an annual dividend of $1
a share. The New York-based retailer also said today that it
will stop giving forecasts for the rest of fiscal year until
more is known about Borders Group Inc., which filed for
bankruptcy last week.  Both booksellers have lost customers as more people choose
to read books online or via portable digital readers such as  Amazon.com Inc .’s Kindle, which dominates the market. Barnes &
Noble had already sacrificed profits over the past year to
invest in its digital strategy, losing $14.5 million in the nine
months through January.  “There’s still an uphill battle from the physical side of
the business,” said Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst for Morningstar
Investment Services in  Chicago . The retailer also faces
increasing costs for the rollout of its digital content unit, he
said.  Barnes & Noble sank $2.67 to $15.94 at 4:01 p.m. today in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the largest decline
since June 29.  The suspension of the dividend will add about $60 million
of cash per year to the company’s balance sheet. That will be
used to invest in its digital business and possibly takeover
locations left vacant by Borders, Chief Executive Officer
William Lynch said on a conference call with analysts.  Net Income  Net income in the quarter ended Jan. 29 fell to $60.6
million, or $1 a share, from $80.4 million, or $1.38, a year
earlier, the retailer said. Analysts anticipated $1.13, the
average of five estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Barnes & Noble also posted its first gain in same-store
sales since 2007, a week after  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Borders
filed for bankruptcy. The chain was quicker than Borders to
embrace e-books, and the Nook reader is helping the company
boost revenue. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 7.3
percent.  In August Barnes & Noble put itself up for sale. The
company didn’t give any update on the process in the statement.
The bookseller likely won’t buy Borders because the chain
doesn’t have an appealing digital reading business or much
attractive real estate, according to Wahlstrom.  Barnes & Noble’s spending has helped the chain narrow the
gap with Amazon.com, which released its Kindle digital book
reader in 2007, two years before the Nook’s debut and about
three years prior to Borders selling its first e-book.  Kindle’s Share  The Kindle has a market share of 67 percent in the U.S.,
followed by the Nook at 22 percent, according to  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . Amazon.com also generates 58 percent of e-book sales,
followed by Barnes & Noble’s 27 percent, Apple Inc. at 9 percent
and Borders with 7 percent.  Barnes & Noble is trying to shrink Amazon.com’s lead by
marketing the Nook at its college bookstore unit, acquired in
2009. The company last year released free software geared to
textbook reading that lets students highlight and add notes.  The company also has said the release of a color version of
the Nook in November will boost sales of digital magazines,
children’s books and cookbooks because those genres rely more on
color pictures. Amazon.com doesn’t sell a color Kindle.  Digital content will account for $400 million in revenue
this fiscal year, the company has said. That would amount to 5.6
percent of the $7.1 billion in annual sales expected by
analysts.  Digital Strategy  The chain also views its stores as a key to the digital
business and an advantage over competitors. The majority of
Nooks are sold in its more than 700 superstores. The company has
leveraged that by building boutiques in its best-performing 100
locations to demonstrate the Nook and sell accessories such as
device covers for as much as $60.  Sales of e-books in the U.S. last year more than doubled to
$441.3 million from $169.5 million, according to the Association
of Publishers. Digital titles made up 8.3 percent of all trade
book sales, up from 3.2 percent in 2009. Revenue from printed
trade books, which don’t include educational or professional
titles, fell 5.1 percent to $4.9 billion last year.  While Barnes & Noble has a brighter future than Borders,
the chain has “a long road ahead” before it becomes highly
profitable, said  Michael Souers , an analyst for  Standard &
Poor’s  in New York.  “They aren’t out of the woods either,” Souers said in an
interview before today’s results. “It still remains to be seen
how competitive Barnes & Noble will be with e-books.” He
recommends holding the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  