-- 
Benavides Says Peru to Post First Fiscal Surplus in 3 Years

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-02-22T01:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/benavides-says-peru-to-post-first-fiscal-surplus-in-3-years-1-.html
  Peru  will post its first fiscal
surplus in three years in 2011 on rising tax revenue from the
country’s copper and gold exports and surging economic growth,
said Finance Minister Ismael Benavides.  The South American country expects to have a fiscal surplus
equivalent to 0.6 percent of gross domestic product this year,
compared with a 0.6 percent deficit last year and a 1.9 percent
deficit in 2009, Benavides told reporters in Lima today.  Surging exports of minerals, which account for almost two-
thirds of the country’s sales overseas, helped lift Peru’s tax
revenue 21 percent last year. Tax collection also climbed as GDP
rose 8.8 percent, the strongest growth in Latin America,
Benavides said. The $153 billion economy will probably expand
about 7 percent this year, fueled by investment in mining and
energy, he said.  “Peru will lead growth in the region this year and have
the lowest inflation,” Benavides said. “Private investment of
around $50 billion in the next five years is going to spur
growth.”  Peru may cut public debt to below 22 percent of GDP this
year from 23 percent in 2010, Benavides said. Monthly tax
collection will remain above 5.5 billion soles ($1.98 billion)
to 6 billion soles this year, compared with average monthly
revenue of 5.38 billion soles last year, he said.  The government may lose an estimated 300 million soles of
revenue between now and July because of a proposed cut in tax on
fuel to offset higher crude  oil prices , Benavides said.  Peru also cut its  sales tax  this month to 18 percent from
19 percent after higher food and fuel costs sparked the biggest
rise in domestic consumer prices in more than two years.  Peru will seek to modify a change in tax regulations that
extended a levy on profits for local banks’ dollar forwards
trading with non-residents, Benavides said.  The Peruvian sol temporarily weakened against the  U.S.
dollar  in late January and early February on speculation the
government would start taxing profits on dollar forwards of more
than 60 days with non-residents. The currency has gained 1.3
percent this year, the second-best performer among major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “We’re going to propose a change in the law that corrects
this so the situation can go back to normal for derivatives,”
Benavides said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  