-- 
Best Buy Shuts China Stores to Focus on More Profitable Brand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-22T07:59:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/best-buy-s-china-stores-shut-as-retailer-focuses-on-more-profitable-brand.html
Best Buy Co., the world’s largest
consumer electronics retailer, will close all of its nine Best
Buy branded stores in China to focus on expanding the more
profitable domestic chain it acquired five years ago.  “Store openings will be focused primarily on the
profitable growth platforms of its Best Buy Mobile business in
the  United States  and its Five Star business in China,” it said
in a statement distributed by  Business Wire  today.  Best Buy will open 40 to 50 of its Five Star branded stores
as it competes against Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd.
and Suning Appliance Co. in the world’s most populous nation,
where retail sales grew by a monthly average of 18.4 percent
last year. The Richfield, Minnesota-based retailer also plans to
almost double its  Best Buy Mobile  stores in the U.S.  “They have struggled with some of their branded stores,”
Ben Cavender, a Shanghai-based analyst at China Market Research
Group, said in a phone interview today. “The Five Star brand
has been in the market considerably longer and is a brand people
recognize. Not many people in  China  know what Best Buy is.”  Best Buy has declined 9.7 percent in the past year. The
stock rose 0.6 percent to $33.04 in New York trading on Feb. 18.  The expansion will increase the number of Five Star stores
to 210 during Best Buy’s fiscal year that ends in February next
year, according to the statement.  Global Vice President  “The Five Star locations are much more spread out than the
Best Buy locations,” Cavender said. “That’s the best way for
them to have a major national presence right now.”  Five Star co-founder Wang Jian has been appointed global
vice president for Best Buy Co., according to an e-mailed
statement from the Chinese unit.  Five Star, based in Nanjing, eastern Jiangsu province, has
about 170 stores in seven provinces, employs more than 8,000
people and had sales of 24.7 billion yuan ($3.8 billion) in
2009, according to its website.  That compares with Gome’s 704 stores in more than 200
Chinese cities as of June 30, with another 370 stores run by
billionaire founder Huang Guangyu’s Gome Group. Suning had 1,206
outlets in 223 cities in the country as of Sept. 30.  Best Buy entered China in 2006 by paying $180 million to
take control of Jiangsu Five Star Appliance Co., the nation’s
fourth-largest electronics retailer. Five Star at the time had
136 stores.  ‘Growth Opportunities’  The U.S. retailer will continue "investments in the Best
Buy Mobile and Five Star business models, which are profitable
and have significant growth opportunities,’’ Chief Executive
Officer Brian Dunn said in the statement. “The actions we are
taking are consistent with our strategy of driving businesses
that have earned the right to additional capital while
curtailing activities that we believe will not meet our return
on investment thresholds.”  Best Buy also said today it will exit  Turkey , shutting its
two stores there. The global restructuring, which includes
improving U.S. supply-chain operations, will save the company
$60 million to $70 million annually starting in the 2013 fiscal
year, it said. There will be charges of as much as $245 million
in the 2011 and 2012 fiscal years, according to the statement.  It plans to open about 150 Best Buy Mobile stores in the
fiscal year that ends in February 2012, bringing the total to
about 325.  The company plans to reopen two of its Best Buy stores in
China “at a later date,” it said, without providing more
details.  Best Buy's Quality  Mao Xinlie, 78, said he will miss Best Buy's reliability.
"The good thing about Best Buy is the quality of stuff they 
sell, but their prices for products and services are higher,"
said Mao outside the retailer's store in Xujiahui in  Shanghai .
He said he earlier bought a Samsung Electronics Co. Anycall mobile 
phone and a Toshiba Corp. laptop from the store.  Best Buy said it expects fiscal 2011 earnings per share of
$3.20 to $3.40, excluding restructuring charges tied to closing
stores in China and Turkey.  Best Buy shut two stores in Shanghai, one in Suzhou and one
in Hangzhou, according to a statement posted on a bulletin board
outside its Xujiahui store in Shanghai. The four stores will be
open for a month from Feb. 24, the statement said.  At least four calls to the company’s China offices today
were unanswered.  -  Michael Wei , Helen Yuan and Tian Ying. Editors: Frank Longid,
Chua Kong Ho  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  