-- 
Icahn Bids $1.86 Billion for Mentor Graphics, Seeks Offers

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-02-22T21:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/billionaire-icahn-offers-17-a-share-in-cash-to-purchase-mentor-graphics.html
  Carl Icahn , the activist investor,
offered to buy  Mentor Graphics Corp . for about $1.86 billion in
cash in a bid to lure other suitors for the software maker.  The $17-a-share offer by Icahn, Mentor’s largest
shareholder, represents a 17 percent premium over the company’s
Feb. 18 closing price. Icahn said the offer is contingent on
Wilsonville, Oregon-based Mentor removing anti-takeover
provisions, such as its so-called poison pill.  Icahn, 75, called for the sale of the company in an
interview on CNBC this month. Mentor, which helps engineers for
electronic products work out design problems for chips, has
posted two straight annual net losses as its revenue fell from
fiscal 2008 levels.  “We believe that there are potential strategic bidders for
Mentor Graphics whose bid will reflect inherent synergies and
should be superior to our $17 offer,” Icahn said today in a
letter to Mentor’s board.  Mentor’s larger peers include  Synopsys Inc . and  Cadence
Design Systems Inc ., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Mentor said in a statement that it will review the unsolicited
offer and advised shareholders to take no action for the time
being.  Mentor rose 95 cents, or 6.5 percent, to $15.47 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, bringing its gain
this year to 29 percent. Icahn’s proposal doesn’t include a
breakup fee, giving him greater freedom to drop the bid.  Activist Deals  Icahn’s offer would make the Mentor purchase the biggest
deal for a company in the electronic-design automation industry
in the past five years, according to Bloomberg data. Offers for
other companies in Mentor’s industry have had an average premium
of 46 percent during that period.  The median price that acquirers paid was 20 times their
targets’ earnings, before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. Mentor had an Ebitda of $79.8 million in the 12
months ended in January 2010, according to Bloomberg data. The
company is scheduled to report fiscal 2011 earnings Feb. 24.  Icahn runs an activist hedge-fund group, buys shares in
companies he considers undervalued and then pushes management
for changes to boost the stock prices. His targets have ranged
from Time Warner Inc. and Motorola Inc. to small-cap stocks,
including Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. Icahn’s fortune was
valued at $11 billion by Forbes magazine last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  