-- 
Bloomberg News Wins George Polk Award for Education Reporting

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-23T19:35:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/bloomberg-news-wins-george-polk-award-for-education-reporting.html

Press Release  Award recognizes investigative series on for-profit colleges    NEW YORK  -- Bloomberg News has won the George Polk Award for
Education Reporting for its investigative  series  on the for-
profit college industry. The award recognizes reporters Daniel
Golden, John Hechinger and John Lauerman for a series of
articles revealing how for-profit colleges have mushroomed into
a $30-billion-a-year industry over the last decade by targeting
underprivileged populations who qualify for federal financial
aid.  The “Education Inc.” series uncovered for-profit colleges
recruiting veterans, active-duty military men and women,
minorities, and the homeless in order to gain access to federal
loan aid. The year-long series led to government scrutiny and
helped set the agenda for reform.  “What began as a business story on for-profit education
companies in the stock market has developed into a national
public interest story due to the extensive reporting of the
Bloomberg News education team,” said    Matthew Winkler , Editor-in-
Chief of Bloomberg News.  “Dan Golden, John Hechinger and John
Lauerman and their colleagues have relentlessly pursued this
topic, uncovering what was previously an overlooked industry.”  This is the third Polk award for Bloomberg News, which was
recognized in 2009 for a series of stories seeking transparency
from the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and in 2006 for health
reporting on human drug testing. Since its inception in 1990,
Bloomberg News has won more than 500 awards.  Stories from the award-winning series can be found online:
 Bloomberg Investigation: For-Profit Colleges   About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses.  Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms.  Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations with more than 2,300 news and
multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Contact:  Kristin Swenson, +1 212-617-4264,  kswenson@bloomberg.net 
