-- 
Tucker Says BOE Faces Dilemma as Posen Downplays Price Risk

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-23T08:34:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/boe-s-posen-says-inflation-expectations-anchored-sees-no-early-rate-rise.html
  Bank of England  Deputy Governor Paul Tucker said there is a “real dilemma” on whether to raise
interest rates as  Adam Posen  downplayed the risk from inflation,
highlighting the depth of disagreement among policy makers.  “Inflation is a worry, there’s no doubt about that,”
Tucker said late yesterday. “The question we face isn’t to make
a violent increase in interest rates, it’s whether or not to
take away just a little bit of the stimulus that we’ve been
applying to the economy over the last few years.”  Minutes of the bank’s Feb. 10 decision to be published
today will reveal if any of the bank’s nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee joined  Andrew Sentance  and  Martin Weale  in
voting for an interest-rate increase. While consumer-price
growth accelerated to twice the central bank’s 2 percent target
last month, Posen is maintaining his resistance to higher rates,
saying yesterday that price expectations remain “anchored.”  “We must make policy based on the best available
forecast” and “not be tyrannized by popular fears or specters
of expectations,” Posen said in a speech in Oxford,  England .  Tucker, speaking minutes after Posen’s speech was
published, said the bank’s task “is to bring inflation back to
target.”  “That’s going to take us a little while,” he told BBC
radio in Bristol, England. “It means we face a real dilemma in
what to do about interest rates in the next few months.”  ‘Upside’ Risks  The pound rose 0.5 percent against the dollar and was
trading at $1.6214 as of 8:30 a.m. in  London . The yield on the
10-year benchmark government bond gained 2 basis points to 3.698
percent.  The Bank of England projected in its  Inflation Report  on
Feb. 16 that consumer-price growth will accelerate to about 4.4
percent this year before easing to the target by the middle of
2012. Risks are “skewed to the upside,” it said.  The implied yield on June short-sterling futures has
climbed 31 basis points this year to 1.21 percent, indicating
investors have increased bets that borrowing costs will rise.  “In light of the bank’s stronger inflation forecast, the
tone of the minutes will almost certainly address the growing
upside risks to inflation,” Sian Fenner, an economist at Lloyds
Bank Corporate Markets in London, said in a note to clients
today. Still, “we believe that there is little to justify any
further member switching camp. We continue to expect the first
BOE rate rise in the fourth quarter of this year. Currently this
is considerably less aggressive than forecast by the markets.”  ‘Mistaken’  Sentance has argued since June that the bank should raise
its benchmark interest rate from a record low of 0.5 percent. He
said last week that policy “would most likely need to be
tightened faster and by more than the markets currently expect
to bring inflation back” to the goal.  Posen cited “mistaken, pre-emptive” tightening by the  Bank of Japan  in 2000 in support of his argument, saying in his
speech that decision led to “bad macroeconomic outcomes.”
While he said he wasn’t forecasting that a rate increase would
lead to deflation in the U.K., he “would not rule that out.”  “I would forecast no wage-price spiral and no sustained
inflation in the U.K. for the next few of years, despite
inflation likely to be above target for most of 2011,” he said.  Posen said while he knows that his colleagues on the panel
are all committed to meeting the inflation goal, he can’t assume
that “everyone will believe that is the case.” The bank’s
 inflation-targeting mandate  means its credibility lies in its
“ability to convincingly explain why inflation deviations from
target occur, and our inability to hide the results,” he said.  Policy Speeches  The minutes, due to be published at 9:30 a.m. in London,
and planned speeches by four other policy makers this week may
signal if momentum toward higher rates is building as inflation
quickens. MPC members Sentance, Weale,  David Miles  and Charles Bean are all due to speak over the next three days.  Governor  Mervyn King  said Feb. 16 there are “real
differences” among officials as he argued that the surge in
inflation will prove temporary. He also said that the economic
recovery is “unlikely to be smooth.”  “For all the difficulties, compared with this time last
year, the economy is somewhat more healthy,” Tucker said
yesterday. “This economy will recover, we will get back to
normality -- it will take a while.”  King was among the six MPC members to vote in January to
leave the key rate unchanged and the bond-purchase plan at 200
billion pounds ($322 billion). Posen wanted to increase the bond
program by 50 billion pounds.  “I believe that the MPC should not build into its
forecasts an arbitrary rise in inflation due to an expectations
shift that is not there,” Posen said. It “should not tighten
policy solely in response to such supposed expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  