-- 
Bond Market Backs Bernanke Mild Inflation in Swap Forwards

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-02-22T14:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/bond-market-backs-bernanke-benign-inflation-in-10-year-swap-traded-forward.html
In the U.S. bond market, the new
normal is looking a lot like the old normal.  Interest-rate derivatives show traders anticipate economic
growth that fails to spark runaway inflation even as global food
and energy prices soar and the Federal Reserve pumps $600
billion into the financial system by purchasing bonds. Based on
where they see 10-year swap rates in a decade, the cost to lock
in fixed rates in exchange for floating interest payments is the
same now as it was before the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  For DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles , which oversees $8
billion, the worst is over for the sell-off that drove 10-year
Treasury yields as high as 3.77 percent this month from 2.33
percent in October. The notes yielded 3.53 percent as of 9:16
a.m. in New York.  “Ten-year yields have gotten to an appropriate level given
the pace of the economic expansion and inflation expectations,”
said Gregory Whiteley, a DoubleLine manager who says he would be
a buyer if yields climbed to 4 percent for the first time since
April. “Housing and stresses in state and local government
finances will be a drag on growth. If yields moved over 4
percent it would attract demand from investors, including
foreign central banks.”  The class of investors that includes foreign central banks
bought a record 71 percent, or $17 billion, of the $24 billion
in 10-year notes sold by the government in its latest auction on
Feb. 9, according to the Treasury Department.  ‘New World’  “Unless you think we are in a completely new world, which
some people do, the inflation-adjusted forwards show that we are
right back into the middle of the range that existed since the
mid 1990s,” Dominic Konstam, New-York based head of interest-
rate research at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a telephone interview.  Forward contracts on interest-rate swaps that allow
investors to lock in fixed-rate payments for 10 years a decade
from now have risen to 5.31 percent, or where they were before
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. deepened the
financial crisis in 2008. When adjusted for so-called  core
inflation , they’re back to 2004 levels, Deutsche Bank data show.  Even if consumer prices excluding food and energy costs
were to triple this year from January’s 0.2 percent increase,
the so-called 10-year, 10-year forward rate would only fall to
about 3.5 percent, within the top end of its range back through
2005, according to Deutsche Bank.  The 10-year note’s yield will end the year at 3.75 percent,
after first falling to 3.5 percent in the second quarter,
according to the bank. The median estimate of 64 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg is 3.93 percent at year-end.  Pimco’s View    Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., reduced his holdings of
government related debt to the lowest level since January 2009
while saying low yields cheat investors. Gross cut the
proportion of U.S. government and related securities in Pimco’s
$239 billion Total Return Fund to 12 percent of assets in
January from 22 percent in December, according to the  Newport
Beach , California-based company’s website.  Policy makers are robbing savers by driving down real
interest rates as they keep borrowing costs at record lows in a
“devil’s bargain,” Gross wrote in his monthly investment
commentary on Feb. 2. He advised investors to reduce holdings of
Treasuries and U.K. gilts and buy higher-returning securities
such as debt from emerging-market nations.  Mohamed El-Erian, who serves as co-chief investment officer
with Gross at Pimco, coined the term “new normal” to describe
what he forecasts is an era of prolonged below-average global
economic growth and investment returns.  Commodities Soar  Government bond yields have risen as prices of commodities
from oil to wheat surged. Higher demand in emerging-market
countries, drought in Russia and  China , and flooding in  Australia  have sent corn futures up 95 percent in the past year,
while wheat jumped 71 percent and soybeans advanced 44 percent.
Snows in  North America  drove heating oil contracts up 32 percent.  The  World Bank ’s food-price index climbed 15 percent
between October and January, and President Robert Zoellick said
on Feb. 16 that rising food prices have been an “aggravating
factor” in the unrest in  Africa  and the Middle East. The gauge
is 3 percent below its 2008 peak, when surging costs sparked
riots in more than a dozen countries.  Fed policy makers don’t expect increases in commodity
prices to filter into broader inflation permanently, according
to the minutes from the Jan. 25-26 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting released last week.  ‘Highly Visible’  While prices of some “highly visible” items such as
gasoline have “significantly” increased, “overall inflation
remains quite low” and wage growth has slowed, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a Feb. 3 speech at the  National Press Club 
in  Washington .  The five-year, five-year forward breakeven rate the Fed
uses to chart investor expectations for future inflation has
fallen to 2.77 percent from a 10-month high of 3.28 percent
reached in December. The rate averaged 2.71 percent in the five
years before the beginning of the financial crisis.  The difference between five- and 30-year Treasury yields
widened to a record 3.04 percentage points in November amid
speculation the Fed would concentrate its debt purchases on
medium-maturity notes and the stimulus would ultimately result
in quicker inflation. The spread has since narrowed, ending last
week at 2.41 percentage points.  ‘Off Base’  “Bernanke is not only off base with regard to inflation
he’s off the entire planet,” said  Michael Pento , senior
economist at Euro Pacific Capital Inc. in  New York , who
correctly predicted the 2008 commodity-market collapse.
“Inflation will go much higher. You can’t continue to have a
reckless monetary policy and a government issuing endless
quantities of debt and also have the supposition that you have
the world’s reserve currency and low interest rates.”  Treasuries lost 2.67 percent last quarter even after
reinvested interest, and are down 1 percent this year, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. That compares with a
return of about 6.79 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
in 2011. Treasuries gained 5.88 percent in 2010.  Longer-term Treasuries are “at an inflection point and may
now be driven more by President Barack Obama’s handling of the
deficit,” Scott Graham, head of government bond trading at Bank
of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in  Chicago , said in an
interview in New York on Feb. 14.  Obama Interest  Increased demand for longer-maturity debt would aid the
Obama administration as it loses the advantage of record low  interest rates  to finance cumulative deficits of more than $4
trillion through the end of 2015. Interest expense will rise to
3.1 percent of gross domestic product by 2016 from 1.3 percent
last year, according to administration estimates.  Unemployment has remained at 9 percent or higher since May
2009, the longest stretch since the Labor Department began
providing the statistics in 1948. The so-called underemployment
rate -- which includes part-time workers who’d prefer a full-
time position and people who want work but have given up looking
-- was 16.1 percent in January.  American wages, which increased 1.7 percent on an average
hourly basis last year, have acted as a constraint on inflation
and buffered gains in households spending.  “U.S. inflation runs on wages, period,” and workers pay
and benefits have declined, Brian Belski, chief investment
strategist in New York for Oppenheimer & Co., said in a
telephone interview. “Until we start to see expansive and
robust job growth we are still several quarters away from any
kind of semblance of wage inflation. Yields on the 10-year note
will settle somewhere south of 4 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  