-- 
Bone Drugs by Merck, Roche, Novartis May Add Leg Fractures

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-02-22T21:06:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/bone-drugs-by-merck-roche-novartis-add-leg-fractures-in-study.html
Drugs made by Merck & Co.,  Roche
Holding AG  and  Novartis AG  designed to prevent bone breaks in
older women may actually increase the risk of a rare form of leg
fractures, a study found.  Women ages 68 and older who took the medicines, called
bisphosphonates, for five years or more were 2.7 times more
likely to be hospitalized for fractures in part of the thigh
bone, according to the study, published today in the  Journal of
the American Medical Association . The bone breaks, known as
atypical femur fractures, are rare and the risk is outweighed by
the benefits of the drugs for most patients, researchers said.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in October changed
the warnings on the drug labels for bisphosphonates and notified
patients and doctors of an increased risk of the rare bone
breaks. The agency continues to study the breaks, which account
for less than one percent of hip and femur fractures overall,
according to the  FDA’s website .  “Our findings provide strong evidence that prolonged
bisphosphonate therapy is associated with an increased risk,”
wrote the authors, led by Laura Park-Wyllie, a researcher at the
Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute of St. Michael’s Hospital in
Toronto. “Importantly, the results of our study should not
deter clinicians and patients from using bisphosphonates in
appropriate patients.”  The risk of atypical fractures wasn’t significantly greater
for women who took the drug for less than five years, according
to the researchers. Patients and doctors may want to consider a
“drug holiday” in certain patients who need to take the drug
for longer durations, the researchers said.  Bisphosphonate Sales  Merck’s Fosamax was the first bisphosphonate marketed to
treat and prevent osteoporosis in older women. The drug reached
sales of $3.19 billion in 2005 before facing competition from
cheaper generic copies. The drug had sales of $926 million last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Merck is based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey .  Roche’s Boniva had 2010 revenue of $975 million, and
Novartis’s Reclast and Aclasta had sales of $579 million. Roche
and Novartis are in Basel,  Switzerland .  Three previous studies were unable to prove a link between
bisphosphonates and the atypical fractures. Those studies were
smaller and focused mostly on women who took the drug for fewer
than five years, the researchers said.  Today’s research, funded by the Ontario Ministry of Health,
examined records of 205,466 women over the age of 68 who were
treated with bisphosphonates between 2002 and 2008. Scientists
identified 716 women who had the atypical fractures.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 