-- 
Botswana, Namibian Rail Line Could Cost $9 Billion to Build

-- B y   J e r r y   B u n g u
-- 
2011-02-22T13:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/botswana-namibia-trans-kalahri-rail-line-could-cost-as-much-as-9-billion.html
The proposed Trans-Kalahari Rail
Line, linking coal deposits in landlocked Botswana to  Namibia ’s
Walvis Bay on the continent’s southwest coast, may cost $9
billion to build, according to Botswana’s Ministry of Transport.  “The railway line will be constructed at an estimated cost
of $9 billion and is expected to create an alternate route for
the import and export of commodities, allowing the country to
become a transit hub in the region,” Amangwe Madisakwana, chief
communications officer at the ministry, told reporters today in
the capital, Gaborone.  Botswana, the world’s largest diamond producer, is seeking
to reduce its reliance on sales of the gems, from which the
government earns about half its revenue. The southern African
nation has about 200 billion metric tons of coal reserves, the
Ministry of Minerals, Energy and Water Resources has said.  Construction of the 1,500-kilometer (932-mile) rail line is
expected to take about five years and could start within “a few
months,” Madisakwana said, declining to be more specific.
Botswana and Namibia are still in talks about a suitable
financing arrangement that will share construction costs with
private companies, he said.  Fifteen groups have expressed an interest in bidding for
the contract to build and operate the line, Masego Thomas,
secretary of Botswana’s ministerial tender committee, said on
Nov. 12.     Potential bidders include London-based  Anglo American
Plc ,  Canada ’s CIC Energy Corp.,  South Africa ’s  Exxaro Resources
Ltd ., the U.K.’s Roughton & Partners International Ltd. and  Portugal ’s Mota-Engil SGPS SA, the transport ministry has said.  The winning bidder will have to design, build and operate
the rail line for a specified period of time, according to the
tender document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerry Bungu in Gaborone at 
 jbungu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  