-- 
BP’s $7 Billion Reliance Deal in India Pushes BRIC Strategy

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-02-22T16:48:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/bp-advances-brics-strategy-with-dudley-s-7-billion-reliance-deal-in-india.html
  Robert Dudley ’s second $7 billion
deal this year signals a shift for  BP Plc  toward the world’s
fastest-growing economies as exploration drilling remains closed
in the U.S. after the Macondo oil spill.  Dudley, the first American chief executive officer of the
London-based company, agreed yesterday to pay  Reliance
Industries Ltd . $7.2 billion to help explore deepwater fields in
India. That follows an $8 billion share swap with OAO Rosneft to
expand into  Russia ’s Arctic Sea in January. Last year, BP signed
a deal to explore off Brazil and sealed a partnership with  Cnooc
Ltd . for offshore licenses in the  South China Sea .  The deals are putting BP’s exploration unit closer to
regions that the company predicts will generate the majority of
energy demand growth for the next 20 years. Dudley is also
reducing BP’s dependence on the  Gulf of Mexico , where it has yet
to resume drilling following the worst U.S. spill.  “The Reliance deal represents another step in reshaping
BP’s portfolio,” said Theepan Jothilingam, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in London. “The strategy earmarked post-Macondo is
clear -- a genuine focus on exploration and a shift toward
resource and consumer markets.”  BP rose 0.2 percent to 492.75 pence as of the 4:30 p.m.
London close. Reliance gained 3 percent, the most since Dec. 10,
to 984.85 rupees in Mumbai. Reliance may use the money from BP
to expand overseas, said Taina Erajuuri, who helps manage the
equivalent of $1.2 billion at Helsinki-based FIM Asset
Management Ltd.  $20 Billion  In  India , BP will acquire a 30 percent interest in 23
blocks as well as form a venture with Reliance to market gas,
the London-based company said yesterday. Future performance
payments and investment could increase the size of the deal to
$20 billion.  Dudley said the investment in India doesn’t mean the
company will turn its back on the U.S., where the company is
obliged to pay into a $20 billion fund for spill victims for the
next three years.  “We’re fully committed to the U.S.,” Dudley said in a
press conference yesterday. “This is part of the shift in
energy demand across the globe.”  BP predicts that global energy use will rise by almost 40
percent by 2030, led by demand from emerging economies,
according to the  Energy Outlook 2030  report published Jan. 19.
BRICs is a term used to group the four major emerging economies,  Brazil , Russia, India and  China .  ‘Moving On’  “The game-changing moves announced with Rosneft and
Reliance this year, in addition to other positive exploration
access exposure, give us confidence that BP is moving on from
Macondo,” said  Jason Kenney , head of oil and gas research at
ING Wholesale Banking in Edinburgh.  President Barack Obama halted oil and natural-gas drilling
in waters deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) after BP’s well off
the Louisiana coast blew out April 20, killing 11 workers and
spewing crude for 87 days. While the ban was lifted Oct. 12, the
U.S. has yet to issue a permit for the type of exploration
stopped in the moratorium.  Reliance Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  said yesterday he chose BP
because it is “one of the finest deepwater exploration
companies in the world.” BP’s purchase, to be completed over
the course of this year, is the largest foreign direct
investment in India.  ‘Strong Credentials’  “It’s a bold move not long after Macondo,” said Ivor Pether, who oversees $12 billion of U.K. securities at Royal
London Asset Management and added to his BP holdings last year.
“It’s evidence that BP still has strong credentials in
deepwater.”  Like the equity swap in Russia, BP’s Reliance deal may
carry some political risk, said Colin McLean, chief executive
officer of SVM Asset Management Ltd. in Edinburgh, who oversees
about $900 million of securities including BP shares.    Cairn Energy Plc ’s agreement to sell 90 percent of its
Indian production to  Vedanta Resources Plc  is being held up by a
dispute over royalty payments to the state-owned Oil & Natural
Gas Corp. The Indian government has yet to approve the purchase.  “Governments have been fearful of the majors and that’s
why so many juniors have entered developing economies,” said
McLean. “It needs political will and good political
relationships.”  BP will pay for the India deal in cash. Dudley said
yesterday the company still has $8 billion of assets to sell
after $22 billion of divestitures following the spill. The
potential for uncovering more crude and gas in the blocks is the
part of the deal he’s most excited about, he said.  “Dudley’s moving really quickly,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at Standard & Poors in  London .
“For BP, there’s no alternative to deepwater exploration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  