-- 
BP’s Partner Says Eight Banks Back Australian Solar Project

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-02-22T06:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/bp-australian-solar-project-gets-financing-from-eight-banks-partner-says.html
  BP Plc ’s partner in a proposed
Australian solar power project said  BNP Paribas , Banco Santander
SA and National Australia Bank Ltd. are among eight banks that
have agreed to help finance the venture.  The 150-megawatt solar project in New South Wales state,
one of the developments competing for Australian government
funding, may cost as much as A$900 million ($905 million) over
its lifetime,  Fotowatio Renewable Ventures  said.  “Australia is a key market,” Javier Huergo, Fotowatio’s
head of business development, said by phone from Sydney. “Our
intention is to have a long-term presence here.”  Australia, which set a target of generating 20 percent of
its electricity from renewable energy by 2020, has accepted
funding applications from projects shortlisted for the
government’s A$1.5 billion Solar Flagships program. A decision
on the winning projects is due in the middle of 2011.    Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd .,  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , Natixis and WestLB
AG are the other banks that have committed to lend money to the
proposed development, he said, declining to say how much.  Pacific Hydro is a partner with BP and Fotowatio in the
planned venture near Moree, in northwest New South Wales.  Madrid-based Fotowatio has about 230 megawatts of solar
power capacity in operation and under construction, and more
than 2,200 megawatts under development, it said in a January
statement.  Suntech, CLP  Melbourne-based Pacific Hydro has 1,934 megawatts of
renewable energy capacity in development and operation in
Australia, Chile, Brazil and the Philippines, according to its
website.    AGL Energy Ltd . and  CLP Holdings Ltd . unit TRUenergy
Holdings Pty are also vying for government solar grants, while a
joint proposal from Suntech Power Holdings Co. and Infigen
Energy is another of the shortlisted ventures aiming to develop
projects using photovoltaic panels to turn sunlight into power.  Australia is also choosing between solar thermal projects,
which heat water to produce steam.  Acciona SA , Spain’s biggest
wind farm operator, pulled out of the program, saying it was
unable to forecast whether its project would be profitable.  The government expects to select one solar photovoltaic
venture and one thermal project in the first round of the
program, the energy and resources ministry said in December.  The BP development may start construction in 2012 if it is
successful, according to Fotowatio. The cost to build the
Australian solar venture may be at least A$600 million, Huergo
said in the phone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  