-- 
BRICs Losing for Second Time in Decade as U.S. Takes Over as Growth Driver

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-02-22T21:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/brics-losing-for-second-time-in-decade-as-u-s-takes-over-as-growth-driver.html
Stocks in developed countries are
rising the most since 1998 while emerging markets slump, a sign
the U.S. is returning to its role as the engine of world growth
aided by a recovery in  Europe .  The MSCI World Index of equities in 24 countries rose 6.1
percent for 2011 through yesterday, the best annual start in 13
years, and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of shares in nations
such as Brazil, Russia, India and  China  lost 2.7 percent. A
Morgan Stanley gauge of stocks such as Archer Daniels Midland
Co. and  Deere & Co . meant to rally when inflation expectations
match Federal Reserve targets added 46 percent since August,
almost double the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  While emerging-market equities beat developed countries
every year except 2008 in the past decade, they’re falling now
as Brazil, Russia, India and China battle inflation. Thornburg
Investment Management Inc. and Barclays Plc expect bigger gains
from developed-market equities after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy pledged to prevent
the breakup of the euro and the Fed began buying $600 billion in
Treasuries to spur growth.  “You’ve got more willingness to take risk with equities in
developed markets,” said  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based William Fries, who runs the $26.7 billion Thornburg International Value
Fund that beat 92 percent of peers since 2006. “At the
beginning of the year, the world kind of turned upside down.
There wasn’t a great deal of money flowing into developed
markets over the last couple of years, and that’s starting to
change.”  Asian Financial Crisis  The last time the developed-nation index won by this much
to start a year was 1995. It went on to gain 47 percent in the
next three years, and the emerging-nation gauge fell 4.2 percent
through the end of 1997 after the Asian financial crisis.  While the  MSCI World  trailed the gauge of emerging nations
by an average of 16 percentage points annually since 2001, it
held up better during the financial crisis, losing 42 percent
versus 54 percent for emerging markets in 2008.  Intensifying violence in Libya, holder of Africa’s largest
oil reserves, pushed the MSCI Emerging Markets Index down 1.9
percent at 4:34 p.m. in  New York  today. The MSCI World fell 1.6
percent.  Investors are betting that the U.S., with gross domestic
product that’s almost three times greater than China and Japan,
will drive global economic growth. U.S. imports of $203.5
billion in December were the most in two years. The Conference
Board’s index of U.S. consumer confidence climbed to an almost
three-year peak in January, and the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. said businesses expanded in January at
the fastest pace since July 1988.  Doubled Since 2009  The S&P 500, the benchmark measure of U.S. shares, closed
at a 32-month high of 1,343.01 on Feb. 18. It has almost doubled
since March 2009 and risen three straight weeks as corporate
profits surpassed Wall Street estimates for eight straight
quarters, sending the  S&P 500 ’s valuation to an eight-month high
of 16 times reported income.  Last week, the MSCI World rose 1.6 percent. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 countries gained 2.8 percent.  Greece, Italy and Spain are leading developed markets
higher with gains exceeding 9.6 percent this year. Stocks in the
nations, among Europe’s most indebted, rebounded from the worst
performances in 2010 amid growing confidence France and Germany
will keep the region’s currency intact. The euro has risen
versus 13 of 16 major counterparts this year, including  Brazil ’s
real and South Africa’s rand, after trailing 15 in 2010.  U.S. Mutual Funds  Investors are pouring money into equity mutual funds that
buy shares in the U.S., the world’s largest stock market, with
shares valued at $16.6 trillion. Domestic equity funds had net
inflows of $4.92 billion during the week that ended Feb. 9, more
than any time in almost two years, according to data from
 Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group.
Non-U.S. stocks attracted $928 million.  “In an ideal portfolio, we’d pick our biggest overweight
in the developed world,” Manpreet Gill, a Singapore-based
strategist at Barclays Wealth, which oversees about $225
billion, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Feb. 15.
“That’s where we’re seeing a lot of the economic surprise.”  Developed nations, recovering from the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression, have kept  interest rates  low,
with the Fed holding its target near zero since December 2008.  Interest-rate derivatives show traders anticipate U.S.
economic growth won’t spark runaway price gains. Forward
contracts on 10-year interest-rate swaps that allow investors to
lock in fixed-rate payments for 10 years a decade from now have
risen to 5.38 percent, or where they were before the financial
crisis began in 2008.  German Reunification  While countries sharing the euro have exceeded the European
Central Bank’s inflation limit, policy makers have kept their
benchmark rate at a record low of 1 percent for almost two years
as they apply one monetary policy to 17 nations. Germany’s
economy grew 3.6 percent last year, the most since reunification
two decades ago. Greece contracted 4.5 percent and Spain’s
economy declined 0.2 percent.  Attempts by emerging-market central banks to battle
inflation are holding back their equities, Gill said. Brazil’s
central bank lifted its benchmark overnight rate by 50 basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 11.25 percent on Jan. 19.    India  raised rates to a two-year high on Jan. 25. China has
ordered lenders twice this year to set aside more money as
reserves. Russia increased banks’ reserve requirements for the
first time since 2009 on Jan. 31 to stem the fastest inflation
in a year.  Dangerous Levels  The  World Bank  said Feb. 15 that global food prices have
surged to dangerous levels, pushing 44 million more people into
extreme poverty since June. The 2.9 billion people in Brazil,
Russia, India and China spend about 19 percent of their income
on groceries, compared with 6 percent in the U.S., according to
data compiled by London-based Euromonitor International. Corn
futures surged 94 percent in the past year through yesterday,
and wheat jumped 70 percent after drought and floods damaged
crops from Russia to Argentina.  While emerging-market policy makers are attempting to
restrain growth, they are helping the long-term health of their
nations, according to Jason Hsu, chief investment officer of
Research Affiliates LLC, which oversees $61 billion in  Newport
Beach ,  California .  “Emerging-market central banks have been proactive, much
more conservative in their willingness to push the curve of
prosperity to the future,” he said. “These are responsible
policies as long as it’s not done to an extreme. In the long
run, it could provide a better environment for  capital
investment .”  Inflation Disparity  The inflation disparity between developed and emerging
markets is clearer in the stock market than anywhere else. The
Morgan Stanley Inflation Basket of 77 U.S. companies has risen
24 percent since Oct. 15, when the New York-based bank created
the index of stocks, including raw-material and energy
companies, that are poised to benefit from higher prices. The
S&P 500 gained 14 percent since then.  Producers of oil, natural gas and coal in the MSCI Emerging
Markets advanced 2 percent this year through yesterday. That
compares with the 11 percent rally in MSCI World Energy Index.  Archer Daniels Midland, the world’s largest grain
processor, climbed 25 percent this year. The Decatur, Illinois-
based company that got 65 percent of fiscal 2010 revenue from
the U.S. and Germany beat analysts’ profit estimates on Feb. 1
after record grain exports.  Deere, Chaoda Modern  Deere, the world’s largest farm-equipment maker that gets
65 percent of sales from the U.S. and Canada, raised its 2011
forecast last week as higher crop prices boosted North American
sales of tractors and combines. Shares of the Moline, Illinois-
based company have risen 14 percent this year.  Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd., a Chinese
vegetable grower that’s based in  Hong Kong , is down 14 percent
in 2011. Jakarta-based PT Astra Agro Lestari, Indonesia’s
biggest listed plantation company, has fallen 16 percent this
year even after palm oil prices reached an almost three year-
high on Feb. 10.    Toyota Motor Corp . and Honda Motor Co., Japan’s largest
carmakers, advanced at least 14 percent in 2011. Both companies
are based in Tokyo. The Dow Jones Transportation Average, a
measure of U.S. truckers and shippers that are considered
proxies for the economy, reached a 32-month high on Feb. 16 and
gained 3.7 percent this year.  Sport-Utility Vehicles    Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd ., India’s biggest sport-utility
vehicle maker, slumped 17 percent this year after oil prices
reached a 27-month high of $92.84 a barrel. The Mumbai-based
company said in its Feb. 9 earnings release that it’s concerned
about higher commodity prices and further rate increases.  The cost of using options to protect against losses in
developing-nation stocks is near a two-year high compared with
contracts on U.S. stocks. Implied volatility, the key gauge of
prices, for three-month options on the iShares MSCI Emerging
Markets Index exchange-traded fund is 1.5 times the level for
options on the SPDR S&P 500 ETF and was 1.7 times higher on Feb.
9, the highest level since November 2008.  “The skies are bluer in the developed markets,” said  John Praveen ,  Newark , New Jersey-based chief investment strategist at
Prudential International Investments Advisers, a unit of
Prudential Financial Inc., which oversees $750 billion. “You
have low inflation, low interest rates and growth picking up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 