-- 
British Airways, Iberia Could Buy Low-Cost Airline, CEO Says

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-02-22T17:53:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/british-airways-iberia-could-buy-low-cost-airline-ceo-says.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA, the combination of British Airways and Iberia, would
consider adding a discount airline to the company, Chief
Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said.  IAG is “clearly ambitious” about further consolidation
and a low-cost carrier that could feed short-haul traffic into
BA and Iberia long-haul routes would fit in the group, Walsh
said today at the ICBI Aircraft Finance and Commercial Aviation
conference in Geneva.  “We see no reason it can’t happen,” said the 49-year-old
CEO, who oversaw the merger of British Airways Plc and Iberia
Lineas Aereas de Espana SA, completed last month.    Air Berlin Plc ,  Germany ’s largest discount carrier, said
in July that it would join the Oneworld airline alliance led by
AMR Inc.’s American Airlines, British Airways and Iberia. The
company will first share flight codes with member airlines,
then become a full member early in 2012.  Vueling Airlines, the Spanish discount carrier that is
46 percent owned by Iberia, already feeds traffic into some of
full-service IAG’s network, Walsh said.  IAG isn’t concerned about a competitor buying a stake in
Virgin Atlantic Airways, the carrier controlled by billionaire
Richard Branson, Walsh said. Air France-KLM and  Delta Air Lines
Inc . hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to assist them in a possible
joint bid, the Sunday Times reported Feb. 20.  “They’re competitors already,” Walsh said. “It’s not as
if there’s someone new. It should be interesting to watch.”  Virgin Atlantic may have little value to other airline
groups beyond the number of takeoff and landing slots that it
holds at  London ’s Heathrow airport, according to Walsh. Virgin,
the second-largest long-haul airline based at Heathrow, had
3.1 percent of flights at the airport this winter season,
according to Airport Coordination Ltd., which allocates capacity
at the airfield.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse,  France  at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  