-- 
Britain's Pound Falls Versus Dollar, Gilts Rise as Libyan Unrest Escalates

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-22T16:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/britain-s-pound-falls-versus-dollar-gilts-rise-as-libyan-unrest-escalates.html
The pound fell the most against the
dollar in almost a week and gilts rose as escalating political
instability in the Middle East and North  Africa  curbed investor
demand for all but the safest assets.  Sterling also weakened versus the Swiss franc and the
Japanese yen,  government bonds  rallied across the world and
stocks declined as the Libyan unrest hurt investor demand for
assets perceived as being more risky. The pound declined against
the euro after European Central Bank council member  Yves Mersch 
said policy makers may toughen their stance on inflation next
week, boosting the likelihood of an interest-rate increase in
the 17-member bloc.  “The  currency market  is adjusting to the highly worrying
developments in the Middle East,” said Audrey Childe-Freeman,
head of European currency strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
private bank. “The safe-haven assets are doing well, and that
leaves sterling in a vulnerable position.”  The pound fell 0.7 percent to $1.6121 as of 4:34 p.m. in
London, after dropping to $1.6118, the steepest intraday slide
since Feb. 16. Sterling weakened 0.5 percent to 84.75 pence per
euro, and by 1.4 percent to 1.5142 Swiss francs.    Oil prices  surged amid concern that unrest in  Libya , holder
of Africa’s biggest crude reserves, may disrupt production. At
least 250 people have died in the Libyan capital of Tripoli
alone during anti-government protests, which follow the toppling
of regimes in Tunisia and  Egypt , Al-Jazeera reported.  Gilts Rise  Ten-year gilts climbed for a second day, reducing yields by
five basis points to 3.69 percent. The U.K.’s 4.75 percent bond
due March 2020 rose 0.36, or 3.60 pounds per 1,000-pound
($1,611) face amount, to 108.1.  Britain’s currency declined 0.4 percent against a basket of
nine developed-nation peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The declines pared the pound’s
advance this year to 3.2 percent versus the dollar and 1.2
percent against the euro, gains that came amid speculation the  Bank of England  will be forced to raise its main interest rate
this year to curb an inflation rate that’s double its target.  Minutes from the central bank’s Feb. 10 meeting, when it
kept its benchmark rate unchanged at a record low 0.5 percent,
will be released tomorrow. A small increase in the rate may
prevent a more rapid tightening later, policy maker  Martin Weale 
said in a BBC Radio 4 interview broadcast yesterday.  “The BOE minutes will be a market mover,” said Childe-
Freeman in London. “The Monetary Policy Committee is more split
than usual so you could see another MPC member going to the
hawkish camp.”  BOE Split  The MPC has been split three ways since October, with  Adam Posen  calling for an expansion of the bank’s bond-purchase plan
and Andrew Sentance voting to raise the key rate by 25 basis
points to 0.75 percent. Sentance was joined by Weale at the
central bank’s Jan. 13 rate decision.  Money markets signal policy makers may boost the key rate
by about 75 basis points by year-end, according to the Sterling
overnight interbank average, Tullett Prebon Plc data show. The
so-called Sonia rate indicates an increase of about 25 basis
points as soon as May.  The implied yield on the December short-sterling futures
contract rose two basis points to 1.74 percent, indicating
traders raised bets that borrowing costs in the U.K. will
increase. The yield was at 1.25 percent on Dec. 31 and reached
1.76 percent on Feb. 15, the most since June.    Budget Surplus   Calls for higher interest rates in the U.K. come at the
same time that Britain attempts to implement the deepest budget
cuts since World War II. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
coalition government is trying to reduce the fiscal deficit from
an estimated 10 percent of gross domestic product in the year
through March to 1.9 percent by 2015.  Britain posted its largest budget surplus last month since
July 2008 as government revenue surged in the biggest tax-
collection month of the year, according to data from the  Office
for National Statistics  today.  Revenue exceeded spending by 3.74 billion pounds in
January, compared with a deficit of 1.27 billion pounds a year
earlier, the statistics office said. The median of 13 forecasts
in a Bloomberg survey was for a surplus of 100 million pounds.
The surplus including government support for banks was 5.25
billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  