-- 
Bunge to Pursue Australia Sugar Opportunities as Bid Blocked

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-02-22T09:46:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/bunge-to-pursue-australia-sugar-opportunities-as-bid-blocked.html
  Bunge Ltd . will continue to seek
acquisition opportunities in the sugar industry in  Australia ,
the third-largest exporter, after its A$126.7 million ($127
million) bid for  Tully Sugar Ltd.  was blocked.  The company is waiting for a rival offer from Mackay Sugar
Ltd. for Tully before deciding its next move, Bunge  Asia  Chief
Executive Officer Chris White said by phone today. Bunge, the
world’s second-largest sugar trader, remains interested in
Australian sugar even if it fails to win Tully, he said.  Bunge lodged a bid for closely-held Tully in Queensland,
seeking to expand in sugar-exporting countries amid rising Asian
demand. The takeover was blocked on Feb. 18 when Queensland
Sugar Ltd. and Mackay Sugar opposed the removal of a 20 percent
shareholding cap and said a rival proposal was being developed.  “The burden on them, since they blocked the constitutional
change, is to come forward with a superior offer,” White said.
“If they don’t, then we will reconsider where we stand and what
we will do.”  Raw sugar for May delivery on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York 
fell 1.6 percent to 28.41 cents a pound on Feb. 18 after
reaching a 30-year high of 36.08 cents on Feb. 2. The market was
closed yesterday for a holiday.  Queensland Sugar  has about 13 percent of Tully and sells
all its output. The Brisbane-based company markets more than 90
percent of the country’s exports through agreements with mills.
Mackay holds 4 percent of Tully.  Asia Strength  “We hope to be involved with Australian sugar either as a
miller or a marketer in the future and there may be ways to
accomplish that over time,” White said. “We want to be strong
in the key destinations within Asia and we want to be strong in
key origins that serve Asia, and that would include Australia.”  Bunge’s offer follows  Wilmar International Ltd .’s purchase
last year of CSR Ltd.’s sugar unit, Australia’s No. 1 producer.
Mitr Phol Sugar Corp., based in Bangkok, has also expanded in
the country by taking a stake of about 19 percent in Queensland-
based  Maryborough Sugar Factory  Ltd.  “We expect Asian incomes to continue to rise,” White said.
“We see the day when both China and  India  will become
structural importers of sugar and that is one more ratchet up in
the overall demand equation.  Queensland Sugar said last week that Bunge had indicated it
wanted to become actively involved in the marketing process and
to direct where the product should be shipped, while closely-
held Mackay had requested 60 days to develop an alternative
proposal.  Mackay Sugar  Mackay  was looking at combining with Tully and other
grower-owned operations such as the Mossman mill to capture
benefits before international companies bought up the assets,
Andrew Cappello, chairman of Mackay, said by phone.  “Our view was Bunge would probably take Tully out and then
come hunting for the rest of us and they would then put the
companies together and form a bigger conglomerate,” he said.  The rival arrangement would help shore up the marketing
arrangements through Queensland Sugar, which pools volumes to
meet demand from customers and finances advance payments to
suppliers, he said.  “If you start taking big chunks of their volume away it
becomes not viable for them to operate,” Cappello said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 