-- 
Cameron Condemns Libya Repression, Urges Middle East to Embrace Democracy

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-02-22T13:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/cameron-urges-middle-east-rulers-to-heed-calls-for-democracy-boost-trade.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
condemned the violent suppression of anti-government protesters
in Libya as he urged Middle Eastern leaders to heed the demands
of their people for political change.  Violence has intensified in Libya, the holder of  Africa ’s
largest oil reserves, where  Muammar Qaddafi , its ruler since
1969, denied last night he had fled. Diplomats have resigned and
soldiers have deserted in protest over a crackdown on anti-
government demonstrators that has left hundreds dead. Oil
climbed today to the highest level in more than two years.  “The level of violence committed by the regime on the
people is completely unacceptable,” Cameron told a news
conference in Kuwait City today as he continued a Middle East
tour. “There needs to be a full investigation into the events
in Benghazi and eastern  Libya . I would call on the government to
give access to human-rights organizations and the press.”  The prime minister used a speech in Kuwait’s parliament to
say he sees grounds for “cautious optimism” in the wave of
political protest sweeping the region from  Algeria  to the  Persian Gulf . He said political and economic change are
essential for stability.  Cameron traveled to Kuwait after a surprise visit to Cairo
yesterday to urge  Egypt ’s military rulers to demonstrate they’re
serious about moving to hold free elections following the
ousting of President  Hosni Mubarak .  ‘Peacefully and Bravely’  The premier told his audience in Kuwait’s National Assembly
they should welcome the demonstrations springing up across the
Arab world. He said young people, protesting “peacefully and
bravely,” are showing that there are alternatives to
“repression and extremism.”  “History is sweeping through your neighborhood,” Cameron
said. “Across the Arab world, aspirations are stirring which
have lain dormant. We cannot remain silent in our belief that
freedom and the rule of law are what best guarantee human
progress and economic success.”  In Libya last night, Qaddafi appeared on state television
to say that he was “here in Tripoli and not in  Venezuela .”
In Tripoli, bodies are lying outside a day after protesters were
attacked by pro-Qaddafi gunmen, the opposition National Front
for the Salvation of Libya said.  The flag of the constitutional monarchy overthrown by
Qaddafi flew on streets and over several buildings in the second
city, Benghazi, and
there were no security forces in evidence except traffic police,
witnesses said.  Oil for March delivery rose as much as 9.6 percent, and
traded 7.1 percent higher at 7:23 a.m. in  New York .  Political Opposition    Kuwait  has allowed more space for political opposition than
other Gulf monarchies, opening a fault line between an executive
appointed by the hereditary ruler, Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmed al-Jaber al-Sabah, and elected lawmakers seeking wider powers.
Their disputes have repeatedly shut down the assembly and
stalled investment plans.  Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser al-Mohammed al-Sabah survived
a challenge in parliament last month over a police crackdown on
opposition lawmakers, who vowed to continue their campaign to
bring down the government.  “For decades, some have argued that stability required
highly controlling regimes, and that reform and openness would
put that stability at risk,” Cameron said in his speech.
“Countries like Britain faced a choice between our interests
and our values.  And to be honest, we should acknowledge that
sometimes we have made such calculations in the past. But I say
that is a false choice. Denying people their basic rights does
not preserve stability.”  ‘Borders on Racism’  He said the view that “Arabs or Muslims can’t do
democracy” was “a prejudice that borders on racism.”  Cameron has argued that the business-focused foreign policy
he wants is compatible with speaking up for human rights. That
view is being tested back in  London , where the government is
reviewing its export licenses to countries in the Middle East
after security forces in Libya and Bahrain opened fire on
protesters.  Out of the 36 businessmen in the prime minister’s trade
delegation, eight are involved in the defense industry,
representing companies including Thales SA, BAE Systems Plc and
Qinetiq Group Plc.  “I simply don’t understand how you can’t understand how
democracies have a right to defend themselves,” Cameron said in
response to a question about the arms trade. “Are we saying
that for all time countries like Kuwait have to manufacture and
maintain all parts of their own defenses?”  He added that the U.K. has “probably the tightest set of
export licenses and rules anywhere in the world.”  The opposition  Labour Party  said that before the government
sanctions new arms sales, it needs “a better understanding of
how the politics and foreign policy of countries in the region
will settle after this time of change,” according to a
statement from Kevan Jones, a defense spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  Kuwait City  at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  