-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Gains on Colder Weather, Pipeline Blast

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-02-22T21:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/canadian-natural-gas-gains-on-colder-weather-pipeline-blast.html
Canadian natural gas rose after a
pipeline blast restricted shipments through Ontario and as
forecasters predicted colder-than-normal weather in the U.S.
Midwest in the next three days.  Demand for heat in the Midwest will be 5 percent above
normal Feb. 25, according to Belton, Missouri-based forecaster
Weather Derivatives. Chicago’s high will be 31 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 5 Celsius) on Feb. 26, 9 degrees below normal,  State College , Pennsylvania-based AccuWeather Inc. said.  TransCanada Corp., the pipeline that carries most of the
gas produced in Canada, is assessing damage after an explosion
Feb. 19 shut Line 2 of its three-line network in northeastern
Ontario. The company said it’s operating Line 1 and working on
Line 3 of the network, which links natural-gas fields in  Alberta 
with points in central  Canada  and the U.S. Northeast.  “Until Line 3 has been returned to service, it is unlikely
that any discretionary services through the impacted area will
be authorized,” the Calgary-based company said today in a
notice on its website.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
rose 5.9 cents to $4.1043 per million British thermal units on
the  Intercontinental Exchange . Alliance is an express line that
can carry about 1.5 billion cubic feet a day to the Midwest from
western Canada.  Alberta Gas  Alberta gas for March rose 2 cents to C$3.29 per gigajoule
($3.14 per million Btu) as of 4 p.m.  New York  time, according to
 NGX,  a Canadian Internet market. Gas traded on the exchange is
shipped to users in Canada and the U.S. Northeast, Midwest and
West Coast. NGX issued a capacity constraint notice for parts of
Ontario effective today.  Natural gas for March delivery fell 0.9 cents to $3.867 per
million Btu on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, prices gained 6.49 cents to $3.8739 per million Btu,
according to ICE. At Malin,  Oregon , where Canadian gas is traded
for California markets, gas jumped 12.44 cents, or 3.2 percent,
to $3.9726.  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, the biggest gas-
gathering network in the nation was 16.6 billion cubic feet,
about 246 million above its target as of 2:30 p.m. in New York.
Volume on the system decreased by 294 million cubic feet in the
past 24 hours.  Flow Rate  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 3.85 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the  Chicago  area, the
daily flow rate was 1.66 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 968 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.79 billion cubic feet today, about 65 percent of
capacity.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3.01
billion cubic feet at 1:50 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 