-- 
Canadian Dollar Drops Most in Seven Weeks as Libya Crisis Saps Risk Demand

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-02-22T22:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/canadian-dollar-slumps-as-libyan-political-turmoil-reduces-demand-for-risk.html
Canada’s dollar dropped the most
against its U.S. counterpart in seven weeks as escalating
violence in  Libya  reduced demand for assets related to global
economic growth.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, fell from within
a half-cent of the highest level in almost three years. Canadian
retail sales unexpectedly fell in December. The loonie slid
versus all but three of its 16 most-traded counterparts even as
crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, surged on concern that
turmoil in the Mideast and  Africa  will disrupt supplies.  “We’ve got another outbreak of  risk aversion , and that
never tends to be something that’s very good for the Canadian
dollar,” said  David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto. “Canada’s
dollar seems to be reacting more to the geopolitical risk, as
opposed to the impact in the oil market.”    Canada ’s dollar depreciated 0.8 percent to 99.07 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto, from 98.30 cents yesterday.
The loonie weakened as much as 0.9 percent, the most since Jan.
4. It touched 98.16 cents on Feb. 17, the strongest level since
March 2008. One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0094.  Canadian  government bonds  rallied, pushing the yield on the
10-year benchmark down 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point,
to 3.36 percent, the lowest level since Feb. 2. The yield rose
on Feb. 16 to 3.53 percent, the highest level since May 13. The
price of the 3.50 percent security maturing in June 2020
increased 82 cents to C$101.14.  Qaddafi Defiant    Muammar Qaddafi , Libya’s leader, vowed to fight a rebellion
until his “last drop of blood,” pledged to deploy the army and
police tomorrow to impose order and called on supporters to
reclaim the streets. Rebel flags flew over the second-biggest
city, Benghazi, and corpses lay on the streets of the capital in
Tripoli after a security crackdown on protests.  Libya pumped 1.59 million barrels a day of oil in January,
equal to about 8 percent of U.S. consumption, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News. Crude for March delivery gained as
much as 9.6 percent to $94.49 a barrel in New York, the highest
level since October 2008.  “There’s a supply-risk premium being priced into oil,”
said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “That’s going to cause oil
to decouple from currencies like the Canadian dollar.”  Commodity-linked currencies such as the loonie are “poor
hedges” for investors if the Libyan unrest disrupts global oil
supplies, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ‘No Safe Harbor’  “Commodity currencies will be no safe harbor in this
environment,” John Normand, London-based head of currency
strategy at JPMorgan, said in an e-mailed note. Currencies
linked to raw materials usually fell after “major supply
shocks” such as the 1979 Iranian revolution and the Iraqi
invasion of  Kuwait  in 1990, he wrote.  The Canadian currency “has decent odds of outperforming
the rest of the bloc, but only if U.S. growth holds firm,”
Normand wrote.  Canadian retail sales decreased 0.2 percent in December to
a seasonally adjusted C$37.3 billion ($37.8 billion) in the
first decline in seven months,  Statistics Canada  said today. The
median forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for retail sales to be unchanged.  “If it was not for the softer retail sales report, we
probably would have seen a new three-year low because  oil prices 
are on the rise again,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research at the online trader GFT Forex in  New York , referring
to the rate of the dollar versus the loonie. “Risk aversion is
hurting the Canadian dollar.”  Carney on Growth  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told reporters Feb. 19
it’s “possible” the economy grew at a faster pace in the
fourth quarter than the central bank projected last month, when
it estimated a 2.3 percent annualized pace for the last three
months of 2010. Economists forecast a similar gain, according to
the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Is it possible that the fourth quarter is going to be
firmer than we had projected in our last Monetary Policy Report?
Yes, it is,” Carney said in Paris, where he attended a meeting
of finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  