-- 
Canada December Retail Sales Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-02-22T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/canada-december-retail-sales-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's retail sales report for December as released by
Statistics  Canada .  Retail sales edged down 0.2% in December to $37.3
billion, following a notable increase in November. This
slight decline comes on the heels of six consecutive
months of gains.  Sales in volume terms decreased 0.4%.  Results were mixed with losses reported in 5 of 11
subsectors, representing 66% of total retail sales.  The largest decrease among all subsectors was
registered by motor vehicle and parts dealers, where sales
fell 2.8%. This decline came mainly from a 2.7% decrease
at new car dealers, ending a series of seven straight
monthly increases. Declines were also reported at
automotive parts, accessories and tire stores (-13.6%) and
used car dealers (-0.4%). Other motor vehicle dealers
reported a 6.4% sales increase.  Sales at food and beverage stores declined 1.6%, mainly
reflecting decreased sales at supermarkets and other
grocery stores (-1.5%).  Lower sales at building material and garden equipment
and supplies dealers (-1.4%) did not offset the increase
in November.  The largest increase occurred at gasoline stations
where sales rose 7.6%, mainly reflecting higher prices at
the pump. This was the sixth consecutive monthly increase
in sales at gasoline stations.  Holiday shopping results mixed  Store types typically associated with holiday shopping
showed mixed results in December.  Sales at furniture and home furnishings stores
increased 1.9%. Sales at theses store types have been
trending upward since the sharp decline in July 2010.  Clothing and clothing accessories stores sales
increased 1.0% in December, the fifth increase in six
months. Higher sales were reported at clothing stores
(+1.5%), while decreases were reported at shoe stores 
(-0.8%) and jewellery, luggage and leather goods stores 
(-0.4%).  Electronics and appliance stores (+0.6%) had higher
sales in December, marking the fourth increase in five
months.  Sales at sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores
declined 1.9% in December, following three consecutive
monthly increases.  The 0.4% decrease at general merchandise stores, which
includes department stores, nearly offset the increase in
November.  Sales down in seven provinces  Retail sales decreased in seven provinces in December.
The largest contributor to the national decline was
British Columbia (-2.2%), where sales fell for first time
since July. Lower new  motor vehicle  sales were a
significant contributor to the decline.  Sales were lower in all Atlantic provinces. The largest
decline was in  New Brunswick  (-2.9%). This decrease did
not offset the increase in November.  Retail sales increased in  Quebec  (+0.8%) and Alberta
(+0.5%) while they were flat in Ontario.  Widespread growth in 2010  On an annual basis, retail sales in current dollars
rose 5.1% between 2009 and 2010, with 10 of the 11
subsectors advancing. This growth was led by motor vehicle
and parts dealers, where sales rose 7.8%. Gasoline station
sales grew by 14.2%, reflecting price and volume
increases. General merchandisers, which include department
stores, posted a 4.4% sales gain.  Retail sales in volume rose 4.5% in 2010.  Higher sales were reported in all provinces. Alberta
registered the largest gain with a 5.7% increase.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Total retail sales by volume are measured by deflating
values in current dollars of the various trade groups
using consumer price indexes. This retail sales in chained
dollars series (2002) is a chain Fisher volume index with
2002 as the reference year.  All annual comparisons in current dollars in this
release use the sum of unadjusted monthly estimates. With
the release of data in April, seasonally adjusted monthly
figures for 2010 will be revised to equal the sum of the
unadjusted estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  