-- 
CapitaLand Fourth-Quarter Profit Falls 41% as Sales of Malls, Rents Drop

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-02-22T07:43:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/capitaland-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-41-as-sales-of-malls-rents-drop.html
  CapitaLand Ltd .,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest developer, said fourth-quarter profit declined 41
percent as the sale of shopping malls and serviced residences
cut rental income, and one-time gains dropped.  Net income fell to S$522.1 million ($409 million), or 11.5
cents, in the three months ended Dec. 31 from S$885.7 million,
or 19.2 cents, a year earlier, the company said today in a
statement to the Singapore stock exchange. Revenue climbed 37
percent to S$1.1 billion. For the full year, profit increased 21
percent to S$1.27 billion, exceeding the S$834 million average
estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  CapitaLand’s quarterly rental income declined after it sold
four shopping malls and 28 serviced residence properties in the
year, the company said in the statement. The developer booked a
one-time gain of S$223.4 million from its divestments in the
fourth quarter, compared with S$929.9 million a year earlier,
when it spun off its retail property unit,  CapitaMalls Asia Ltd .  “The results were exaggerated by revaluation and
divestment gains,” said Donald Chua, a Singapore-based analyst
at CIMB-GK Pte who has a “neutral” rating on CapitaLand shares.
“Stripping those out, the core earnings weren’t fantastic as
home sales in  China  and Singapore weren’t as fast as expected as
sentiment has been weak. There’ll be some more pressure as the
governments recently introduced rate hikes and other curbs.”  New Curbs  Singapore last month implemented new steps including limits
on loans and raised sales taxes, while China suspended third
mortgages and increased  interest rates  for the first time in
three years.  The measures will “stabilize” property markets of the two
countries, Liew Mun Leong, CapitaLand’s chief executive officer,
said in a briefing today. He also plans to seek acquisitions
when “price expectations have moderated.”  The stock fell 2.4 percent to S$3.28 as of 3:33 p.m. in  Singapore , set for its lowest close since May 18, 2009.  CapitaLand said it’s keeping a “positive outlook” on
China and Singapore, its two biggest markets, even as
governments in the region introduce fresh measures to damp the
threat of asset bubbles caused by capital inflows and low
interest rates. The company said today it plans to market 1,700
homes in Singapore and about 4,000 in China this year.  While the Singapore government’s new round of property
cooling measures have “subdued the market and caused overall
sentiment to dip,” CapitaLand said it expects earnings from
Singapore home sales to “remain healthy.”  Record Home Prices  Private home prices in Singapore, CapitaLand’s biggest
market by pretax earnings in the fourth quarter, climbed to a
record in the three months as the nation’s fastest economic
growth since independence in 1965 overwhelmed government
measures to cool the market. The government said Feb. 14 it may
take further steps to damp the  property market  if needed
following last month’s curbs.  Singapore’s three-month interbank rate fell to 0.4375
percent yesterday, the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling
the data in 1999.  In China, CapitaLand said it will look at acquiring new
sites as it sees continued demand in the country even as the
Chinese government moves to curb property speculation.  CapitaLand has proposed a final dividend of 6 Singapore
cents, down from 10.5 cents a year earlier, when it had a one-
time payout of 5 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  