-- 
Card Rules Curb Rates, Block Overdraft Fees, U.S. Consumer Bureau Says

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-02-22T15:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/card-rules-curb-rates-blocks-overdraft-fees-u-s-consumer-bureau-says.html
Credit-card rules that took effect
last year curbed interest rate increases and late fees, and
almost stamped out charges for exceeding credit limits,
according to the new U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  Before the new rules, 15 percent of existing credit-card
accounts were re-priced with a new interest rate each year; that
has fallen to 2 percent, according to an agency study released
today. Over-limit fees -- charged when customers exceed credit
limits -- have “virtually disappeared,” the study found.  Late fees fell to $427 million in November, less than half
the $901 million total for January 2010, the last month before
the rules took effect. The average late fee declined to $23 from
$35 over the same period, according to the study.    Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser who is
setting up the bureau, is hosting a conference today to assess
the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure
Act. The law’s main provisions, such as restrictions on timing
and size of interest-rate increases and enhanced disclosure of
card terms, took effect a year ago.  Warren has made credit cards and mortgages top priorities
for the bureau, which is scheduled to officially begin work on
July 21. At the Card Act conference, she said “there are a lot
of moving parts in a credit card price” that make it difficult
for consumers to understand the true cost of credit.  “Our next challenges will be about further clarifying
price and risk and making it easier for consumers to make direct
product comparisons,” Warren said in her opening remarks.  ‘Right Direction’  Some credit-card issuers have “gone further than the law
requires” in some areas, Warren said. “Leaders in the industry
deserve credit for moving in the right direction,” she said.  Consumer and industry groups praised the law in separate
statements.  The Card Act has ended “some of the bait-and-switch
tactics that unfairly trap credit-card consumers in high-
interest debt,” said Pamela Banks, senior policy counsel for  Consumers Union , the publisher of  Consumer Reports .  New disclosures give card users “an effective tool for
controlling the cost of the financial products they use every
day,” said Steve Bartlett, chief executive officer of the
Financial Services Roundtable.  The consumer bureau study drew its findings from data
collected on a voluntary basis from the nine largest bank-card
issuers and an unpublished report from the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  In a separate study, the bureau found that consumers are
aware of changes on their monthly billing statements, though
only 32 percent understand their credit-card agreements.  Consumer Tools  Warren has argued for a new approach that emphasizes
simpler disclosure to help consumers to comparison-shop, and she
downplayed the need for additional prohibitions.  “We can probably agree that this approach -- write a rule,
avoid a rule, write another rule -- is costly for consumers and
the industry,” Warren said today in her prepared remarks.
“Because it multiplies the number and complexity of rules, this
approach creates special challenges for those smaller banks and
credit issuers that still offer credit cards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 