-- 
Carmelo Anthony Didn’t Wow Brain Behind Knicks: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-02-22T17:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/carmelo-anthony-didn-t-wow-brain-behind-knicks-scott-soshnick.html
Delirious fans of the  New York
Knicks  should keep one important tidbit in mind amid the now-
we’re-back, look-out-LeBron euphoria inspired by the arrival of  Carmelo Anthony : The basketball brain of the franchise didn’t
want to make this trade.  Of course  Donnie Walsh , the team’s president of basketball
operations, will never dissent. Not publicly, anyway. He’s got
too much class and respect for the organization chart. His boss,
Jim Dolan, wanted Anthony at any cost, which in this particular
case was three fulltime starters,  Wilson Chandler , and a first-
round draft pick. Dolan has always liked sizzle at the expense
of substance. Sizzle sells, especially when courtside seats
require a second mortgage.  Walsh  did what he was told. And he’ll smile for the cameras
when the Knicks put their newest acquisition on display at one
of those everyone’s smiling press conferences. The kind of
affair they threw for, oh, Stephon Marbury, who, like Anthony,
was hailed as the Brooklyn kid coming back to save the hometown
team.  Make no mistake, though, this trade was directed by Dolan,
whose basketball-related track record is, well, let’s be kind
and say suspect.  The clearest sign that Dolan, Walsh, and Coach  Mike D’Antoni  weren’t in agreement was a statement released the day
before saying that they were.  “Together,” the men said in a joint statement, “we will
do what is best for the long-term success of the franchise.”  Long term. Ha. That’s a good one. It’s no secret that
Dolan, who so often can be seen slouching in his baseline seat
at Madison Square Garden, wants to win now. At any cost.  Goodbye, Starters  He saw the chance for a quick fix and took it, even if it
meant jettisoning most of his starting lineup.  This is what happens when the Lakers team  Kobe Bryant  and
Pau Gasol, the  Miami Heat  add  LeBron James  and Chris Bosh to a
roster that already included  Dwyane Wade , and the Celtics
compile a big three of their own.  Somewhere along the line it’s become the accepted notion
that it takes at least two superstars to win it all.  Dolan was so focused on Anthony. Maybe he should’ve had a
little chat with Denver native Chauncey Billups, who, unlike
Anthony, didn’t pine for bright lights and the big city.  But Billups is a member of the Knicks, too.  “Chauncey,” said his now former coach, George Karl,
“will go down as one of the greatest winners.”  Billups was the floor leader of 2003-04 championship  Detroit Pistons , who beat a Lakers team with Bryant and  Shaquille O’Neal .  Team Play  Those Pistons didn’t have stars. They had a talented group
that played together, each fulfilling their roles, and, as their
coach Larry Brown liked to say, played the right way.  These Knicks, 28-26 at the All-Star break, showed promise.
And moxie. Walsh had surrounded Amar’e Stoudemire with kids who
were eager to prove that they belonged. They did. And now
they’re gone, except Landry Fields, who, and this is just a
guess, Walsh fought like heck to keep. Smart man that Walsh.  Championship teams require more than capable role players.
Beware those who’ll tell you that it’s easy to fill in the
roster. It isn’t. Not with the right person, the right player.
It requires a skill set, yes, but a mindset, too.  Anthony pushed for the trade because he wanted not only the
Knicks but a big payday, too. Unsure of what the rules would be
in the new  labor contract , Anthony wasn’t willing to risk that
he might be able to join the Knicks as a free agent without
their having to surrender anything. He put himself above his new
team.  Top Six Players  There are only six A-list stars in the  National Basketball
Association : Bryant, James, Wade, Oklahoma City’s  Kevin Durant ,
Orlando’s Dwight Howard and  Chicago ’s  Derrick Rose .  You give up anything to get any one of them. They’re
cornerstones. Anthony isn’t. He’s a great scorer, which makes
headlines. But great scorer and great player isn’t the same
thing.  Proponents of the trade will say that Stoudemire pushed for
the Knicks to get Anthony. Of course he did. Players think in
the here and now, too. Especially those with surgically repaired
knees.  An executive like Walsh weighs today and tomorrow.  But Walsh doesn’t own the Knicks. He has a boss, and it’s
Dolan, who overruled his basketball brain on this matter. The
Melodrama, at long last, is over.  With Dolan and the Knicks, however, it’s only a matter of
time until there’s another drama with which to contend. Only in
all likelihood Walsh won’t be around to fix it.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  