-- 
Carmelo Anthony Heads to New York Knicks, Where He'll Wear No. 7 Uniform

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-23T02:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/carmelo-anthony-moves-to-new-york-knicks-in-nba-trade-with-denver-nuggets.html
The  New York Knicks  landed All-Star
forward  Carmelo Anthony  to play alongside Amar’e Stoudemire,
bolstering a team seeking its first winning season in a decade
and a return to National Basketball Association relevance.  Anthony, 26, will go to New York along with 34-year-old
Chauncey Billups, Shelden Williams, Anthony Carter and Renaldo Balkman. In exchange, New York will send  Wilson Chandler ,  Raymond Felton ,  Danilo Gallinari , Timofey Mozgov and a 2014
first-round draft pick to the Nuggets.  “We now have a great frontcourt tandem in Amar’e and
Carmelo,” Knicks President of Basketball Operations  Donnie Walsh  said in an e-mailed statement today. “Carmelo is in the
prime of his NBA career, having already established himself as
one of the game’s elite players, and the opportunity to add him
to our roster was one we could not pass up.”  The trade puts Anthony back in  New York , where he was born,
and with the team he said repeatedly was his first choice as a
destination.  “I believe he will really embrace the opportunity to play
back home in New York and help us continue our goal of building
towards a championship,” Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni  said in the
statement.  Timberwolves Moves  New York also acquired Corey Brewer from Minnesota and sent
Eddy Curry and Anthony Randolph to the Timberwolves.  Minnesota 
gained a future second-round draft pick from Denver for Kosta Koufos. Denver also got the  Golden State Warriors ’ 2012 and 2013
second-round draft picks and $3 million in cash.  Anthony, who wore No. 15 in Denver and at  Syracuse
University , will wear No. 7 with the Knicks. New York has
retired No. 15, which was worn by Hall of Famers Dick McGuire
and Earl Monroe. Kelenna Azubuike was No. 7 for the Knicks, and
will now become No. 17.  The Knicks will boast an offense with two of the NBA’s top
10 scorers. The 6-foot-8 Anthony ranks sixth, with an average
25.2 points per game this season, while the 28-year-old
Stoudemire has scored an average 26.1 points per game, to rank
second, since joining New York in July from the  Phoenix Suns ,
where he spent eight seasons.  Gold Medal  The Knicks (28-26), who host the Milwaukee Bucks tomorrow,
are second in the Eastern Conference Atlantic Division behind
the  Boston Celtics , a year after posting a 29-53 record. New
York hasn’t had a winning season since 2000-01 and last won a
playoff series a year earlier, in Hall of Fame center Patrick Ewing’s final season with the team.  Walsh’s failure to sign two-time reigning NBA Most Valuable
Player LeBron James in July gave New York salary cap leeway to
negotiate with a player such as Anthony, a four-time All-Star
who is in the final year of his five-year, $79 million contract.  The  New Jersey Nets  last week reached an agreement with the
Nuggets on a trade for Anthony that was contingent upon his
willingness to sign a three-year, $65 million contract
extension, the maximum allowed under the current collective
bargaining agreement, the Record of Bergen County,  New Jersey ,
reported.  Walsh said today that Anthony had agreed to a contract
extension with the Knicks before the trade was completed.  Labor Uncertainty  With the labor agreement ending June 30 and uncertainty
surrounding what the next accord will look like, it was in
Anthony’s financial interest to sign an extension with the Nets
or Knicks rather than wait for free agency.  Anthony has finished among the top eight in NBA scoring in
each of the past six seasons and is fourth among active players
with a career average of 24.7 points per game.  He played on the 2008 U.S. squad that won gold at the
Olympics in Beijing and also was on the team that took the
bronze medal in  Athens  in 2004 after becoming the first U.S.
squad with NBA players to lose at the Games.  Anthony, who played in the All-Star Game on Feb. 20 at the
Staples Center in  Los Angeles , was the No. 3 pick in the 2003
NBA draft after leading Syracuse University to the National
Collegiate Athletic Association championship in his only season
at the school.  He’s married to actress and television personality Alani
“La La” Vazquez.  Knicks in Playoffs  The Knicks made 14 straight playoff appearances from 1988
through 2001, during which time Ewing twice helped them reach
the NBA Finals. The Knicks lost both appearances, in 1994 to the  Houston Rockets , and in 1999 to the  San Antonio Spurs .  Since losing in the Eastern Conference finals after the
1999-2000 season, the Knicks have made the playoffs twice and
were eliminated in the opening round both times.  With one of the league’s highest payrolls and playing in
the nation’s largest media market, New York has compiled a
173-319 record over the past six complete seasons. The low point
was a 23-59 mark in 2007-08, when the Knicks matched a franchise
record for losses in a season and endured turmoil off the court
that led to the firing of Isiah Thomas as coach. He was replaced
by D’Antoni and the team went 29-53 last season.  Just before James opted to join the  Miami Heat  during the
offseason, the Knicks signed Stoudemire, an eight-year veteran
who’s the most experienced player on a young roster. In adding
Anthony, the Knicks may be hoping for a run similar to the one
that followed their last prolonged losing stretch.  New York had one winning season over a 12-year span from
1956 to 1967. It then won NBA championships in 1970 and 1973
behind players such as Walt Frazier and Willis Reed, now in the
Hall of Fame. They remain the only titles in the history of a
franchise that started play in 1946.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  