-- 
Carney Says Canada Fourth-Quarter Growth May Be Stronger After Export Data

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/carney-says-canada-fourth-quarter-growth-may-be-stronger-after-export-data.html
  Canada ’s economy may have expanded
more quickly in the fourth quarter than forecast by the
country’s central bank and private economists, following reports
showing the country’s exports soared at the end of last year.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told reporters Feb. 19
it’s “possible” the economy grew at a faster pace in the
fourth quarter than the central bank projected last month, when
it estimated a 2.3 percent annualized pace for the last three
months of 2010. Economists project a similar gain, according to
the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News as of
Feb. 18.  “Is it possible that the fourth quarter is going to be
firmer than we had projected in our last  Monetary Policy Report ?
Yes, it is,” Carney told reporters in Paris, where he attended
a meeting of finance ministers and central bankers from the
Group of 20.  Recent reports have shown the country’s exports and
employment growing at a faster pace than forecast, prompting
investors to raise bets that Carney will accelerate interest
rate increases this year.  Statistics Canada  is scheduled to
release fourth quarter GDP data on Feb. 28.  Canadian two-year bond yields rose to a nine-month high of
1.94 percent on Feb. 16, and the currency advanced to its
highest level in three years after a government report earlier
this month showed energy and metals powered the biggest jump in
exports in almost three decades in December.  Raised Outlook  The trade figures added to signs of a strengthening
recovery that included a January job gain that was more than
four times greater than economist forecasts. Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce  raised  its outlook for fourth-quarter growth to
2.6 percent, from 2.3 percent, on Feb. 16, and increased its
2011 growth projection to 2.6 percent, from 2.4 percent.  Carney wouldn’t speculate on how stronger growth in the
fourth quarter could affect the central bank’s projections for
2011, which will next be revised in April. He said that while
the central bank follows the trade data, it doesn’t put “too
much weight” on one data point or on one quarter.  “The question is how much of that momentum carries over
into 2011, which is not based on one report but is based on a
series of reports, analyses, industry meetings, surveys, etc.,”
he said.  The  Bank of Canada  last month  projected  annualized growth
of 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter and 2.5 percent in the
first quarter of this year. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast 3.2 percent growth in the first quarter, while CIBC
raised its projection for the first three months of this year to
4 percent last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at  