-- 
Centro Retail Profit Increases on Property, Dollar Gains

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-02-23T05:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/centro-retail-first-half-profit-increases-49-on-property-dollar-gains.html
Centro Retail Trust, the property
trust managed by the debt-laden  Centro Properties Group ,
reported first-half profit rose 49 percent after increases in
the values of properties and gains from the strength of the
Australian dollar.  Net income climbed to A$292 million ($292 million) in the
six months ended Dec. 31, compared with A$196.7 million a year
ago, the Melbourne-based company said today in a statement to
the Australian stock exchange. Underlying profit fell 25 percent
to A$60.7 million.  Centro said in December it has received several expressions
of interest from potential buyers after formally inviting bids
the previous month as part of its attempts to emerge from under
A$18.4 billion of debt. Still, the restructure of the company
could take until the end of this year to implement, Chief
Executive Officer Robert Tsenin has repeatedly told investors.  “Our need for a restructure and recapitalization, they’re
as critical as ever,” Tsenin said on a conference call today.
“What has changed is the range of options that we have.”  The probability of alternate methods, including a
recapitalization of some assets, has increased now from when the
restructure process began, Tsenin said, citing a “fortuitous”
improvement in property and financing markets.  Centro advisers JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Moelis & Co. have
proposed the company continue to sell off U.S. assets while
maintaining its Australian malls, the Australian Financial
Review reported on Jan. 31.  Centro Retail has A$942 million of loans in  Australia  and
$876 million of debt in the U.S. maturing over the next year,
the company said today.  The stock jumped 4.4 percent to 35.5 Australian cents at
the 4:10 p.m. close of trade in Sydney. The retail trust, which
accounted for about a third of Centro’s total assets as of Aug.
31, surged 48 percent this year, compared with a 2.1 percent
gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  