-- 
China's Stock-Index Futures Rise after Commodity Prices Rally on Mideast

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-22T01:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-after-commodity-prices-rally-on-mideast.html
  China ’s stock-index futures rose,
signaling the benchmark index may extend the biggest gain in
three months, as surging metal and oil prices bolstered the
earnings outlook for the nation’s commodity producers.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s largest maker of
the metal, may pace gains for metal producers after aluminum
prices climbed to a two-year high in London yesterday. China
Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co., the biggest largest
developers, may increase after Soufun Holdings Ltd. said
property trading volumes rose in most cities surveyed last week.  Futures on the CSI 300 Index expiring in March, the most
active contract, added 0.4 percent to 3,289.20 as of 9:17 a.m.
local time. The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the
bigger of China’s stock exchanges, surged 32 points, or 1.1
percent, to 2,932.25 yesterday, the biggest gain since Nov. 15.
The  CSI 300 Index  fell 1.4 percent to 3,257.91.  The Shanghai gauge has advanced 4.4 percent this year on
signs the economy is withstanding curbs that drain cash from the
financial system to restrain inflation and limit the risk of
asset bubbles. The government raised banks’ reserve requirements
for a second time this year on Feb. 18, adding to an interest-
rate increase on Feb. 8.  Aluminum for delivery in three months jumped $12, or 0.5
percent, to $2,580 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange,
the highest closing price since Sept. 12, 2008. Prices have
climbed 4.5 percent this year.  Commodity Prices  Gold climbed above $1,400 an ounce to the highest price in
almost seven weeks in  London  as unrest in the Middle East and
concern inflation will quicken boosted demand. Silver reached a
30-year high and palladium advanced.  China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s biggest carrier,
may pace losses for airlines after oil jumped to the highest in
more than two years.  Libya , holder of  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, is the latest Arab nation to be rocked by protests
ignited by last month’s ouster of Tunisia’s president and fanned
by the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s son Saif al-Islam Qaddafi
called on protesters to engage in dialogue or face a civil war
that risks “hundreds of thousands of dead.”  China’s stock market, the world’s best performer since Jan.
25, is showing no signs the “Jasmine Revolution” that toppled
governments in Egypt and  Tunisia  will spread to the fastest-
growing major economy.  The Shanghai Composite has climbed 9.5 percent since the
first day of Egyptian protests that led to the end of Hosni
Mubarak’s 30-year rule. The rally is the best among benchmark
indexes in the world’s 40 largest markets and compares with a
6.6 percent drop in the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index of Persian Gulf
shares.  ‘Jasmine Revolution’  Protests took place in cities including Beijing on Feb. 20,
and phone messages yesterday using the Chinese phrase for
“Jasmine Revolution” were blocked after Internet postings over
the weekend urged people to demand food, jobs, housing and
justice. The Shanghai gauge rose 1.1 percent yesterday amid  The government aims to maintain “basic stability” in
prices this year, Xinhua reported, citing a  meeting  of the
nation’s ruling Politburo yesterday chaired by President  Hu Jintao .  The government will maintain the stability of economic
policy while increasing its flexibility and effectiveness, and
balance stable and rapid economic development against the
management of inflation expectations to prevent volatility in
the economy, according to the meeting.  Property trading rose in 32 cities including Shanghai,
Beijing and Guangzhou last week from a week earlier, Soufun said
in a statement yesterday. The report tracked prices and trading
volume in 35 cities.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  