-- 
China Copper Buyers Undeterred by Record Prices, Chile Says

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-02-22T18:09:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/china-demand-for-copper-is-proving-resilient-to-record-prices-chile-says.html
Demand for copper is proving to be
resilient to prices that breached $10,000 a metric ton for the
first time earlier this month, according to the world’s largest
producing country.    Chile , where state-owned Codelco accounts for more than a
tenth of global mine supply, hasn’t observed any slowdown from
China, where the government is attempting to cool its economy,
Mining and Energy Minister  Laurence Golborne  said. Analysts
including Citigroup Inc.’s  David Thurtell  have said that base
metals such as copper may be peaking as buyers delay purchases.  “We’ve read these analyses but in practice we haven’t seen
it,” Golborne said in a telephone interview yesterday. China is
the world’s largest copper user. “Even with increasing
inventories prices have remained firm.”  Golborne joins Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and  BHP
Billiton Ltd . in signaling demand is staying strong as  China 
builds the infrastructure needed to accommodate swathes of its
rural population moving to cities. Chile’s government copper
commission  Cochilco  raised its price estimate for 2011 to $4.17
a pound ($9,195 per ton) on Jan. 26, from $3.40 to $3.50.  Copper fell to a three week low on concern that surging  oil
prices  may slow economic growth. Copper for May delivery dropped
13.9 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $4.3575 a pound at 1:03 p.m. in  New York , the lowest for a most-active contract since Jan. 31.  Global Shortage  Refined-copper production exceeded demand by 5,000 tons in
November, the second consecutive monthly surplus, the
International Copper Study Group, or ICSG, said in a report
yesterday. There was a global shortage of 400,000 tons in the
January-to-November period last year, the ICSG said.  Copper in  London  climbed to a record $10,190 last week,
extending last year’s 30 percent rally, on expectation that
demand may outpace supplies as the global economy recovers. The
world may be short of 435,000 tons of refined copper this year,
according to the ICSG.  The copper market will remain “tight” beyond 2012,
Freeport’s Chief Financial Officer Kathleen Quirk said in a Feb.
3 interview. BHP predicted on Feb. 15 that commodity demand will
remain “robust” in 2011.  “China is hugely short” and needs copper,  Gayle Berry , a
London-based analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London, said by
telephone yesterday.  More than half of China’s population will be living in
cities or towns by the period from this year to 2015, Vice
Minister of Agriculture Chen Xiaohua said in a speech last
month. Demand for copper is surging as the nation plans to build
more homes, autos and appliances and upgrade power-grid
networks.  Rising Stockpiles  Copper stockpiles tallied by the LME rose for a sixth day
yesterday to 411,475 tons, the highest level since August, while
inventories monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange jumped to
a nine-month high of 161,062 tons last week.  Codelco, the world’s biggest copper producer, is spending
$3.24 billion this year as part of a $16.5 billion plan over
five years to revamp aging mines in the Chilean Andes.  The Chilean government’s preference is for Codelco to issue
bonds, rather than retain profits, for financing a record $3.5
billion investment plan for 2012, as long as the state company
retains its investment-grade  credit rating , Golborne said.  As part of a new corporate-governance law, Golborne and
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain assess Codelco’s spending plans
on an annual basis. The two ministers had seats on Codelco’s
board before the law was introduced last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  