-- 
China Wage Gains Undermine Global Bond Investors as Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-23T11:49:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/china-wage-gains-undermine-global-bond-investors-as-inflation-accelerates.html
  China , the biggest brake on global
inflation for two decades, is embracing wage increases that
threaten to erode retailers’ margins and demand for bonds.  Premier Wen Jiabao convenes the annual National People’s
Congress March 5, where delegates will approve a five-year plan
designed to elevate the role of domestic demand. Part of that
strategy is endorsing higher pay, with all 31 Chinese provinces
and regions likely to boost their minimum wages in 2011 for the
second consecutive year, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “When historians go back and describe 2010, the big story
will be the massive increase in salaries that will redefine the
global manufacturing model and redefine the inflation outlook
for the next 10 years,” said Dong Tao, chief economist for non-
Japan Asia at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong.    Next Plc , Britain’s second-biggest retailer, said last
month that higher labor costs in China will contribute to an 8
percent increase in its prices in the first and second quarters
of 2011.  Li & Fung Ltd . of Hong Kong, the biggest supplier to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., predicts the price of Chinese exports will
increase as much as 15 percent this year as workers earn more.  “The pressures aren’t subsiding,” they’re getting worse,
said Randal Konik, an equity analyst at Jefferies & Co. in  New
York , who identifies luxury leather-handbag maker  Coach Inc . and
women’s clothing company  Chico’s FAS Inc . as having “high
exposure to Chinese manufacturing.”  Hometown Jobs  A pay-increase offer in excess of 10 percent wasn’t enough
for some workers this month at a Shenzhen factory of Hong Kong-
listed  Top Form International Ltd . Luo Chenen, a 33-year old
migrant worker who sews brassieres for brands including Calvin
Klein, said “quite a few” of her colleagues left after the
lunar new year for their hometowns and won’t come back because
“there are jobs there as well.” A consumer confidence index
slid in the fourth quarter on concern about rising prices,
Nielsen Co. and statistics bureau researchers said today.  “Right now is not like in the past, when finding a job was
difficult,” said Luo, who works in a district of Shenzhen
pasted with recruitment notices, some promising “High Pay for
Urgent Hire.”  Retailers that source products in China also face a surge
in the price of cotton that has undermined profit margins.
Cotton futures in New York have more than doubled in the past
year, reaching a record $194.55 a pound on Feb. 11, after demand
in China, the biggest buyer, surged and flooding damaged crops
in Pakistan and Australia.  Underperforming Bonds  “China is certainly going to be less of a disinflationary
influence on the rest of the world,” said  Jay Mueller , who
manages about $3 billion at Wells Fargo Capital Management in
Milwaukee, adding that the “low” in U.S. bond yields has
passed.  Government debt is underperforming stocks as the world
economy strengthens in the aftermath of the 2008 financial
crisis. Bonds returned 2.07 percent, including reinvested
interest, in the year through Feb. 17, according to the Global
Sovereign Broad Market Plus Index compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. By comparison, the  MSCI World  Index of equities
soared 19 percent.  Treasury Yields  At the same time, yields remain lower than in the past. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which helps determine rates
on everything from corporate bonds to mortgages, is more than 3
percentage points below its average of 7.06 percent since 1980.
Globally, the average for sovereign debt is about 2.40 percent,
down from about 4 percent in mid-2007.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan sees average
10-year Treasury yields soaring to an 8 percent level by 2030.
In the shorter term, they may climb to 4.45 percent in the third
quarter of 2012, from 3.48 percent in New York yesterday,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
48 analysts this month.  “We’re in the early stages” of Chinese wage growth
beginning to mount, and that should lift inflation rates in
China and add to pending inflationary pressures in the U.S.,
Greenspan said in a telephone interview Feb. 17. “It’s a long-
term process in train.”  The pay of migrant laborers who fuel China’s export
industry soared by 40 percent in 2010, according to calculations
by Credit Suisse’s Tao, who has worked as an analyst of China’s
economy for almost two decades. It will continue climbing 20
percent to 30 percent in the next three years as Chinese leaders
endorse income gains to strengthen domestic demand, he predicts.  Rising Rural Incomes  Shanghai, home of the world’s busiest port, aims to raise
its minimum wage at least 10 percent, Mayor Han Zheng told
reporters Jan. 21. Tianjin, the port nearest Beijing, may
increase by 16 percent this year, state news agency Xinhua
reported Jan. 26.  In the countryside, per capita net income jumped 10.9
percent in 2010 to 5,919 yuan ($899), according to a National
Bureau of Statistics report last month. The gain exceeded the
rise in urban incomes for the first time since 1997.  “Rural migrant workers’ wages are now rising faster than
ever before, and we can probably talk about a wage ‘explosion’
here,” Jonathan Anderson, Hong Kong-based chief economist for
emerging markets at UBS AG, wrote in a Feb. 3 note. He added
that there’s little sign of “exploding” pay elsewhere in
China’s labor market.  Free Movement  Officials may take several steps to encourage consumption
in the five-year plan, which runs through 2015. They could cut
individual income taxes, boost dividend payments from state-
owned enterprises and lift deposit interest rates to strengthen
household finances, according to Shen Jianguang, chief economist
for greater China at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  Policy makers also may make changes in the “hukou”
household-registration system, according to UBS analysts. The
system, which isn’t enforced as stringently as in the past,
requires residents to apply to relocate and can impede the free
movement of workers.  Such mobility will be more important in the future as China
approaches a so-called Lewis turning point, when surplus labor
dries up, boosting wages, prices and inflation, according to
Credit Suisse and Standard Chartered Plc. Expansion will cause
demand for jobs to outstrip supply by 2014, Tao’s team at Credit
Suisse calculated in a January report.  ‘Wage Spiral’  Li Wei, a Shanghai-based economist at Standard Chartered,
says China already might have hit the Lewis point.  If the country “continues to grow 9 percent to 10 percent
per year, there will be a wage spiral” that pushes up prices
across the world and puts pressure on bond yields, Li said.  China’s inflation is gathering speed, with consumer prices
rising more than the government’s 2011 target of 4 percent in
each of the past four months, statistics bureau data showed Feb.
15. The average was 2.2 percent in the decade through 2010.  That soon will feed into inflation elsewhere if recent
history repeats itself. China’s consumer price index has in the
past decade led by about 20 months shifts in the so-called core
U.S. rate for goods, according to data compiled by Societe
Generale SA and Bloomberg.  While he predicts inflation in the U.S. will remain benign
into next year, Rudy Narvas, a Societe Generale economist in New
York, said there is now an “upside” risk, partly because of
accelerating Chinese costs. American corporate clients are
telling him they may start to “test the waters” to see how
much of the pressure they can pass along to customers, he said.  U.S. “inflation has stabilized, and it’s now only a matter
of time how soon it moves up,” Narvas said. The Fed’s preferred
price gauge, which is tied to  consumer spending  and strips out
food and energy costs, rose at a record-low 0.7 percent annual
pace in December.  ‘Very Seriously’  Central banks such as the  European Central Bank  and Bank of
England are already taking accelerating inflation “very
seriously,” Jean-Michel Six, an economist at  Standard & Poor’s 
is Paris, said in a report yesterday. That’s because “instead
of being the mere reflection of a single commodity price hike,
it reflects a more structural change in international price
trends” as Asian labor costs mount.  Japanese deflation also may reverse, said Naokazu Koshimizu, an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo. Forty
percent of Japan’s imports are from China, and foreign
competition increasingly influences the price-setting behavior
of its businesses, which now are better able to pass along
higher input costs given Japan’s stable labor market, he said.  “The emergence of inflationary pressure in China is likely
to help ease deflationary pressure in Japan through higher
prices of imported consumer goods,” Koshimizu said in a Jan. 11
report. Consumer prices in Japan, excluding fresh food, remained
3.7 percent lower last year than in 1997.  Beige Book  The ability of international retailers to push through full
cost increases may be limited because of subdued spending growth
in the post-recession U.S. and euro area. Both economies are
hobbled by unemployment levels of 9 percent and 10 percent
respectively.  The Fed said in its Beige Book regional economic report
last month that “most district reports cited comments by both
retailers and manufacturers that costs were rising, but
indicated that competitive pressures had led to only modest
pass-through.”  The biggest source of global inflation pressures for now is
a surge in food prices, sparked by droughts from  Russia  to
Argentina to China’s wheat-growing Shandong province and
torrential rains in Australia and Canada.  China Influence  Even if China’s inflation picks up, its influence on the
U.S. and euro area may be negligible for now, because Chinese
imports account for just 2 percent of these economies’ gross
domestic product, said  Ethan Harris , head of developed-markets
economic research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.
China also is often an assembly point for goods, which puts less
pressure on retail prices. In the case of  Apple Inc .’s iPhone,
Chinese manufacturing costs account for just 1.3 percent of its
U.S. sale price, Harris calculated.  “When you see ‘Made in China’ on a product, you think when
Chinese wages pick up, inflation goes up elsewhere, but there’s
actually a big disconnect,” he said in an interview.  Even so, Coach started a four-year plan Jan. 1 that will
move some production out of China and into new markets such as  India , Chief Financial Officer Michael Devine said on a Jan. 25
conference call. Lew Frankfort, the New York-based company’s
chief executive officer, has said the move will save 150 basis
points on gross margins.  Production Shift    Gerry Weber International AG , Germany’s second-largest
maker of women’s clothing, is increasingly shifting production
from China to sites with cheaper labor costs, Chief Executive
Officer Gerhard Weber said in a Dec. 7 interview. The company,
in Halle, North Rhine-Westphalia, is counting on its ability to
move sourcing faster than its rivals, and cited Vietnam,
Bangladesh and North Korea as among the new locations.  While Chinese manufacturing wages still are competitive
relative to advanced nations, they are undercut by developing
Asian neighbors.  Average monthly pay in 2009 for Shenzhen in southern
Guangdong province was $235, while Shenyang in northeast China
had a mean of $197, both a fraction of Yokohama’s $3,099,
Seoul’s $1,220 and Taipei’s $888, according to data compiled by
the Japan External Trade Organization. By comparison, monthly
manufacturing wages were $100 in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, $148
in Jakarta, Indonesia, and $47 in Dhaka, Bangladesh.  Chico’s also is “working on diversifying” its production
base away from China and toward nations including Bangladesh,
Sri Lanka and India, with higher Chinese wages a “major
factor” behind the shift, said Robert Atkinson, head of
investor relations at the Fort Myers, Florida-based company.  “It’s not easy when most of the world is trying to do the
same thing,” he said in a telephone interview.  --Sophie Leung, Simon Kennedy. With assistance from Cotten
Timberlake in  Washington ; Chris Burritt in Greensboro, North
Carolina; Ilan Kolet in Ottawa; Anthony Feld in New York; Aki
Ito in Tokyo and Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf, Germany. Editors:
Chris Anstey, Melinda Grenier  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  