-- 
China Said to Ask Banks to Reassess Capital Levels by March

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-22T09:37:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/china-said-to-ask-banks-to-raise-risk-weighting-on-local-authority-loans.html
  China  told banks, which have lent at
least $1.2 trillion to local governments, to recalculate capital
levels by March 31 to account for higher risk weightings on such
loans, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Assigning risk weightings that are as much as triple
existing ones for loans to local-government financing vehicles
not fully backed by  cash flow  may cut  capital ratios  at China’s
five largest lenders to near the regulatory minimum, the people
said, declining to be identified as the deadline hasn’t been
publicly announced.  The move may increase pressure on banks that fall below
required capital ratios to raise money or reduce lending, the
people said. Lenders, including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China  Ltd., had at least 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.2 trillion) of
loans to local-government financing vehicles as of June 30, with
23 percent of the debt not backed by cash flows, a person with
knowledge of data collected by the bank regulator said in July.  “If the actual impact on banks’ capital adequacy levels
turns out to be alarming, I don’t think the CBRC will be able to
implement it as planned,” said Li Shanshan, a Beijing-based
analyst at BoCom International Co., referring to the China
Banking Regulatory Commission. “The last thing the market wants
now is another round of capital-raising by banks.”  Chinese banks raised about $72 billion from sales of stock
and convertible bonds last year. The country boasts four of the
world’s 10 largest banks by market value.  Risks ‘Controllable’  China cracked down on lending to the funding arms of local
governments last year after a surge in such loans fueled concern
that a wave of defaults could hurt financial stability. Local
governments use financing vehicles to get around regulations
that bar them from borrowing directly from banks.  Restrictions on local-government lending are part of a
wider campaign to slow credit expansion and keep inflation and
property prices in check. China has raised  interest rates ,
forced lenders to lodge more reserves with the central bank, and
ordered them to take back off-balance sheet credits onto their
books since new loans almost doubled in 2009.  “To truly and completely reflect the risks and impact of
LGFV loans, the CBRC has recently issued notices regarding
assigning appropriate risk weightings to such loans based on
cash flow coverage,” the regulator said in a text message sent
to Bloomberg News. “Loans to LGFV did carry certain risks, but
as CBRC started to tackle the issues early, the overall risks
are controllable.”  Affordable Housing  The  Hang Seng Finance index , which includes Hong Kong-
traded shares of four of China’s five largest banks, fell 2.3
percent, the biggest drop since Nov. 23.    Standard & Poor’s  warned in July that it’s “highly
likely” that some local-government debts will turn bad. Loans
to such entities account for 18 percent to 20 percent of total
lending, S&P said at the time.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission is restricting
lending to local government financing vehicles this year to the
construction of affordable housing, an area the government is
supporting as it tries to avert a property bubble, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in January.  Under guidelines introduced in December, banks must assign
100 percent risk weightings to local-government loans fully
covered by cash flows from projects they fund. Credits that are
less than 30 percent backed by cash flows were assigned the
highest risk weighting, at 300 percent, implying that banks will
have to triple the amount of capital supporting each loan.  Capital Erosion  The new risk weightings will cut capital adequacy ratios at
eight Hong Kong-traded Chinese banks by 0.42 to 1.23 percentage
points and their Tier 1 core capital ratios by 0.33 to 0.95
percentage point, Nomura International Hong Kong Ltd. analysts
estimated in January.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd . will be
hurt the most while China Merchants Bank Co. is the least
affected, the analysts said.  ICBC,  China Construction Bank Corp ., Agricultural Bank,  Bank of China Ltd . and Bank of Communications Co., the nation’s
five largest lenders, had an average capital adequacy ratio of
11.8 percent as of Sept. 30, above the 11.5 percent regulatory
minimum. The banks raised a combined $56 billion in equity and
convertible bond sales in 2010 to prepare for stricter rules.  The CBRC may order the biggest lenders to raise capital
adequacy ratios to as high as 14 percent when credit growth is
judged excessive, a person familiar with the matter said Jan. 28.  --Luo Jun. Editors: Philip Lagerkranser, Chitra Somayaji  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-3036 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  