-- 
Christie Pegs Tax Credits in Budget to Health-Benefits Plan

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-02-22T20:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/christie-pegs-tax-credits-in-budget-to-health-benefits-plan.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
proposed a $29.4 billion budget that would boost school aid and
give homeowners credits on property-tax bills if lawmakers pass
his plan to cut the cost of health benefits for state workers.  The plan for the fiscal year that begins July 1 keeps
municipal aid stable and includes $199 million of business-tax
cuts. Christie, 48, also proposed making a $506 million payment
into the state’s underfunded pension system as soon as lawmakers
agree to his health-benefits proposal.  “We can make a contribution to our pension system early
and get that money working immediately, if we adopt real reform
of our pension system,” Christie said during his budget address
today in Trenton. “We can double the property-tax rebates for  New Jersey ’s hard-working middle-class and seniors, if we adopt
real reforms in health benefits.”  Christie, a first-term Republican, has been urging the
Democratic-led Legislature to pass his measures aimed at cutting
the costs of employee pensions and benefits. His budget assumes
$323 million of savings from forcing all public workers to pay
30 percent of their health-insurance costs by 2014, Treasurer
Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff told reporters.  Pension Payment  The governor’s budget for fiscal 2012 is 2.6 percent below
this year’s because his administration is accounting for the
possibility that the state makes the pension payment by the end
of the current year, Sidamon-Eristoff said. Should that payment
be made next fiscal year, the budget would be $29.9 billion, or
less than 1 percent higher than this year’s, he said.  The administration is forecasting total state revenue will
climb 3.9 percent to $29.4 billion from $28.3 billion. Revenue
is projected to remain below the $32.6 billion collected in
fiscal 2008.  Christie’s budget would cut $300 million in Medicaid
spending as the state loses $900 million in federal funding,
Richard Bagger, the governor’s chief of staff, told reporters.
The state will seek a waiver from mandated coverage levels to
move recipients to managed-care plans, Bagger and Sidamon-
Eristoff said. It’s unclear whether any current beneficiaries
would lose coverage, they said.  The Christie spending plan budgets for the elimination of
about 200 positions through attrition. It also forecasts about
$120 million of savings from restructuring debt, Sidamon-
Eristoff said. About $2.1 billion, or 7 percent of the budget,
will go toward debt service.  Payment Skipped  Christie closed a $10.7 billion deficit in his current
budget by skipping a $3 billion pension payment and cutting
school and municipal aid. The state’s pension deficit increased
18 percent to $53.9 billion as of June 30.  His proposal for next fiscal year would increase aid to
every school district in the state, by a total of $249 million,
or as much as 1 percent of their total budgets, Bagger said.
Municipal aid would be little changed.  Christie also proposed increasing the amount spent on
property-tax rebates to $458 million from $268 million. New
Jersey’s average residential property-tax bill was $7,281 in
2009, the highest in the U.S.,  according  to the state Department
of Community Affairs.  “The chance for middle-class taxpayers and seniors to
receive double the property-tax relief without raising taxes on
anyone else is solely up to you, the Legislature,” Christie
said. “The ability to provide doubled property-tax rebates
involves a tradeoff and requires real reform to pay for it.”  Business Taxes  Christie on Feb. 18 vetoed 14 Democratic-sponsored bills
aimed at boosting the economy and creating jobs, saying it would
be reckless to approve spending measures outside the budget
process.  His business tax-cut proposals include raising the state’s
exemption on the estate tax to $1 million from $675,000, phasing
in a “single-sales” formula for the corporate tax that would
base a company’s levy on the portion of sales made in New
Jersey, and phasing out an energy facility assessment. The
measures would cost the state $199 million next year and $690
million by fiscal 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Nj Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net 
-0- Feb/22/ :04 GMT 