-- 
Cisco Names Moore to Newly Created Operations Chief Position

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-02-22T19:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/cisco-names-gary-moore-chief-operating-officer.html
  Cisco Systems Inc ., the largest
maker of networking equipment, named Gary Moore chief operating
officer, a new position, less than two weeks after quarterly
results disappointed investors and fueled a share-price slump.  Moore, 61, will oversee the engineering, marketing,
operations and services organizations, Cisco said today in a
statement. Moore has worked for the  San Jose , California-based
company since 2001 and previously oversaw the services unit.  The company, which makes routers and switches that direct  Internet traffic , is targeting more than 30 new businesses to
reach a long-term goal of as much as 17 percent annual revenue
growth. Four straight quarters of share declines after earnings
reports reflect concern that Cisco may be moving in too many
directions at once, and Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers 
has said that managers need to be more accountable.  “Cisco is really under pressure to demonstrate that they
have more control over operations,” said Joanna Makris, an
analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. “They’ve had market-share
erosion and execution challenges. This is part of Cisco’s repair
strategy.”  Cisco’s Forecasts  Cisco fell 14 percent on Feb. 10 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading, a day after the company posted fiscal second-quarter
gross margin that missed analysts’ estimates. Three months
earlier, on Nov. 11, the shares slid 16 percent after the
company’s profit and sales forecast fell short of analysts’
projections.  In trading today, Cisco dropped 26 cents, or 1.4 percent,
to $18.59 at 2:45 p.m. New York time.  Cisco is introducing a new generation of networking
equipment at the same time as it pushes into dozens of other
businesses, including digital cameras, videoconferencing
equipment and social-networking tools.  The product expansion is part of an effort to meet the
revenue goal announced by Chambers two years ago. In the
meantime, as the company works to get traction in these side
businesses, they are weighing on profitability. This fiscal
year, sales will grow as little as 9 percent as Cisco faces
lower spending from governments and market-share losses in its
television set-top box business, the company said on a
conference call last quarter.  Jonathan Kaplan, who headed the company’s consumer
business, left earlier this month, Cisco said on its website.
Marthin De Beer, who oversees emerging technologies at Cisco,
replaced Kaplan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  