-- 
Citigroup Executive Knew of Madoff Fraud, Trustee Suit Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-02-22T21:12:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/citigroup-executive-knew-of-madoff-s-fraud-trustee-picard-says-in-lawsuit.html
  Citigroup Inc .’s Citibank ignored
warning signs of Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, and a bank
executive knew the con man’s stated trading strategy couldn’t
generate the reported returns, the trustee liquidating Madoff’s
firm said in a lawsuit.  The unidentified Citibank executive, who was responsible
for making recommendations to clients on derivatives,
“concluded” by June 2007 that returns reported by a Madoff
feeder fund, Fairfield Sentry Ltd., couldn’t have come from the
strategy, trustee  Irving Picard  said in a complaint unsealed
yesterday. The executive reached his conclusion after meeting
with analyst  Harry Markopolos , a whistleblower who also alerted
U.S. regulators to the fraud, Picard said.  The Citibank official later communicated with Markopolos
orally and in writing, specifically discussing the fraud before
the  Ponzi scheme  was exposed in December 2008, Picard alleged.  “Citi knew, and was on notice of, irregularities and
problems concerning the trades reported by BLMIS, and
strategically chose to ignore these concerns in order to
continue to enrich themselves,” Picard said in the complaint,
referring to Madoff’s firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  Picard laid out in the complaint details of a lawsuit he
filed under seal in December against New York-based Citigroup
and other banks. He is demanding $425 million from Citigroup--
money it received “in connection with” a loan to a Madoff
feeder fund and a swap transaction with a Swiss hedge fund
linked to a second feeder fund, Picard said.  ‘Completely False’  “Citi will vigorously defend against these claims by the
trustee as they are entirely without merit and completely
false,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the bank,
said today in an e-mail.  Around March 2008, Citibank learned “red flag
information” that Madoff was making fraudulent transfers from
an unidentified employee whose previous firm had blacklisted
Madoff-related investments, Picard said in the complaint.  Soon after, the bank began to unwind its Madoff trades and
rid itself of its remaining Madoff exposure, he said.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence in federal prison in
Butner,  North Carolina , after pleading guilty to orchestrating
the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history. At the time of his
arrest, Madoff’s statements reflected 4,900 accounts with $65
billion in nonexistent balances. Investors lost about $20
billion in principal.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, and the
Citigroup case is Picard v. Citibank, 10-05345,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 