-- 
Madoff, Citigroup, BP, SAC, SocGen, Galleon in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-02-22T13:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/citigroup-credit-suisse-sac-socgen-galleon-in-court-news.html
A judge was asked by victims of  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme to void a $220 million settlement
with the heirs of Norman F. Levy, a Madoff investor referred to
as his “surrogate father.”  New information has surfaced showing “Norman Levy financed
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme during the period from 1992 through 2001
in an amount exceeding $100 billion,” Helen Davis Chaitman, a
lawyer who represents hundreds of Madoff victims, said in court
papers filed Feb. 18 in Manhattan.  Levy, who died in 2005 at age 93, transferred $90 billion
between 1997 and 2001, including $35 billion in 2001 and $23
billion in 2000, which Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC returned in the same amount each year, according to court
documents. The transfers were eight times larger than all other
Madoff customer combined transfers for that period.    Irving Picard , named as the trustee to liquidate Madoff’s
firm, settled with the estate and family of Levy last January
for $220 million, the amount of money Levy and they allegedly
profited from their accounts.  Chaitman, an attorney with the New York City firm of Becker
& Poliakoff LLP who was a Madoff investor, said she represents
about 500 Madoff victims, including about 100 who were sued by
Picard in so-called “clawback” lawsuits.  The request to vacate the settlement “is without merit”
and the trustee “will respond in court at the appropriate
time,” Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, said in an e-
mail.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Suits  Allstate Sues Citigroup, Deutsche Bank Over Securities    Allstate Corp ., the largest publicly traded U.S. home and
auto insurer, sued units of  Citigroup Inc . and  Deutsche Bank AG 
over claims they fraudulently sold hundreds of millions of
dollars of mortgage-backed securities.  Allstate is seeking to recover the lost market value of the
securities, as well as principal and interest payments,
according to complaints filed Feb. 18 in New York state Supreme
Court in Manhattan.  The insurer said it bought more than $200 million of the
securities, backed by residential mortgages, from the Citigroup
defendants and about $185 million from the Deutsche Bank units
after relying on misrepresentations and omissions regarding
underwriting standards, owner occupancy data and loan-to-value
ratios.  “Allstate was made to believe it was buying highly rated,
safe securities,” the Northbrook, Illinois-based company said
in its complaint against New York-based Citigroup. “Defendants
knew the pools were toxic mixes of loans extended to borrowers
who could not afford the properties and thus were highly likely
to default.”  Alexander Samuelson, a Citigroup spokesman, and Scott
Helfman, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, declined
to immediately comment.  Allstate, which accuses the banks of common-law fraud and
negligent misrepresentation, filed a similar complaint Feb. 15
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co . over $700 million of mortgage-
backed securities.  The cases are Allstate Insurance Co. v. Ace Securities
Corp., 650431/2001, and Allstate Insurance Co. v. Citimortgage
Inc. 650432/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Viking Global Sues Porsche Over Short-Selling Losses  Viking Global Investors sued  Porsche Automobil Holding SE 
over short-selling losses, claiming Porsche misrepresented its
plans to take over  Volkswagen AG , causing the New York hedge
fund run by Andreas Halvorsen $390 million in losses.  The New York state court suit follows others that accuse
Porsche of deceiving investors by denying through much of 2008
that it intended to acquire Volkswagen. Porsche said on Oct. 26,
2008, that it controlled most of Volkswagen’s common stock,
causing the shares to surge as short-sellers raced to cover
their positions.  Now that VW shares have fallen back to levels last seen in
2007, the short sellers’ assessment of the value of the shares
has proven correct, according to the complaint filed in state
Supreme Court in Manhattan. German market regulators also have
been investigating Porsche’s market manipulation and top
executives have lost their posts and are the subject of an
insider trading probe in Germany, according to the complaint.  “All of this is of little solace for Viking, however,
which lost at least $390 million terminating and/or hedging its
short positions in the two days following Porsche’s surprise
announcement,” Viking Global said in the complaint. Viking
Global made similar claims in a complaint filed Oct. 22 in
federal court in Manhattan.  A spokesman for the automaker couldn’t be reached Feb. 18
after regular business hours.  The case is Viking Global Equities v. Porsche Automobil,
650435/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Barclays Added as Defendant in Del Monte Shareholders Lawsuit    Del Monte Foods Co . shareholders added Barclays Capital,
the company’s financial adviser, to a lawsuit seeking to stop a
$5.3 billion takeover led by KKR & Co.  The shareholders’ law firm, Grant & Eisenhofer, told the
Delaware Chancery Court of the move in a Feb. 18 letter. Also
that day, Del Monte said it will seek takeover offers following
a Delaware judge’s decision to delay the deal. Barclays had a
conflict in handling the auction of the company because it also
helped finance the KKR-led offer, the judge said.  Barclays said in an e-mailed statement that its sale
process included 53 potential buyers for Del Monte and didn’t
yield a higher price. The $19 a share price is 40 percent more
than the average trading price for the three months prior to the
possibility of a sale becoming public, Barclays said.  “We look forward to the opportunity to set the record
straight in court,” Barclays said. “Barclays Capital was not
named as a defendant when the Delaware Chancery Court made its
preliminary ruling on February 14, and as a result, has not had
the opportunity to provide the court with all of the facts
relating to its work for Del Monte or refute the plaintiffs’
version of events.”  The ruling by Judge J. Travis Laster postponed a
shareholder vote of the KKR deal until March 7. Del Monte was
sued in December by a shareholder seeking more than the $19 a
share offered. A buyout would give New York-based KKR access to
Del Monte’s pet-food business, which has more than doubled sales
in the past four years.  The case is In re Del Monte Foods Co. Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  U.S. Said to End Criminal Investigation of Mozilo  The  U.S. Justice Department  has ended a criminal
investigation of former Countrywide Financial Corp. Chief
Executive Officer  Angelo Mozilo  and won’t bring charges, a
person familiar with the investigation said.  The person asked not to be identified because the
investigation hadn’t been made public.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation started a probe of
possible securities fraud at the mortgage lender in 2008, people
familiar with the case said at the time. Mozilo, 72, last year
agreed to pay $67.5 million to settle a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit accusing him of misleading
investors.  Brendan Sullivan, a lawyer for Mozilo, didn’t return a call
to his office outside regular business hours.  The SEC sued Mozilo and two other former Countrywide
executives in June 2009. The agency said the three publicly
reassured investors about the quality of Countrywide’s loans
while knowing that the lender was fueling its growth at least
since the beginning of 2005 by letting its underwriting
guidelines deteriorate, and by originating an increasing number
of risky subprime loans.  Mozilo’s penalty was the biggest ever to be paid by a
senior executive of a publicly traded company in an SEC
settlement, the agency said last year.  The SEC alleged that Mozilo sold $140 million in
Countrywide shares from November 2006 through October 2007 at an
inflated price because he hadn’t disclosed the increasing risk
he knew the company faced from defaulting mortgages.  Mozilo, along with former Countrywide Chief Operating
Officer David Sambol, also agreed to a $6.5 million settlement
to resolve a predatory lending lawsuit filed by California,
state Attorney General Kamala Harris said Feb. 2 in a statement.  BP Says Feinberg Fund ‘Exceeds’ Law Requiring Spill Payments    BP Plc ’s $20 billion oil-spill damages fund, run by Kenneth
Feinberg, “far exceeds” the company’s legal obligations to
compensate victims of the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history, company lawyers said in a court filing.  U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier of New Orleans, who is
overseeing more than 350 lawsuits seeking damages for economic
and personal injuries from the BP oil spill, asked for opinions
on whether the company is doing enough to satisfy a U.S. law
requiring a party responsible for an oil spill to compensate
victims.  BP is doing everything it’s legally required to do and
more, through Feinberg’s Gulf Coast Claims Facility, the
company’s lawyers said Feb. 18 in a filing.  “That there may be different ways to run a claims process
does not mean that the GCCF’s chosen methods fail to comply”
with the law, Don Haycraft, one of BP’s lawyers, said in the
filing. The statute “does not give claimants, or the attorneys
general, any right to demand judicial involvement in or
modification of the claims process.”  The BP claims process isn’t working, public officials from
Gulf Coast states and lawyers suing the company said in opposing
filings with the court. Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood
asked Barbier in a filing Feb 18 to appoint the Gulf Coast state
attorneys general or other independent watchdogs to monitor
Feinberg’s claims-payment facility, which Hood said “is
operating without sufficient oversight.”  BP has used Feinberg’s claims-payment facility to “avoid
court oversight and to evade adherence to the mandates” of the
Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which governs payment for offshore
spill damages, Hood said in the filing.  The case is In Re. Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Credit Suisse Can Be Sued by Resort Owners in Montana, Idaho  Property owners at upscale resorts in Montana and Idaho can
sue  Credit Suisse Group AG  for $24 billion over allegations the
bank made predatory loans so it could take over the resorts when
the debts couldn’t be repaid.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Ronald Bush in Boise, Idaho, refused
to throw out negligence, conspiracy and breach of fiduciary duty
claims, according to a recommendation and report filed Feb. 17.
Bush dismissed fraud, misrepresentation and unjust enrichment
claims against Credit Suisse while giving property owners an
opportunity to renew those claims by adding details to the
lawsuit. The bank and real estate brokerage Cushman & Wakefield
Inc., also a defendant in the case, won dismissal of
racketeering claims.  The lawsuit was filed in January 2010 on behalf of 3,000
investors who bought land or homes at four developments,
including Tamarack Resort in Idaho and the luxury Yellowstone
Club in Montana.  “We welcome the magistrate judge’s recommendations that
many of plaintiffs’ claims should be dismissed,” Duncan King, a
Credit Suisse spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
remain confident that the remaining claims are without merit and
intend to vigorously defend against them.”  Dwayne Doherty, a Cushman & Wakefield spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a voice mail message left after regular
business hours Feb. 17.  The case is Gibson v. Credit Suisse, 10-00001, U.S.
District Court, District of Idaho (Boise).  Oracle Wins Court Review of U.S. Sharing Lawsuit Data (Update1)    Oracle Corp ., the world’s second-biggest software maker,
won a ruling that forces the U.S. to seek court permission
before giving state prosecutors company data collected in a
whistleblower lawsuit.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Thomas Rawles Jones in Alexandria,
Virginia, said Feb. 18 that the Justice Department would have to
show it had “good cause” for sharing any of Oracle’s
confidential information with the states to get his approval.  “But if you show there was a violation of state law and
you ask us to allow that, it’s difficult to imagine that I
wouldn’t give you authority to do that,” Jones said during the
hearing. “Another trip to court is a small price to pay to make
sure it happens the right way.”  Oracle is accused in a U.S. lawsuit of overcharging the
government on software contracts worth $1 billion.  “We’re pleased with the court’s ruling,” said Oracle
lawyer Drew Harker of Arnold & Porter LLP in Washington.  David Wiseman, a lawyer for the Justice Department,
declined to comment on the decision.  Lawyers specializing in whistleblower cases said Oracle’s
bid to shield documents from state governments may be an attempt
to limit the company’s liability, which lawyers not involved in
the case estimate to be as much as $1 billion in the U.S. suit
alone.  The lawsuit was filed under the False Claims Act in 2007 by  Paul Frascella , a former Oracle employee, and joined by the
Justice Department on July 29. The act lets citizens sue on
behalf of the government and share in any recovery, while the
government has the option of intervening in a case. The U.S. is
seeking triple damages and can collect as much as $11,000 for
each false billing.  The case is U.S. v. Oracle Corp., 07-cv-00529, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  Bloxham Must Defend Swaps Suit by Nuns With  Morgan Stanley   Irish brokerage firm  Bloxham  must defend a lawsuit filed by
nuns, a veterinary fund and 85 other investors claiming they
lost money when Morgan Stanley failed to sell notes soon enough
after they were downgraded.  Judge Elizabeth Gloster in London Feb. 18 granted a request
by Morgan Stanley’s lawyer, Laurence Rabinowitz, to add Bloxham
as a defendant to the lawsuit. She separately declined the
plaintiffs’ request to order the bank to hand over more
evidence, saying it was “not right to put the onus on the
defendants at this stage.”  The  Sisters of Charity of Jesus and Mary , the Holy Faith
Sisters, the Irish Veterinary Benevolent Fund and other
individual investors sued Morgan Stanley and Saturns Investments
Europe Plc, a special-purpose vehicle set up by the New York-
based bank, in August.  The investors bought 5.88 million euros ($8 million) of the
notes through Bloxham in 2005 and 2006, according to the
lawsuit. The claimants said Morgan Stanley “deliberately or
carelessly failed to redeem the notes” when they were
downgraded to junk status in January 2009, allowing Morgan
Stanley to reap a profit for itself.  Morgan Stanley and Saturns waited until June 2009, after
the price of underlying bonds had risen significantly, to redeem
the notes in which the nuns invested, according to the suit.
Waiting secured for “Morgan Stanley a profit of at least $11.2
million on the sale of the notes by way of a termination
payment,” lawyers for the nuns said in the lawsuit. The notes
were sold to “a related Morgan Stanley entity” at a profit.  A call and e-mail to Bloxham seeking comment weren’t
immediately returned.  The case is The Sisters of Charity of Jesus and Mary & ors
v. Morgan Stanley & Co., 2010/960, High Court of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division (London).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Cop-Turned-Judge Challenges Banks to Clear Foreclosure Backlog  Judge Israel Reyes is giving the biggest U.S. banks a
choice: Wrap up the home foreclosure cases clogging his Miami
court, or dismiss them and walk away. Most are walking away,
Bloomberg News’ David McLaughlin reports.  “Listen, it’s either settlement or trial today. That’s
it,” Reyes, 51, a former homicide detective, said two weeks ago
to one lawyer who sought an extension after the homeowner
received a temporary loan modification. “This case is over a
year old.”  Reyes, a  judge  for Florida’s 11th Judicial Circuit, is
forcing banks to take their cases to trial to clear his backlog
of almost 3,000 foreclosures. Instead of moving ahead, the
companies are backing down. They’re dismissing their own cases
or not showing up to trial because they’re not prepared or,
according to lawyers for homeowners, they can’t come up with the
evidence required to seize the properties.  Meanwhile, foreclosure activity across the U.S. is
plummeting. Default notices, scheduled auctions and bank
repossessions affected about 261,000 properties in the U.S. in
January, a 17 percent decrease from a year earlier, according to
RealtyTrac Inc. Lenders are “bogged down” reviewing
foreclosure procedures and grappling with accusations of
improper home seizures, RealtyTrac said in a Feb. 10 statement.  Florida’s foreclosure rate -- the proportion of housing
units in foreclosure or bank-owned -- dropped 54 percent from a
year ago, according to Irvine, California-based RealtyTrac,
which collects foreclosure data.  Foreclosures in Florida are typically approved at the
summary judgment stage, before trial. At trial, a bank that’s
unprepared to prove its case risks losing. Banks can voluntarily
dismiss a case once and refile it. Generally, a second dismissal
is final and the case can’t be refiled, preventing the lender
from seizing the home, according to Mike Wasylik, a Florida
attorney who defends homeowners in foreclosure cases.  For more, click here.  Court Upholds Regulator Appeal Against Fortescue  An Australian court ruled  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd . and
its Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Forrest  misled investors over
iron ore project accords with China, upholding an appeal from
the corporate regulator.  Forrest and Fortescue have to pay the costs of the appeal
by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, or
ASIC, according to a faxed copy of the court orders Feb. 18 by
three judges of the Federal Court of Australia. The judges
overturned a Dec. 23, 2009, judgment in favor of Forrest and his
Perth-based company, who both denied the allegations.  The regulator had alleged Forrest and Fortescue engaged in
misleading and deceptive conduct in 2004 by overstating
agreements with three Chinese companies for the development of
its A$2.8 billion ($2.84 billion) ore project. Forrest also had
breached duties as a director, the regulator claimed.  “There’s been no decision from the Federal Court in
relation to penalties, that will be dealt with at a later
date,” Emma Forhan, a spokeswoman for ASIC said Feb. 18 by
phone. Forrest faces possible penalties, including being barred
as a director and paying a fine.  Fortescue and Forrest contravened parts of the Corporations
Act 2001, according to the Feb. 18 ruling. The matter will be
sent back to a federal court judge, it said.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  BOC Hong Kong Manager Cleared of Lehman Products Fraud  A BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd. manager was found not
guilty of  fraudulently  or recklessly inducing her retail banking
customers to buy structured products linked to  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc .  Judge Garry Tallentire said in his verdict delivered in
Hong Kong’s District Court Feb. 18 that he found the banker
Cheung Kwai-kwai honest and some of the witnesses for the
prosecution unreliable.  The Hong Kong case underscores how the fallout from the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history continues to ripple around
the world, three years after Lehman collapsed with $613 billion
in liabilities. About 43,000 investors in Hong Kong bought an
estimated $1.8 billion of equity-linked notes known as minibonds
that were connected to Lehman and sold by commercial banks.  Cheung, 48, warned customers that they risked losing their
investments in the custom-made securities, which lost their
value after Lehman’s bankruptcy in 2008, Peter Duncan, her
lawyer, had told the court.  Jonathan Man for the prosecution declined to comment on
whether the government would appeal.  Angel Yip, a BOC Hong Kong spokeswoman, said last month
Cheung is still employed by the bank. Another employee charged
for the same offense, Tai Ching, is scheduled to be tried next
month.  “We are disappointed,” said Chan Ho-wai of a group called
the Alliance of Lehman Brothers Victims after the verdict. They
will continue to seek to recover their money, he said.  The case is Hong Kong SAR v. Cheung Kwai Kwai,
DCCC526/2010, in Hong Kong District Court.  For more, click here.  Rabbi in SAC Extortion Plot Sentenced to 4 Years in Prison  Milton Balkany, a Brooklyn, New York, rabbi, was sentenced
to four years in prison for trying to extort $4 million from
Steven Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors LP.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote sentenced Balkany Feb. 18
in Manhattan. Balkany, 64, was convicted by a federal jury in
November of extortion, blackmail and other charges. His defense
attorney, Alan Kaufman, had asked for leniency.  “Just because you lead a charitable institution doesn’t
give you a pass to commit extortion and fraud,” Cote told
Balkany in court.  At the trial, prosecutors said the rabbi, who was dean of
the Bais Yaakov day school in the Borough Park neighborhood in
Brooklyn, told the Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund that
he was the spiritual adviser to a federal prisoner in Otisville,
New York, who could implicate the fund in wrongdoing. Balkany
then called prosecutors in an attempt to put pressure upon SAC
to further his scheme.  The case is U.S. v. Balkany, 10cr441, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Merck Vioxx Accord Spawns Pay-Day Scrap Among Lawyers  Plaintiffs’ lawyers involved in Merck & Co.’s $4.85 billion
Vioxx settlement are accusing some of their colleagues of
attempting to hog the lion’s share of more than $315 million in
fees spawned by the accord.  Attorneys who lead a court-appointed committee that
allocates fees are arbitrarily deciding fee awards, with a small
number of firms getting a rate of $2,205 an hour for their work
while others are assigned a $21 hourly rate for handling
depositions of witnesses and poring through records, objecting
lawyers contend in court filings in New Orleans.  Objectors like Turner Branch contend the committee’s
division of the Vioxx fees “is unjustified, inexcusable, and
lacking any rational basis,” according to a Feb. 9 court
filing. Branch, a New Mexico-based plaintiffs’ attorney, is
seeking $3.9 million in fees. The committee initially awarded
him about $281,000, yet listed zero in its recommendation to the
judge, according to court filings. Branch didn’t return a phone
call seeking comment.  Merck won 11 of 16 Vioxx lawsuits that went to trial before
agreeing in November 2007 to settle almost 50,000 claims of
users who blamed the drug for heart attacks and strokes. Lawyers
who worked on a consolidation of Vioxx cases before U.S.
District Judge  Eldon Fallon  in New Orleans are slated to split
$315.3 million in fees for their work on the cases.  Fallon, who is overseeing all Vioxx cases filed in federal
courts around the U.S., Feb. 17 appointed a special master to
oversee the fee split submitted last month by the so-called
Vioxx Fee Allocation Committee, said Mark Lanier, a Houston-
based plaintiffs’ attorney. The committee, appointed by Fallon,
includes lawyers representing nine of the 109 firms in the
settlement pool.  The case is Vioxx Products Liability Litigation, MDL-1657,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  On the Docket  Allen Stanford Receiver to Argue for SocGen Subpoena Feb. 28  Lawyers for R. Allen Stanford’s U.S. court-appointed
receiver are scheduled to appear with those for a  Societe
Generale  unit before a federal judge to resolve a dispute over
subpoenaed records.  U.S. District Judge David Godbey in Dallas set a hearing
for Feb. 28 to address the disagreement between the Lausanne,
Switzerland-based unit of the Paris-based bank and the
receivership overseeing the indicted financier’s businesses.  Citing Swiss banking secrecy laws, Societe Generale Private
Banking (Suisse) SA has objected to receiver Ralph Janvey’s Dec.
13 subpoena demanding that the bank turn over all of its records
after Jan. 1, 2000, for accounts held by Stanford personally or
by his businesses.  “Production of the requested documents would force SG
Suisse and its officers and employees to violate Swiss
substantive law,” including laws prohibiting the release of the
type of records Janvey seeks, the bank said in a Feb. 7 court
filing.  Stanford, 60, is civilly and criminally accused by the U.S.
of leading a $7 billion investment-fraud scheme through the sale
of certificates of deposit by his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. He has denied any wrongdoing.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed its
enforcement proceeding against the Texas financier two years ago
Feb. 18. The receivership is recovering money to repay
Stanford’s investors and creditors.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  Rajaratnam Judge to Submit Questionnaire on March 2  The judge overseeing the insider-trading trial of Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam will distribute a
questionnaire to 300 prospective jurors on March 2.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan said in an
order filed Feb. 18 that prospective panelists must complete the
questionnaire that day, and that prosecutors and defense lawyers
will have 24 hours to review the responses to determine who
should be excused from the jury.  The questionnaire will focus on the potential “hardship”
to jurors asked to serve in a trial that may last several
months. Rajaratnam also wanted jurors to be asked whether they
are biased against Wall Street professionals.  Rajaratnam is accused of earning $45 million by trading on
illegal tips from traders, corporate insiders and others. He
denies wrongdoing.  Holwell said he will hold a hearing on March 3 “regarding
any proposed excusal to which the other party does not agree.”
The trial is scheduled to begin on March 8.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 