-- 
Colombian Coffee Group Sees ‘Very Good’ Crop in Main Areas

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-02-22T21:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/colombian-coffee-group-sees-very-good-harvest-in-main-areas.html
  Colombia , the second-largest arabica
coffee-bean producer, said flowering in recent weeks in major
growing areas will ensure a “very good” year-end harvest.  Year-end production will rebound in the most important
provinces of Antioquia, Quindio, Caldas and Risaralda, ensuring
the annual harvest will surpass last year’s 8.9 million bags,
 Colombia’s National Federation of Coffee Growers  Chief Executive
Officer Luis Genaro Munoz said in an interview in Bogota.  “The production is there,” he said yesterday. “I frankly
didn’t sleep until Friday. Friday and Saturday the flowering was
completed” in the central growing areas, he said.  Above-average rainfall hurt coffee trees last year,
prompting a decline in exports and a surge in prices. Coffee
doubled in the past year, making it the second-best performer
among 22 commodities tracked by the Bloomberg CRR Futures List.  Arabica coffee for May delivery gained 1.35 cents, or 0.5
percent, to settle at $2.7435 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York . The price earlier declined as much as 2.65
cents to $2.7035.  Production in Huila, Colombia’s second-largest growing
province after Antioquia, will rise in the first six months of
the year, Munoz said. Huila, which produces beans brewed by
companies including  Starbucks Corp ., and other nearby growing
areas had less severe rainfall than areas farther north, where
precipitation in some cases was four times average last year,
Munoz said.  Stalled Recovery  Damage in those areas to flowering last year will cause a
recovery in the nationwide crop to stall in the first half, he
said.  Colombia aims to increase production as it accelerates
plans this year to sow more disease-resistant coffee varieties,
Munoz said. A disease caused by fungus, known locally as roya,
that attacks plants probably peaked last year, Munoz said.  Last year, exports slid by 78,000 bags to 7.82 million
bags. Output in 2010 fell short of the 9.5 million bags forecast
in October by the federation. A bag weighs 60 kilograms (132
pounds).  Brazil  is the largest producer of arabica beans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  