-- 
Commodity Mergers to Accelerate on Output Constraints, Olam Says

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-02-22T07:12:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/commodity-mergers-to-accelerate-on-output-constraints-olam-says.html
Mergers and acquisitions among
energy and commodities companies will likely accelerate as
countries seek to secure supplies of key resources amid growing
constraints on output, according to  Olam International Ltd .  “The world is shifting to supply constraint environments
for resources,” Sunny Verghese, the chief executive officer of
the Singapore-based supplier of more than 20 commodities, said
in an interview.   India  and China are going head to head in
every market for energy sources or metals or minerals or
whatever, because it is now the critical constraint.”  Global corn inventories are currently at the lowest in 37
years as farmers fail to produce enough grain to meet rising
consumption, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.
Copper was in shortage for at least 10 months of last year,
International Copper Study Group said yesterday. Heavy rains
pushed up the price of rubber to a record Feb. 18 as demand
outpaces supply.  Power and mining overtook telecommunications and consumer
banking this year to join oil and gas as the three most targeted
industries, according to Bloomberg data. The three areas
accounted for 299 deals worth $94.3 billion so far this year,
the data show.  China  leapfrogged the U.S. as the world’s largest
energy user in 2010.  “I’d say resources are in the top rankings for M&A
activity, it’s definitely one of the most active sectors,” said
Gregory Lafitte, head of Asian merger arbitrage at Louis Capital
Markets Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “With the low financing environment,
and building cash reserves of big commodity companies, we’re
getting back to the levels of 2006 and 2007 for resource M&A.”  Seeking Assets  Olam, one of the world’s top three suppliers of rice, cocoa
and coffee, is seeking sugar milling assets in India,  Brazil ,  Indonesia  and  Vietnam , wheat milling plants in Cameroon and the
Republic of Congo, rubber plantations in Cambodia and Gabon, and
cotton in  Zimbabwe  and the Jenin Governorate among other targets,
Verghese said Feb. 14 on a conference call.  The company would also like to expand grain and dairy
operations in Ukraine when there is more political stability in
the former Soviet nation, Verghese said.  Olam ended its merger talks with Louis Dreyfus Commodities,
the world’s largest rice and cotton trader, in December
believing the Singapore-based company has better options with a
standalone model, Verghese said. The tie-up would have united
Olam’s strength in Asia and Africa, cocoa, coffee and edible
nuts, with Dreyfus’s positions in Latin America, oil seeds, and
orange juice, he said.  Rising Costs  Rising costs are expected to encourage mergers, according
to Lafitte. “Due to the rising prices in commodities and the
cost of development of projects in regions like  Africa ,
producers are looking to merge to reduce costs,” he said.  “There’s an appetite especially from the emerging markets,
like China and India, who are short of the resources. We’re
seeing more bids coming in for resources from Chinese
companies.”  Expectations that more rural citizens will become city
dwellers in emerging countries including India, China, Vietnam,  Russia  and Indonesia, as well as supply constraints due to water
shortages, deforestation, and potential carbon taxes, are also
pushing traders to move into production assets, Verghese said.  Olam, a company started with $100,000 in 1989, began buying
production assets in 2007. It has completed 20 purchases since
then worth S$1.8 billion and started $1.7 billion of greenfield
projects, according to a Deutsche Bank AG report on Feb. 11. The
investments have made Olam the world’s second-largest almond
orchard grower, Verghese said.  Pricing Power  As commodity and energy demand grows, the earnings and
pricing power has transferred from processing industries and
big-brand retailers to the raw materials suppliers and farmers,
he said.  “The last five years, the guys that had the best profit
margins are the resource owners, because the world now is
shifting to supply constraint environments for resources,”
Verghese said. “A disproportionate share of the profits will be
appropriated by the people who own the production assets and the
farming assets.”  ArcelorMittal SA, the world’s largest steelmaker, posted a
fourth-quarter net loss of $780 million on rising prices for
coal and iron ore, its two key raw materials.  Vale SA , the
world’s top iron ore producer, reported $6 billion profit in the
third quarter, the latest available, which was four times the
net income in the company’s first quarter.  “Everyone will be trying to jockey for position to see what
kind of combinations can put them ahead of everyone else,”
Verghese said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Singapore, via the Tokyo newsroom at 
3521 or  yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  