-- 
UConn Basketball Coach Calhoun Suspended Three Games for NCAA Violations

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-22T22:05:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/connecticut-s-calhoun-will-be-cited-by-ncaa-over-recruiting-espn-reports.html
University of Connecticut  basketball
coach Jim Calhoun was suspended for three games next season by
the NCAA for failing to monitor recruiting violations by the
school that included more than $6,000 in improper benefits given
to a former player.  A Hall of Fame coach who led Connecticut to national
championships in 1999 and 2004, Calhoun will have to sit out the
first three Big East Conference games next season, the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association ’s Division I Committee on
Infractions said in a news release.  “I am very disappointed with the NCAA’s decision in this
case,” Calhoun said in a statement. “My lawyer and I are
evaluating my options and will make a decision which way to
proceed.”  The Storrs, Connecticut, school also will forfeit a total
of three men’s basketball scholarships -- one each year through
the 2012-13 season -- and serve a three-year probation period
during which it will face recruiting restrictions.  The Huskies self-reported the violations last year and
forfeited a scholarship this season. They’ll give up one more
next season and a third in 2012-13.  “We felt that the penalties that were imposed are adequate
and fair in regard to the allegations,” committee chairman
Dennis Thomas, the commissioner of the Mid-Eastern Athletic
Conference, said on a conference call. “The head coach is
responsible for what’s going on in his program.”  The penalties against the program don’t include a
postseason ban, which Thomas said was among the possible
penalties considered. The Huskies have a 20-6 record this season
and are pursuing a 17th trip to the NCAA tournament in the past
22 years under Calhoun.  “I will not make any further statements about the case as
our program prepares for what I hope will be an exciting and
successful postseason,” Calhoun said.  Hall of Fame Coach  Calhoun, 68, is in his 25th year at  Connecticut , where he
has a  595-227 record . He was inducted into the  Naismith
Basketball Hall of Fame  in 2006 and has an 843-364 record in 39
seasons as a college head coach.  The NCAA and university began investigating the basketball
program after a March 2009 report by Yahoo Sports said that
former team manager Josh Nochimson -- described in the NCAA’s
report as a booster -- helped steer Nate Miles to Connecticut.  Miles was expelled from the school in 2008 for violating a
restraining order and didn’t play for the UConn team that
reached the 2009 Final Four.  Calhoun, in his “zeal” to get Miles admitted to the
school and eligible to compete, allowed Nochimson, who was a
certified agent by the  National Basketball Association , to be
involved in the recruiting process and “overlooked
indications” that the booster might be breaking NCAA rules, the
infractions committee said.  The NCAA said Nochimson provided Miles with impermissible
inducements that included the payment of at least a portion of
the expenses for the young man’s foot surgery; the cost of his
enrollment at a basketball academy; the registration fee for
college testing, and strength, conditioning and basketball
training.  ‘Frequent Contact’  “The men’s basketball staff was aware of the booster’s
status as an agent and his relationship with the prospect,” the
NCAA said in its statement. “In fact, the coaches had frequent
contact with the booster through approximately 2,000 phone calls
or  text messages  with the agent throughout the recruitment
process. Despite this regular contact, the men’s basketball
coaching staff did not question the booster about his
relationship with the prospect.”  In October 2010, Connecticut acknowledged recruiting
violations and self-imposed sanctions that included two years’
probation and the loss of two scholarships. The school defended
Calhoun in its report.  The infractions committee said today that “based on the
scope and nature of the violations,” Calhoun failed to promote
an atmosphere for compliance and failed to monitor the program
regarding phone calls, text messages and inducements provided by
the booster.  The NCAA added an extra year for the probationary period,
stripped the program of an additional scholarship and said
Connecticut must permanently disassociate itself from Nochimson.  Among the recruiting restrictions UConn faces is a
reduction in off-campus recruiting visits and number of phone
calls to prospective recruits.  “We are disappointed that the committee determined that
additional penalties needed to be imposed,” Connecticut
Athletic Director Jeffrey Hathaway said. “We value the
principles of the NCAA and fully recommit ourselves to running a
program of impeccable integrity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  