-- 
Copper Falls Most Since November as Oil-Cost Gain May Slow Economy, Demand

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-02-22T19:18:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/copper-falls-most-since-november-as-oil-cost-gain-may-slow-economy-demand.html
Copper fell the most in three months
on concern that the surging cost of oil may slow economic
growth, curbing demand for the metal used in wires and plumbing.  Oil jumped to the highest price in more than two years in  New York  as intensifying violence in Libya, the holder of
Africa’s largest crude reserves, fueled concern that supplies
may be disrupted. Equity markets declined around the world.  “Today’s selling in metals is largely attributable to the
fear that the surge in oil prices will inevitably lead to bouts
of higher inflation and  interest rates , resulting in slower
growth down the road,” Edward Meir, a senior commodity analyst
at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien, Connecticut, said in a
report.  Copper futures for May delivery dropped 13.3 cents, or 3
percent, to close at $4.363 a pound at 1:28 p.m. on the Comex in
New York, the biggest decline for a most-active contract since
Nov. 16. Yesterday, U.S. markets were closed for a public
holiday.  “It’s really a function of  risk aversion  that is becoming
a bigger factor as we see more conflict in the Middle East,
particularly Libya,” said  Daniel Brebner , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “Oil prices are rising, and there
may be some result in lower growth.”  Copper has climbed 31 percent in the past year as the
global economic recovery accelerated.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for three-month
delivery dropped $230, or 2.3 percent, to $9,580 a metric ton
($4.35 a pound).  Lead, nickel, zinc, aluminum and tin also declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  