-- 
Wheat, Corn Fall as Highest Prices Since 2008 May Curb Demand

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-02-22T13:55:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/corn-wheat-drop-as-highest-prices-in-more-than-two-years-may-erode-demand.html
Wheat, corn and soybeans fell in  Chicago  on speculation that the highest prices since 2008 will
erode demand. Wheat also slid on bets that more declines are in
store after the biggest weekly drop since October.  Corn reached the highest level since July 2008 today,
sparking concern that buyers may slow purchases of the grain.
Soybeans rose to the highest since July 2008 on Feb. 9, and
wheat touched the highest price since August 2008 five days
later. Rainfall in China and  Argentina  and moderate temperatures
in the U.S., where frost damage was a concern, may have
pressured prices.  “We’re already seeing demand being rationed and some
substitutions taking place,” said  Kona Haque , an analyst at
Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  London . “In soybeans, crops out of
Brazil and Argentina are being talked up because of recent
rains.”  Corn for May delivery fell 10.5 cents, or 1.5 percent, to
$7.0975 a bushel at 1:14 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board
of Trade, erasing a climb as high as $7.4425. May-delivery
soybeans lost 15.5 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $13.655 a bushel.
The exchange was closed yesterday to observe Presidents’ Day.  Wheat for May delivery dropped 20.25 cents, or 2.4 percent,
to $8.355 a bushel. Prices slid 3.1 percent on Feb. 18, capping
a 4.8 percent weekly retreat.  “There’s some repositioning because today is the first
session since Friday’s big drop,” said  William Adams , a  fund
manager  at Resilience AG in Zurich. “Wheat isn’t as bad off as
everybody thought.”  Milder Weather  Milling wheat for March delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris slid 2.5 percent to 253.50 euros ($346.74) a metric ton.  Moderate temperatures in the U.S. southern Great Plains and
Midwest, where winter varieties are grown, reduced concern about
damage to wheat from freezing weather, Carsten Fritsch, an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a report today.
He also pointed to efforts to restrain inflation in China.  The grain fell “due to milder weather in the U.S. growing
regions that has helped to calm fears of frost damage and the
restrictive economic measures in  China ,” Fritsch said. “Both
have prompted market players to profit-taking at the high  price
levels .”  Prices still may be supported by political strife in North
Africa, where riots partly sparked by rising food costs toppled
presidents in Tunisia and Egypt this year. Muammar Qaddafi’s 40-
year rule of Libya is now in jeopardy.  “Because food inflation is such a political issue,
governments cannot be seen just sitting there watching food
prices rise,” Macquarie’s Haque said by telephone today. “They
have to stockpile. The only thing worse than an angry mob is a
hungry mob.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  