-- 
Court Spurns Investors Seeking $8 Billion on Hitler-Voided Bonds

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-02-22T15:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/court-spurns-investors-seeking-8-billion-on-hitler-voided-bonds.html
The U.S. Supreme Court rejected an
appeal by a Cyprus-based company trying to collect as much as $8
billion on German bonds repudiated when  Adolf Hitler  took power
in 1933.  The justices today left intact a ruling that threw out a
lawsuit against the German government by Mortimer Off Shore
Services Ltd., a company founded by millionaire Fouad Al-Zayat.  The lawsuit is one of two filed by Mortimer over 83-year-
old bonds whose potential value has soared because they are tied
to the price of gold. The case acted on today involved 351 of
the 1,611 bonds held by Mortimer while a separate suit filed
last year in Boston concerns the entire group. Mortimer’s
attorneys estimate each $1,000 bond is now worth $5 million.  The bonds were issued in 1928 by the Weimar Republic to
assist farmers and pay for agricultural development. Five years
later Hitler’s government suspended payment.  Al-Zayat began buying the bonds more than a decade ago. His
company, now run by his son and son-in-law, has spent millions
of dollars on the bonds and in pursuing court claims, according
to Peder Garske, an attorney representing Mortimer.  In throwing out the lawsuit, the New York-based 2nd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals said that sovereign immunity barred
suits over bonds issued in what was formerly East Germany. The
court also said Mortimer couldn’t collect on the bonds issued in  West Germany  because it didn’t comply with validation
requirements set out in a 1953 treaty between that country and
the U.S.  The case is Mortimer Off Shore Services v. Federal Republic
of  Germany , 10-814.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 