-- 
Demjanjuk Threatens German Court With Hunger Strike

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-02-22T13:14:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/demjanjuk-threatens-german-court-with-hunger-strike.html
  John Demjanjuk , on trial for aiding
in the murder of 27,900 Jews during World War II, said he will
go on hunger strike unless the judges in a Munich court hear
more evidence in his defense.  In his third personal statement to the court during the 14-
month trial, Demjanjuk, 90, today said the court is acting
illegally by refusing to retrieve documents from  Russia  as
requested by his lawyers. Ulrich Busch, his attorney, read the
statement before filing dozens of motions.  The request came as prosecutors prepared to start their
closing arguments in what may be the last major Holocaust trial
in  Germany . Demjanjuk, a Ukraine native and retired autoworker,
is accused of serving as a guard at the Sobibor extermination
camp from March to September 1943, when the Jews, mostly
deported from the Netherlands, were killed. Demjanjuk, who
arrived in court in a wheelchair, held a card showing 1627, the
docket number of a Russian file with 1,400 pages his lawyers are
seeking to obtain.  “I survived the brutality of Stalin and the Nazis and the
wrongful death sentence in  Israel ,” said Demjanjuk. “Now, at
the end of my life, the nation that so merciless and cruelly
murdered millions seeks to destroy my life and dignity and to
extinguish my mind in this politically motivated show trial.”  Germany “is trying to convict me, a Ukrainian peasant, for
crimes the Nazis committed, instead of convicting one of the
really guilty perpetrators,” he said.  Demjanjuk lived near  Cleveland  until he was stripped of his
U.S. citizenship and extradited to Israel in 1986. He was tried
there on charges he was “Ivan the Terrible,” the guard who
tortured Jews while herding them into the Treblinka
concentration camp gas chambers.  His death sentence and conviction in the case were
overturned in 1993 by Israel’s  Supreme Court , which  said  there
was reasonable doubt that he served at Treblinka. Demjanjuk
returned to the U.S., regaining his citizenship. In 2002, a U.S.
court revoked it again over his alleged role at Sobibor. He was
extradited to Germany to stand trial in Munich in 2009.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Karin Matussek at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net  