-- 
German Stocks Drop as Libyan Unrest Continues; K+S, Lufthansa Shares Fall

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-02-23T17:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/deutsche-boerse-e-on-rwe-merck-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated for a third
straight day for the first time this year as Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight a growing rebellion until his
“last drop of blood.”  K+S AG,  Europe ’s largest potash supplier, declined 3.7
percent as food prices tumbled.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  slid 1.9
percent as oil prices rose.  MTU Aero Engines Holding AG  fell for
a second day, slumping 4.2 percent.  The benchmark  DAX Index  declined 1.7 percent to 7,194.60 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt . Even so, the gauge has rallied
4.1 percent this year amid optimism that the global economic
recovery is gathering strength. The broader  HDAX Index  also lost
1.7 percent today.  “The explosion of the oil price is fueling inflation and
macro-economic concerns,” said Ansgar Krekeler, Dusseldorf-
based sales analyst at WGZ Bank AG. “Despite a fear of
instability spreading to the Arabian peninsula or  Iran ,
investors should still have a bit of serenity. The DAX generated
a short-term sell signal on Monday, but the medium-term upward
trend is still intact.”  Qaddafi said that he will continue to fight even as one of
the Libyan ruler’s former aides told Canal+ television that it’s
a “matter of days” before rebels force the former army colonel
from power.  “He’s already used planes, tanks, mercenaries. What’s
left? Chemical weapons?” Nuri al-Mismari said.  Army units in Benghazi and Tobruk defected, leaving the
eastern port cities under the control of Qaddafi’s opponents.
Libya has Africa’s largest oil reserves.  K+S, Lufthansa Drop  K+S slid 3.7 percent to 54.40 euros, the lowest price this
month. Wheat slumped for a third day as investors speculated
that protests in North Africa and the Middle East may slow
global growth, reducing the demand for crops. Corn and rice also
fell, extending yesterday’s declines when all three grains fell
by the most allowed by the Chicago Board of Trade.  Lufthansa, Europe’s biggest airline by sales, slipped 1.9
percent to 14.94 euros as oil rose to the highest price in more
than two years. Crude for April delivery gained as much as $2 to
$97.42 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Carmakers Retreat    Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Daimler AG led European
carmakers to the worst performance among 19 industry groups in
the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index. The world’s biggest makers
of luxury cars retreated 3.5 percent to 58.30 euros and 3.3
percent to 51.29 euros, respectively.  MTU Aero Engines dropped 4.2 percent to 48.26 euros, the
biggest decline in more than five months. The German partner in
the group building engines for Airbus SAS’s A400M military-
transport plane reported earnings that missed some analysts’
estimates.  “The fourth-quarter figures fell short of expectation
because of a surprisingly quick impact from the German defense
budget cuts,” Markus Turnwald, an analyst at DZ Bank AG wrote
in a note to clients.    Roth & Rau AG  sank 7.6 percent to 14.26 euros, the largest
retreat this year. The maker of solar-cell production equipment
said today that 42.9 million euros ($58.9 million) of “special
items” at the operating level led to a 25.9 million-euro loss
in earnings before interest and tax. Ebit before special items
was a gain of 17 million euros. A year ago Ebit was 16.1 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  