-- 
Did Anti-Semitism Drive L’Oreal’s Takeover of Rubinstein? Books

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/did-anti-semitism-inspire-l-oreal-s-takeover-of-helena-rubinstein-books.html
Helena Rubinstein, the cosmetics
entrepreneur, was “the world’s first self-made female tycoon.”
Eugene Schueller, the founder of the French hair-color company
L’Oreal, thought women had no business in the workplace. In
1988, after their deaths, his firm acquired hers.  In “ Ugly Beauty: Helena Rubinstein, L’Oreal and the
Blemished History of Looking Good ,” Ruth Brandon plays the two
companies and their founders off each other. She admires
Rubinstein and hates Schueller, whom she blames for the misery
of his daughter and heir,  Liliane Bettencourt .  “Rubinstein’s New York living room, like everything else
about her, was tasteless but full of gusto,”  Brandon  writes,
citing the gold floor lamps, the purple and magenta velvet
chairs, the acid-green carpet. For her, Rubinstein epitomizes
the vulgar Jew, and her Jewishness is central to the story.  The ghetto-raised daughter of a Krakow kerosene merchant,
Rubinstein more or less ignored her roots until, following her
second marriage, in 1938, she was turned down when she tried to
buy a 26-room Park Avenue apartment.  “The building had a no-Jews policy. Enraged, Madame bought
the building,” Brandon says.  That was her first real encounter with anti-Semitism. In
the war that followed, one of her sisters refused to leave  Poland  and died in the camps.  Schueller on Trial  In  France , meanwhile, Eugene Schueller was busy taking
advantage of the German occupation: L’Oreal’s profits quadrupled
between 1940 and 1944. Brandon dutifully enumerates acts (such
as his donations to the Resistance) that weigh in his favor. He
was later tried twice for collaboration and acquitted both
times. But not by Brandon.  After the war, L’Oreal hired Jacques Correze, a war
criminal who’d been sentenced to 10 years hard labor for leading
a fascist gang that confiscated Jewish property. It was Correze
who, after Madame’s death, snapped up Helena Rubinstein for
L’Oreal, and Brandon is convinced he did it out of spite:  “Given his past, and his defiant arrogance, it is hard to
believe that Helena Rubinstein’s Jewishness played no part in
Correze’s absolute determination to acquire her business. He
never showed any interest in the very comparable Elizabeth
Arden.”  Wear Red Lipstick  For Brandon, Rubinstein isn’t just a paragon of female
independence but one of the founders of an industry that
championed it. “Participants in the big women’s suffrage
marches held in  New York  in 1912 and 1913,” she points out,
“were told to wear white shirtwaists -- and red lipstick, the
badge of independence.”  Cosmetics were frowned on in precisely those societies --
like Victorian  England  and Nazi  Germany  -- where women were
subjugated most severely. A major reason for Rubinstein’s
initial success was that she started her business in  Australia ,
where some 40 percent of working-age women were wage earners and
could buy her products without worrying about male disapproval.  In her final chapter, Brandon offers a double portrait of
“Two Old Ladies.” Rubinstein died at 92, an exuberant spender
and a holy terror to the end. Schueller’s daughter and heir,
Liliane Bettencourt, now 88, is one of the richest women in the
world and, as Brandon sees her, a living corpse.  Rubinstein Rebels  Rubinstein rebelled against her father to become a career
woman. “Work was, as she said, the best beauty treatment,”
Brandon writes.  Bettencourt (who in recent years has been the focus of a
pathetic, headline-grabbing scandal involving millions she
shelled out to a much younger man, Francois-Marie Banier) never
rebelled against her own authoritarian father or his insistence
that women should “stay home, devoting their lives to their
families,” Brandon says.  Brandon argues -- credibly, though of course it can’t be
proved -- that Bettencourt remains unfulfilled because she never
had a career.  And she does something more in this unshapely but
incisively written and fascinating history. She puts morality at
the center, which makes “Ugly Beauty” a very unusual business
book for the 21st century.  “Ugly Beauty” is published by Harper (290 pages, $26.99).
To buy this book in  North America , click here.    Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 