-- 
Djibouti's Government Says It Encourages Protests, Must Remain Within Law

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-02-22T11:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/djibouti-s-government-says-it-encourages-protests-must-remain-within-law.html
  Djibouti ’s government said it
believes rallies by political parties are a pre-requisite for
free and fair elections and that a violent demonstration last
week by opponents of the state was hijacked by “trouble-makers.”  One policeman died and nine other people were injured in
the Feb. 18 protests by opponents of President Ismail Guelleh,
Foreign Minister Mahmoud Ali Yousef said by phone from the
capital city, Djibouti, yesterday. Opposition parties are
meeting this week to decide when to hold their next
demonstration.  “The situation got out of hand” on Feb. 18, Yousef said.
“There were people who had nothing do with politics and had the
primary intention of creating chaos.”  Anti-government protests have spread from  Algeria  to Yemen
since January after popular uprisings ousted the presidents of
Egypt and Tunisia. In Djibouti, Guelleh’s People’s Rally for
Progress party has ruled since independence in 1977. The 63-
year-old leader, first elected in 1999, amended the constitution
in March 2010 to allow him to extend his rule by two more six-
year terms.  Djibouti’s government encourages opposition parties to take
part in activities including rallies in the run-up to a
presidential vote scheduled for April, as long as they act
“within the law,” Yousef said.  Trouble began on Feb. 18 after a peaceful protest at Hassan
Guled Stadium didn’t finish at dusk as agreed with local
authorities, he said.  ‘Trouble Making’  “It is very difficult to control trouble-making elements
after dark,” he said. “When it was going dark they started to
break cars, throw stones, beating people. Then police and the
security forces tried to contain them using tear gas.”  Opponents of Guelleh want to force him to resign so that a
transitional government can be installed to oversee the
elections, according to Mohamed Daoud Chehem, head of the
Djibouti Party for Development. The electoral commission’s
loyalty to the ruling party is one of the main obstacles to a
fair vote, he said in a phone interview yesterday from Djibouti
City, the capital.  A planned decision on the date for the next protest has
been delayed as the opposition seeks information on detained
activists, Chehem said. The number of people involved in last
week’s demonstration was as many as 600, Yousef said. The
opposition  National Democratic Party  said as many as 20,000
people took part, with as many as four losing their lives.  U.S. Base  The U.S. has had a military base in Djibouti since 2001,
while former colonial power  France  has 3,000 troops stationed in
the country, which is smaller than the U.S. state of  Massachusetts . The republic borders the  Red Sea  and the  Gulf of
Aden  and is seen as a strategic location in the U.S.-led fight
against terrorism and piracy.  Djibouti ranks 148th out of 169 countries in the United
Nations Development Program’s  Human Development Index , which
measures  life expectancy , education and  living standards .  An investigation is under way to determine whether
opposition leaders will be prosecuted for the violence at least
week’s protest, Yousef said.  “If you organize a demonstration, you have some
accountability,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  