-- 
Domestic Doldrums May Drag On Europe's Former Phone Monopolies

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-23T08:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/domestic-doldrums-may-drag-on-europe-s-former-phone-monopolies.html
Europe’s biggest telephone companies
may this week report shrinking revenue in their domestic markets
as sluggish economies and rivals’ price cuts take their toll.    Telefonica SA , the region’s largest former monopoly by
market value, may say fourth-quarter revenue from Spain fell 8.8
percent to 4.6 billion euros ($6.3 billion), the steepest
decline in at least a decade, according to the average estimate
of 10 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Telecom Italia SpA ’s slump
in domestic sales may reach 6.8 percent, while  France Telecom SA 
probably had a 1.5 percent drop, separate surveys show.  “You can make it a north-south divide,” said Heinrich Ey,
a fund manager at Allianz Global Investors in Frankfurt, which
manages about $150 billion including Telefonica, France Telecom
and  Deutsche Telekom AG  shares. “The more to the south you go
in Europe the more the negative impact from the macroeconomics
are weighing on performance. Telefonica is a very good example
where we see ongoing deterioration on mobile revenue.”  While Spain’s economy emerged from an almost two-year
recession in 2010, government austerity measures and rising
unemployment have undermined domestic consumption. Shrinking
revenue at home has forced Madrid-based Telefonica and France
Telecom to buy assets in emerging markets and focus on signing
domestic clients to higher-priced data plans.  Austrian Loss  Paris-based France Telecom and Milan-based Telecom Italia,
both scheduled to report earnings tomorrow, saw their stocks
slump 11 percent in 2010. Deutsche Telekom, the region’s biggest
phone company by sales, dropped 6.2 percent, while Telefonica
fell 13 percent for the worst performance on the Bloomberg
Europe Telecommunication Services Index. The two companies
release earnings Feb. 25.    Telekom Austria AG , the country’s biggest phone company,
today reported a surprise fourth-quarter loss of 61.1 million
euros that missed analysts’ estimates. Domestic sales fell 3.1
percent, offsetting gains in markets such as Belarus and Serbia.
The shares fell as much as 1.2 percent in Vienna.   Poland's  Telekomunikacja Polska SA , a unit of France 
Telecom, said today sales will continue falling this year on 
cuts in regulated prices and further decline in fixed-line 
revenue, delaying its return to growth by one year.  Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom, the largest operator in the
country that’s leading Europe’s economic recovery, may report a
1.7 percent decline in domestic revenue to 6.3 billion euros,
according to the average of 14 estimates.  'Low Expectations'  “Expecting growth from an ex-monopoly in its domestic
market is really difficult,” said Antonio Fernandez, an analyst
at Banco de Sabadell SA in  Madrid . “The expectations on such
companies are really low.”  Telefonica’s fourth-quarter operating income before
depreciation and appreciation in Spain probably shrank 18
percent to 2.07 billion euros, the survey showed. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is struggling to halt
losing customers such as Rocio Saenz de Santa Maria, a five-year
subscriber to Movistar, Telefonica’s wireless unit, who switched
to  Vodafone Group Plc  last year.  “I wasn’t happy with Movistar,” said Saenz de Santa
Maria, 21, who has seen her monthly phone bill cut by more than
half to 35 euros since joining Vodafone.  “I was paying way too
much for what I was actually using.”  French Packages  Last year, Alierta raised his bid three times to convince  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  to sell its part of their 50-50 venture
that controlled Brazil’s  Vivo Participacoes SA , Brazil’s largest
wireless operator. Fourth-quarter revenue from Telefonica’s
Latin American operations may have surged 21 percent to 7.6
billion euros, according to the analysts.  France Telecom, along with competitors  Vivendi SA  and  Bouygues SA , is preparing for the entry of a fourth mobile-phone
operator,  Iliad SA , in 2012. Iliad’s billionaire founder Xavier Niel has pledged to drag down prices in the wireless market to
match those in fixed-line, which run about 30 euros per month
for packages of TV, landline and broadband services.  At $604 a year, a high-end mobile package in France costs
more than double the U.K.’s $282, according to the  Organisation
for Economic Co-Operation and Development ’s most recent figures.  In Iliad’s Free brand, France Telecom faces a new rival
“whose marketing is really good, and a new competitor always
impacts earnings,” said Banco de Sabadell’s Fernandez. “The
operators are repositioning offers and that means decreasing
prices.”  Richard, Bernabe  Full-year domestic sales probably fell 1.5 percent to 23.3
billion euros, according to the average of nine estimates, and
may drop in 2011 to 22.8 billion euros. Still, group earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization may climb
to about 15.4 billion euros this year from 15 billion euros, the
average of 30 estimates.  France Telecom is benefitting from sales of high-end data
plans for smartphones such as  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and devices
running  Google Inc .’s Android operating system. The company is
the second-largest iPhone vendor, after AT&T Inc. of the U.S.  Operations in Africa and the Middle East, which posted a
9.8 percent increase in third-quarter revenue, are also likely
to help CEO Stephane Richard offset domestic weakness.  Telecom Italia, led by CEO Franco Bernabe, will probably
say fourth-quarter domestic revenue dropped 6.8 percent to 5.1
billion euros, according to the average of 15 estimates. Group
net income probably rose 61 percent to 670 million euros, helped
by the consolidation of Sofora Telecomunicaciones SA, the
company that controls  Telecom Argentina SA .  IPhone Rights  Telecom Italia-owned  Tim Participacoes SA , Brazil’s third-
largest mobile operator, reported Feb. 22 that fourth-quarter
profit rose more than fourfold on new subscribers.  “Macroeconomic uncertainties” were the main factor
determining mobile spending in the fourth quarter, leaving
Telecom Italia reliant on its Brazilian unit, Banca Leonardo
analyst Enrico Coco wrote in a Feb. 17 note.  Telecom Italia rose 0.3 percent at 9:31 a.m. in Milan.
Telefonica added half a cent on the Madrid exchange.  France
Telecom  gained 0.5 percent in Paris. Deutsche Telekom was up 0.1
percent in Frankfurt.  In Germany, while Deutsche Telekom lost its exclusive
rights over iPhone sales last year, the local units of
Telefonica and Vodafone haven’t made “aggressive offers” to
drive adoption of the smartphones, said  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford Bernstein in  London .  Fourth-quarter adjusted group Ebitda may have slumped 7.9
percent to 4.7 billion euros, according to the analyst survey.
Deutsche Telekom, led by CEO Rene Obermann, continues to lose
fixed-line customers, estimated to have dropped by 6.1 percent
to 24.5 million, the survey shows.  “It’s the same theme in any European market,” said Will
Draper, an analyst at Execution Noble in London. “What’s making
it a little more severe in Germany is that cable is coming from
a very low base, so the line losses are accelerating like
they’re not in other European markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 