-- 
Drinking Alcohol Moderately May Help Prevent Heart Disease, Studies Say

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-02-22T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/drinking-moderately-may-help-prevent-heart-disease-studies-say.html
Moderate alcohol consumption may
help prevent  heart disease , Canadian researchers said after
reviewing dozens of studies conducted over three decades, adding
to the evidence that drinking can offer health benefits.  People who have one drink or fewer each day are 14 percent
to 25 percent less likely to develop heart disease compared with
those who don’t imbibe, according to an  analysis  of 84 studies
conducted since the 1980s. Moderate amounts of alcohol consumed
daily increase the levels of so-called good cholesterol in the
body, a separate  review  of 63 studies found.  The results, published today on the British Medical
Journal’s website, bolster those of previous trials. Two or
three drinks a day may prevent people from having heart attacks
or strokes after undergoing heart-bypass surgery, Italian
researchers said Nov. 14. Men in  Belfast  who drank most of their
alcohol on weekends had almost double the risk of heart disease
compared with French drinkers who spread consumption over a
week, according to a study published last year.  “There may now be an impetus to better communicate to the
public that alcohol, in moderation, may have overall health
benefits that outweigh the risks” in some patients, wrote the
researchers, led by William Ghali from the  University of
Calgary .  Alcohol provides benefits regardless of the type of spirit,
the researchers said. One drink containing 15 grams of alcohol a
day for women, and two drinks for men, is good for health, they
found. A standard drink, such as 12 ounces of beer or 5 ounces
of wine, contains about 13.7 grams of alcohol, according to the
 U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta.  The research was funded by the  Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation ’s Program of Research Integrating Substance Use
Information Into Mainstream Healthcare and the U.S. Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration’s  Center for
Substance Abuse Treatment .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  