-- 
Drug Used Against Alcohol, Cocaine Abuse May Hold Clues in AIDS Cure Quest

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-22T22:58:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/drug-used-against-alcohol-cocaine-abuse-may-hold-clues-in-aids-cure-quest.html
A drug used commonly to treat
alcohol abuse will be tested as a way of purging the last
vestiges of HIV from patients, extending the hunt for an AIDS
cure.  Researchers from the  University of California ,  San
Francisco , and  Johns Hopkins  University plan to recruit 20 HIV-
infected people for a trial of the drug, Antabuse. They aim to
see whether it can deplete the pool of residual virus that
regular AIDS drugs don’t clear, according to  details  of the
study on ClinicalTrials.gov, a registry of trials maintained by
the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  The study is the latest attempt to flush out latent
reservoirs of HIV, an achievement that would allow patients to
go off their medications without the disease rebounding,
effectively curing AIDS. Success in the trial would show the
researchers are on the right track to eradicating the virus,
said Paul Cameron, a clinical immunologist at The Alfred
hospital in  Melbourne .  “I would expect that there will be a detectable
decrease,” said Cameron, who’s not involved in the study.
“What the percentage decrease in latent virus is going to be,
that’s the real question.”  Steven Deeks, a professor of medicine at University of  California , San Francisco, is leading the trial. It’s based on
as-yet-unpublished laboratory experiments about the effect of
Antabuse, also known as disulfiram, on latent HIV by Robert Siliciano, a professor of medicine at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore.
He said he doesn’t expect the drug to cure AIDS, and is looking
for clues that will guide future research.  “No single drug is likely to be able to eliminate these
reservoirs,” Siliciano said in a telephone interview. “It’s
going to come down to some sort of combination of agents.”  Cocaine Addiction  Antabuse, now available as a generic drug, is the oldest
medicine for alcoholism and causes nausea and vomiting when
people drink after taking it. Deaths have been reported in some
patients. It’s also used to treat cocaine addiction, said  Alex
Wodak , director of the drug and alcohol service at Sydney’s St.
Vincent’s Hospital.  “It’s a very well tolerated, very safe drug,” as long as
patients don’t drink after taking it, Wodak said in a telephone
interview.  The researchers plan to add Antabuse to the patients’
regular cocktail of AIDS drugs for two weeks, then check their
blood after 24 weeks to see whether it has depleted the amount
of latent HIV. The trial started last month and will finish in
June next year, according to clinicaltrials.gov.  Biggest Infectious Killer  Human immunodeficiency virus, the pathogen that causes AIDS,
infected 2.6 million people in 2009 and killed 1.8 million,
 according  to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, or
UNAIDS, making it the world’s biggest infectious killer.  The number of new infections worldwide has been declining
annually since the late 1990s, helped by drugs such as Gilead
Sciences Inc.’s Atripla that reduce HIV to undetectable levels,
giving many patients normal life expectancies.  Existing HIV treatments don’t completely clear the virus.
It survives by switching off the normal process of copying
itself inside certain cells, avoiding detection by AIDS drugs,
which are designed to block replication. Studies have shown that
when patients with undetectable virus stop taking their pills,
HIV reactivates and comes roaring back.  Cure-hunters are looking for ways to awaken latent HIV by
kick-starting its replication process while patients are on
medication, flushing the virus out of hiding.  Kickstart Replication  Antabuse may do that by blocking an enzyme called methyl
transferase, or DNMT, that helps HIV go to sleep in cells, The
Alfred’s Cameron said. That would kickstart replication, making
the virus visible to antiretroviral drugs prowling the body.  From there, nature would take its course: HIV would exit
and kill its host cell, and enter the bloodstream in search of
new cells to infect. The drugs would prevent it from doing so,
and with nowhere left to go, the virus would die within hours.  While there are no published studies showing Antabuse works
that way with HIV, previous  research  shows that other DNMT
blockers can reactivate HIV in a lab dish, and that Antabuse can
inhibit methyl transferase in  cancer cells .  Siliciano said he’s still trying to figure out exactly how
the drug reactivates latent HIV, and doesn’t know that it will
in patients.  “The mechanism is unknown and likely to be complicated,”
he said in a telephone interview. “We have some ideas but we’re
still working on it. It’s possible that this drug will have no
activity in patients.”  In a similar and unrelated trial, researchers at the
University of  North Carolina  in Chapel Hill plan to test a Merck
& Co. cancer drug, Zolinza, in about 20 people this year. Like
the Antabuse trial, they’re trying to reactivate latent HIV by
targeting a different enzyme.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 