-- 
Dubai Can’t Kick Building Habit as Property Glut Expands

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-02-23T11:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/dubai-can-t-kick-its-building-habit-as-glut-forces-prices-lower.html
Dubai just can’t kick its building
habit.  Construction sites are buzzing with work across the Persian
Gulf sheikdom more than two years after the financial crisis set
off a real-estate slump that caused values to fall by more than
60 percent. In the next two years, tens of thousands of new
properties will come onto a market where about 40 percent of
homes and offices are empty.  Developers have chosen to complete projects started before
Dubai’s property market collapsed rather than canceling them and
facing a legal obligation to return all advance payments to
customers. Falling construction costs and low  interest rates 
also provide an incentive to build now rather than waiting for
property values to increase.  “The cost of walking away from these projects is much
higher than completing them,” said Ahmed Badr, head of Middle
East real estate research at Credit Suisse Group AG.
“Developers would rather continue to build and get some of
their investment back than stop and be forced to pay buyers back
while their projects stand half-built.”  Homebuyers in Dubai typically pay 10 percent up front and
make further installments based on how much work is completed.
That means a developer that sold a home before the crash and
collected 50 percent of the price so far would have to pay back
more than the property’s current value if the project was
cancelled. Average prices in the emirate have dropped 62 percent
since the peak, Deutsche Bank said this month.  Thousands of Homes  As many as 48,000 homes will be completed in the next two
years, increasing current supply by 12 percent, Landmark
Advisory estimates. London-based real estate broker Cluttons LLC
predicts that 35,000 will be completed through 2012, prolonging
the price slump for another 18 months.  Around 12 million square feet (1.1 million square meters)
of commercial space probably will be completed in Dubai this
year, according to  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc. Office vacancy rates
stood at 41 percent in the fourth quarter and may exceed 45
percent over 2011, the property broker said on Jan. 23. Average
rents dropped by 30 percent during the fourth quarter.  “Developers who launched projects and took money have
entered into contracts with purchasers and those contracts have
timeframes,” said Michael Lunjevich, a partner at Dubai-based
Hadef & Partners. “If a developer doesn’t deliver, the buyer
can sue and ask for the contract to be terminated and the money
returned.”  Buyers Wary  The new homes are coming onto a market that’s being shunned
by buyers. Residential transactions declined 53 percent by
volume and 65 percent by value in the year through September,
according to Jones Lang.  Political turmoil in Middle East and North African
countries including  Tunisia ,  Egypt ,  Libya  and Bahrain may prompt
companies to move staff to more stable places like Dubai, said
Matthew Green, head of United Arab Emirates research at CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc. That could boost housing demand in the
sheikhdom, he said.  “The longer the instability in the region goes on, the more
attractive Dubai will be for companies,” he said. “Demand for
housing will only be revived on the back of expansion in the
commercial sector.”  The backlog of unfinished projects is a legacy of Dubai’s
rapid rise and fall. The sheikhdom had the world’s fastest-
growing property market from 2006 to mid-2008 because of rising
demand from a growing expatriate workforce and speculation
fueled by borrowing. Prices quadrupled in the six years
following the 2002 decision to allow foreign ownership of
property in designated areas.  Financial Crisis  That ended after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in
September 2008, setting off the global financial crisis. Banks
across the U.A.E. soon stopped lending and two months later,
shares of the country’s two biggest mortgage lenders, Amlak
Finance PJSC and  Tamweel PJSC , were suspended.  Speculators caught with multiple properties and little
chance to turn a profit fled the market and defaulted on
purchases. Other buyers continued to honor their contracts,
often paying installments even after work was halted in the
aftermath of the crisis. About 50 percent of Dubai real-estate
projects were canceled or suspended after the collapse.  Advance Payments  Mehdi Nosratlu says he already paid 65 percent of the 3.1
million dirhams ($844,000) he owes on a property purchased in
April 2008 in the 29 Boulevard project. The 55-year-old German
citizen heads a group of almost 400 investors who agreed to buy
homes in the two towers and are trying to reach a settlement
with developer Emaar PJSC. So far, the buyers have paid 30
percent to 65 percent of the purchase price, he said. The
buildings, originally due for completion in March 2010, won’t be
finished before 2013, Emaar said a year ago. Work restarted in
September after a two-year suspension.  Under a 2007 law, advance payments are held in an escrow
account overseen by Dubai’s  Real Estate Regulatory Agency  to
ensure the money is spent on the project that investors are
paying for. Payments made prior to the rule went straight to
developers without restrictions on which developments they
funded.  The typical contract allows developers to miss a property’s
delivery date by as much as 12 months, Lunjevich said. Buyers
trying to recoup their investments can make claims against any
of the company’s assets, including performance bonds or even
advanced payments made to contractors.  Finishing the Job  Nakheel PJSC, which along with Emaar spearheaded the
building boom in Dubai, said it will restart work on seven
projects in various stages of completion after halting
construction in 2008. The developments, which include hundreds
of homes in places such as Al Furjan and  Jumeirah Park , are
scheduled for completion by mid-2012.  “There is a reputation factor here,” said Mala Pancholia,
a Dubai-based analyst at NBK Capital. “If you finish a project
in a down market, there is a trust factor that you can build
with customers and that can have a cash impact when a developer
decides to work in other countries.”  Emaar halted all its Dubai projects following the crisis
except the  Burj Khalifa , the world’s tallest skyscraper. The
company said that it’s focusing on completing developments that
have been started and sold and may consider new ones “in view
of the improved economic conditions and demand for properties
especially in downtown Dubai.”  Cheaper to Build  Building costs have dropped by more than 40 percent from
their peak in 2008, giving developers another motivation to
restart work now, Pancholia said.  “Since construction costs are so cheap, it makes sense for
the developer to finish the project at the lowest possible cost
now, rather than wait until there is a recovery,” she said.  Drops in U.A.E. interest rates have also been an incentive
to move forward on projects and collect further payments from
buyers. The U.A.E.’s 3-month interbank offered rate or EIBOR
dropped by more than half to about 2.13 percent from its highs
in October 2008, Bloomberg data shows.  Many developers that took short-term loans at interest
rates of 7 percent or more are seeking to repay those debts to
get new loans at lower rates of around 4.5 percent.  “With the lower interest rates now, it makes sense for
developers to go for new loans, which they can only pay by
collecting money from buyers,” Pancholia said. “To do that,
they must show that construction is progressing.”  Some work is restarting as developers find that some of
Dubai’s prime locations held their value even as the rest of the
market declined. In March, privately owned  Damac Properties 
started building the 49-story Burjside Boulevard apartment tower
across the road from Burj Khalifa, which opened in January.  “We are not adding to current supply, but simply
completing and delivering to customers the projects that we have
already committed to building,” Niall McLoughlin, senior vice
president of Damac, said by e-mail. “Like all global
developers, the financial crisis has forced us to reassess our
timelines for delivery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 