-- 
Dynegy CEO to Resign After Shareholders Reject Icahn’s Bid

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-02-22T03:17:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/dynegy-ceo-to-resign-after-shareholders-reject-icahn-s-bid-2-.html
  Dynegy Inc .’s Chief Executive
Officer Bruce Williamson resigned as chairman after shareholders
rejected a $665 million offer for the power company from  Icahn
Enterprises LP .  Williamson, 51, and Chief Financial Officer Holli Nichols,
40, will resign their management posts effective March 11,
Houston-based Dynegy said today in a statement. Patricia A. Hammick, 64, who headed a board of independent directors
reviewing the Icahn bid, succeeds Williamson as chairman, the
company said. Board member David Biegler, 64, will become
interim CEO.  Dynegy, the third-largest U.S. independent power producer,
said that none of its five remaining directors will stand for
re-election at the company’s annual meeting planned for June.
Dynegy’s board offered Icahn and Seneca Capital, its two largest
shareholders, one appointment each to the new board of
directors, who would then select candidates for the rest of the
slots.  The moves recognize “the desire of the stockholders to
pursue a different path,” Dynegy said in its statement.  Icahn’s $5.50 a share bid, valuing Dynegy at $4.73 billion
including debt, was the second takeover spurned by shareholders
since November, when  Blackstone Group LP  failed to win
sufficient support for a bid of $5 per share. The Dynegy board
supported both offers, urging shareholders to sell or risk a
plunge in the share price.  Seneca’s Plan  Seneca, Dynegy’s second-largest shareholder, had opposed
the Icahn bid as too low. It called instead for the removal of
Williamson and Biegler by shareholders, to be replaced by two of
its own board nominees. Seneca then wanted Dynegy to sell some
assets and buy back debt, betting that economic recovery will
revive demand and prices for Dynegy’s power.  Scot Hoffman, a spokesman for New York-based Seneca, wasn’t
immediately available for comment when called after business
hours.  “This is a win for Seneca,”  Charles Fishman , a  Falls
Church , Virginia-based analyst for Pritchard Capital Partners,
said in an interview. “Because the new board members will help
pick the new board, Seneca should be able to choose at least two
board members. They’ll be able to do with the company what they
wanted.”  A new board probably will sell plants selectively to raise
cash and buy back Dynegy’s debt at a discount, extending
maturities, he said.  Dynegy on Feb. 18 extended the deadline for board
nominations by shareholders to March 4 from Feb. 20.  Shareholder Rights  The current board also amended a shareholder rights plan to
allow ownership of up to 20 percent of shares before it is
triggered, doubling the previous 10 percent limit, the statement
said. Dynegy owns plants capable of generating 11,800 megawatts,
enough for 9.4 million average U.S. homes.    NRG Energy Inc . is the largest U.S. independent power
producer by revenue and  Calpine Corp . is the second-largest.
Independent power producers generate electricity without a
utility unit, which has its rates set by local regulators.  Dynegy’s market value peaked near $20 billion before it
tried to swallow energy-trader Enron Corp. in 2001, and it
remained solvent after independent power producers including NRG
Energy Inc. and Calpine Corp. followed Enron into bankruptcy.  “Bruce Williamson saved Dynegy from bankruptcy,” said
Fishman, who rates the shares a “buy” and owns none.  Dynegy fell 4 cents to $6.01 at the close of  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading Feb. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jim Polson  in New York at 
jpolson@bloomberg.;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 