-- 
Dynegy to Replace CEO, Board After $665 Million Bid Fails

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-02-22T21:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/dynegy-to-replace-ceo-board-as-665-million-665-million-icahn-bid-fails.html
  Dynegy Inc ., the third-largest U.S.
independent power producer, will replace its chief executive
officer and all its board after shareholders rejected  Icahn
Enterprises LP ’s $665 million offer.  Bruce Williamson, 51, has resigned as chairman and will
step down as CEO effective March 11, Dynegy said yesterday in a
statement. Patricia A. Hammick, 64, who headed a board of
independent directors reviewing the Icahn bid, succeeds
Williamson as chairman, the company said. Board member David
Biegler, 64, will become interim CEO. Chief Financial Officer
Holli Nichols, 40, also will resign as of March 11.  Dynegy, based in Houston, said that none of its five
remaining directors will stand for re-election at the company’s
annual meeting planned for June. Dynegy’s board offered Icahn
and Seneca Capital, its two largest shareholders, one
appointment each to the new board of directors, who would then
select candidates for the rest of the slots.  The moves recognize “the desire of the stockholders to
pursue a different path,” Dynegy said in its statement.  Icahn’s $5.50-a-share-bid, valuing Dynegy at $4.73 billion
including debt, was the second takeover spurned by shareholders
since November, when  Blackstone Group LP  failed to win
sufficient support for a bid of $5 per share. The Dynegy board
supported both offers, urging shareholders to sell or risk a
plunge in the share price.  Dynegy Shares  Dynegy shares fell 12 cents, or 2 percent, to $5.89 at 4:24
p.m. in New York Stock exchange composite trading.  The initial cost to insure $10 million of Dynegy debt from
default rose $200,000 today, according to data provider CMA. The
cost of five-year credit-default swaps rose 2 percentage points
to 20.5 percentage points. The contracts typically increase as
investor confidence in creditworthiness falls. The contracts
also require a $500,000 annual payment to insure the debt.  The company’s $1.1 billion of senior unsecured 7.75 percent
notes due in June 2019 fell 1 cent to 73.5 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Seneca’s Plan  Seneca, Dynegy’s second-largest shareholder, had opposed
the Icahn bid as too low. It called for the removal of
Williamson and Biegler, to be replaced by two of its own board
nominees. Seneca then wanted Dynegy to sell some assets and buy
back debt, betting that economic recovery will revive demand and
prices for Dynegy’s power.  Patrick Linehan, a spokesman for Seneca, had no comment on
Dynegy’s statement.  Carl Icahn  couldn’t be reached for comment.  “This is a win for Seneca,”  Charles Fishman , a  Falls
Church , Virginia-based analyst for Pritchard Capital Partners
LLC, said in an interview yesterday. “Because the new board
members will help pick the new board, Seneca should be able to
choose at least two board members. They’ll be able to do with
the company what they wanted.”  A new board probably will sell plants selectively to raise
cash and buy back Dynegy’s debt at a discount, extending
maturities, he said.  Dynegy on Feb. 18 extended the deadline for board
nominations by shareholders to March 4 from Feb. 20.  Shareholder Rights  The current board also amended a shareholder-rights plan to
allow ownership of up to 20 percent of shares before it’s
triggered, doubling the previous 10 percent limit, according to
the statement. Dynegy owns plants capable of generating 11,800
megawatts, enough for 9.4 million average U.S. homes.    NRG Energy Inc . is the largest U.S. independent power
producer by revenue and  Calpine Corp . is the second-largest.
Independent power producers generate electricity without a
utility unit, which has its rates set by local regulators.  Dynegy’s market value peaked near $20 billion before it
tried to swallow energy-trader Enron Corp. in 2001, and it
remained solvent after independent power producers including NRG
and Calpine followed Enron into bankruptcy.  “Bruce Williamson saved Dynegy from bankruptcy,” said
Fishman, who rates the shares a “buy” and owns none.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Jim Polson} in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
{Zachary Mider} in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  