-- 
EDF, Areva, GDF Suez May Build 1,000-Megawatt Nuclear Reactor

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-02-22T10:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/edf-areva-gdf-suez-may-build-1-000-megawatt-nuclear-reactor.html
  Areva SA , Electricite de  France  SA
and GDF Suez SA would jointly build a 1,000-megawatt Atmea
nuclear reactor that may be commissioned by the French
government to boost the chances of exporting the technology.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  asked the country’s three main
nuclear-energy companies to cooperate on all future industry
projects, under the guidance of a new committee. They will also
prepare a partnership with  China  to built third-generation
reactors, including mid-range facilities of 1,000 megawatts, the
 president’s office  said late yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The measures follow a July report that opened the way for a
reorganization of France’s civil nuclear industry. Tensions
flared after Areva, EDF, GDF Suez and  Total SA  lost a tender in
2009 to build four nuclear reactors in the  United Arab Emirates 
because of infighting. Sarkozy’s call for coordination of the
main atomic-energy companies is aimed at helping France win
contracts abroad and refurbish its aging domestic reactors.  EDF and Areva have set up five working groups to share
feedback on nuclear-plant building, discuss broadening  Areva’s
reactor offer , enhance export cooperation, agree on the nuclear-
fuel supply and improve EDF’s nuclear-plant efficiency, which
hit a 16-year low in 2009.  France will set up a “strategic nuclear-energy committee”
that will drive “all the actors of the nuclear industry,” the
 Elysee palace  in Paris said in the statement. It said the
government will consider building the first Atmea reactor in
France -- something  GDF Suez  has repeatedly requested.  Jordanian Shortlist  Atmea is a 1,100-megawatt reactor jointly designed by Areva
and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. There have been no orders for
the reactor, though it’s being considered by Jordan, along with
competing designs from Russia and  Canada .  Sarkozy asked Areva to make its uranium-supply unit a new,
separate company. This is a prerequisite to consider “strategic
and financial scenarios for its development,” according to the
statement. He also asked Areva and EDF to sign an agreement to
ensure long-term uranium supply to EDF, the operator of France’s
nuclear reactors.  Areva and EDF will also have to sign a “technical and
commercial accord” to work together to improve the 1,650-
megawatt EPR reactor after its multiple construction hurdles and
delays in  Finland  and in Normandy, France. The two energy giants
will also have to cooperate to refurbish France’s 58 reactors.  Sarkozy asked the nuclear authority to begin developing
reactors ranging between 100 megawatts and 300 megawatts,
according to the statement.  France will hold talks with China to increase nuclear
cooperation. “This partnership may include, in addition to
supplying products and services for existing nuclear plants, the
construction of new reactors, the common development of a new
1,000-megawatt third-generation reactor” and the operation of
jointly developed reactors, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: 
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  