-- 
Medtronic to Cut 5% of its Workforce, Shed External Defibrillators Unit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-02-22T21:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/medtronic-profit-increased-on-heart-device-sales-beats-analyst-estimates.html
  Medtronic Inc . said it will cut
1,500 to 2,000 jobs and renew efforts to divest a unit that
makes external defibrillators that shock a heart into normal
rhythm as sales of implanted devices continue to stagnate.  The company will cut 4 percent to 5 percent of its
employees with voluntary programs and layoffs, Minneapolis-based
Medtronic said in a statement. It also revived plans to sell or
spin off the Physio-Control Inc. unit that makes emergency
response gear and portable heart devices three years after
quality issues led the company to halt sales.  Revenue from pacemakers and defibrillators, Medtronic’s
biggest products, fell 2 percent in the three months ended Jan.
28. Sales of new devices, such as  heart valves  and stents for
aortic aneurysms, rose and boosted company revenue 3 percent to
$3.96 billion. Net income increased 11 percent to $924 million,
or 86 cents a share, from $831 million, or 75 cents, a year
earlier. A low  tax rate  helped profit beat the 83-cent average
estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We obviously are seeing our pretax earnings are not where
we need them to be,” Chief Financial Officer Gary Ellis said in
a conference call. “In these little bit slower markets, we’ll
have to take some cost out. That’s what we’re attempting to do
and getting ahead of the game.”  Profit Margins  Physio-Control’s profit margins are some of the lowest in
the company, making it hard for the unit to keep pace with other
technology being developed by Medtronic, Ellis said. The unit,
which resumed shipping products worldwide last year, will do
better on its own, he said.  Medtronic’s shares fell $1.06, or 2.6 percent, to $40.21 at
4:00 p.m. in  New York  Stock Market trading. The shares decreased
7.9 percent in the past 12 months.  The company’s ability to beat analysts’ expectations was
driven almost entirely by a lower tax rate, said  Rick Wise , an
analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in New York, in a note to
investors today. The company’s tax rate was 11.8 percent in the
quarter, compared with Wise’s 18 percent estimate, which he said
added 7 cents to earnings per share.  The device maker narrowed its earnings forecast for fiscal
2011 to $3.38 to $3.40 a share, the lower end of the range
projected on Nov. 24. The company twice cut its earnings outlook
for the year.  “It is never easy to make these decisions, but we believe
this is the right thing to do for Medtronic to position the
company for long-term growth,” said Chief Executive Officer
William Hawkins on a conference call with investors today.  Management Changes  Hawkins announced his retirement in December and plans to
step down at the end of the fiscal year in April. The company
also acquired Osteotech Inc., maker of human bone and bone
tissue products, and Ardian Inc., which makes an experimental
device to lower  blood pressure , during the quarter.  Medtronic initially announced its plans to spin off Physio-
Control in 2006 when it was the world leader in the $1 billion
market for the equipment used by emergency workers and
bystanders to treat cardiac arrest. The quality problems that
arose in 2007 led the company to halt its plans to turn the unit
into an independent public company. Now that the unit has
operated effectively for the past year, it’s time to act, Ellis
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  