-- 
Egypt ETF Gains in Post-Mubarak Era Hobbled Without Free Market

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-02-22T00:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/egypt-etf-signals-gains-in-post-mubarak-era-seen-lame-without-free-markets.html
Cairo’s six-story Arcadia Mall, a
symbol of modern commerce on the Nile River, is a charred ruin.
Military officers now rule in place of Western-educated
businessmen. Spending by a government that is already in debt is
heading up, not down.  This is Egypt after the Feb. 11 fall of Hosni Mubarak, and
if its future is uncertain, it has nonetheless drawn investor
cheers as officials promise to pursue market-oriented policies.
The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF , an exchange-traded fund that
holds Egyptian shares, has risen 11.5 percent since Jan. 27,
when the Egyptian Exchange was shut down as protests
intensified.  Yet a history of on-again, off-again economic reform and
the rise of forces, including the military, that have resisted
liberalization suggest that the path to a competitive economy
integrated with the world will be a difficult one, according to
experts on the region.  “In the near term, the impulse is to beat up on the
capitalists not reward them,” said Jon Alterman, a former
member of the State Department’s policy planning staff, now at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies in  Washington . “I don’t see a champion of economic reform arising
out of this process. The go-go privatization period will be
blamed for the breakdown of order.”  Incomplete Change  Post-Mubarak  Egypt  inherits a legacy of incomplete attempts
at change, including privatization of state assets and a redo of
the tax system. The political costs of needed steps such as
shedding state workers or levying new taxes likely will
challenge the country’s next leader. Likewise, little action is
expected to correct inefficiencies, including the fuel subsidies
that devour more than 5 percent of gross domestic product.  “This is not the time to scale back on subsidies,” said
 Samer Soliman , assistant professor of political economy at the
American University in Cairo. “If anything, they may
increase.”  For two decades, officials from the U.S. and Washington-
based  International Monetary Fund  and World Bank encouraged
Egypt to overhaul its statist economy, betting that prosperity
would foster stability.  Instead, Egypt imbibed just enough globalization to enrich
an elite, though not enough to become broadly prosperous. About
18 percent of the population -- including 40 percent of rural
dwellers -- lives below the poverty line and one-third of
Egyptians are illiterate, says the World Bank.  ‘Trickle-Down Economics’  Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the IMF, calls the
Egyptian approach “trickle-down economics without the
trickle.”  Despite its position astride trade routes in  Africa ,  Europe  and the Middle East, Egypt has failed to secure a role in
global supply chains.  Nike Inc ., for example, buys shoes and
clothing from 42 Vietnamese manufacturers, which employ more
than 198,000 workers, according to the company’s website. Egypt,
with a similar population, is handicapped by numerous taxes,
uncertain contract enforcement and insufficient supplies of
skilled labor. Just five Egyptian companies, employing 5,129
people, supply finished products to Beaverton, Oregon-based
Nike, the largest maker of athletic shoes.  “The opening was half-hearted, reluctant,” said Arvind Subramanian, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington, who was the IMF’s
resident representative in Cairo from 1995 to 1997. “The
Egyptians understood that while the U.S. wanted reforms, they
could get away without reforming.”  News From  Tunisia   Seven years after beginning the most recent push for
change, Egypt remains a nation with one foot planted in the
global economy and one stuck in a state-dominated past. Even as
globalized information flows via social-networking sites such as
Facebook and Twitter brought Cairo residents news of protests in
Tunisia in January, their country lagged behind in global
commerce.  Between 1990 and 2009, Egypt’s per capita exports of goods
and services rose at an average annual rate of less than 5
percent -- about half  India ’s annual average and one-third that
of  China , according to the IMF.  By 2020, the Middle Eastern nation, with unemployment above
8 percent for more than a decade, must create 9.4 million jobs
to absorb the out-of-work and anticipated new entrants into the  labor force . To do that, the IMF says, the economy will need to
grow at an annual rate of almost 10 percent, about twice the
average since 2000.  Cabinet Ousters  The ambivalence about transforming the economy was evident
during Mubarak’s final days as president, when he attempted to
appease protesters by increasing government workers’ salaries
and deferring cuts in fuel and food subsidies. He also
jettisoned Cabinet and ruling party officials regarded as pro-
business, such as the housing minister, Ahmed El-Maghraby, the
former chairman of Accor Hotels Egypt.  El Maghrabi and other prominent members of the Egyptian
business elite, such as Ahmed Ezz, chairman of  Ezz Steel , the
country’s largest steel producer, were barred from traveling and
had their bank accounts frozen by the public prosecutor’s
office, which said it was investigating claims of “public funds
embezzlement” against the former officials. Ezz dismissed any
suggestion of wrongdoing as “groundless allegations” in a Feb.
14 statement.  ‘More Populist Take’  “Going forward, there’s going to be a much more populist
take on where the economy should go,” said Michele Dunne, an
analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
Washington, who served in the U.S. Embassy in Cairo and on the
National Security Council between 2000 and 2003. “They’ll have
to be much more sensitive to public opinion.”  The military officers now in control are no fans of selling
off state assets. Retired generals operate military-owned
companies in several industries, including cement, construction,
hotels and olive oil. And the Egyptian military regards
privatization as a “threat to its economic position,”
according to a classified cable from U.S. Ambassador Margaret Scobey dated Sept. 23, 2008 that was disclosed by the anti-
secrecy group Wikileaks.  Egypt’s caretaker civilian ministers insist they will
shrink the state’s role in the economy.  ‘No Relapse’  “There is no rolling back of reform,” Finance Minister
Samir Radwan, a London-educated economist, told Bloomberg News
Feb. 14. “There is no relapse into state intervention.”  Radwan, named to his post Jan. 31, said Egypt now has “a
fantastic opportunity to have a new phase of reform, to deepen
the reforms that have taken place.”  Egypt’s efforts at economic modernization began in the
early 1990s, shortly after the fall of the Berlin Wall
inaugurated an era of global economic integration. Encouraged by
the  World Bank  and IMF, Egypt began creeping from its
traditional state-centric economy -- where the public sector
claimed 70 percent of GDP -- toward greater market openness.  “Egypt was a centrally administered economy with an
implicit promise that the central government could control
everything, organize everything, distribute everything and
essentially eliminate uncertainty from the lives of all,” said
Youssef Boutros-Ghali, then-minister of finance, in a 2006
speech.  Early transformations cooled inflation topping 21 percent
and reined in a public deficit of more than 15 percent of GDP.
While the U.S. and the international financial institutions
supported economic change, the top U.S. priority was always the
Arab-Israeli peace process.  IMF Demands  In 1987, C. David Finch, the head of the IMF’s department
of exchange and trade relations, resigned after the U.S.
objected to IMF demands for economic policy changes that
Egyptian officials feared would spark a popular backlash,
according to a 1993 book by Anne Krueger, the former first
deputy managing director of the IMF.  In a 1996 speech, Robert Pelletreau, then-assistant
secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs, put economic
transformation last in a list of U.S. objectives in the Middle
East, behind Israel’s security, stability in the Persian Gulf,
counter-terrorism, assistance to U.S. business and political
change.  Egyptian hopes for a comprehensive bilateral trade accord
with the U.S. were dashed in 2006 by the administration of
President  George W. Bush  after the government jailed the
dissident Ayman Nour, who ran against Mubarak in 2005
presidential elections.  ‘Root of Extremism’  In February 2006, according to another Wikileaks cable, the
Egyptian intelligence chief,  Omar Suleiman , confided to a
visiting U.S. official that “insufficient educational and
economic opportunities were at the root of extremism in Egypt.”  The threat to stability was so alarming, Suleiman told the
U.S. official, FBI Director Robert Mueller, that the Egyptian
government was embarking upon a five-year plan “to shore up and
modernize Egypt’s economy.”  Almost precisely five years later, on Jan. 25, 2011, the
clock ran out on the Egyptian government’s chances of preserving
the status quo. Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters
filled the streets of Cairo demanding Mubarak’s ouster.  Suleiman’s 2006 acknowledgement of the need for Egypt to
tune its economic engine occurred almost two years after the
start of the most recent and most successful reform phase. In
2004, market-oriented Egyptian officials affiliated with the
president’s son Gamal enacted policies that more than doubled
the economy’s annual growth rate to about 7 percent.  Privatization Push  State-owned enterprises, including the Bank of Alexandria
and the Omar Effendi department store, were sold to private
investors. Regulations were streamlined and tariffs reduced.
Foreign investment from companies such as Houston, Texas-based  Apache Corp . and Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co . rose to
more than $12 billion annually from less than $1 billion at the
turn of the century.  Left undone were tasks such as political transformation,
pruning the bureaucracy, and encouraging competition in the
domestic economy. Privatization of state enterprises, which
began in 1990, inched forward. By 2008, just 20 percent of the
public sector had been sold off to private investors. The  budget
deficit  remained around 8 percent of GDP.  “They essentially dealt with the low-hanging fruit, the
easy stuff,” said George Abed, director of the IMF’s Middle
East department in 2002-03.  Outpaced by  Vietnam   Egypt was evolving at a crawl while other nations,
especially in East Asia, rode export booms to prosperity. From
2004 to 2009, per capita income rose 20 percent in Egypt.  That
fell well short of export-oriented dynamos such as Vietnam,
which posted a 34 percent income gain over the same period.  “They really need to penetrate global industrial supply
networks. They’ve had trouble gaining a foothold,” said Marcus Noland, author of “The Arab Economies in a Changing World.”  Liberalization sometimes carried political and financial
costs that undermined prospects for additional changes. The IMF
and World Bank prodded Egypt to open its markets to imported
grain, a move that undercut local farmers and left Egypt
dependent upon volatile global markets for staples, according to
Marie Brill, senior policy analyst at ActionAid, a Washington-
based nonprofit organization.  In April 2008, rising food prices were blamed for anti-
government riots in Mahalla, a textile town in the north. In
response, Prime Minister  Ahmed Nazif  rushed to the town and
Mubarak ordered a 30 percent pay raise for public-sector
workers. Plans to phase out food and fuel subsidies in favor of
payments targeted to the neediest Egyptians were quietly
shelved, then-U.S. Ambassador Frank Ricciardone wrote in an
April 16, 2008 cable disclosed by Wikileaks.  ‘Sour Mood’  “Egyptians are in a sour mood and their frustration seems
more vocal than just a few months ago,” Ricciardone wrote.  The Egyptian government was able to repeatedly defer
economic improvements thanks to financial flows that continued
regardless of the economy’s competitiveness. Over the past two
years, the government reaped almost $5 billion annually from
Suez Canal transit fees and an additional $1.5 billion in U.S.
aid. Remittances from Egyptians working in Saudi oil fields or
hotels in Bahrain brought in around $8 billion, while the
country’s oil wells contributed about $9 billion. Combined,
these passive flows amount to about 12 percent of GDP.  Though Mubarak is gone, those sources of revenue remain. So
at least for now, there is little reason to expect reinvigorated
reforms.  “I don’t think there will be any significant change in
economic policies,” Soliman said. “This is a transitional
period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 