-- 
Egypt’s Shafik Submits Cabinet Candidates Amid Resignation Call

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-02-22T14:41:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/egypt-s-shafik-submits-cabinet-candidates-amid-resignation-call.html
Protesters demanded the resignation
of Egyptian Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik as he gave the names of
his proposed Cabinet to the ruling military council.  While the candidates proposed by Shafik include members of
the opposition, according to state media, protesters said they
wanted to see people appointed during former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s rule -- including Shafik -- gone.  “The people want to bring down Ahmed Shafik,” some of the
hundreds of demonstrators chanted today in Cairo’s Tahrir
Square. “Mubarak is still ruling the country,” said Haysam
Mahmoud, a 36-year-old chef. “Everything is still the same. The
government and the state security apparatus are still the
same.”  Mubarak appointed a new Cabinet on Jan. 31, 12 days before
he ended his 30-year presidency and ceded interim authority to
the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces. The council has
suspended the constitution and dissolved parliament, saying it
will rule for six months or until new elections are held.  Ziad Elelaimy, a member of an alliance of protesting
groups, called for technocrats to lead the government. “The
people have said they wanted to change the regime. This means
the whole government must change," said Elelaimy, who wants
Shafik as well as Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit to go.  Protesters also demanded the release of political prisoners
and lifting the emergency laws.  ‘‘All political prisoners must be released immediately,’’
said Sayed Abdallah, a 35-year-old accountant at the stock
exchange. ‘‘I was just passing by the square and I joined
immediately. I don’t care that the stock exchange is closed, the
important thing is for real reform to take place.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net  