-- 
Price-Moves Rule, CFTC, Allstate, Spain, Lloyds: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-02-22T13:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/lehman-insider-trading-allstate-cftc-sec-compliance.html
U.S. equity markets should limit
price moves before resorting to the current technique of halting
a stock when it fluctuates a certain amount, according to a
report last week from advisers to regulators.  The system, known as limit-up/limit-down, would prevent
prices from moving beyond specified bands based on trading in
the previous five minutes and trigger pauses only if liquidity,
or trading interest, remains insufficient during the period, the
advisers to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission said.  Exchanges implemented single-stock circuit breakers after
the 20-minute rout on May 6 erased $862 billion from the value
of U.S. shares before prices rebounded. The pause lasts five
minutes for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index 
companies as well as  more than 300  exchange-traded funds when
they rise or fall at least 10 percent within five minutes. The
Feb. 18 report recommends expanding the program to “all but the
most inactively traded” stocks, ETFs and related derivatives.  The SEC and CFTC formed a joint committee to review
regulation after the May 6 plunge left investors concerned about
the fragility of the market. The circuit breakers, which started
in June, have been triggered by at least 21 companies, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  The five-minute halt “has been particularly problematic in
a number of situations in which a single erroneous trade
triggered the pause,” according to the report. The recommended
system is “highly desirable if it operates as a supplement to
the present process.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Rule Would Hurt Municipal, Pension Swaps, Bank Groups Say  Financial-industry groups said a U.S.  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  rule for swap dealers should be revised
because it would impose a fiduciary duty that goes beyond the
intent of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The CFTC proposal would cause “severe market disruption”
by transforming the relationship between swap dealers and
clients such as pension funds and municipalities, the  Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association  and the  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.  wrote to the Washington-
based regulator in a  letter  dated Feb. 17.  Dodd-Frank called for regulators to crack down on abuses in
the sale of derivatives to states, cities and school districts.  The CFTC rule would require that dealers acting as advisers
to pension funds and municipalities act in the best interests of
the client. Banks say the measure would create a fiduciary duty
for such swap trades after Congress rejected proposals for a
similar provision in the regulatory overhaul enacted last year.  For more, click here.    Spain  Backs Single EU Platform for CO2; Poland, Germany Opt Out  Spain will join the single European Union platform for
auctioning emission permits in the next phase of the bloc’s
trading system after Poland and Germany said they will opt out
and use national systems.  The EU, which has given away the majority of allowances
since starting its cap-and-trade program in 2005, will require
most emitters to purchase their allotments starting in 2013.
While the EU regulator favors a common auctioning platform,
saying a centralized approach offers the best “value for
money,” it agreed last year to give member states the option of
running their own national auctions.  Germany and Poland, the biggest and third-largest EU
emitters in 2009, pushed for individual auctions when the
regulation was discussed last year. Spain also backed the
option, allowed by other EU states to ensure competition.  Compliance Action  VW Office Searched in Bribery Investigation, Handelsblatt Says  Prosecutors searched the office of  Volkswagen AG ’s
procurement chief, Francisco Javier Garcia Sanz, as part of a
bribery investigation involving the carmaker and Deutsche
Telekom, Handelsblatt reported.  Prosecutors from the city of Stuttgart are treating Sanz as
a witness, not a suspect, the newspaper said on its  website  Feb.
18.  Michael Brendel, a spokesman for Wolfsburg, Germany-based
Volkswagen, declined to comment when contacted by phone.  Calls seeking comment after business hours from the
Stuttgart prosecutors’ office weren’t answered.  Lloyds Reaches Mortgage Agreement with FSA, Makes Provision    Lloyds Banking Group Plc  reached a voluntary agreement with
the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority on initiating a customer
review and contact program with regard to outstanding concerns
with the variation of limits of some retail mortgage contracts,
the bank said yesterday.  Lloyds is making a provision of 500 million pounds in
relation to the contact program within its 2010 accounts which
is expected to fully cover the payments.  Courts  Allstate Sues Citigroup, Deutsche Bank Over Securities    Allstate Corp ., the largest publicly traded U.S. home and
auto insurer, sued units of  Citigroup Inc . and  Deutsche Bank AG 
over claims they fraudulently sold hundreds of millions of
dollars of mortgage-backed securities.  Allstate is seeking to recover the lost market value of the
securities, as well as principal and interest payments,
according to complaints filed last week in  New York  state
Supreme Court in Manhattan.  The insurer said it bought more than $200 million of the
securities, backed by residential mortgages, from the Citigroup
defendants and about $185 million from the Deutsche Bank units
after relying on misrepresentations and omissions regarding
underwriting standards, owner occupancy data and loan-to-value
ratios.    Alexander Samuelson , a Citigroup spokesman, and Scott
Helfman, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, declined
immediately to comment.  Allstate, which accuses the banks of common-law fraud and
negligent misrepresentation, filed a similar complaint Feb. 15
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co . over $700 million of mortgage-
backed securities.  The cases are Allstate Insurance Co. v. Ace Securities
Corp., 650431/2001, and Allstate Insurance Co v. Citimortgage
Inc. 650432/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  JPMorgan Says Lehman Left It ‘Goat Poo’ Collateral  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. tricked JPMorgan Chase & Co.
into holding onto collateral that the bankrupt investment firm
internally described as “goat poo,” according to a court
filing by JPMorgan.  JPMorgan was stuck with Lehman’s worst securities backing
$25 billion of loans as Lehman was sold to  Barclays Plc  in
September 2008, JPMorgan said in a court filing last week.
Lehman described the collateral as “toxic crap” and “goat
poo” to be scattered “in other people’s backyards,” JPMorgan
said in a court filing.  “Only later was JPMorgan able to determine that the
position in which it unexpectedly found itself was the result of
collusion and deception” by Lehman and Barclays, JPMorgan said
in court papers.  The accusations appeared in amended counterclaims against
Lehman in its lawsuit against JPMorgan. Both companies are based
in New York. Lehman accuses JPMorgan of siphoning billions of
dollars from Lehman, leading to it collapse.    Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Mark Lane, a
spokesman for Barclays, declined to comment.  The case is  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . v. JPMorgan Chase
Bank NA, 10-03266,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Rabbi in SAC Extortion Plot Sentenced to Four Years  A federal judge in Manhattan sentenced Milton Balkany, a
Brooklyn, New York, rabbi, to four years in prison for trying to
extort $4 million from Steven Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors LP.  U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  sentenced Balkany Feb. 18.
A federal jury had convicted Balkany, 64, in November of
extortion and blackmail charges after he threatened to disclose
insider trading by SAC. There was no evidence at the trial that
he had information about such trading.  Prosecutors said the rabbi, who was dean of the Bais Yaakov
day school in the Borough Park neighborhood of Brooklyn, told
the Stamford, Connecticut-based fund that a federal prisoner in
Otisville, New York, to whom he was the spiritual adviser, had
detailed the purported insider trading scheme to him. Balkany
then called prosecutors in an attempt to put pressure upon SAC
to further his scheme.  Cote agreed to impose a sentence less than the 87-to-108
months recommended by federal sentencing guidelines because of
Balkany’s “lifetime of good works” and “generosity of
spirit.” Eighty-seven people wrote letters in praise of
Balkany, Cote said.  In sentencing Balkany, Cote said she was particularly
concerned about a recent interview he gave in which he said he
was being punished by the government because of his decades of
community service. Cote said that Balkany showed no remorse.  The case is U.S. v. Balkany, 10cr441, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Sadia Insider Trading Probe Prompts Prison Sentences  Two former executives of Sadia SA, the foodmaker that BRF
Brasil Foods SA bought to form the world’s biggest poultry
exporter, were sentenced to prison and fined in the country’s
first insider trading court ruling.  Former chief financial officer Luiz Gonzaga Murat Jr. was
sentenced to 21 months in prison and fined 349,712 reais
($210,100), Brazil’s securities regulator said in an e-mailed
statement. Romano Ancelmo Fontana Filho, a former board member,
was sentenced to 17 months and fined 374,941 reais. Both can
serve community service in lieu of prison.  Fontana’s lawyer, Eduardo Reale, and Murat’s lawyer, Celso
Vilardi, didn’t return calls from Bloomberg News to their
offices seeking comment.  Interviews/Speeches  Geithner Speaks to Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  speaks in an
interview with the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  about the
financial crisis and the government’s response.  Geithner spoke with the commission on Nov. 17, 2009. The
interview was released Feb. 17 by the FCIC on its website.  For the audio, click here.  Bailouts Caused ‘Sense of Shame,’ Bank of England’s Tucker Says  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said regulators
felt a “sense of shame” that taxpayers had to bail out banks
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., as they
devise rules to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis.  Tucker made the remarks at a speech given at Clare College,  Cambridge University , England, late in the day on Feb. 17.  “This is the worst moment in the working lives of anybody
who was in office in central banking or in regulation,” Tucker
said at Cambridge. Regulators are working on new rules that will
allow banks to fail “partly because of the sense of shame that
we all have that we brought this cost to the taxpayer.”  Bank regulators and policy makers including finance
ministers who attend last week’s G-20 meeting in Paris were
trying to devise new rules that will allow banks to fail without
requiring taxpayer bailouts or damaging economic growth.  Tucker also said that lower returns on equity for banks
would give shareholders a greater incentive to cap executive
pay.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Sean McKee’s Named Head of New SEC Whistleblower Office  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said Sean
McKee’s will oversee the new Whistleblower Office in the
Division of Enforcement.  The office will consolidate existing resources to
administer the whistleblower provisions called for by the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The
information was released in an e-mailed statement.  This is McKessy’s second stint at the SEC; he was senior
counsel in the Enforcement Division from 1997-2000.  U.S. SEC Executive Director Diego Ruiz to Leave Agency  The SEC also announced that Executive Director Diego Tomas
Ruiz will leave the agency. He has been in his position since
August 2006, the agency said in an e-mailed statement. Before
joining the SEC, Ruiz had been deputy chief for strategy and
policy at the Federal Communications Commission.  Finra’s Shorris to Leave Brokerage Regulator’s Enforcement Unit    James Shorris , who directed investigations and prosecutions
at the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, is leaving the
industry-funded brokerage regulator after seven years.  Shorris, 50, plans to step down in April and return to
private practice, he said Feb. 18 in an interview. He had been
executive director of enforcement since 2007 before serving as
the interim head last year. He returned to his former post after
Bradley Bennett took over the top job in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 