-- 
Melco Crown Posts Second Quarterly Profit on Macau Casinos' Sales Growth

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-02-22T14:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/melco-crown-posts-second-quarterly-profit-on-macau-growth-1-.html
  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd ., the
venture between an Australian billionaire and a son of Macau
casino magnate  Stanley Ho , posted a second straight quarterly
profit as gambling revenue rose at its two Macau casinos.  Fourth-quarter net income was $16.3 million, or 3 cents per
American depositary receipt, compared with a loss of $89.7
million, or 17 cents per ADR, a year earlier, the Hong Kong-
based company said today in a regulatory filing. Analysts had
predicted a profit, excluding some items, of 2 cents, according
to the average of four estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Visitor arrivals to the world’s biggest casino center rose
15 percent to 25 million last year, with 83 percent coming from
mainland China and  Hong Kong , according to government data
compiled by Bloomberg. Macau is the only place in  China  where
casinos are legal. Macau’s  casino gambling revenue  jumped 58
percent last year to 188.3 billion patacas ($23.5 billion) from
a year earlier, according to government data.  Melco Crown’s results were “driven by continued
improvements in the fundamentals of our business,” Chief
Executive Officer Lawrence Ho said today in a statement. “Our
mass market table games business continues to grow,” and its
new Cotai show ‘The House of Dancing  Water’ is boosting
visitation, Ho said.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, a measure of  cash flow , jumped to $133.8 million
from $2.7 million, beating the $129.7 million analysts’
estimate. Sales climbed 93 percent to $773.7 million. Analysts
had predicted $752.5 million.  Melco Crown is one of six licensed Macau casino operators.
It competes with U.S.-based rivals Las Vegas Sands Corp.’s Sands
China Ltd., Wynn Resorts Ltd.’s Wynn Macau Ltd., MGM Resorts
International’s joint venture with Pansy Ho, daughter of Stanley
Ho, as well as Ho’s SJM Holdings Ltd. and Galaxy Entertainment
Group Ltd.  Lawrence Ho and partner  James Packer ’s  Crown Ltd . opened
Melco’s second Macau casino, City of Dreams, on the Cotai Strip
in mid-2009.  Melco Crown’s ADRs rose 60 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $7.25
at 9:40 a.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  