-- 
Polkomtel Said to Get TPG, Blackstone Offer; TeliaSonera Bid

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-02-22T15:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/teliasonera-among-bidders-for-poland-s-polkomtel-as-5-billion-sale-begin.html
Polkomtel SA received a joint offer
from TPG Capital and  Blackstone Group LP  as Poland’s largest
mobile-phone operator may be sold in a deal valued at more than
$5 billion, according to two people with knowledge of the bid.  About 10 offers were submitted, according to two people,
who declined to be named as the process isn’t public.
Spokespeople for private-equity firms TPG and Blackstone
declined to comment.  TeliaSonera AB , Sweden’s largest phone
company, said it put in an indicative bid.  Polkomtel’s owners, including  Vodafone Group Plc , copper
producer  KGHM Polska Miedz SA , power utility PGE SA and oil
refiner PKN Orlen SA, approached potential buyers last month to
solicit bids for an initial round that ended yesterday. The
management board will be informed of the identities of the
bidders on Feb. 25, spokeswoman Katarzyna Meller said yesterday.
She declined to comment on the process today. The bidders will
be cut down to a shortlist in the next weeks, one person said.  “It’s a bolt-on acquisition rather than intramarket
consolidation,” said Andrew Hogley, a London-based analyst at
Execution Noble. “Something around 16 billion zlotys to 20
billion zlotys ($5.5 billion to $6.9 billion) is probably about
the right range based on the quite limited financial disclosure
that we’ve seen.”  Mobile Data                       TeliaSonera, which has units in Finland, Norway, Denmark,
Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia as well as a stake in Russia’s OAO
MegaFon, wants to transfer its experience in building mobile
broadband and data services if it wins Polkomtel. The company
was the first to offer Apple Inc.’s iPhone in the region and
currently sells smartphones to nine out of 10 handset customers
in  Sweden , boosting its mobile-data revenue.  “The advisers to the sellers will select who can
continue,” TeliaSonera spokeswoman Cecilia Edstroem said by
phone.  America Movil SAB, Latin America’s largest wireless
carrier, said last week that it may bid for Polkomtel to counter
slowing growth in its home markets.  Telenor ASA  of Norway,  Telefonica SA  of  Spain  and Polish businessman Zygmunt Solorz-Zak
were among 20 investors who took sale documents, according to a
report in Rzeczpospolita on Feb. 9.  Dag Melgaard, a Telenor spokesman, declined to comment, as
did a Telefonica spokesman who asked not to be identified,
citing company policy.  Plus Brand  Polkomtel, operator of the Plus brand, has almost 14
million customers for basic voice and third-generation wireless
services, according to the Warsaw-based company’s website. It
competes with Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa, owned by  Deutsche
Telekom AG , and  France Telecom SA ’s Orange.  Herbert Wirth, chief executive officer of KGHM, said in
November that the 2008 sale by Denmark’s TDC A/S of a 20 percent
stake in Polkomtel was the minimum valuation in the current
sale. The TDC deal valued Polkomtel at 3.7 billion euros ($5.1
billion).  Bidders could include “all the major European operators”
as well as Russian operators such as Mobile TeleSystems and
VimpelCom Ltd., and some Middle Eastern and Indian carriers that
have the cash, Hogley said.  The Execution Noble analyst said he doesn’t expect  France
Telecom  and Deutsche Telekom to bid for Polkomtel as both
companies are already in Poland and the country’s competition
authorities would probably block such a deal.  Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , who is negotiating to
merge assets held by his Wind Telecom SpA with  Russia ’s
VimpelCom to create the world’s sixth-largest mobile-phone
company, said in November that he may look at Polkomtel. Today,
his spokespeople couldn’t immediately be reached and didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  “There will be a due diligence process where the bidders
can look at the company and see if they want to adjust their
offers,” TeliaSonera’s Edstroem said, declining to comment on
the company’s offer price. “It’s still early days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  