-- 
Telkom South Africa's Need to Cut Jobs Pits Investors Against Government

-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-02-23T17:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/telkom-south-africa-s-need-to-cut-jobs-pits-investors-against-government.html
Telkom  South Africa  Ltd., which
dominates  Africa ’s largest fixed-line phone market, may resist
investor wishes that it slash jobs under pressure from its
biggest shareholder: The government.  President  Jacob Zuma ’s government, which owns 40 percent of
Telkom, has pledged to create 5 million jobs in 10 years to
tackle unemployment in a country where one in four are without
work. Government indecision has already left the company without
a chief executive officer for eight months, slowing the disposal
of an unprofitable Nigerian unit and the start-up of a South
African mobile-phone service.  “The company needs to right-size,” said Mohamed Shafee Loonat, a portfolio manager at Cape Town-based  Element
Investment Managers , which owns Telkom shares and manages more
than 20 billion rand ($2.8 billion). It should contract services
to outside companies, including the management of its network,
he said.  Two years ago Pretoria-based Telkom abandoned a plan to
bring in contractors to run much of its business after
opposition from labor unions, who estimated 19,000 workers would
be affected. Formed in 1991, Telkom employs over 23,000 people
to run a network built up during a monopoly that ended in 2005.  Communications Minister Roy Padayachie hasn’t yet spoken to
the Cabinet about job cuts at Telkom, his spokesman Tiyani
Rikhotso said in an interview from  Pretoria  last week.  ‘Stabilize Leadership’  “Our primary focus is to stabilize the leadership of
Telkom,’ Rikhotso said. The government won’t do anything to
“weaken or to interfere with the running of Telkom.”  The company, run by a stand-in CEO and an  acting  chief
financial officer, has lost four CEOs over eight years. The
government on Feb. 17 appointed Lazarus Zim as its fourth
chairman since 2003, giving him a one-year contract. Telkom’s
procurement division, network operations, data and performance
centers are managed by acting  executives . Telkom is filling the
posts, spokesman Pynee Chetty said, declining further comment.  South Africa’s government was granted “golden share”
rights before Telkom’s initial public offering in 2003, which
gives it a veto right in the hiring of the CEO. The Public
Investment Corp., the state-owned manager of government pensions
that owns 16 percent of Telkom, can also appoint a board member.  ‘Trying to Eradicate’  Of the five government and PIC representatives on Telkom’s
board, three don’t have telecommunications experience while the
company’s three independent directors include an advocate, an
accountant and the former head of an explosives company. Zim is
a former executive at  MTN Group Ltd ., Africa’s biggest mobile-
phone company.  At the end of March, the “golden share” rights expire. In
November Padayachie told  TechCentral , a Johannesburg-based
Internet news service, that government doesn’t want to lose its
rights. Rikhotso wouldn’t comment on government’s intentions.    JSE Ltd ., which operates Johannesburg’s stock exchange,
will oppose an extension, CEO Russell Loubser said in an
interview. “It’s a thing we’ve been trying to eradicate,” he
said. A breach of listing requirements can lead to fines or
termination of the listing.  A two-year moratorium on job cuts also ends next month,
when acting CEO Jeffrey Hedberg leaves.  Losing Skills  Job cuts won’t restore profit if Telkom keeps losing
skills, said Moira-Marie Kloppers, spokeswoman for the
Solidarity labor union, which represents 3,500 Telkom workers.
Earnings excluding one-time items have dropped each year since
2006.  Telkom “lost the opportunity” to benefit from a surge in
local data demand, said Arthur Goldstuck, managing director of
 World Wide Worx , a Johannesburg technology research company.    Vodacom Group Ltd . and MTN, the nation’s largest mobile-
phone operators, are growing data revenue three times faster
than Telkom. Telkom is also less efficient than international
rivals, with sales per employee of about $214,000 in 2009
compared with $375,000 for France Telecom SA. Labor, at a third
of total costs, is Telkom’s biggest expense.  Telkom’s shares listed at 28 rand and peaked at 90.42 rand
on Sept. 3, 2007. The shares have dropped 6.5 percent since May
25, 2009, when it spun off its stake in Vodacom, which has
gained 23 percent. Telkom lost 2.4 percent to close at 35.25
rand by 5 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Telkom’s IPO was the only major state asset sale by the
African National Congress-led government. The party in 2007
resolved to halt government asset sales to create a
“developmental state” that will use government companies to
boost growth and job creation.  ‘Rudderless’  Investors disagree, pointing to badly managed state
companies.  Government must sell its stake and strengthen the regulator
to boost competition, said Rob Forsyth, a portfolio manager with  Cape Town ’s  Investec Asset Management , which has $80 billion in
assets.  Eskom Holdings Ltd. brought mines and smelters to a halt
for five days in 2008 because it mismanaged power plant coal
stocks. It later went without a CEO for eight months and a year
without a finance chief.  Ports and rail operator Transnet Ltd., run by an acting-CEO
for almost two years until this month, had port traffic crippled
by an 18-day strike last year. South African Airways Ltd. had no
CEO for a year while the national broadcaster needed a 1.5
billion rand bailout in 2009.  “There doesn’t seem to be a gelling of interests,” said
Forsyth “Telkom is rudderless.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net ;
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 