-- 
Emanuel to Succeed Daily as Next Chicago Mayor After First-Round Win

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/emanuel-gets-verdict-today-on-campaign-to-succeed-chicago-s-mayor-daley.html
For someone who used to fly on Air
Force One and hold the second-most powerful job in Washington,
it hasn’t been a smooth ride to Election Day for Rahm Emanuel.  The frontrunner to succeed retiring Chicago Mayor  Richard M. Daley , Emanuel endured jeers for his advice to U.S.
presidents, sat through hours of cross-examination from lawyers
and residents over his  Chicago  bona fides, and had at least one
egg thrown at him.  He led his nearest rival by 30 percentage points in a
recent major poll, though, and could avoid a runoff if he gets
more than 50 percent of the vote today. If he does, he’ll be in
for even more bumps as Chicago’s next mayor confronts a
declining population, pension shortfalls for city workers and a
2012  budget deficit  forecast at more than $600 million.  “It’s going to be a hard, hard fight,” said Laurence Geller, 63, chief executive officer of Chicago-based  Strategic
Hotels & Resorts Inc ., which operates the InterContinental
Chicago and employs about 1,000 in the city. “The next mayor
has enormous challenges ahead of him because the ship of state
can’t float down this lane anymore.”  Emanuel, 51, would enter City Hall’s fifth-floor mayoral
suite with the added burden of troubled labor relations. His
White House role in helping President  Bill Clinton  win passage
of the  North American Free Trade Agreement  and comments he made
about unions as President Barack Obama’s chief of staff left
lingering resentment.  ‘Wall Street Judas’  The campaign in the third-most populous U.S. city devolved
into name-calling in its closing days. Jim Sweeney, president of
the 23,000-member Operating Engineers Local 150 and a supporter
of Emanuel rival Gery Chico, last week  called  Emanuel a   Wall
Street  Judas” who sold out American workers for a “bag of
silver he collected when he went and passed NAFTA.”  Chico’s campaign later said in a statement that he’s the
father of three Jewish children “and it didn’t once occur to
him that Jim was implying anything besides the fact that Rahm
betrayed the workers of this city.”  Emanuel would be the city’s  first Jewish mayor .  After leaving Clinton’s White House in 1998, he earned at
least $17 million as an investment banker working for one of
Clinton’s top fundraisers, the late  Bruce Wasserstein , in the
Chicago office of  Wasserstein Perella & Co . His opponents have
repeatedly questioned how he was able to make such a sum in
three years with no previous business experience.  If Emanuel or any of his opponents fails to win more than
50 percent in today’s vote, the runoff between the top two
candidates will be April 5. Daley, 68, is retiring in May after
22 years in office.  The contest will test organized labor’s get-out-the-vote
prowess in Chicago, a city with a long tradition of union
involvement in elections.  Union Favorite  While Emanuel has secured endorsements from some unions,
including the Teamsters Joint Council 25, more labor groups are
backing Chico, a former Daley chief of staff who is Emanuel’s
closest competitor. The council has 30,000 members in Chicago.  More than 10 percent of the city’s 2.7 million residents
belong to unions, said Nick Kaleba, a spokesman for the  Chicago
Federation of Labor , which didn’t endorse a candidate. Nine out
of 10 municipal employees are union members.  Emanuel, a former Chicago congressman, has been more vocal
than Chico, 54, in his calls for “shared sacrifice” by public
workers as the city seeks to address deficits. Repeated use of
reserve funds to balance budgets led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut
Chicago’s credit rating on Nov. 5 by one level to A+, the fifth
highest grade.  Ballot Battle  Less than a week before early voting began Jan. 31,
Emanuel’s name was off the ballot after an appellate court ruled
that he didn’t meet a residency requirement for a mayoral
candidate. The Illinois Supreme Court put him back on by
unanimously ruling Jan. 27 that Emanuel, who had moved to  Washington  in 2009 to work for Obama, satisfied the law.  At a hearing in December, members of the public pummeled
him with questions about his ties to the city. Emanuel, who was
born in Chicago and grew up in the northern suburb of Wilmette,
pointed out that valuables like china dishware and his wife’s
wedding dress remained stored at their Chicago home when they
left for Washington and rented out the property.  Emanuel remained composed in public before the election,
not showing what he has acknowledged to be a sometimes
expletive-laced, explosive personal style.  A Chicago Tribune/WGN-TV  poll  released Feb. 10 showed
Emanuel with the support of 49 percent of likely voters,
followed by Chico at 19 percent. Former U.S. Senator Carol Moseley Braun, City Clerk Miguel del Valle and all other
candidates registered at 10 percent or less in the poll taken
Feb. 5-9, with a margin of error of plus or minus 3.7 percentage
points.  Air War  Emanuel raised $10.6 million through Jan. 19, four times as
much as Chico, campaign disclosure  records show . Since then,
Emanuel has raised at least an additional $1.4 million.  He used the money -- and his two former presidential bosses
-- in his  television advertising . A January visit by Clinton
provided video for one of the ads.  “You need a big mayor,” the ex-president said as his
former aide -- who is 5 feet, 8 inches tall -- stood next to him
on stage. “You’ve got big challenges.”  More than 70 people wrote checks of $50,000 or more to
Emanuel’s campaign before the end of 2010, when a new Illinois
campaign finance law took effect limiting contributions,  records 
show.  He tapped his own Rolodex as well as that of his brother,
Hollywood talent agent Ari Emanuel, the inspiration for one of
the characters in the HBO series “Entourage,” to attract
donors stretching from Wall Street to Hollywood and Silicon
Valley.  Celebrity Donors    Apple Inc . Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  gave Emanuel
$50,000, while  Kenneth Griffin , CEO of Chicago-based hedge fund
Citadel LLC, contributed $100,000, records show. David Geffen,
co-founder of DreamWorks SKG, donated $100,000, and the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange, the biggest U.S. futures exchange, gave him
$200,000. Developer  Donald Trump  chipped in $50,000.  Obama, who still owns property in the city, hasn’t played
an active role in the campaign, other than calling Emanuel
“extraordinarily well qualified” to be mayor. White House
Press Secretary Jay Carney said last week that the president and
first lady had filled out their absentee ballots, though he
didn’t say how they voted.  “I don’t have to make calls for  Rahm Emanuel ,” Obama said
at a Feb. 15 news conference in Washington. “He seems to be
doing just fine on his own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 