-- 
England Captain Strauss Bemoans Errors After World Cup Scare Against Dutch

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-02-22T19:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/england-gets-out-of-jail-by-defeating-netherlands-at-cricket-world-cup.html
  England  captain  Andrew Strauss  said
his team made too many mistakes as it survived a scare against
the Netherlands before clinching a six-wicket win at cricket’s
World Cup.  The Dutch totaled 292-6 in their allotted 50 overs in the
Group B game yesterday in Nagpur,  India , including 119 by Ryan
ten Doeschate. England reached 296-4 with eight balls to spare,
with Strauss top-scoring with 88, to avoid a shock defeat.  Ten Doeschate, an all-rounder for English county team Essex,
scored nine fours and three sixes in his 110-ball knock. He took
advantage of sloppy England fielding to reach his century with a
five as a run-out attempt hit the wicket and went for four
overthrows.  Kevin Pietersen  and  James Anderson  also missed a
catching chance off him by letting the ball drop between them.  “We got a lot of things wrong with our bowling, and we let
them off the hook three or four times in the field as well,”
Strauss said at the post-match ceremony. “It was a very poor
first 50 overs, I think we have to take that on the chin and
learn from it pretty quickly because you can’t afford to do that
too often. Thankfully the batsmen got us out of jail.”  Man-of-the match Ten Doeschate was the last to be dismissed
for the Netherlands, caught by Ravi Bopara off  Stuart Broad  in
the 49th over.  In reply, England reached 105 before losing its first
wicket, Pietersen for 39. Strauss was out with the score on 166,
followed by Trott, who’d scored 62, and  Ian Bell  (33). The last
two were dismissed by Ten Doeschate.    Paul Collingwood  and Bopara, with 30 runs each, saw England
to victory.  ‘Have to Improve’  “We always knew if we kept wickets in hand, we’d have a
good chance of chasing it down,” Strauss said. “I’m very happy
to have got the win but obviously we’ll have to improve as the
tournament goes on.”  The Netherlands, where soccer dominates the sporting agenda,
is 12th of 13 teams in the International Cricket Council one-day
ranking, while England is fifth.  Before the game, the Dutch were the 9-1 underdog to win the
match with U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes Plc. England was 1-25,
meaning a successful 25-pound bet would yield a profit of one
pound.  “I’ve worked really hard in the last two weeks and it was
just one of those days,” Ten Doeschate said. “Everything came
naturally. If we can carry on in that manner, playing brave
cricket and having a go at these big teams it will be a great  World Cup  for us.”  The Dutch previously upset England in the 2009 ICC World
Twenty20 competition, the shortest form of the game.  England, a three-time runnerup in the World Cup, next faces
India at Bangalore on Feb. 27, and the Netherlands plays West
Indies at  New Delhi  the following day. Today, Pakistan meets  Kenya  in a Group A match in Hambantota.  The top four teams from each of the two seven-team World
Cup groups advance to the quarterfinals after a round-robin
competition.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  