-- 
Eni's Libyan Oil Drilling at Risk as Violence Threatens Italy's Interests

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-22T17:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/eni-s-libyan-oil-drilling-at-risk-as-violence-threatens-italy-s-interests.html
  Eni SpA , the Italian oil producer
that’s drilled in Libya during the whole of Muammar Qaddafi’s
41-year rule, is the foreign company with most to lose as
violence escalates and the regime threatens to unravel.  As the former colonial power, Italy is the biggest investor
in Libya and Rome-based Eni is at the forefront of the
relationship.  Italy ’s largest company pumps almost 250,000
barrels a day in the North African country, or about 14 percent
of its total production. Eni’s shares extended declines today
after falling the most in 19 months yesterday.  “Italy and particularly Eni are heavily exposed in Libya
and stand to lose a great deal if things fall apart,” said
Nicolo Sartori, an energy and security researcher at  Rome ’s  IAI
Institute for International Affairs.  “Eni’s production and
exploration interests in the area are considerable.”  Diplomats resigned and soldiers deserted in protest after
violent repression of anti-government demonstrators left
hundreds dead in Libya, North Africa’s largest oil producer.
Popular uprisings have already toppled autocratic regimes in
Tunisia and Egypt.  Oil prices  jumped to a two-year high in New
York today.  Eni said today that gas supply to Italy and Europe through
its Greenstream Mediterranean pipeline has been suspended. Some
petroleum production has also been stopped, Eni said in a
statement, adding that facilities have not been damaged. The
company said Italy, which gets about 10 percent of its gas from
Libya, will be able to compensate for the loss through supply
from other sources.  OMV, Repsol  Other companies affected by the protests in Libya include
Austria’s  OMV AG  and  Repsol YPF SA  of Spain. OMV, which derives
about 12 percent of its production from Libya, said yesterday
it’s withdrawing all non-essential staff. Repsol, which relies
on Libya for about 3.8 percent of its global output, said today
that exploration and production operations are being suspended.    BP Plc  suspended exploration yesterday and RWE AG halted
operations.  Statoil ASA  closed its office in Tripoli and
France’s  Total SA  said today that all non-essential staff are
being pulled out.  “The reinjection of political uncertainty is likely to
still be a concern for the market,”  Barclays Capital  wrote in a
research note. It calculated that Libya accounts for 10 percent
of Eni’s net income, 8 percent for OMV and 4 percent for Repsol.  Evacuate Staff  Eni also said today it is completing repatriation of its
workers and their families and will leave 34 workers in  Libya .
The company, which gets another 13 percent of its production
from Egypt and has smaller operations in Tunisia and Yemen, has
said it continues to operate in all the countries affected by
political unrest.  Eni fell 0.9 percent to 17.28 euros today in Milan. The
exchange was shut earlier due to “technical issues.” Shares of
Eni slumped the most since July 2009 yesterday.  “The market is naturally jittery given the fact that Eni
has 10-year contracts that could suddenly become scrap paper if
the people that negotiated and signed them are gone,” said  Alessandro Frigerio , a  fund manager  at RMJ Sgr in Milan who
doesn’t hold Eni shares. “One can only hope that the
longstanding links with the country and Eni’s experience in
difficult zones will help.”  Historic Ties  Eni has been in Libya since 1959, 10 years before Qaddafi
seized power in a military coup. Ties between the two countries
have strengthened in the past two years since the Italian
government apologized for colonial rule from 1911 to 1943 and
the two signed a treaty of cooperation.  “When Qaddafi falls it will all depend on whether the
Libyans consider Eni’s historical relationship with the country
or Italy’s recent ties with Qaddafi,” said Edoardo Liuni a
financial analyst at IlNuovoMercato.it in Rome. “Certainly all
the oil majors will be shaking if the new leaders decide to
nationalize everything.”  Libya has used its oil wealth to become one of the biggest
foreign investors in Italy. Libyan investors own 7.2 percent of  UniCredit SpA , Italy’s biggest bank, including a 4 percent stake
held by Libya’s central bank, according to Bloomberg data. Libya
also owns 2 percent of Finmeccanica SpA, Italy’s biggest defense
company, and 7.5 percent of Juventus soccer club.  Biggest Source  Libya is Eni’s largest source of oil and gas with 244,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day produced in 2009. Eni holds
8,951 square kilometres (3,500 square miles) of developed  oil
fields  in the country, or about one fifth of the company’s
total, according to data on  the company’s website . Libya
produced an average of 1.6 million barrels a day in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eni may be able to find solace in the fact that any regime
that follows Qaddafi’s will likely be as dependent on oil and
gas revenue as its predecessor, said Christine Tiscareno, an
analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in London  “It looks like the protesters are pragmatists, not
idealists,” Tiscareno said in a phone interview. “If they
overthrow the regime, they’re still going to need revenue from
foreign  oil companies . I don’t think there’s cause for alarm at
the moment, but if they get kicked out of the country, Eni’s in
trouble.”  Crude futures for April delivery in  New York  rose as much
as 9.8 percent today from the Feb. 18 settlement and London-
traded Brent surged to the highest since September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  