-- 
Merkel Says EU Considering Extension of Financial Aid Program for Greece

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-02-23T11:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/merkel-says-eu-considering-extension-of-financial-aid-program-for-greece.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
European Union leaders may be ready to extend Greece’s bailout
program as part of a broader package to shore up faith in the
euro, falling short of Greek calls to ease its lending terms.  Merkel, speaking to reporters in Berlin late yesterday
after talks with Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou, said
that any extension would have to be a part of the comprehensive
package to fight the debt crisis being negotiated by the end of
March. No decision has yet been made on such action, she said.  “There certainly is a discussion about whether to consider
extending the running time of the Greek program,” Merkel said,
noting that last year’s aid plan for  Greece  was limited to three
years while Ireland’s bailout package, agreed last November,
runs for seven years. “It’s one point that’s on the table.”  Merkel’s comments, made in response to a question about
lowering  interest rates  for bailouts, fail to address the core
demands of Greece and Ireland, the second euro-area country to
get aid. The EU said in November that Greece would get an extra
four-and-a-half years to repay emergency loans to match the
seven-year term for the Ireland’s rescue.  “It’s difficult” to interpret where Merkel is positioned,
Thorsten Polleit, chief economist for Germany at  Barclays
Capital  in  Frankfurt , said in an interview. She is likely
“remaining ambiguous so as to increase Germany’s bargaining
power” with Greece and other European governments.  Greek Bonds  Greek 10-year bonds opened little changed today, with
yields at 11.76 percent. The cost of insuring Greek sovereign
debt was higher than every country except for Venezuela and  Pakistan  as of Feb. 17, according to CMA prices for credit-
default swaps.  Papandreou, in a speech in Berlin on Feb. 21, urged EU
leaders to weigh changes to the 440 billion-euro ($603 billion)
rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, and its
successor from 2013, the European Stability Mechanism, to allow
Greece to buy back debt and pay lower interest rates on aid.  Papandreou yesterday compared the Greek debt-cutting
program to “a sprint,” saying his government is committed to
seeing it through to avoid Greece having to restructure its
debt.  The task will be easier “if the Greek people can be
convinced that their sacrifices are not in vain,” he said.  Irish Relief  Papandreou was preceded by Ireland’s main opposition
leader,  Enda Kenny , who traveled to Berlin last week to tell
Merkel of the need for Ireland to be allowed similar relief.
Polls show Kenny as the favorite to become Ireland’s next prime
minister after Feb. 25 elections.  There is a “need to work within the European Union to
strengthen some of the mechanisms of financial support for
countries which experience crisis,” European Central Bank
Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said yesterday in a
speech in  Hong Kong .  As she prepares for an EU crisis summit on March 24-25,
Merkel must balance public opposition to aiding indebted
countries with the expectations of investors and other EU states
that Germany takes the lead.  She also has to contend with resistance from her coalition
to making German taxpayers shoulder any more of the cost.  Germany  was the biggest country contributor to last year’s Greek
bailout and the EFSF rescue fund for debt-stricken states.  Summit Theme  Germany will present initial proposals at a special EU
summit called for March 11. Merkel said that improving European
competitiveness will be a “central theme.”    Europe  must become more competitive and everyone has a
duty to stabilize the euro,” she said.  The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.3720 as of 8:19 a.m. in  London , after earlier climbing to $1.3730, the highest since
Feb. 10.  Greece’s debts are likely to be more than 156 percent of
gross domestic product when the aid package runs out in 2013,
according to EU forecasts. Greece pays about 5 percent for aid.  Greek unions said they will keep ferries docked at ports,
stop flights and shut down public services today in renewed
protests against government measures to trim the public sector
and loosen  labor laws  for private companies.  “Greece has started to put its house in order,” and the
“path is not easy,” Merkel said, praising the debt-cutting and
austerity measures by Papandreou’s government. Even so, “quite
a bit still needs to be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  