-- 
Merkel Backs Guttenberg After He Drops Doctor Title Amid Plagiarism Spat

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-02-22T11:18:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/merkel-backs-guttenberg-after-he-drops-doctor-title-amid-plagiarism-spat.html
  Chancellor Angela Merkel  welcomed
Defense Minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg’s decision to
relinquish his academic doctoral title and backed him in the
face of charges that he plagiarized parts of his dissertation.  Guttenberg, 39, told a party meeting of Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats  late yesterday that he had made “grave errors” in
writing the dissertation. He said he will stay on as minister.
While Merkel said dropping the title was “right,” she said she
appointed him to reform the military rather than on the strength
of his doctorate, according to the chancellery.  “I stand by what I wrote, but I also stand by the nonsense
that I wrote,” Guttenberg told the Christian Democrats at the
meeting in Kelkheim in the western state of Hesse, according to
televised remarks. The minister, who rejected accusations of
plagiarism as recently as Feb. 18, said that he reexamined the
work over the weekend and that “in some places” in the
dissertation, he “lost perspective over the sources.”  The admission is a reversal for Guttenberg,  Germany ’s most
popular politician, who dismissed the reports about his
doctorate as “absurd” on Feb. 16. Two days later, he
apologized for possible irregularities in his thesis while again
denying that he committed plagiarism.  The matter has dominated the media in Germany for the past
seven days, displacing coverage of soldier deaths in  Afghanistan 
and threatening to distract Merkel’s coalition after her party
suffered its worst defeat in Hamburg since World War II on Feb.
20. She faces six more state elections this year.  Asked to Respond  The  University of Bayreuth  has asked Guttenberg to respond
to allegations that were first published in the  Sueddeutsche
Zeitung  newspaper on Feb. 16 about the doctorate in law he was
awarded with the highest grade “summa cum laude” in 2007. The
thesis compares constitutional law in the U.S. and the European
Union.  The accusations emerged when a law professor,  Andreas
Fischer-Lescano  of the University of Bremen, discovered  at least
four cases  in which whole passages were lifted from other
sources without attribution and minimal changes, such as a 2003
article taken from  Switzerland ’s NZZ am Sonntag newspaper.  Other passages bore slight alterations from sources cited
by Guttenberg, though didn’t appear in footnotes. Some sections
did cite sources, though still borrowed phrases word-for-word,
according to material the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  published.  More instances were then discovered, including a column
printed in the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  in 1997 that was
mostly copied in Guttenberg’s introduction. An open-source
website set up for contributors,  guttenplag.de , says it’s found
instances of apparent plagiarism on 286 pages, or 73 percent of
the text.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  