-- 
Mersch Says ECB May Warn Next Week of Rising Inflation Risks in Euro Area

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-02-22T15:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/mersch-says-ecb-may-warn-next-week-of-rising-inflation-risks-in-euro-area.html
European Central Bank council member
Yves Mersch said officials may toughen their language on
inflation next week, indicating a readiness to raise interest
rates in coming months.  “I would not be surprised at most colleagues concluding
that we have upside risks to  price stability ,” Mersch said in
an interview in Luxembourg yesterday. With the economy
strengthening and inflation in breach of the ECB’s 2 percent
limit, policy makers will “inevitably” have to “rebalance our
monetary policy stance,” Mersch said, without giving a
timeframe.  The ECB, which has kept its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 1 percent for almost two years, is growing more
concerned that soaring energy and food prices will drive up
wages and entrench faster inflation. At the same time, raising
borrowing costs too soon could exacerbate  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis by increasing pressure on stressed banking systems
in countries such as Greece and Ireland.  The euro rose more than a cent against the dollar to as
high as $1.3695 after Mersch’s comments were published. Euribor
futures extended a decline, with the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December gaining eight basis points to 1.98
percent, as traders added to bets on higher ECB rates. German
two-year government notes fell, sending the yield up seven basis
points to 1.45 percent.  August Increase?  So far, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has said risks to
the inflation outlook are “broadly balanced,” though they
“could move to the upside.”  Investors today brought forward expectations for the ECB’s
first quarter-point rate increase in three years to August from
September, Eonia forward contracts show.  “There is a risk now that the ECB may raise before
September,” said  Nick Kounis , chief European economist at  ABN
Amro  in Amsterdam. “While Mersch is a traditional inflation
fighter, even the normally dovish members are sounding
hawkish.”  ECB council member Athanasios Orphanides told Dow Jones in
an interview published yesterday that the bank “must be ready
to act as appropriate to safeguard price stability.”       Nout Wellink  of the Netherlands said in an interview with the Wall
Street Journal published today that the ECB’s key rate may
“distort the economic and financial process” if left at 1
percent too long.  Inflation Projections  Executive Board member Juergen Stark said last night that
the ECB is “prepared to act decisively and immediately if
needed” to maintain price stability, and fellow board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said the bank may need to reassess its
policy stance.  At the next policy meeting on March 3, the ECB will publish
its latest economic projections. Mersch said he expects ECB
economists to lift their 2011 inflation forecast to more than 2
percent from 1.8 percent predicted in December. Inflation
accelerated to 2.4 percent last month.  “Now the question is what about 2012, will this be a
temporary hump or will this translate into a plateau?” Mersch
said. “This very much depends on second-round effects.”  Crude  oil prices  have surged 27 percent over the past six
months, pushing up import prices and adding to pressure on labor
unions to secure bigger pay increases for workers.  Economic Outlook  Faster growth in countries like  Germany , Europe’s largest
economy, may also fan inflation. German business confidence
surged to a record high this month and expansion in the euro
region’s service and manufacturing industries accelerated to the
fastest pace in more than four years.  Mersch said policy makers may next week change their view
that risks to the economic outlook are “slightly tilted to the
downside.”  Mersch, 61, has been touted by some economists as a
possible successor to Trichet when his eight-year term ends on
Oct. 31. Asked if he’s interested in the job, the Luxembourg
central banker declined to comment, saying it’s a question for
“the leaders who will make this decision.”  Wellink today declared his interest in the position,
telling an audience at the University of Amsterdam that if
asked, he would “think about it seriously.” Other possible
candidates include Italy’s  Mario Draghi  and  Finland ’s Erkki Liikanen.  Before the Fed  Mersch said the ECB is not concerned that raising borrowing
costs before the  Federal Reserve  could drive up the euro’s
exchange rate. “We’ll raise rates when we find the situation
warrants it, not on the time axis that belongs to market
analysts,” he said. “We have no exchange-rate objective.”  The ECB is “fully aware that excessively low interest
rates create distortions in the economy,” Mersch said.  Still, he warned against “moving into a posture of over-
confidence by trying to make forward commitments in a period
where uncertainty is still quite high.”  The ECB has twice been forced to abandon its exit from
emergency measures designed to help banks through the financial
and debt crises.  Mersch said officials are looking at resuming a “gradual”
exit. One step may be to charge banks more when they borrow
excessively from the ECB in an effort to wean them off the
funds. Some banks have become too reliant on ECB cash after the
central bank made unlimited amounts available at its benchmark
rate to ease a liquidity squeeze.  “I cannot confirm that the solution that will be announced
is a solution that is only a solution where price is affected,”
Mersch said. “There can also be solutions where you act on the
quantity. I can tell you that we are very far in our decision-
making process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  