-- 
Esteves Postpones BTG Pactual IPO Until 2012 After $1.8 Billion Stake Sale

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-02-22T21:11:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/esteves-postpones-btg-s-ipo-until-2012-after-1-8-billion-sale.html
  Andre Esteves , the Brazilian
billionaire who owns Banco BTG Pactual SA, postponed plans to
take his investment bank public until next year after selling a
stake for $1.8 billion in December.  “We need a period of about a year to use the capital from
the private placement, and after that it makes sense to talk
about an IPO, which is also what our investors want,” Esteves
said yesterday in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  The 42-year-old banker said he’s betting on companies that
serve Brazil’s growing middle class as Latin America’s biggest
economy expands at the fastest pace in two decades. His first
acquisition since selling the BTG stake was  Banco Panamericano
SA , a Sao Paulo-based consumer lender that had to be bailed out
in November after suspected accounting fraud.  Panamericano gave Esteves a partnership with Caixa
Economica Federal, which owns 37 percent of Panamericano and is
Brazil’s biggest mortgage lender. BTG plans to also gain a stake
in Casa & Video Rio de Janeiro SA, an electronics retail chain
with 70 stores in Rio, by converting a loan to the company into
equity, according to Esteves.  BTG, which Esteves bought back from UBS AG for $2.5 billion
in 2009, has stakes in Estapar, the country’s largest car-
parking company; hospital operator Rede D’Or; and automakers
Mitsubishi Motors do Brasil and the local unit of Suzuki Motor
Corp. BTG’s merchant bank unit has also been buying drugstore
chains across  Brazil .  BTG Investors  The group that invested $1.8 billion in BTG will own about
19 percent of the company once the transaction is completed. It
includes the Rothschild family and  Italy ’s Agnelli family, which
controls Fiat SpA.  Among other investors are J.C. Flowers &
Co., the Government of Singapore Investment Corp., China
Investment Corp. and the Abu Dhabi Investment Council.  Record-low unemployment and an unprecedented credit
expansion is fueling consumer demand that helped Brazil’s gross
domestic product rise 7.3 percent last year, according to
central bank estimates. Outstanding loans increased 20.5 percent
in December from a year earlier to a record 1.7 trillion reais
($1.02 trillion), according to central bank data released on
Jan. 26, while the jobless rate reached 5.3 percent in December.  Brazil’s economy will expand 4.5 percent this year,
according to a weekly central bank survey of economists
published Feb. 21.  Credit Expansion  “Regardless of forecasts for slower growth in Brazil this
year, credit will continue to expand at a healthy pace, so
having a platform such as Panamericano and a partner like Caixa
is very accretive,” Esteves said.  Caixa is the financing agent for 80 percent of Brazil’s
national housing system. It provided a record 194 billion reais
in loans last year, of which 77.8 billion reais were new
mortgages, 57 percent more than in 2009.  The purchase of Panamericano, which specializes in used-car
loans, opens a new line of business at BTG. Esteves said Brazil
is going through structural changes and becoming a middle-class
country where stability will sustain consistent growth and
improve purchasing power among Brazilians.  During former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s eight
years in office through 2010, 36 million Brazilians joined the
middle class. Lula said last year that 36 million more should
reach that status by 2014. The national statistics agency
estimates Brazil’s population at 191.5 million.  New Services  BTG stands to gain from Panamericano’s low-income client
base and high-margin loans, and will probably use it as a
platform to launch new services to low-income Brazilians who are
increasingly seeking financial services, said Ceres Lisboa,
senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service in Sao Paulo.  “Buying a bank that already has credit products, a solid
client base, is an advantage for BTG,” Lisboa said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “BTG is an investment bank with deep
pockets and an interest in operating in several sectors, and we
believe retail credit has a lot of potential.”  Used-vehicle loans make up about 55 percent of
Panamericano’s credit portfolio, which also includes personal
loans, a credit-card operation and a payroll-credit business.
Vehicle financing surged 49 percent last year and payment terms
of up to 80 months were offered to consumers. The 136 billion
reais in auto loans last year through November made up 25
percent of all 549 billion reais in outstanding consumer loans
in Brazil, according to the central bank.  Hiring Bankers  Esteves has been hiring staff to strengthen BTG businesses.
In 2009, he hired six bankers from Credit Suisse Group AG,
including Marco Goncalves, head of mergers and acquisitions in
Brazil, who was given the same job at BTG.  Jose Luis Acar Pedro, former vice president of Banco
Bradesco SA, Brazil’s second-biggest bank by market value, was
hired to help define strategies for BTG’s consumer ventures.
Acar, 58, a member of BTG’s management committee in Brazil, is
taking over as Panamericano’s chief executive officer.  Acar forecast that Panamericano’s credit portfolio may rise
to 40 billion reais from 13.3 billion currently, according to an
interview with Valor Economico newspaper Feb. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net . 