-- 
Metal Exports, Growth to Drive Peru’s First Surplus in 3 Years

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/metal-exports-growth-to-drive-peru-s-first-surplus-in-3-years.html
Rising copper and gold exports,
coupled with robust economic growth, will boost  tax revenue  in
2011 and give Peru its first fiscal surplus in three years,
Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said.  The South American country expects to have a surplus
equivalent to 0.6 percent of gross domestic product this year,
compared with a 0.6 percent deficit last year and a 1.9 percent
deficit in 2009, Benavides said during an event in Lima
yesterday.  Surging exports of minerals, which account for almost two-
thirds of the country’s sales overseas, helped lift Peru’s tax
revenue 21 percent last year. Tax collection also climbed as GDP
rose 8.8 percent, the strongest growth in Latin America,
Benavides said. The $153 billion economy will probably expand
about 7 percent this year, fueled by investment in mining and
energy, he said.    Peru  will lead growth in the region this year and have
the lowest inflation,” Benavides said. “Private investment of
around $50 billion in the next five years is going to spur
growth.”  Peru’s exports will likely rise 15 percent to a record $42
billion this year as imports climb 20 percent to $35 billion, he
said.  Peru may cut public debt to below 22 percent of GDP this
year from 23 percent in 2010, Benavides said. Monthly tax
collection will range from 5.5 billion soles ($1.98 billion) to
6 billion soles this year, he said. Last year’s average monthly
revenue was 5.38 billion soles last year, according to data from
the tax collection agency known as Sunat.  The government may lose an estimated 300 million soles of
revenue between now and July because of a proposed tax cut on
fuel to offset higher crude  oil prices , Benavides said.    Sales Tax  Reduction  Peru also cut its sales tax this month to 18 percent from
19 percent after higher food and fuel costs sparked the biggest
rise in domestic consumer prices in more than two years.  The country will seek to modify a change in tax regulations
that extended a levy on profits for local banks’ dollar forwards
trading with non-residents, Benavides said.  The Peruvian sol temporarily weakened against the  U.S.
dollar  in late January and early February on speculation the
government would start taxing profits on dollar forwards of more
than 60 days with non-residents. The currency has gained 1.3
percent this year, the second-best performer among major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “We’re going to propose a change in the law that corrects
this so the situation can go back to normal for derivatives,”
Benavides said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  