-- 
EU Countries Must Ensure Bondholders Share Losses, Group Says

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-02-22T09:52:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/eu-countries-must-ensure-bondholders-share-losses-group-says.html
European countries threatened by
insolvency should make creditors take a loss on their  government
bonds , the CESifo’s European Economic Advisory Group said in a
report on a debt-crisis mechanism for the region.  This “serves the purpose of simultaneously making
creditors take responsibility for their investment decisions and
setting a known limit to their losses,” the group of economists
said in the  report  released in Brussels today. The country
should then issue replacement bonds that are partly guaranteed
by euro-area states.  The proposal, the second stage of the economists’ crisis-
mechanism structure, would see investors forced to take a so-
called haircut, or loss, of between 20 percent and 50 percent. A
minimum is necessary “to restrict the chance for strategic
measures on the part of big creditors,” they said.  European finance ministers agreed on Feb. 14 to double the
lending capacity of the rescue fund for debt-hit states in 2013
and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has said that any future
bailout should include private bondholders.  The first stage of the EEAG’s proposed mechanism allows
countries that have trouble borrowing to draw upon European
Union loans for a maximum of two years. If the first and second
steps fail, the final stage of the mechanism consists of an
insolvency procedure.  “The challenge to the euro area consists of defining a
crisis mechanism in which a credible rescue strategy stringently
binds private investors, while at the same time preventing a
panic-like aggravation of market turbulences,” the group said.
“In addition, this mechanism should contribute to the
stabilization of the banking system in order to avoid a spiral
of actual or alleged emergencies.”  The group of seven economists, chaired by Jan-Egbert Sturm
of the KOF Swiss Economic Institute, said the euro-area should
“under no circumstances” sell Eurobonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 