-- 
Fairholme Says It's in Discussions With St. Joe on Company's Board Makeup

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-02-22T23:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/fairholme-says-it-s-in-discussions-with-st-joe-on-company-s-board-makeup.html
  Bruce Berkowitz ’s Fairholme Capital
Management LLC and  St. Joe  Co. are in discussions about the
composition of the company’s board and management after
Berkowitz began an effort to elect new directors.  Fairholme, the biggest shareholder of the money-losing
Florida landowner, disclosed the talks in a regulatory filing
today. Berkowitz, Fairholme’s founder, has been seeking to oust
the board of Watersound, Florida-based St. Joe.  Berkowitz and Fairholme President Charles M. Fernandez
resigned from St. Joe’s board last week after disagreements over
its compensation, nominating and governance process. They hired
executive search firm  Spencer Stuart  to solicit investor
approval to replace the board of St. Joe, which has lost money
for 10 consecutive quarters.  The goal of the talks is “reaching an agreement that would
be in the best interests of all stockholders,” according to
today’s filing. “There can be no assurance that any agreement
will be reached.”  The company’s board “adamantly opposes” Fairholme’s
plans, St. Joe said in a statement last week. The developer,
which has hired Morgan Stanley to explore strategic
alternatives, said Berkowitz is attempting to take control
“through a costly and disruptive proxy contest.”  Telephone messages left for Berkowitz and David Childers, a
St. Joe spokesman, weren’t immediately returned.  The filing was made after the close of regular U.S.
trading. St. Joe fell 21 cents to $27.89 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  St. Joe, in a separate statement today, said it delayed the
release of its fourth-quarter earnings to March 1 from Feb. 24.
The change will allow "adequate time" for St. Joe to complete
preparation of its 10-K annual report, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  