-- 
Fed Regional Bank Directors Had ‘Greater Confidence’ Last Month

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-02-22T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/fed-regional-bank-directors-had-greater-confidence-in-outlook-last-month.html
Directors at Federal Reserve
regional banks saw more signs the U.S. recovery will move
forward even as they expressed concern the labor market wasn’t
recovering fast enough, according to minutes of a Board of
Governors’ meeting last month.  Directors at the banks said “the incoming data provided
greater confidence that the recovery will be sustained,”
according to the minutes, adding that “many directors remained
cautious about the outlook” because of high unemployment and
falling  home prices .  The minutes, released today in Washington, show that most
directors at the Fed’s 12 regional banks affirmed the view of
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the rate-setting Open Market
Committee that monetary stimulus is necessary to accelerate  job
creation  and fuel economic growth.  “Most directors recommended that the current accommodative
stance of monetary policy be maintained,” said the minutes of
the Jan. 24 meeting to discuss the Fed’s discount rate, which it
charges on emergency loans to banks. Recommendations about
changing the rate, which has been at 0.75 percent since Feb.
2010, were the same as in previous meetings, with 10 banks
preferring no change.  Directors of Fed banks “noted positive economic
developments, including a pickup in consumer sales” and
“improvements in the manufacturing sector,” the minutes said.  The Fed’s presidents and governors raised their forecasts
for growth this year, and expect the economy to grow between 3.4
percent and 3.9 percent, according to minutes of their Jan. 25-
26 meeting. Forecasts increased from November predictions of 3
percent to 3.6 percent as household spending picked up and
recent economic data showed a “stronger tenor.”  Downplayed Optimism  Fed officials such as Bernanke and Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  have downplayed optimism about the strength of the
recovery.  “Let’s not congratulate ourselves just yet: even 4 percent
is only moderately higher than the growth rate of potential
output and thus represents a relatively muted recovery given the
severity of the recession,” Evans said in a speech last week.  “This growth forecast is not strong enough to reduce
unemployment very rapidly within a reasonable timeframe,” Evans
said, echoing Bernanke, who told the House Budget Committee on
Feb. 9 that unemployment is likely to remain high “for some
time.”  Confidence Rose  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in February to a
three-year high, exceeding forecasts, as more Americans
predicted the economy and their incomes will grow. The
Conference Board’s sentiment index increased to 70.4, the
highest level since February 2008, from 64.8 the prior month,
according to figures today from the New York-based private
research group.  “Unemployment was still higher than desired, and job
creation remained sluggish,” Fed bank directors said, according
to the minutes. “The housing sector continued to struggle, and
some directors attributed the persistent downward pressure on
home prices to still-increasing foreclosures.”  On March 4, the Labor Department will report that the
economy added 183,000 jobs in February, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The  unemployment rate  will rise
to 9.1 percent, according to the survey, which would be the 22nd
consecutive month of unemployment at 9 percent or higher.  Fed banks in  Dallas  and  Kansas City  last month repeated
calls for an increase in the discount rate by a quarter-point to
1 percent, a move that would be a step toward “a pre-crisis
discount rate structure.”  ‘No Sentiment’  None of the Fed’s 12 banks has changed its recommendation
on the discount rate since June. The Fed’s Washington-based
Board of Governors expressed “no sentiment” for changing the
rate and kept it at 0.75 percent last month.  As of Feb. 16, banks were borrowing $21 million from the
Fed discount window. The rate is currently 50 basis points above
the Fed funds rate, which has been kept at zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  The central bank raised the discount rate in February
2010, a move it described at the time as a “normalization” of
lending terms and not a tightening of monetary policy. Prior to
August 2007, the Fed kept the rate, also known as the primary
credit rate, 1 percentage point above the target for the
benchmark federal funds rate.  Discount-rate changes are requested by boards of directors
at the 12 regional Fed banks. The requests are subject to final
review and determination by the  Fed Board , which consists of the
bank’s six Washington-based governors. Central bank governors
review requests about every two weeks. The Fed’s rate-setting
Open Market Committee next meets in  Washington  on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  