-- 
Feinberg Sends Out 1,489 Final Offers for BP Gulf Spill Claims

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-02-22T20:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/feinberg-sends-out-1-489-final-offers-for-bp-gulf-spill-claims.html
  Kenneth Feinberg  said he has sent
 1,489 offers  for final payment to victims of  BP Plc ’s oil spill,
the first round since completion of a methodology for
calculating future losses.  Feinberg, who administers a $20 billion claims fund paid by
BP, said in an interview today that he also has distributed  466
interim checks  since making the payment formula final on Feb.
18. He didn’t disclose the amounts involved.  Lack of documentation for claims continues to be an
obstacle to compensation, according to Feinberg, a Washington
lawyer. The fund has sent letters to about 130,000 claimants
asking for additional documentation to demonstrate losses. So
far only 17 percent have responded, he said.  “The absence of substantiation is a huge problem,”
Feinberg said.  Senators Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat, and  Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican, criticized Feinberg during a Jan.
27 congressional hearing for being slow to compensate victims of
the April spill, the largest in U.S. waters. Claimants face
“severe challenges in getting timely payments,” said Landrieu,
who is the chairman of a disaster-recovery panel that held the
hearing.  The Feinberg-run fund has paid more than $3.47 billion in
claims to spill victims as of Feb. 21, mostly in short-term
“emergency payments,” according to the facility’s website. The
total includes about $829 million in checks to more than 93,000
people and businesses who applied for final compensation through
a “quick pay” option as Feinberg worked to complete the
formula on future losses.  $25,000 to Businesses  People were eligible to receive $5,000 and businesses
$25,000 within two weeks from the day they applied if they
already received an emergency payment and agreed not to take BP
or other companies involved in the spill to court.  Claimants can now also receive interim payments every three
months and retain their right to sue, or they can seek larger,
final lump-sum payments that require a longer review and an
agreement not to go to court.  The fund has received more than 144,000 applications for
final and interim payments as of Feb. 21.  Most victims would get lump-sum payments equal to double
their documented damage for 2010.  Oyster harvesters and processors would get four times their
damages suffered last year because oysters are expected to take
longer to recover, according to the  final methodology .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  