-- 
Fog Halts Houston Ship Pilots’ Inbound, Outbound Boarding

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-02-22T20:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/fog-halts-houston-ship-pilots-inbound-outbound-boarding-1-.html
Houston Ship Channel pilots stopped
boarding inbound and outbound vessels today as fog limited
visibility on the approach to the largest U.S. petroleum port,
according to the Coast Guard Vessel Traffic Service.  Pilots halted inbound and outbound boarding at 1 p.m. local
time, four hours after resuming operations that had been halted
yesterday, Levi Campbell, a Coast Guard watch supervisor, said
in an interview.  The port had 56 vessels, including tankers, waiting to
enter because of fog and 10 waiting to exit, according to
Campbell.  “I doubt they are going to open it again today,” he said.  Tankers use the channel connecting the  Gulf of Mexico  to
the Port of Houston to deliver crude oil to refineries in the
Houston-Texas City-Baytown area. A prolonged halt may force
refiners to reduce operating rates, possibly increasing prices
for refined products as companies turn to spot markets for oil.  “You need three to five days of sustained fog in the ship
channel before people are going to be really worried,”  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates in Houston, said today
in an interview. “Otherwise, it burns off in the morning, it
opens for 10 or 12 hours, and we muddle through.”  The  National Weather Service  at 11 a.m. posted a dense fog
 advisory  until 8 a.m. tomorrow, saying “incoming Caribbean air
sliding over cool Gulf waters” was causing the fog.  Refineries in PADD 3, the Energy Department’s designation
for the Gulf Coast region, make up almost half of U.S. refining
capacity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net ;  Jim Polson  in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Stubbe at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net  