-- 
Pirates Kill 4 Hostages on U.S. Yacht, U.S. Military Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-22T18:37:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/four-americans-killed-by-somali-pirates-after-capture-of-yacht-u-s-says.html
Somali pirates killed four American
hostages aboard their yacht before it was taken over by the U.S.
military and the pirates were killed or captured, according to
the U.S.  Central Command .  “At approximately 1 a.m. EST today, while negotiations
were ongoing to secure the release of four American hostages,
U.S. forces responded to gunfire aboard the pirated vessel (S/V)
Quest,” according to the statement.  The boarding team “discovered all four hostages had been
shot by their captors,” and, though they were found alive and
first aid applied, they soon died, the release said.  Vice Admiral Mark Fox, commander of the U.S. Navy 5th
Fleet, told reporters at the Pentagon by telephone from Bahrain
the boarding party was U.S. special operations forces. They met
no resistance at first. However, during the search of the vessel
they killed two pirates, one in a knife fight and the other by
gunshot, and they found two others already dead, Fox said. The
Navy took 13 pirates into custody, he said.  The U.S. commandos were launched in small boats after the
pirates fired a rocket-propelled grenade at a U.S. warship 600
yards away and gunfire was heard on the yacht, Fox said.  Use of Force  President  Barack Obama  on Feb. 19 authorized the use of
force against the pirates “in the case of an imminent threat”
to the hostages, according to his press secretary, Jay Carney.
The president was notified by counter-terrorism adviser  John Brennan  at 4:42 a.m. about the Americans killed, Carney said.  The Americans aboard the Quest were Scott and Jean Adam,
who owned the yacht, from  Marina del Rey ,  California , and
Phyllis Mackay and Bob Riggle of Washington state, Fox said.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in a statement
released to reporters, said the pirate action was
“deplorable.” She said it underscored the need for stability
in  Somalia  and called on other nations to support the  African
Union ’s peacekeeping mission there.  The deadly end came as negotiations were continuing, Fox
said. Yesterday, two pirates had come aboard the USS Sterett for
talks.  “There were ongoing negotiations that had continued for a
number of days and this morning, with absolutely no warning, is
when the rocket-propelled grenade was fired and the gunfire
erupted on board the yacht,” Fox said.  Navy Custody  The 13 captured pirates and two who were negotiating were
in U.S. custody. The pirates were armed with a grenade launcher,
AK-47 rifles, and small arms, Fox said.  He said the plan is to bring them “to a judicial process
and hold them accountable for their activities.”  The Navy had been tracking the pirated yacht since Feb. 18,
when it was spotted by a Royal Danish Navy ship off the coast of  Oman , Fox said. “We have seen a growing problem here in terms
of the pirate activity off the coast of Somalia,” Fox said.  Pirate activity in  Gulf of Aden  has “actually gone down,”
but pirates are going longer distances, up to 1,400 nautical
miles from Somalia, Fox said.  The pirates appeared to have launched from a “mother
ship” that allows them to operate far from Somalia’s shore, Fox
said.  This is a development in pirate operations that is becoming
a “game-changer,” Fox  told  a breakfast meeting of reporters
last month.  “In the past you’ll see pirate activity focused on those
times when small boats were able to go to sea,” Fox said. By
using large, pirated vessels as “mother ships,” they sail
thousands of miles to launch their smaller vessels, he said.  Fox said between Sept. 21, 2010, to Jan. 21, hostages of
differing nationalities had increased to 770 from 350, “so I
would characterize this as a serious problem.”  The Quest hijacking was the 11th this year in the region,
according to  statistics  compiled by the Office of Naval
Intelligence. Forty-nine vessels were hijacked in 2010 and 52 in
2009, according to ONI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  