-- 
Frontline Back in Black on Chinese Oil Demand: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-02-22T14:37:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/frontline-back-in-black-as-tanker-rates-rebound-on-china-freight-markets.html
Frontline Ltd., the world’s biggest
supertanker operator, may return to profit this quarter after
its biggest loss since 2002 as oil demand from China curbs a
glut of vessels that sent freight costs to a 13-month low.  Daily returns on the benchmark Middle East-to-Asia route
rose sixfold to $42,726 in a month as oil buyers booked the most
vessels since at least 2005, according to data from the  Baltic
Exchange  and Galbraith’s Ltd., a shipbroker in London. Traders
of forward freight agreements, used to speculate or hedge, were
anticipating rates of $17,285 as recently as three weeks ago.  The derivatives still aren’t pricing in a sustained rally,
with fourth-quarter contracts at $25,342, below the $30,100
Frontline needs to break even. Rates had been unprofitable since
November as vessels from the biggest building program in history
left yards. This month’s gains suggest the glut isn’t as large
as some analysts estimate, said Doug Mavrinac of Jefferies & Co.
in Houston, who correctly predicted a rally in 2009 and expects
second-half rates to average $50,000, 17 percent more than now.  “There’s a clear increase in oil being shipped from both
the Middle East and West Africa and a lot of that is heading for
China,” said Jens Martin Jensen, the Singapore-based chief
executive officer of Frontline’s management unit. “The way the
market jumped is a clear sign to me that there’s no weakening of
Chinese demand.”  The Hamilton, Bermuda-based shipping line, chaired by
billionaire  John Fredriksen , reported a fourth-quarter loss of
15 cents a share today, the worst for any quarter since 2002.
The rebound in rates means Frontline is already profitable again
and will make 20.8 cents a share in the three months ending
March 31, the mean of six analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg shows.  Benchmark Route  Tankers on the benchmark route earned owners as little as
$1,661 in October, the least in 13 months, according to data
from the London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes
assessments for more than 50 maritime routes. After charterers
booked 113 ships so far in February, the most for the month
since at least 2005, returns for owners are now close to their
highest since June.  A majority of equity analysts remain pessimistic or
neutral, with just six out of 25 rating Frontline a “buy.”
Shares of the company fell 2.3 percent in Oslo trading this
year, compared with a 1.6 percent advance in the six-member  Bloomberg Tanker Index , in which it has the second-highest
weighting, behind Vancouver-based Teekay Corp.  Tanker owners are still doing better than those operating
dry bulk carriers hauling coal and iron ore. Rates for capesizes
slumped 86 percent in the last four months, according to Baltic
Exchange data.  Combined Output  Demand for tankers is growing as the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, supplier of about 40 percent of
the world’s oil, pumps more crude. The group’s combined output
rose 0.7 percent to 29.4 million barrels a day in January,
according to Bloomberg estimates. Production rose for a second
consecutive month, the first time that’s happened since May.  “Rates have bottomed,” said Robert Mackenzie of FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “The first and most
important thing is OPEC announced that January production was up
to almost 30 million barrels a day,” said the analyst, whose
stock recommendations earned investors a 53 percent return in
the past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OPEC’s policy is to increase supply in line with demand,
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said in a speech in  Riyadh  on Jan. 24. His counterpart from the  United Arab
Emirates , Mohamed al-Hamli, said Feb. 14 that while the market
is “well supplied” for now, the group is ready to increase
production to curb any increase in prices that may hurt demand.  Production Quotas  West Texas Intermediate traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 36 percent since May to $92.66 a barrel while  Brent crude  has traded above $100 on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London for about three weeks.  OPEC’s compliance with record supply cuts dropped to a two-
year low in January, the Paris-based  International Energy Agency 
said Feb. 10. Iraq is the only one of the 12 members not subject
to quotas.  The group’s spare production capacity may be shrinking,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report Jan. 24. New York-
traded crude will be at $105.50 in 12 months, or 14 percent more
than now, the bank estimated. Futures markets anticipate a price
of $101.11 a year from now, data from the Nymex show.  Oil demand will expand 1.6 percent to a record 89.1 million
barrels a day this year, the IEA estimated Jan. 18.  China , the
world’s biggest energy consumer and second-largest user of oil,
imported 21.8 million metric tons of crude in January, the
third-highest monthly volume since at least 1999, according to
customs data.  Chinese Economy    China’s economy  will expand 9.25 percent this quarter,
accelerating to 9.55 percent in the next two quarters, according
to the median estimate of as many as eight economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. That’s more than twice the speed of the U.S., the
world’s largest oil consumer, the estimates show.  The 113 Middle East bookings made in the spot, or single
voyage, market this month are equal to about 226 million barrels
of oil, based on each supertanker holding about 2 million
barrels. That’s enough crude to supply the U.S. for about 12
days, according to data compiled by BP Plc.  Oil producers and refineries also ship cargoes on long-term
contracts that aren’t reflected in spot markets.  The surplus of supertankers competing for cargoes of Middle
East oil dropped to 7 percent, less than half of last year’s
average of 15 percent, according to a survey of eight
shipbrokers and owners on Feb. 15. The survey measures how many
more vessels there are available for hire over the next 30 days
relative to the number of likely cargoes.  “It’s astounding to see rates rising as they have,” said
Nigel Prentis, the analyst at HSBC Shipping Services Ltd. in  London  who correctly predicted a slump in rates for ships
hauling coal last month. “It just shows that vessel supply is
tighter than we think.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  