-- 
Gasoline, Heating Oil Surge as Violence Escalates in Libya

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-02-22T21:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/gasoline-heating-oil-surge-as-violence-escalates-in-libya.html
Gasoline and heating oil surged to
the highest levels in more than 28 months as heightened violence
in  Libya  stirred concern that unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East will disrupt fuel production and shipments.  Futures advanced as Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi vowed to
fight a growing rebellion until his “last drop of blood,”
defying a widening revolt that has left more than 200 dead.
Libya holds Africa’s largest crude reserves and accounts for an
estimated 10 percent of European oil imports, according to the
Schork Group Inc.  “That’s the catalyst right now,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .
“There’s pretty horrible news out of Libya and there’s the
chance if this does break out into a full-scale war, that you
will have some supply taken off the market.”  Gasoline for March delivery added 5.08 cents, or 2 percent,
to settle at $2.6021 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . That’s the highest settlement for the front-month
contract since Sept. 26, 2008.  Libya declared force majeure on all oil exports, Reuters
reported, citing sources it didn’t identify. Force majeure
allows producers to miss contractual obligations because of
circumstances beyond their control.  April-delivery Brent on  London ’s ICE Futures exchange rose
4 cents to settle at $105.78 a barrel. The highest level since
Sept. 22, 2008. The March contract for West Texas Intermediate
crude, which expired today, gained $7.37 to $91.69 a barrel, the
highest settlement since Oct. 2, 2008.  ‘Reacting to News’  Today was the first Nymex trading day since Feb. 18. U.S.
financial markets were closed yesterday because of the
Presidents Day holiday.  “People are coming in today and reacting to the news,”
said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in  New York . “What’s driving the market is
the perception of ‘what if,’ and the risk premium is being built
into price right now. Some portion of that will stay until the
market is a thousand percent convinced there is no shortage of
supply.”  Gasoline touched $2.681 in intraday trading, the highest
level since Sept. 25, 2008, before paring gains after assurances
from Saudi Arabia and the  International Energy Agency  that
supplies are adequate. Saudi Arabia Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi
said OPEC is ready to meet shortages resulting from a disruption
in Libyan exports and that the kingdom has spare capacity of 4
million barrels a day.  The  United Nations Security Council  is due to meet today to
discuss the violence, after Libya’s deputy ambassador to the UN
accused his government of “genocide.”  ‘Ring Around Gulf’  “People are now looking at it for what it is, not for what
it could be,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory
company Cameron Hanover Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut. “Part
of the fear has been that it can spread to  Saudi Arabia . The
problems are forming a ring around what is the heart of the  Persian Gulf .”  Libya is the latest nation rocked by protests ignited by
last month’s ouster of Tunisia’s president and the Feb. 11 fall
of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. Violent unrest has also
spread to Bahrain, Iran and Yemen. The risk for Libya is that an
end to Qaddafi’s rule may not be enough to stabilize a country
lacking state institutions or a succession mechanism.  Heating oil for March delivery rose 7.95 cents, or 2.9
percent, to settle at $2.7925 a gallon, the highest level for
the contract closest to expiration since Oct. 1, 2008.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, was
unchanged at $3.171 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 