-- 
Genting Singapore Touches Four-Month Low After Quarterly Loss

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-02-23T11:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/genting-singapore-posts-s-150-3-million-fourth-quarter-loss-1-.html
  Genting Singapore Plc , the world’s
third-biggest casino company by market value, slid to the lowest
in four months in intraday trading in Singapore after posting a
fourth-quarter loss on discontinued operations in the U.K.  The shares erased their losses to end unchanged at S$1.98,
at the 5 p.m. close in Singapore after declining as much as 5
percent to S$1.88, the lowest intraday price since Oct. 1. The
benchmark Straits Times Index fell 0.6 percent.  Net loss widened to S$150.3 million ($118 million) in the
three months ended Dec. 31 from S$101.7 million a year earlier,
the company said in a  statement  yesterday. For the full year,
Genting Singapore posted a S$37.8 million profit compared with a
loss of S$277.6 million a year earlier, missing the S$615
million average of 21 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The “gaming market momentum is slowing, we see more
competition,”  David Ng  and Michelle Lee, analysts at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a report. “We had expected more
growth, given the continued ramp-up, and still novelty factor,
but instead, it appears mass could be hitting near-term
saturation.”  Genting Singapore and  Las Vegas Sands Corp . opened the
city-state’s two casino-resorts last year, competing for  Asia ’s
biggest gamblers, after Singapore lifted a four-decade ban.  High Rollers  Genting Singapore’s profit margin narrowed for its VIP
business as high-stakes gamblers won more than in the previous
three-month period. It also paid down interest on its S$207.9
million loan to finance the property.  The casino operator sustained a full-year loss of S$619
million from the operations it sold in the U.K., with S$242
million of the shortfall booked in the fourth quarter.  “There’s going to be an adjustment period,” said  Carey Wong , an analyst at OCBC Investment Research Pte. “There will
probably still be some volatility.”  Genting Singapore’s net cash inflow from operating
activities of S$298.7 million in the fourth quarter was “pretty
good,” said Wong. For the full year,  cash flow  from operations
was S$1.41 billion.    Genting Bhd ., the Malaysian company that controls Genting
Singapore, lost 0.2 percent to 10.38 ringgit at the 5 p.m. close
of trading in  Kuala Lumpur .  Roller Coaster  The gambling market for Singapore’s two casinos increased
to $4.9 billion in the fourth quarter, 8 percent higher than the
previous three-month period, according to the Goldman Sachs
report. The growth was slower than the third quarter’s 15
percent expansion and below Macau’s 16 percent growth, Ng and
Lee said. They reiterated their recommendation to sell the
Singapore company’s shares.  Genting Singapore plans to open a marine museum, a water
park and two hotels at its $4.7 billion Resorts World Sentosa
property starting from the middle of this year. It reopened the
 Battlestar Galactica  roller coaster at its  Universal Studios
Singapore  theme park this week, after shutting it down for
almost a year to fix a “ ride component failure .”  “The opening of new attractions, which have begun with
Battlestar Galactica, will continue with more openings in the
second half of the year,” said Joseph Wong, an analyst at CIMB-
GK Securities Pte. “They’ll have a strong pool of new tourists
which could potentially turn into casino patronage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  