-- 
German Bonds Advance for Second Day as Libya Violence Spurs Safety Demand

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-02-22T16:37:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/german-bonds-advance-for-second-day-as-libya-violence-spurs-safety-demand.html
German two-year notes fell after  European Central Bank  council member  Yves Mersch  signaled a
readiness to raise interest rates to contain inflation.  The nation’s 10-year bonds rose for a second day as
violence intensified in  Libya , boosting demand for the safest
assets as stocks declined. Two-year notes also declined after a
report showed improving German  consumer confidence . Treasuries
advanced, while Greek  government bonds  fell.  “The front end’s sold off quite aggressively” since the
Mersch story, said Eric Wand, a rates strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in London, referring to shorter-dated
securities. “The back-end is rallying as a function of broader
risk issues.”  The two-year note yield jumped five basis points to 1.43
percent at 4:33 p.m. in  London  after climbing to 1.46 percent,
the most since Feb. 9 and within seven basis points of a more-
than one-year high. The 1 percent security due December 2012
fell 0.085, or 85 euro cents per 1,000 euro ($1,369) face
amount, to 99.24.  The 10-year yield slid three basis points to 3.15 percent
after reaching 3.13 percent, the least since Jan. 25. The yield
has climbed 60 basis points since Dec. 31. The difference in
yield, or spread, between two- and 10-year securities narrowed
nine basis points to 171 basis points, the smallest gap since
Nov. 24.  Inflation Risks  “I would not be surprised at most colleagues concluding
that we have upside risks to  price stability ,” Mersch said in
an interview in Luxembourg yesterday. With the economy
strengthening and inflation in breach of the ECB’s 2 percent
limit, policy makers will “inevitably” have to “rebalance our
monetary policy stance,” Mersch said, without giving a
timeframe.  Three-month Euribor futures fell after Mersch’s comments
were published, with the implied yield on the contract expiring
in December rising eight basis points to 1.98 percent, as
traders added to bets that the ECB will boost borrowing costs.
The yield was 1.33 percent at the end of 2010.  Euro-region inflation breached the European Central Bank’s
2 percent ceiling again in January, accelerating to 2.4 percent,
the fastest since October 2008.  “Inflation is likely to stay above the 2 percent target
for some time which will lead to discussions in the ECB about
how they will position their interest rate policy,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Zurich. He said if inflation accelerates more over the next few
months, bunds could fall.  Flight to Safety  Germany’s consumer sentiment index will increase to 6 in
March, the highest level in 3 1/2 years, from a revised 5.8 in
February, research group GfK AG said today. Italian consumer
confidence climbed to 106.4, more than economists forecast, from
105.9 in January, national statistics office Istat said in  Rome .  Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields fell as much as 10 basis
points as Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves,
erupted into violence after a crackdown on anti-government
demonstrators left hundreds dead. It’s the latest nation to be
rocked by protests ignited by last month’s ouster of Tunisia’s
president and fanned by the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak . Unrest has spread to Bahrain, Iran and Yemen.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said he’s leader of a
revolution that requires “sacrifice until the end of life.
Muammar al-Qaddafi has no title to be sad about it and resign,”
he said in an address aired on state television today. He said
rebels had been “drugged” and the “masterminds” behind the
uprising are abroad.  Stark Inflation Warning  European stocks declined for a third day, with the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index tumbling as much as 1.1 percent before trading
0.5 percent lower.  ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said yesterday the
ECB will raise rates if necessary to keep inflation in check.  The central bank may raise its key rate by a quarter-point
in September, from 1 percent today, according to euro overnight
index average, or Eonia, forward contracts. The yield on the
contract expiring on Sept. 14 was 1.29 percent as of 8:12 a.m.,
before Mersch’s comments were published.  The difference in yield, or spread, investors demand to
hold German two-year notes instead of similar-maturity U.S.
Treasury notes rose to 73.2 basis points today as traders
increased bets the ECB will increase  interest rates  before the  Federal Reserve . That’s the most since Feb. 2, when the spread
reached 90.8 basis points, the most since January 2009.  Bond Returns  German government bonds lost investors 1.4 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. U.S.
Treasuries have lost 0.9 percent with U.K. gilts falling 1.9
percent in the period, the indexes show.  The losses compare with gains made in 2010 as the euro-
region’s sovereign debt crisis fueled investor demand for the
safest fixed-income assets. German bunds returned 6.3 percent in
2010, the indexes show. Treasuries gained 6 percent, while U.K.
gilts returned investors 7.6 percent last year.  Irish 10-year yields fell two basis points to 9.12 percent,
while similar-maturity Greek yields were five basis points
higher at 11.77 percent. Spanish two-year notes declined as the
nation auctioned bills, with demand for the six-month securities
rising from a January sale. The yield was four basis points
higher at 3.20 percent after rising as high as 3.22 percent. The
government auctioned 2.87 billion euros of debt, falling short
of the maximum target of 3.5 billion euros.  The three-month bills were sold at an average yield of
1.101 percent, compared with 0.98 percent at the last auction on
Jan. 25, the Bank of  Spain  in  Madrid  said. It sold 1.01 billion
euros of six-month debt at an average yield of 1.588 percent,
compared with 1.801 percent in January.    Germany  plans to auction as much as 7 billion euros in new
two-year notes tomorrow, while Italy plans to sell 2.5 billion
euros of zero coupon securities due December 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 