-- 
German Voter Disapproval of Greek Bailout Muddles Aid Talks: Euro Credit

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-02-22T11:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/german-voter-disapproval-of-greek-bailout-muddles-aid-talks-euro-credit.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
resolve to defend the euro is being tested after her party
suffered one its worst defeats since World War II in the first
of seven state elections this year.  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  lost power in Hamburg
for the first time in a decade in a Feb. 20 vote. A European
Union summit on March 24-25 to thrash out a permanent rescue
facility to address the debt crisis that prompted  Greece  and
Ireland to seek bailouts is sandwiched between polls that may
echo what Merkel called “a stinging defeat.”  “We are in a ‘muddling through’ scenario,” said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc
in London. “Come the end of March, things could come to a bit
of a head. The negotiations can get knocked off course.”    Germany  wants stiffer sanctions against nations whose
budget deficits top 3 percent of gross domestic product in
exchange for cheaper rescue loans. Merkel’s coalition partner,
the Free Democratic Party, opposes increasing the scope of the
European Financial Stability Facility rescue fund. The
opposition Social Democrats, winners in Hamburg, have called for
joint euro-area bonds and a bigger EFSF.  Failure to reach an agreement next month risks ending a
period of faith in euro-region governments that has driven down
yields in Spain and Greece relative to German bunds. The Greek-
German 10-year yield spread has narrowed 100 basis points this
year to reach 852. The equivalent Spanish spread is at 217 basis
points after reaching 298 basis points on Nov. 30.  Spain ’s
spread widened three basis points as of 11:58 a.m. in London
while the Greek spread increased eight points to 861.  Fading Power  The loss in Hamburg further erodes the CDU’s representation
in the parliament’s upper house after losing control of the
chamber in May, a result Merkel blamed on voter anger over
bailing out Greece. The CDU coalition, with partners the FDP and
the  Christian Social Union , holds a majority of the 622 seats
that make up the lower house, the Bundestag.  The coalition will need opposition support to pass
legislation creating the European Stability Mechanism, which
will provide a permanent replacement to the EFSF when it expires
in 2013, according to a parliamentary report published on Feb.
14. A two-thirds majority will be needed because its risks
breaching constitutional budget rules, according to the report,
which was commissioned by the FDP.  Investors began to drive yields higher this month after  Portugal ’s warning that delays in overhauling the rescue fund
threatened to incite market turmoil, and Greece joined  Italy  in
objecting to specific debt-reduction targets proposed by
Germany.  Demanding Answers  “The German government is quite aware that financial
markets are expecting some consistent and comprehensive answers
as to where  Europe  will go in the future,” said Marius Daheim,
a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in
Munich, Germany’s second-largest state-owned lender. “To
disappoint these market expectations by following domestically
orientated policies would send a very, very negative signal to
financial markets and could even spark off a further round of
peripheral turmoil,”  Merkel’s party took 21.9 percent in the election on Feb.
20, its worst result in the port city since the first postwar
vote in 1946 and half its score in 2008, preliminary results
showed. The Social Democrats, the main national opposition
party, took 48.3 percent, enough to end the CDU’s 10-year rule
in Hamburg and form a majority government without need of a
coalition partner.  A state ballot in Saxony-Anhalt on March 20 will be
followed by votes in Rhineland-Palatinate and Baden-
Wuerttemberg, the southwestern state ruled by Merkel’s party for
more than half a century.  “It’s always difficult for the current administration to
maintain its popularity during these tests and it’s even more
difficult given the backdrop because of the reality that the
German’s are backstopping the efforts to rescue monetary
union,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt at
ING Groep in Amsterdam. “What she says publicly and what goes
on behind the scenes can be two quite different things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in  London  at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  