-- 
Germany’s Bruederle Prefers Market Solution to EADS Stake

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-02-22T16:42:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/germany-s-bruederle-prefers-market-solution-to-eads-stake.html
German Economy Minister Rainer Bruederle said he prefers a market-based solution to resolve the
future of  Daimler AG ’s stake in European Aeronautic Defence &
Space Co., though he didn’t rule out state ownership.  There are “many, many possibilities” available for
maintaining a balance between German and French leverage over
EADS, the owner of Airbus SAS, Bruederle told reporters in
Berlin today. The two countries could coordinate in scaling back
or preserving stakes held by their institutions and state or
private ownership is also possible, he said.  “My sympathies would be to have as much of a market-
oriented solution as possible,” Bruederle said. “It’s
difficult because there is a combination of factors.”    Chancellor Angela Merkel  is meeting with top German
government officials tomorrow to discuss the country’s options
should Daimler reduce or sell its 15 percent stake in EADS.
Bruederle’s openness to the possibility of a state holding
places him in alignment with lawmakers in his Free Democratic
Party, who last week softened their initial objection to the
government buying shares in the aerospace and defense company.  German and French institutions have each held equal stakes
in EADS since it was created in 2000 to pool European aerospace
interests. Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz luxury cars, has
voting rights over  Germany ’s 22.5 percent stake, including the
stake held by a banking group. The French government directly
holds 15 percent, with another 7.5 percent held by publisher  Lagardere SCA , which has voting rights over its stake.  Stock Soars  Free Democratic lawmakers, who on Feb. 11 rejected taking a
stake in EADS, said last week that they would support ownership
of shares through Germany’s state-owned development bank, KfW
Group, until a private investor is found, according to Juergen Koppelin, the ranking Free Democrat on the budget committee.  A 15 percent stake has a market value of about 2.6 billion
euros ($3.6 billion). EADS, based in Paris and Munich, has
gained 21 percent this year this year on the Paris exchange.  Bruederle appeared to dismiss a report in Der Spiegel
magazine this week that said the German government offered to
establish incentives for consumers to buy electric cars if
Daimler holds onto its stake in EADS. Bruederle chuckled at the
mention of the report and called it “rather unlikely.”  EADS may also consider “golden shares” for its main
stockholders, WirtschaftsWoche’s website said on Feb. 19. The
French and German governments as well as Daimler and Lagardere
would get special  voting rights  when it comes to strategic
issues, the magazine reported, citing unnamed shareholders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 