-- 
Google Blocks Smaller Ad Rivals, Competitor Says in EU Antitrust Complaint

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-02-22T12:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/google-search-competitor-files-eu-antitrust-complaint-over-ads.html
  Google Inc ., the world’s leading
search engine, blocks smaller competitors from generating
advertising revenue, a competitor said in a complaint to
European Union regulators.  1PlusV sent a complaint to the European Commission today
claiming Google refused to allow so-called vertical search sites
to use its advertising service, the French web publisher said.  “1PlusV accuses Google of pursuing a strategy of
foreclosure against vertical search engines,” the company said
in a statement. Vertical search engines limit their answers to
one category, such as travel information. Google,  Microsoft
Corp .’s Bing and others offer horizontal search engines that
comb all categories for information.  Google also appears to give preferential treatment to its
Google Books pages in searches and includes some websites in its
search results without their consent, 1PlusV said in a
statement. The EU is already investigating Google over claims it
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting rival ads. Microsoft’s Ciao
from Bing was among those that made that complaint.  Google will “continue to work cooperatively with the
European Commission, explaining many aspects of our business,”
Al Verney, a spokesman for the company in Brussels, said in an
e-mailed statement. There’s always “room for improvement and so
we’ll be working with the commission to address any concerns.”  ‘Further Steps’  Amadeu Altafaj Tardio, a spokesman for the European
Commission, said in an e-mailed statement that regulators “will
give Google the opportunity to comment on the allegations raised
before deciding on what, if any, further steps to take.”  The EU’s antitrust probe of Google requires “careful
analysis” to make “a thorough assessment of the allegations”
against the company,  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition
commissioner, said earlier this month.  1PlusV’s complaint follows one it made a year ago to EU
regulators for its legal search site ejustice.fr, which it said
was “blacklisted” from Google’s search results three times.
That had a “catastrophic” effect on the site’s traffic and it
was never able to recapture its initial popularity, even after
making changes that Google recommended, the company said.  Bruno Guillard, the owner of 1PlusV, told reporters in
Brussels today the number of unique daily visitors to
ejustice.fr plunged from 40,000 in 2007 to around 100 after the
site was blacklisted. The site also lost a contract to
categorize web pages for  France’s national library  last year
because it wasn’t “visible on Google,” he said. Microsoft now
has the contract, he said.  ‘First Page’  “If you are not on the first page of Google, you are
supposed not to exist,” Guillard said.  1PlusV’s music search site e-musicpro.fr and cultural guide
eguides.fr were also removed from search rankings in a similar
way, the company said. Some pages from those sites were relisted
since the company filed its first complaint, it says.  Google sells advertising linked to search terms.
Advertising accounted for 96 percent of the  Mountain View ,
California-based company’s 2010 revenue, or about $28.2 billion.  Google’s AdSense “is the only really effective way of
obtaining targeted advertising on a search engine,” the French
firm said. Google’s policy compelled it to use Google’s custom
search engine instead, it said.  The complaint also said Google violates web guidelines and
disregards some websites’ warnings not to list their content in
search results, including pages from the French senate website,  France ’s competition authority and the EU-backed online library
 Europeana . This gives Google’s search results an unfair
advantage over rivals, 1PlusV said. By showing Google Books
pages in its search results, the company may be violating the
search engine’s own anti-spam rules, 1PlusV said.  The commission has power to impose fines of as much as 10
percent of revenue for monopoly abuses. The EU’s highest-ever
penalty of 1.06 billion euros ($1.45 billion) was against  Intel
Corp.  in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  