-- 
Google's Snowmobile Hits Swiss Slopes as Street View Faces Legal Challenge

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-02-22T15:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/google-hits-swiss-slopes-as-street-view-faces-legal-challenge.html
A Google Inc. camera-equipped
snowmobile is setting out to chart Swiss ski slopes on the
internet even as the company’s Street View service faces a court
challenge over privacy concerns.    Mountain View , California-based Google, the web’s biggest
search engine, is planning to map 350 kilometers (218 miles) of
downhill runs in the Swiss Alps to add to its offering of online
road maps and street-level photography, the company said today
in an e-mailed statement.  Switzerland’s Federal Data Protection Officer took Google
to court in November 2009, arguing the company’s efforts to blur
people’s faces and car registration numbers to protect their
privacy on its Street View service were insufficient. Google
said it made improvements, and a  Federal Administrative Court
hearing  is scheduled for Feb. 24.  “A picture is worth a thousand words," said Daniel Luggen,
a resort director in  Zermatt  where the snowmobile was unveiled
yesterday. ‘‘This will give people a sneak preview and hopefully
get them motivated to get out on the slopes.’’  Safety Concerns  The piste version of Street View won’t run into the same
privacy concerns as its public-highway cousin as the slopes have
to be closed off for safety reasons when the snowmobile sets
out, Luggen said.  Usage of Google’s map service in  Switzerland  jumped 20
percent after Street View became available in the country in
August 2009, Google’s Global Privacy Counsel Peter Fleischer
told reporters at the company’s Zurich office.  ‘‘This is the first time any country worldwide has launched
legal proceedings over the legality of Street View," Fleischer
said. ‘‘We give people an option to go online and blur images of
their homes. In Switzerland, just a tiny portion of people have
done that,'' about one in 20,000 panoramas have been blurred.  The data protection office has held talks with Google to
see what could be done to improve privacy on Street View,
spokesman Kosmas Tsiraktsopoulos said by telephone from the
capital Bern.  “No one should have their image uploaded to the internet
without giving their permission,” he said. “Now we’re waiting
for the court’s decision.”  Meanwhile, Google has agreed not to upload any new Swiss
pictures to Street View until the court makes a final ruling,
probably in two or three months, Google spokesman Matthias Meyer
said. The ski-slope version of Street View was piloted during
the 2010 Winter Olympics in  Canada , he said.  ‘Striking a Balance’  “We don’t all live alone in caves in the forest, we’re
part of society,” Fleischer said. “Data protection is always
about striking a balance.”  In Zermatt at the foot of the Matterhorn, the prospect of
seeing only empty slopes on Google has prompted the tourism
authorities to recruit some help, resort director Luggen said.  “Empty photos can look a bit sad,” he said. “So we asked
instructors to ski along in front of the snowmobile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 