-- 
Grains, Soybeans Plunge by Chicago Limit on North Africa Unrest

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-02-22T20:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/grain-prices-plunge-as-north-africa-unrest-may-curb-demand-for-u-s-crops.html
Grain prices plunged on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade as protests in North Africa and the Middle East
threaten to slow demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s
largest shipper of corn, soybeans and wheat.  Protesters clashed with government forces today in  Libya ,
where more than 200 people have been killed, Human Rights Watch
said. In the past month, popular uprisings toppled regimes in
Tunisia and Egypt, the world’s largest wheat buyer. Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  said extremism may spread in the
Middle East, causing Arab states to “fall to pieces.”  Before today, crop prices surged to the highest since 2008
as world demand growth eroded inventories, and as droughts and
flood disrupted harvests from Russia to  Canada . Global food
prices jumped 25 percent last year and surged to a record in
January, according to the  United Nations .  “Turmoil and uncertainty in the Middle East and North
Africa have encouraged traders to cut long positions in the
grain markets, even with strong supply-and-demand
fundamentals,” said  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice president
for the Linn Group in Chicago. “Today is all about speculators
reducing riskier positions and consumers waiting for lower
prices before buying.”  Corn futures for May delivery tumbled the exchange’s 30-
cent limit, or 4.2 percent, to settle at $6.9025 a bushel at
1:15 p.m. in Chicago. Earlier, the most-active contract touched
$7.4425, the highest since July 2008.  Soybean futures for May delivery fell by the 70-cent limit,
or 5.1 percent, to $13.11 a bushel. That marked the lowest level
for a most-active contract since Dec. 20.  Wheat Plunges  Wheat futures for May delivery dropped the 60-cent limit,
or 7 percent, to settle at $7.9575 a bushel. The most-active
contract is still up 54 percent in the past year, as demand
gained for U.S. supplies after drought cut output in  Russia  and
floods eroded Australian crops.  “It’s got people nervous, with all that’s going on in
North Africa,” said Darrell Holaday, the president of Advanced
Market Concepts in  Manhattan ,  Kansas . “If they continue to have
problems, some wheat demand out of the U.S. may go away.”  Rice futures for May delivery sank by the CBOT limit of 50
cents, or 3.3 percent, to $14.575 per 100 pounds. The most-
active contract is up 5.3 percent in the past year.  Agricultural markets will remain volatile as demand is
rising and world stockpiles are low, according to Juergen Voegele, the director of agriculture at the  World Bank . Prices
have rallied in the past year as  China  became a net importer of
corn for the first time in 14 years and bought record quantities
of U.S. oilseeds.  Speculator Holdings  Hedge fund managers and commodity-trading advisers held
655,868 bets on higher prices in corn, soybeans, wheat and rice
as of Feb. 15, down 3.7 percent from a week earlier, the most
recent government data show. Speculators more than doubled long
positions from 285,982 contracts at the end June as corn prices
climbed 88 percent during that period, wheat gained 82 percent
and soybeans and rice rose more than 50 percent.  “This is mostly a speculative thing,” said  Jack Scoville ,
a vice president at Price Futures Group Inc. in Chicago. “I
don’t think this has much to do with fundamentals, except the
fundamental of panic.”  May corn options, which give the holder the right to buy or
sell the grain at a set cost, signal prices that are about 8
cents lower per bushel than the futures contract, said  Charlie Sernatinger , a vice president for ABN Amro Clearing LLC in
Chicago. Options for soybeans show prices are about 2 cents
lower than futures, and for wheat about 0.5 cent weaker, he
said.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government data
show.  Wheat  was fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 