-- 
Ground Zero’s $11 Billion Morass Shows Gains Before Anniversary

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/ground-zero-s-11-billion-morass-shows-progress-as-10th-anniversary-nears.html
As a tower crane swung overhead, I
stood with Christopher Ward near the red steel framing of One
World Trade Center. The $3.2 billion skyscraper has risen more
than halfway to its 104-story height.  Ward, the executive director of the Port Authority of New
York and  New Jersey , told me over the din how he galvanized the
$11 billion World Trade Center site construction after years of
political and management morass.  “People were managing so many different priorities that
the project stagnated,” said Ward, 56, as we moved gingerly
through gray snow, bustling workers and piles of reinforcing
bar. “Political calendars guided the project rather than
construction calendars.”  Snow still swaddled some of the almost 400 swamp white oak
trees that will march in lines across the plaza of the National
September 11 Memorial.  He spoke to me as we toured the 16-acre site, where some
2,000 workers are adding a floor a week to One World Trade
Center, building a second skyscraper, a commuter-rail hub, a
memorial, a memorial visitor center and a museum.  “In 2008, we committed to a road map that made completing
the memorial plaza the driver. By recognizing that it had to
open by the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, a lot of other
things fell into place.” (The museum beneath the plaza is
scheduled to open a year later.)  We peered into the memorial’s north pool, a 200-foot-square
pit that, along with the south pool, was built on the footprint
of the destroyed World Trade Center towers. When sheets of water
start pouring down the 30-foot-deep gray granite walls, “I
think it will take peoples’ breath away,” Ward said.  New Competition  The  Port Authority  dissolved an agreement contracting the
entire site to Phoenix Constructors, a joint venture of Fluor
Enterprises Inc., Skanska USA Civil Northeast Inc., Bovis Lend
Lease LMB Inc., and Granite Construction Northeast Inc.  By opening the work up to many contractors -- some 17 of
them on-site now -- the “competition drove real efficiencies,”
Ward said.  He pointed to the skeleton of the memorial’s visitor
center, where contractors are beginning to install a tilted web
of window supports around a pair of “tridents,” fragments from
one of the twin towers wrapped in protective fabric. “We didn’t
think we would have the pavilion’s structural steel up by the
10th anniversary,” said Ward. “We have it up now. We’re very
pleased with that.”  Out of Limbo  Above us loomed the steel frame of Tower 4, designed by the
Japanese architect Fumihiko Maki. It’s the first of three office
towers that developer  Larry Silverstein  will build east of the
memorial site. Two years of negotiation with Silverstein on how
much the Port Authority would pay for the towers’ construction
left that eastern side in limbo, Ward said, including Santiago Calatrava’s dramatically winged train-station entrance.  Now contractors in a 68-foot-deep pit are preparing
foundations for the subway entrance and Silverstein towers 2 and
3.  With projects like Moynihan Station and its canceled tunnel
to New Jersey losing public support in the wake of delays and
skyrocketing costs, I wondered if infrastructure builders like
the Port Authority can successfully manage transportation
megaprojects.      “For elected officials, realistic budgeting is
always a challenge.” Ward said. “Clearing the decks on this site
meant presenting a realistic budget. We’re tracking to those
costs.”  Other big cities seem to manage large projects more
successfully.  ‘Willing to Spend’  “That is more a function of governments being willing to
spend money on projects, or wealth in other parts of the world,”
Ward said. “Not the lack of capacity locally or the Port
Authority’s ability to deliver a project.”  We walked along the roof of the Number 1 subway tunnel,
which rumbled underneath on temporary supports. Eventually
Greenwich Street, which had been cut off when the twin towers
were built, will again cross the site.  “We’re building the permanent box for the train from the
top down to the bottom of the pit, so that the memorial plaza
can be ready on time,” Ward said.  To one side, huge beams carried the graceful arches
Calatrava had designed to roof the PATH commuter train
platforms. Builders painstakingly set the beams and arches above
a protective roof over passengers headed to trains that have run
throughout construction. “This is the heart of the project in
terms of engineering and construction complexity,” Ward said.  In other Port Authority projects, architect Skidmore Owings
& Merrill will design the rebuilding of LaGuardia airport’s
cramped central terminal. At John F. Kennedy airport, an
expansion of Terminal 4 will allow, among other things,
demolition of the flying-saucer-roofed Terminal 3 -- “that
monstrosity,” Ward said.  The Port Authority has also started building some train-
level and passenger-concourse improvements at benighted  Penn
Station . “By the time we get the transportation improvements
done in about two years, we think the federal government and  Amtrak  will be willing partners in the next phase of
development.”  Progress at  Ground Zero  offers hope.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 