-- 
Gunmen in Nigeria Kill 12 People in Attack Near Jos City, Stoking Tensions

-- B y   S a m   O l u k o y a   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 
2011-02-22T15:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/gunmen-in-nigeria-kill-12-people-in-attack-near-jos-city-stoking-tensions.html
Gunmen in  Nigeria  killed 12 people
in an attack today on the village of Rwang Fang near the central
city of Jos, the Plateau state capital, a military official
said.  “Our helicopters are searching the area because the
attackers went away with a lot of cows,” Captain Charles
Ekeocha, spokesman for the military  task force  in charge of
security in the region, said by phone from Jos.  More than 200 people have died in reprisal attacks by
Christian and Muslim groups in the Plateau region, according to
New York-based  Human Rights Watch , since multiple bomb blasts in
Jos on Christmas Eve killed 80 people. A radical Islamic sect
known as Boko Haram, or “Western education is a sin,” claimed
responsibility for the explosions.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer and most populous nation
of about 140 million people, is roughly split between a mainly
Muslim north and a predominantly Christian south. More than
14,000 people died in ethnic and religious clashes in the West
African nation between 1999 and 2009, according to the Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group .  A police special squad killed six people yesterday in the
northeastern town of Damaturu, a region where the Boko Haram
sect is active, and recovered a cache of weapons including
rocket launchers and combat rifles, Police Commissioner Mohammed Abubakar, in charge of the region, told reporters.  Some of the gunmen arrested by the police in the raid
included nationals of Mali, Chad and  Sudan , Abubakar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Olukoya in Lagos at 
 solukoya2@bloomberg.net ;
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net . 