-- 
UN Security Council Condemns Attacks on Libyan Civilians

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-02-22T23:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/libyan-envoy-to-ask-un-security-council-to-impose-no-fly-zone.html
The  United Nations   Security Council 
today condemned the Libyan regime’s use of violence against
protesters, as the nation’s deputy ambassador reported a new
wave of attacks in the western region by forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  “The members of the Security Council condemned the
violence and use of force against civilians, and deplored the
repression against peaceful demonstrators,” Ambassador Maria Viotti of  Brazil , which holds the rotating presidency of the
Security Council this month, told reporters.  The council’s 15 member governments agreed on the statement
after a private meeting. The panel took no action on punitive
measures against Qaddafi’s regime called for by U.S. Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, and Ibrahim Dabbashi,
Libya’s deputy ambassador to the UN.  “I have received information today that, after the
statement by Colonel Qaddafi, the attack on the people started
in the western part of  Libya ,” Dabbashi told reporters after
the meeting, referring to Qaddafi’s speech on Libyan state
television.  “Certainly the people have no arms and I think the
genocide started now in Libya,” Dabbashi said. “I think the
Qaddafi statement was a code for his collaborators to start the
genocide against the Libyan people. They are attacking people in
all the cities in Western Libya.”  Council Demands  Viotta said the Security Council also called for an
“immediate end to the violence,” access for human rights
monitors and humanitarian agencies, and international aid.  The council met at the request of Dabbashi, who yesterday
broke with Qaddafi’s regime and called its attacks on peaceful
protesters “genocide.” He asked the UN to impose a no-fly zone
over Libya, block any movement of arms or mercenaries into the
country, ensure safe passage for humanitarian supplies, and
investigate crimes allegedly committed by the regime.  Mohammed Shalgham, Libya’s ambassador to the UN, attended
the meeting but made no requests of the panel, according to  Egypt ’s Ambassador Maged Abdelaziz, who attended the private
meeting.  “The situation is deteriorating and can get much worse,”
Under-Secretary-General Lynn Pascoe told reporters after
briefing the Security Council. “We are deeply concerned. The
idea of attacks on your own civilian population is totally
unacceptable. This must stop.”  UN Evacuation  Pascoe said the UN has “fewer than 30” international
staff in Libya, and was preparing to evacuate them.  Shalgham told reporters that while he is calling for an end
to the “bloodshed” and changes that include a new constitution
for Libya, he doesn’t blame Qaddafi for violence in his country
and doesn’t agree with Dabbashi’s requests to the UN.  “Qaddafi is my friend,” Shalgham said. “I can criticize
him but I cannot attack him. He is very brave.”  Shalgham also said that he would resign unless the violence
ended.  Qaddafi, in comments broadcast on state television today,
said he hasn’t fled the country amid the eruption of violence.
The International Federation for Human Rights says more than 300
people have been killed. Planes and helicopters fired on
protesters and witnesses reported massacres in two neighborhoods
of Tripoli, Al Arabiya TV said.  Dabbashi yesterday called for Qaddafi’s resignation and, in
appearances on international television networks, asked for an
emergency meeting of the Geneva-based  Human Rights Council  to
investigate alleged human rights violations.  Navi Pillay, the UN high commissioner for human rights,
released a statement today in Geneva calling for an
“independent international investigation” of the unrest. Five
UN experts on human rights issues condemned the violence and
said in a statement that it might amount to “crimes against
humanity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Varner in Washington at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  