-- 
Tikkurila Tracking Takeover Targets in East Europe, Chief Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-02-22T13:59:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/tikkurila-tracking-takeover-targets-in-east-europe-chief-says.html
  Tikkurila Oyj , the Finnish
paintmaker spun off from Kemira Oyj last year, said it is
pursuing takeovers to expand its market share in  Poland  and
other eastern European markets.  Former state-owned paintmakers now in private hands may
come to market, and those with the greatest customer base and
brands, rather than best plants, would be the most prized, Chief
Executive Officer Erkki Jarvinen said in an interview.  Tikkurila’s strategy centers on being a dominant
decorative-paint supplier in a given region, an approach that
differs from Akzo Nobel NV’s push to be a global paint and
coatings company. The Finnish company’s most recent purchases
involved two businesses in  Russia , where it’s the leading
supplier of paint, with 18 percent market share. Tikkurila could
face competition for assets, and price multiples have in the
past reached 11 or 12 times earnings, the CEO said.  “The multiples have been quite high,” the CEO said in the
Feb. 15 interview. “You really have to believe in the market
potential and growth.”  Tikkurila, founded almost 150 years ago, is benefiting from
expansion in Scandinavia and eastern  Europe , where operating
profit jumped by almost one-third last year.  Its market strength in those regions could make it a
takeover target for global paintmakers that are now also seeking
to tap demand there, analysts including Jennifer Barker of
Nomura said. Building up an operation in Russia from scratch
would take too long, making acquisitions the most viable option
for them, Jarvinen said.  Missed Opportunity  Potential buyers had the chance to bid for Tikkurila prior
to the share sale and didn’t take it, and anchor investors would
make it difficult to buy-up the company, Jarvinen said. Oras
Invest Oy, owned by  Finland ’s Paasikivi family, owns almost 19
percent.  Kemira Oyj  retains 14 percent.  “We know that there have been many interested companies in
the past,” the CEO said. “The owners decided to IPO so that
shows their commitment to stay in the business. Even if there is
international interest, you can only get so many shares.”  Shares of the Vantaa-based company have declined 1.9
percent this year, valuing the business at 714 million euros
($967 million). Akzo has added 7.1 percent.  Tikkurila’s links to its former parent has the added
advantage of helping secure supplies of raw materials. The
company gets preferential access to titanium dioxide through
Kemira, which owns a stake in Rockwood Holdings’ Sachtleben
mine. The Finnish company has no interest in taking on Kemira’s
stake, even though raw materials are equal to about 45 percent
of Tikkurila’s sales, Jarvinen said.  Raw-Material Headache  Like all paintmakers, the Finnish company faces spiraling
costs for raw-materials, including titanium dioxide, used as a
pigment and also in foods and cosmetics. Inflation in the
mineral could reach as much as 20 percent this year, and
Tikkurila is exploring opportunities to secure additional
supplies from  China . Raw-material costs are equal to about 45
percent of sales.  “Raw material prices, like in many other sub-segments in
chemicals, are giving us quite a headache,” Jarvinen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  