-- 
India’s Sensex Index Drops as Libyan Conflict Spurs Oil Prices

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-02-22T10:45:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/india-s-sensex-index-drops-as-libyan-conflict-spurs-oil-prices.html
Indian stocks dropped on concern
surging oil prices amid instability in the Middle East and North
Africa will fan inflation and prompt further increases in  interest rates  in the South Asian nation.    Hero Honda Motors Ltd ., the country’s biggest motorcycle
maker, sank to its lowest in 18 months.  HDFC Bank Ltd ., the
second-largest private lender, lost 2.9 percent. Oil jumped to
the highest in more than two years as violence escalated in  Libya , stoking concern crude supplies will be disrupted.  Reliance Industries Ltd ., the largest company by market value,
surged 3 percent after agreeing to sell stakes in 23 oil areas
to BP Plc.  The oil rally “can lead to price rises and will make
controlling inflation tougher,” said D.K. Aggarwal, who manages
about $100 million as chairman of SMC Wealth Management Services
Ltd. in  New Delhi . “Some investors would like to book profits
as the outlook is unclear.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
lost 142.15, or 0.8 percent, to 18,296.16 at the 3:30 p.m. close
in Mumbai. The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock
Exchange dropped 0.9 percent to 5,469.20. The BSE 200 Index
retreated 0.9 percent to 2,243.93.    Hero Honda  lost 3.4 percent to 1,390.55 rupees, its lowest
close since August 2009. HDFC Bank led declines among financial
companies, dropping 2.9 percent to 2,138.45 rupees, its biggest
decline in more than three weeks.  Inflation, Growth  The Sensex has lost 11 percent this year, making it the
world’s third-worst-performing benchmark index after Egypt and  Tunisia  in local currency terms, amid concern government
measures to quell inflation will hurt economic growth.  Last year, India’s gauge climbed 17 percent, adding to the
81 percent surge in 2009. Since reaching a record on Nov. 5, the
index has slumped 13 percent, exceeding the 10 percent drop
that’s termed a so-called correction by some investors.
Companies on the measure are valued at an average of 17.2 times
estimated earnings, down from last year’s high of about 21.5
times in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New York oil futures for March delivery rose as much as 9.6
percent, while London-traded Brent surged to the highest since
September 2008, as soldiers deserted Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s government and diplomats resigned. The country, holder
of the largest crude reserves on the African continent, pumped
1.6 million barrels a day of oil in January, equivalent of about
8 percent of U.S. consumption.  Energy Needs  India meets about three-quarters of its annual energy needs
from imports and is bracing for the impact of higher fuel costs
on inflation, currently stoked mainly by food costs.  Protracted Middle East unrest will have “implications”
for  oil prices , flagging a fresh inflation risk, central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on Feb. 10.  The fastest inflation rate in at least six years is
reducing purchasing power in India, where the  World Bank 
estimates more than three-quarters of the people live on less
than $2 a day. The  Reserve Bank  of India, which has raised rates
seven times in the past year, last month urged Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee to cut subsidies to curb consumer demand and
help cool inflation. Mukherjee is scheduled to announce the
budget on Feb. 28 for the financial year starting April 1.  President Pratibha Devisingh Patil yesterday told
parliament in New Delhi at the start of the budget session that
India’s priority is to slow inflation and sustain growth.  Inflationary Pressures    BNP Paribas  last week cut its rating for the nation’s stock
market to “underweight” from “neutral,” citing a rise in
inflationary pressures and the outlook for fund flows and
earnings.  Reliance Industries Ltd. advanced 3 percent to 984.85, its
steepest climb since Dec. 10. BP agreed to pay $7.2 billion for
stakes in 23 blocks in India from Reliance. It will acquire a 30
percent interest in the blocks as well as form a venture with
Reliance to market gas, the London-based company said in a
statement yesterday.  Reliance’s stock today was upgraded to “buy” from
“hold” at Antique Stock Broking Ltd. following the agreement.  “We believe that this deal could help Reliance to
establish its exploration and production business valuations,”
analysts led by Amit Rustagi wrote in a note to clients.
“Further, accelerated development of existing blocks, higher
recovery rates and access to deepwater technology will help in
creating long-term value for shareholders.”  The brokerage said it raised its price estimate for
Reliance to 1,102 rupees per share after incorporating
additional “exploration upside” of 49 rupees per share, based
on the transaction value.  Overseas funds bought a net 2.45 billion rupees ($54
million) of Indian equities on Feb. 18, paring total outflows
from equities this year to 66.6 billion rupees, according to
data on the  website  of the Securities and Exchange Board of  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  