-- 
Iran Warships Complete Suez Canal Voyage Amid Israel Objection

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-02-22T17:52:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/iran-warships-enter-suez-canal-on-syria-trip-egypt-state-run-agency-says.html
Iranian warships sailed through the  Suez Canal  to reach the  Mediterranean Sea  for the first time
since 1979 as Israel stressed its objection to their voyage to
Syria.  The two ships entered the canal early today after the
approval of  Egypt ’s Defense Ministry, the state-run Middle East
News Agency cited Ahmed El Manakhly, head of traffic at the Suez
Canal Authority, as saying. MENA didn’t specify when the vessels
reached open water.  Crude reached its highest level in a week in New York on
Feb. 18 as the heightening of tensions between Iran and Israel
because of the trip increased concerns over instability in the
region. Iran is the second-biggest producer, after  Saudi Arabia ,
in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. Oil
jumped to the highest in more than two years in  New York  today
as Libyan unrest stoked further concern over supplies.  “The transit of the Iranian boats is part of Iran’s full-
out struggle for hegemony and control of the Middle East,”
Israeli Vice Prime Minister Silvan Shalom said today at a
conference in Eilat, according to an e-mailed statement from his
office.  Shalom’s comments followed Israeli Foreign Ministry
spokesman Yigal Palmor’s depiction of the warships sailing
through the canal as “a provocation” that should be “dealt
with by the international community.” He said today that he was
citing previous comments by Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman .  Won’t Risk Attack  “The Iranian warships saga is a significant one but with
limited consequence,” Richard Lee, a senior equity analyst at
Emirates NBD Asset Management Ltd. in Dubai, said in comments e-
mailed today. “It is significant because of the appearance of
an emerging tension between Iran and  Israel , and it likely to
stay as that. I don’t expect this to turn into a full-scale war
simply because Iran cannot afford it now.”  Iran rejects international economic sanctions aimed at
curbing its nuclear program and has accused the U.S. and Israel
of stoking dissent in the Islamic state. Unrest in Iran has been
revived in the past week under the influence of Arab revolts.  Israel and the U.S. suspect that  Iran’s nuclear program  is
aimed at producing weapons. Iran says its atomic installations
are for generating power. The  United Nations  has imposed four
rounds of sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program.  The vessels, the 1,500-ton patrol frigate Alvand and
33,000-ton supply vessel Khark, are the first Iranian warships
to use the waterway since the 1979 Islamic revolution that
toppled  Iran ’s pro-Western monarchy, according to Press TV.
Alvand is armed with torpedoes and anti-ship missiles, while
Khark has a 250-member crew and can carry three helicopters, the
Iranian state-run broadcaster said.  Key Route  The 120-mile (190-kilometer) waterway carries about 2.5
percent of world oil output, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., and is a key route for ships carrying Asian  consumer goods 
to  Europe .  The U.S. is monitoring the progress of the warships, White
House press secretary Jay Carney said Feb. 18. Iran doesn’t show
“responsible behavior in the region, which is always a concern
to us,” he said.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Feb. 20 that Israel
views with “gravity” Iran’s plan to send the vessels through
the canal, a move that he said highlights the need to increase
his country’s defense budget. Lieberman said on Feb. 16 that
Israel wouldn’t “ignore forever” such acts.  The ships will go to Syria, where they will anchor “for a
few days” after a trip through the canal that is “routine
according to international law,” Iran’s state-run  Islamic
Republic News Agency  said cited the country’s ambassador to  Syria , Ahmad Mousavi, as saying.  Egypt said on Feb. 18 that it had approved Iran’s request
to send the ships through the canal. According to international
law, Egypt can’t forbid any vessel from using the waterway
unless that country is at war with Egypt, El Manakhly told
Bloomberg Television Feb. 16.  For Related News and Information:
Top regional news: TOP MIDEAST
For top stories on unrest in the Middle East and North Africa,
see: EXTRA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 