-- 
Iran Forces Arrest Son of Opposition Leader Karrubi Following House Raids

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-02-22T15:33:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/iran-forces-arrest-son-of-opposition-leader-karrubi-following-house-raids.html
Iranian security forces raided the
homes of opposition leader  Mehdi Karrubi  and members of his
family, arresting one of his sons late yesterday in a new
crackdown on dissent, the politician’s party said.  Ali Karrubi was detained late yesterday along with his
wife, Nafiseh Panahi, according to the party’s website,
 Sahamnews.org . She was released overnight, and his whereabouts
are still unclear, it said. The opposition figure’s elder son,
Hossein Karrubi, wasn’t in when security forces arrived at his
house to arrest him, the party said. Ali Karrubi was also
arrested last year, at an anti-government rally in February.  The home of Mehdi Karrubi and his wife was raided
yesterday, though they weren’t arrested, according to the
website. They were held in separate rooms while officers changed
the locks of the house and seized documents and books, Sahamnews
said.  The crackdown is a latest attempt by the government to curb
domestic dissent, which was revived as turmoil spread from the
Arab world to the  Persian Gulf . Two people were reported to have
been killed in clashes at a Feb. 14 rally called by opposition
leaders in solidarity with protesters who brought down Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak . There were further clashes on Feb. 20
at a march to honor the dead demonstrators.  Protests Are ‘Treachery’  The judiciary will take steps to halt efforts by “the
leaders of the sedition to publicize their statements,” the
judiciary’s head, Sadegh Larijani, said on Feb. 17, referring to
Karrubi and another opposition leader, Mir-Hossein Mousavi.
Anti-government protests are “treachery” that cannot be
tolerated, Larijani said.  Mousavi and his wife, Zahra Rahnavard, have been under
house arrest since Feb. 14, Mousavi’s website, Kaleme.com, said
Feb. 18.  Karrubi and Mousavi were defeated in the June 2009 election
by incumbent President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad . They turned into
leading opposition figures as a protest movement emerged to
claim Ahmadinejad’s victory was the result of vote-rigging. The
protests have widened to include broader criticism of the
political system and its policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 