-- 
CBS, NBC, ABC Win Court Bar to Ivi Web-Streaming of TV Shows

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-02-22T21:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/ivi-ordered-by-judge-to-stop-streaming-tv-shows-on-web-1-.html
Ivi Inc.  must stop streaming on the
Web broadcasts of television programming that is copyrighted by
TV networks, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Naomi Buchwald in  New York  today
granted a motion by broadcasters including  CBS Corp . for a
preliminary injunction against the retransmission of their
programs by Ivi.  “Plaintiffs have demonstrated a likelihood of success on
the merits of their copyright claim,” Buchwald said in her
opinion. “They have also demonstrated irreparable harm, that
the balance of hardships tip in their favor, and that the public
interest will not be disserved by an injunction.”  Broadcasters including  Walt Disney Co .’s ABC and  Comcast
Corp .’s NBC sued Seattle-based Ivi and its founder, Todd Weaver,
in September for copyright infringement. They claimed that Ivi
was capturing its broadcast signals in four cities including New
York and Seattle and charging consumers a subscription fee for
streaming the programming over the Internet without
authorization. Ivi charges $4.99 a month to stream TV
programming to subscribers who have downloaded a media player to
their computers.  Ivi plans to appeal the ruling, it stated on its Web site
today.  “We believe the court made an error in the ruling,” Ivi
said on the site. “We will be appealing the decision in the
second circuit but in the interim we must shut down most of our
broadcast channel offerings.”  Ivi  claimed that it’s entitled to a compulsory license to
retransmit broadcast signals because it qualifies as a cable
system under federal copyright law. It costs about $100 a year
to obtain the license, according to court papers.  No Cable System  “We conclude that Ivi is not a cable system,” Buchwald
said in her order. “The compulsory license cannot be utilized
by a service which retransmits broadcast signals nationwide.”  Ivi also retransmits programming from TV stations in  Chicago  and  Los Angeles , according to court papers.  The broadcasters said that Ivi may harm them financially by
allowing local advertisers to pay less for airtime. The judge
agreed.  “By diverting customers who would otherwise watch their
local stations, defendants are weakening plaintiffs’ negotiating
position with advertisers,” Buchwald wrote.  ‘Right to Choice’  “This fight is for the people and their right to choice
and control over their own entertainment -- and it will
continue,” Weaver said in an e-mailed statement. “Judge
Buchwald makes the legal mistake of misinterpreting the
copyright law to instead make communications policy.”  The plaintiffs also include  News Corp .’s Fox Television
Stations, Cox Media Group, WNET.org, WPIX Inc., Tribune
Television Holdings Inc., Univision Television Group, Fisher
Broadcasting,  Major League Baseball ’s MLB Advanced Media and
Public Broadcasting Service.  The case is WPIX v. Ivi Inc., 10-07415, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at  jpickering@bloomberg.net  