-- 
Ivory Coast Residents Brace for Renewed Clashes in Abidjan

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-02-22T08:36:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/ivory-coast-residents-brace-for-renewed-clashes-in-abidjan.html
  Ivory Coast ’s residents are bracing
for more violence after the West African nation’s financial
system came to a halt and troops fired on demonstrators in the
commercial capital,  Abidjan .  Security forces killed 12 people during protests by
supporters of  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized
winner of the Nov. 28 presidential election, in the
neighborhoods of Koumassi, Youpougon and Treichville yesterday,
according to an e-mailed statement from the opposition
coalition, known as RHDP.  “They shot at least two guys in the neighborhood this
morning,” John Mambe, a resident of Koumassi, said by phone
yesterday after seeing the bodies in the street. “A lot of
young guys have been injured.” At least four loud explosions
were heard from the neighborhood overnight.  The renewed violence in the world’s top cocoa producer
comes after a month of relative calm, during which Ouattara
tried to prevent funds from reaching rival  Laurent Gbagbo , who
has refused the resign the presidency. Ouattara called on cocoa
and coffee exporters to halt shipments, told residents to stop
paying taxes to Gbagbo’s administration and convinced the
regional central bank to cut ties with the incumbent.  Koumassi and Treichville, located in south Abidjan, are
mixed in terms of their political affiliations. Ouattara won
61,429 votes in Koumassi, while Gbagbo took 56,000; in
Treichville, Ouattara received 24,008 and Gbagbo 15,686,
according to the country’s electoral commission.  Deployment  The army “reinforced the deployment” of troops in Abidjan
to prevent a deterioration in the security situation, Hilaire
Babri Gohourou, army spokesman, said on state-owned  Radio
Television Ivoirienne  yesterday.  “All the security measures have been taken in order to
guard against any eventuality,” he said.  At least 300 people have been killed in clashes since the
November vote, according to the  United Nations . In the west of
the country,  Amnesty International  estimates 70,000 people have
been forced to flee their homes amid ethnic tensions that have
been exacerbated by the political impasse. Several women were
raped and hundreds of homes burned in Duekoue last month, the
London-based advocacy group said in an e-mailed statement dated
today. Both forces loyal to Gbagbo and those who back Ouattara
have perpetrated sexual violence and unlawful killings, it said.  “The current crisis in Cote d’Ivoire has created a human-
rights black hole in the country,” said Gaetan Mootoo, a
researcher with the group.  Financial Collapse  As the violence escalated, the country’s financial system
faltered, with at least 10 commercial lenders closing their
branches in Abidjan over the past week.  BNP Paribas  SA,  Standard
Chartered Plc ,  Citigroup Inc . and Societe General SA are among
the banks that have locked their doors.  BICICI, a unit of BNP Paribas, will reopen today after it
was taken over by the government, state-controlled Radio
Television Ivoirienne reported late yesterday, citing workers at
the bank.  The leaders of  South Africa , Tanzania, Mauritania and  Chad 
arrived in Abidjan yesterday for African Union-mandated talks
with the Ouattara and Gbagbo.  “The mediation is unlikely to yield much and may not
prevent the country from inexorably hurdling towards a potential
political partition or civil war,” according to e-mailed
comment from analysts at New York-based DaMina Advisors LLP,
including Managing Director Sebastian Spio-Garbrah.  The country has been divided for most of the past decade,
after a 2002 uprising of mutinous soldiers left the country
split between a rebel-held north and a government-controlled
south.  March delivery cocoa climbed for the second day, adding 21
pounds, or 0.9 percent, to 2,301 pounds per metric ton in London
trading yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 