-- 
Ivory Coast’s Ouattara Orders Extension of Cocoa-Export Ban

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-02-22T17:15:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-administration-plans-to-extend-its-cocoa-export-ban.html
  Ivory Coast ’s  Alassane Ouattara ,
the internationally recognized winner of November’s presidential
election, will extend a ban on cocoa exports, an adviser to his
administration said.  The ban will run to Mar. 15, Malick Tohe said in an
interview from Abidjan today. The country is the world’s biggest
cocoa producer.  The ban was imposed for a month until tomorrow to cut off
funds to incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo , who refuses to step
down. Before today, cocoa prices climbed 9.9 percent since the
halt was ordered. The beans reached the highest level since
January 1979 in New York trading today.  “There is a risk that farmers will not have enough
money,” said  Kona Haque , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London . “The situation is getting dire.”  Cocoa for May delivery rose as high as $3,608 a metric ton
on ICE Futures U.S. and was up $64, or 1.8 percent, at $3,563 by
12:13 p.m. New York time. Prices may reach $3,700 in a month,
Haque said.  As many as 19 pro-Ouattara protesters have died in violence
since Feb. 19, the opposition coalition RHDP said yesterday. At
least 300 people have been killed in clashes since the vote,
according to the  United Nations .  Paying a Premium  “With protestors being killed yesterday and the general
fear in the market that the Ivory Coast situation will not work
itself out, it is becoming harder to get beans out of the
country and traders are willing to pay a premium,” Connor Noonan, an analyst at Castlestone Management Ltd. in London,
said by e-mail earlier today.  Ivory Coast’s banking system is suffering from a lack of
liquidity.  Standard Chartered Plc , Citigroup Inc., BNP Paribas
SA and Societe Generale SA have closed their local units. The
Central Bank of West African States demanded that lenders in the
region halt all transactions with its agencies in Ivory Coast
after Gbagbo seized their offices.  “A cash liquidity shortage has further hurt cocoa
trading,” Haque said in a report Feb. 18. “There is growing
evidence that cash-strapped farmers are struggling to pay their
workers and that tending to the April-September mid-crop may
suffer.”  The European Union last month froze assets of Ivory Coast’s
cocoa- and coffee-exporting ports, along with those of companies
including the national broadcaster. The sanctions amounted to a
“de facto export ban” on  cocoa beans  and products from the
country, the European Cocoa Association and Federation of Cocoa
Commerce Ltd. said Feb. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Johannesburg at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 