-- 
Ivory Coast's Ouattara Meets African Leaders as Protesters Await Outcome

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-02-22T14:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-meets-african-leaders-as-protesters-wait.html
  Ivory Coast ’s President-elect
Alassane Ouattara is meeting with four regional presidents
tasked by the  African Union  with resolving the country’s
political crisis, as protesters who faced gunfire yesterday
waited for the outcome of the talks.  “We’re not going to demonstrate until the African Union
panel issues its conclusions,” said Didier Houldesso, an
official with the youth wing of the pro-Ouattara opposition
 Parti Democratique de Cote d’Ivoire  in the Koumassi neighborhood
of Abidjan, the commercial capital. “We still believe the
mediation can bring a peaceful resolution to the crisis,” he
said by phone today.  As many as 19 pro-Ouattara protesters have died in violence
since Feb. 19, the opposition coalition RHDP said yesterday.
Security forces loyal to incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo 
fired on people in the Abidjan neighborhoods of Youpougon,
Koumassi and Treichville as they attempted to gather in support
of the leader, according to witnesses.  Gbagbo refuses to cede power to Ouattara, the
internationally recognized winner of a disputed Nov. 28
election, alleging voting fraud in parts of the country’s north.  The latest round of African Union talks follow at least two
unsuccessful attempts to broker a resolution by Kenyan Prime
Minister  Raila Odinga .  Meeting Refused  Ouattara refused to meet the leaders of  South Africa ,
Tanzania,  Chad  and Mauritania yesterday to protest the absence
of Blaise Compaore, the president of  Burkina Faso  who was
supposed to travel with the leaders to Abidjan this week as part
of the African Union-mandated mediation.  “We vetoed the meeting because nobody told us Compaore was
not coming,” said Meite Sindou, spokesman for Guillaume Soro,
Outtara’s prime minister. Compaore didn’t join the others
because of security fears after the pro-Gbagbo Young Patriots
threatened to prevent him from arriving at the talks, according
to the Economic Community of West African States.  The escalation in fighting comes as at least 10 banks
closed over the past week.  France Telecom SA ’s unit, Orange Cote
d’Ivoire, said “repeated attacks” on its network were disrupting
mobile, landline and Internet services.  ‘Sabotage’  “These attacks largely consist of the cutting of
transmission cables for communications traffic,” the company
said in a statement published in the state-owned, Abidjan-based
newspaper  Fraternite-Matin . “The competent authorities have been
informed of these acts of sabotage,” the statement added,
without giving further details.  The world’s top cocoa producer had experienced a month of
relative calm, during which Ouattara tried to prevent funds from
reaching Gbagbo. Ouattara called on cocoa and coffee exporters
to halt shipments, told residents to stop paying taxes to
Gbagbo’s administration and convinced the regional central bank
to cut ties with the incumbent.  Cocoa for May delivery climbed for a third straight day,
adding 39 pounds, or 1.7 percent, to 2,340 pounds per metric ton
by 1:28 p.m. in  London  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier and Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 