-- 
Japan Swings to Trade Deficit as Exports to Asia Decelerate

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-02-23T06:34:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/japan-s-exports-rise-less-than-estimated-1-4-in-january-from-year-earlier.html
Japan swung to its first trade
deficit in 22 months in January as exports to  Asia  slowed and a
surge in commodity prices pushed up import costs.  Overseas shipments rose 1.4 percent in January from a year
earlier, from December’s 12.9 percent gain, the  Finance Ministry 
said in Tokyo today. The median estimate of 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 7.4 percent increase. The
nation reported a trade deficit of 471.4 billion yen ($5.7
billion), the first since March 2009.  The shortfall is unlikely to signal a weakening in Japan’s
economy after the government raised its assessment for a second
month on Feb. 21, partly on signs of reviving overseas demand.
While exports to Asia grew the least since October 2009, trade
figures for the first two months can be distorted by the timing
of a Lunar New Year holiday celebrated in China and  South Korea .  “Exports are in a recovery trend as the global economy is
picking up,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “We should look at the
overall trend by averaging out trades in January and February.”  Japan’s figures showing a 1 percent gain in shipments to
China from a year earlier contrasted with Chinese figures that
indicated a 47 percent increase.  From a month earlier, total exports rose 1 percent in
January, the fifth monthly advance, today’s report showed.  Lunar New Year  “It’s hard to project how much the Lunar New Year holidays
will affect trades as they change every year, so we need to look
at the overall trend through March, rather than a single
month,” said Seiji Adachi, a senior economist at Deutsche
Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  Japan’s imports climbed 12.4 percent in January from a year
earlier, reflecting rising oil prices, today’s report showed.  The yen traded at 82.64 against the dollar at 3 p.m. in
Tokyo, compared with 82.77 yesterday. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average fell 0.8 percent.  The 1 percent export gain to  China  was the least since
October 2009. Shipments to Asia rose 0.4 percent, also the
slowest since October 2009, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Japanese exporters started scaling back shipments to Asia
from late January in anticipation of the Lunar New Year on Feb.
3, with people taking holidays from Feb. 2 to Feb. 8, according
to the ministry. The Lunar New Year was Feb. 14 last year.  Exports Recovering  “When you look at shipments to the U.S., which is hardly
affected by the Lunar New Year holidays, exports looked solid
both in value and volume terms,” Sumitomo Mitsui Asset’s Muto
said.  The value of shipments to the U.S. increased 6 percent in
January from a year earlier, compared with a 16.5 percent gain
in December, the report showed. The volume of exports to the U.S.
gained 14.2 percent in January, compared with 16.2 percent in
December. The value of exports to  Europe  fell 0.7 percent,
compared with a 9.7 percent gain in December.  Japanese companies are tapping demand in China and other
emerging nations. Kobe Steel Ltd., Japan’s fourth-largest
steelmaker, said this month that third-quarter profit more than
doubled on rising Asian demand. Suzuki Motor Corp., an automaker
20 percent owned by Volkswagen AG, said this month that third-
quarter net income quadrupled amid growing sales in Asia.  Rising Energy Costs  A risk to Japan’s recovery is a possible slowdown in
emerging Asia, where rising energy and food prices are fueling
inflation that could prompt central bankers to raise  interest
rates  at a faster pace, according to Ryota Takemoto, an
economist at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo.  “Rising energy costs are a risk that can’t be ignored for
Japan’s economy, given the fact that the economy is becoming
more closely tied with Asia,” Takemoto said.  Japan faces “chronic deflationary pressures,” Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday in lowering the nation’s Aa2
debt rating outlook to negative from stable.  Moody’s cited concern that Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
efforts to reduce the country’s debt will be constrained by
political gridlock, with the opposition controlling the upper
chamber of parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  