-- 
Ozawa Suspension, Moody's Japan Debt Warning Fuel Kan's Leadership Crisis

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-02-23T05:02:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/japan-s-ruling-party-suspends-indicted-ex-leader-ozawa-risking-divisions.html
The Japanese ruling party’s
suspension of a former leader risks further divisions that may
undermine embattled Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s efforts to pass
his budget and contain the world’s largest public debt.  The  Democratic Party of Japan  suspended  Ichiro Ozawa  for
the duration of his trial on charges of violating campaign
financing laws, party secretary-general  Katsuya Okada  told
reporters yesterday in Tokyo. Ozawa, who has repeatedly denied
any wrongdoing, said in a statement that there is “no rational
reason for such punishment.”  The penalty came five days after 16 DPJ lawmakers loyal to
Ozawa said they will oppose Kan’s push to raise the 5 percent
sales tax. Kan, whose popularity is plummeting, has been unable
to persuade the opposition to support financing bills for his
92.4 trillion yen ($1.1 trillion) budget, increasing the
possibility he will dissolve the Diet and call a snap election.  “The DPJ decision won’t help Kan’s approval ratings,”
said  Koichi Nakano , associate professor of political science at  Sophia University  in Tokyo. “There’s a possibility an election
will be called in exchange for Kan’s resignation and the passage
of budget bills, although the race won’t resolve anything.”  Aides on Trial  Ozawa, 68, was indicted on Jan. 31. The case has led to the
trials of three former aides, including lawmaker Tomohiro Ishikawa, on charges of falsifying fundraising reports. Kan has
moved to downplay the influence of Ozawa, who heads the DPJ’s
largest faction and engineered the 2009 victory that brought it
to power for the first time.  The financing bills require approval of either the
opposition-controlled Upper House or a two-thirds majority in
the Lower House, which the DPJ doesn’t have. The budget itself
can be passed by a simple majority in the lower chamber. Kan
today said he would do “everything possible” to pass the bills
before the March 31 end of the fiscal year.  Moody’s Investor Service yesterday lowered Japan’s debt
rating outlook on concern political gridlock will constrain
efforts to tackle debt that is set to exceed twice the size of
its economy this year. Stocks today fluctuated, after the Topix
index yesterday fell to its biggest drop since September.  Failure to pass the budget-related bills could cause bond
yields to rise, hurting an economy already beset by social
security costs that have increased more than 60 percent since
2000. Ten-year yields today fell to a three-week low after
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s vow to fight an escalating
rebellion boosted demand for government debt.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell 3.5 basis
points to 1.235 percent as of 1:23 p.m. in Tokyo.  ‘Inexorable Rise’  Economic and fiscal policies “may not prove strong enough
to achieve the government’s deficit reduction target and contain
the inexorable rise in debt,” Moody’s said in its statement.
The rating is Aa2, the company’s third highest.  Standard &
Poor’s  last month lowered its rating for Japan to the fourth
highest level.  Kan’s approval ratings fell to 20 percent in an Asahi
newspaper survey published Feb. 21, down 6 percentage points
from January and the lowest since he took office in June. His
disapproval rating rose eight percentage points to 62 percent,
and 49 percent of those surveyed said he should resign.  “Any credit downgrade is negative for Kan,” said Kazuhisa Kawakami, political science professor at Meiji Gakuin University
in Tokyo. “He’s lost international trust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  