-- 
Japan Debt Outlook Lowered by Moody’s on ‘Inexorable’ Debt

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-02-22T08:45:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/japan-s-aa2-government-debt-rating-outlook-changed-to-negative-by-moody-s.html
Japan’s debt rating outlook was
lowered to negative from stable by Moody’s Investors Service on
concern that political gridlock will constrain efforts to tackle
the biggest debt burden of any nation.  Economic and fiscal policies “may not prove strong enough
to achieve the government’s deficit reduction target and contain
the inexorable rise in debt,” Moody’s said in a statement today.
The rating is Aa2, the company’s third highest. Standard &
Poor’s cut its rating last month to fourth highest.  Today’s move adds pressure on Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  as
his public approval rating slides and he struggles to secure
lawmakers’ support for measures to reduce debt, including a
possible  sales-tax  increase. Japanese shares accelerated
declines after the announcement and amid tensions in the Middle
East. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 1.8 percent today.  “Politicians will take today’s announcement as a warning
sign, but their biggest priority right now isn’t Japan’s fiscal
health -- it’s maintaining their seats in parliament,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at  Itochu Corp . in Tokyo.
“Japan can’t sustain its borrowing needs without real tax hikes.
The more the government delays this, the more its debt burden’s
going to swell. We’re running out of time.”  The risks to Japan’s credit rating are “predominantly on
the downside,”  Thomas Byrne , senior vice president at Moody’s,
said at a Tokyo news conference today.  Financing Budget  The dollar traded at 83.10 yen as of 5:38 p.m. in Tokyo
compared with 83.14 in  New York  yesterday.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters he won’t
comment on decisions by private rating companies. Japan needs to
maintain fiscal discipline and push ahead with efforts to make
its finances healthy, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said
at a regular news conference today.  Moody’s also lowered the credit-rating outlook for Japan’s
three largest banks to negative from stable, saying “the
government debt rating is a key input into the supported senior
unsecured ratings for the Japanese banks.” The change relates to
long-term debt at the banking units of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc., Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. and Mizuho
Financial Group Inc.  The cut by Standard & Poor’s last month was the company’s
first in nine years for Japan and reduced the nation’s rating to
AA-, on a par with  China .  Political Opposition  Kan’s task of securing legislation to finance the national
budget for the year starting April 1 is more difficult because
the opposition controls the upper house of parliament. Sixteen
lawmakers in his party last week vowed to oppose a plan to
increase the sales tax, further complicating his efforts to pass
the budget-related bills.  The prime minister’s public approval rating fell to 20
percent in an Asahi newspaper survey taken Feb. 19-20, down 6
percentage points from January and the lowest since he took
office in June, the paper reported yesterday.  There is “increasing uncertainty over the ability of the
ruling and opposition parties to fashion an effective policy
reform response to the debt and growth challenges,” Moody’s
said in today’s statement.  Fitch Affirms Rating    Fitch Ratings  affirmed its AA- rating for Japan, with a
stable outlook, in an e-mailed statement today.  Japan’s gross domestic product contracted in the fourth
quarter and the nation was overtaken last year by China as the
second-biggest economy.  The nation faces “chronic deflationary pressures” and
can’t grow its way out of debt, making fiscal adjustments
essential for mending its finances, Moody’s said. At the same
time, Japan’s large economy and deep financial markets can help
the nation withstand shocks and the ratings company doesn’t see
any funding crisis “in the near- to medium-term.”  A downgrade could be triggered by a failure to push through  tax reform , a swing to a current-account deficit, or a drop in
household savings cutting the domestic appetite for government
debt, Moody’s indicated.  While Moody’s could keep Japan’s Aa2 rating, “the risks are
predominantly on the downside unless there are very good results
for the tax reform program and also good results for the
government’s efforts to revitalize economic growth,” Byrne said.  Japan’s public debt is set to exceed twice the size of the
economy this year and reach 210 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012, the highest among countries tracked by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, compared
with an estimated 101 percent for the U.S.  The debt will probably swell to 997.7 trillion yen ($12
trillion) in the year starting April 1, Japan’s  Finance Ministry 
said last month. When  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its rating, the
company said the government lacks a “coherent strategy” for
tackling the debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  