-- 
Juventus Says It's Unclear on Future of Libya's 7.5% Stake in Soccer Team

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-22T18:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/juventus-says-it-s-unclear-on-future-of-libya-s-7-5-stake-in-soccer-team.html
  Juventus Football Club SpA  says it’s
unclear what will happen to the 7.5 percent stake in the soccer
team held by Libya’s state-owned investment company amid
continuing political unrest in the north African nation.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s Libyan Arab Foreign
Investment Company SA, or Lafico, is the second-largest
shareholder in the record 27-time Italian champion, with a
holding worth 12.8 million euros ($17.5 million) at the current
share price. The stake has been reported in regulatory filings.  Company official  Khaled Zentuti  is a member of Juventus’s
board, which next meets Feb. 28 to discuss half-year earnings,
although the team doesn’t know if he’ll attend.  “I suppose Lafico has many other problems regarding
internal governance,” Marco Re, a spokesman on the club’s
corporate affairs, said in a telephone interview today. “I have
no idea what they’re going to do with regards Juventus.”  A receptionist at Lafico’s office in  Rome  said there was no
one available. Calls to the company’s offices in Libyan capital
Tripoli went unanswered.  Qaddafi, 68, yesterday denied reports he’d fled Libya as
diplomats resigned and soldiers deserted in protest over a
crackdown on anti-government demonstrators. Clashes between
protesters and security forces have left more than 200 people
dead in the past week, according to  Human Rights Watch . Qaddafi
has led Libya for 41 years.  Former Player  “They’ve always supported the company, for example they
participated fully with the recent capital increase in 2007,”
Re said of Lafico, adding that Italian companies haven’t had a
problem dealing with Qaddafi’s regime. “We are an investment
for them.”  Lafico has owned a stake in Juventus since the club floated
in 2001. Re said it was partly for financial reasons and also
because one of the Libyan leader’s sons, Al-Saadi Qaddafi, is a
fan of the Turin-based team.  “He’s followed Juventus very much,” Re said. “He was
interested in the company from an economic point of view but
also as a fan he wanted to know the results.”  The 37-year-old younger Qaddafi once played professional
soccer. He represented teams in  Libya  before joining  Italy ’s
Perugia in 2003. In two years there he made just one appearance
before joining Udinese where he also featured once. He joined
Sampdoria for the 2006-07 season, without playing a match. He
also scored two goals in 18 matches for the Libyan national
team.  Shares in Juventus, which says it’s Italy’s most popular
team among domestic fans, fell 2.3 percent to close at 84.8 euro
cents today for a market value of 170.9 million euros. Juventus,
sixth in Serie A, hasn’t won the league since being stripped of
the 2005 and 2006 titles after a corruption scandal. It won the
European Cup, the continent’s top club competition, in 1985 and
1996.  The main shareholder in the club, with a 60 percent stake,
is the Agnelli family, which controls carmaker  Fiat SpA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 