-- 
Langone, Gabelli, Carl Hiaasen, Jimmy Buffett: Palm Beach Scene

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-02-22T16:38:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/ken-langone-mario-gabelli-carl-hiaasen-jimmy-buffett-palm-beach-scene.html
“I love the Everglades,”  Paul Tudor Jones , chairman and chief executive officer of Tudor
Investment Corp., said in his Tennessee twang.  He was standing in the center of the ballroom at the
 Breakers Hotel  in  Palm Beach , Florida, at a benefit dinner and
auction Friday night for the Everglades Foundation. Jones is
chairman of the organization, which works to restore millions of
acres of wetlands and waterways in Florida. He knows the
landscape: He has a home amid the Everglades in Islamorada,
Florida.  “Being on the flats right at sunset, it’s one of those
rare treats in life that you can’t ever try to put a value on,”
Jones said, dressed in an outdoorsy long-sleeved T-shirt and
jeans.  The ballroom offered different experiences. Stephen M. Ross, chairman of The Related Cos. LP, said he’d sell Jones the  Miami Dolphins  in a few years. Pat Riley, vice president of the  Miami Heat , appeared in a video giving a tour of the basketball
team’s locker room. An auction package including jerseys and
sneakers from  LeBron James  and other players went for $100,000.  The writer Carl Hiaasen and his wife, Fenia, posed for
pictures in matching cowboy hats. The dress code was country-
and-western, in honor of chart-topper Kenny Chesney, who
performed.  Ken Langone, co-founder of Home Depot and chairman of
Invemed Associates Inc., spoke of enjoying nature while playing
golf. Many guests mentioned the roseate spoonbill, a pink bird
with an odd beak. Marshall Field, chairman of Field Corp.,
wasn’t among them.  “I love the birds, but the crux of the matter is water,”
he said. Man-made canals send water into the ocean and the  Gulf
of Mexico ; the Everglades Foundation is planning storage areas
in the wetlands so water can re-enter the public water supply.  Mac and Cheese  As guests dug into beef barbecue and small skillets filled
with macaroni and cheese, the foundation’s chief executive
officer, Kirk Fordham, told Bloomberg News the event was
expected to raise $2 million, about 25% of its annual budget. He
also said the budget has increased during the recession by more
than 20%.  “We’ve been raising more money by placing greater emphasis
on bringing people out.”  After their private tour by airboat, Charles and Deborah
Royce went home to Greenwich,  Connecticut , and ordered a hand-
painted mural with an Everglades theme for their stairwell.  “It’s backwoods and trees and birds and panthers,” said
Charles Royce, chief executive officer and chairman of Royce &
Associates LLC.    Mario Gabelli , chairman and CEO of  Gamco Investors Inc .,
went on the same tour.  ‘Desk Outdoors’  “We got a good update on the whole ecosystem,” Gabelli
said. As for his own outdoor time, usually spent in  Wyoming ,
where he has a home: “I prefer being outdoors and having my
desk outdoors. With a wireless connection and an iPad you can do
that.”  By 10 o’clock, Jimmy Buffett, a foundation board member,
had joined Chesney onstage for a few songs.  “Hey, Jimmy, don’t fall off the stage,” Chesney said, a
reference to his fall at a concert in  Australia  that knocked him
unconscious.  “I was thinking about it,” Buffett said. “There’s a lot
of good-looking chicks down there. I think I would fall softer
than I did last time.”  Jaclyn Raulerson, Miss Florida 2010, put a cowboy hat over
her tiara and kept on message. “I’m a ninth-generation
Floridian and restoration is extremely important to me. I love
the  Florida  panther.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story: Amanda Gordon at
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 