-- 
Kenya’s Shilling Heads for Weakest Level in 8 Months

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-02-22T16:28:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/kenya-s-shilling-heads-for-weakest-level-in-8-months.html
  Kenya ’s shilling slumped for a
fourth day, heading for the weakest in eight months against
the dollar as the central bank bought foreign currency in
the domestic market.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy
depreciated as much as 0.3 percent to 82.05 per dollar and
traded 0.1 percent down at 81.9 by 6:55 p.m. in Nairobi
from a close of 81.80 yesterday. A close at this level
would be the weakest since June 29. Against the euro, it
declined 0.2 percent to 112.09.  Kenya’s central bank bought 4 million euros ($5.5
million) at 111.32 shillings each, an official at the
Nairobi-based bank said by phone today.  “The shilling has weakened due to central bank’s
participation the market for the first time this year to
bolster its reserves,” Dickson Magecha, a dealer at
Nairobi-based Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Ltd., said in a
phone interview today.  Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  backed down in a dispute
with Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  over the appointment of
four key state officials that has delayed implementation of
the country’s new constitution. Kibaki withdrew his
nominations for the posts of director of public prosecution
and budget controller and said he would hold further talks
with Odinga about the naming of a new attorney general.  The chief justice will be appointed in consultation
with the Judicial Service Commission, he told reporters
today in Nairobi.  “The president’s decision will ease the political
tension which was building up and with agricultural inflows
expected in the coming days, pressure on the local unit is
likely to ease,” Magecha said.  African tea prices advanced to an average of $2.85 per
kilogram (2.2 pounds) at a weekly sale in  Mombasa , Kenya,
from $2.79 a week earlier, Tea Brokers East Africa Ltd.
said in an e-mailed statement today. Kenya is the world’s
biggest exporter of black tea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 