-- 
Kenyan Lawmaker to Make Third Attempt to Set Up Local Tribunal

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-02-22T11:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/kenyan-lawmaker-to-make-third-attempt-to-set-up-local-tribunal.html
Kenyan lawmaker  Gitobu Imanyara  said
he will make a third attempt to push a bill through parliament
that would set up a local tribunal to prosecute lower-level
culprits of post-election violence in 2008 that killed 1,500
people.  A previous bill was rejected in February 2009, while
another was never voted on because the parliamentary session
ended before it could be discussed.  “I’ve drafted a new law with the input of civil society,
political leaders and from other groups,” Imanyara said
yesterday in an interview in Kampala,  Uganda ’s capital.  The  International Criminal Court  in December named six
suspects, including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  and lawmaker
William Ruto -- who both aspire to run for president in 2012 --
for allegedly masterminding the clashes that forced 300,000
people to flee their homes. Imanyara’s local court would deal
with lower-level cases and wouldn’t interfere with the working
of the ICC, he said.  “We don’t have the local capacity, our institutions are
still in the making,” Imanyara said. “We need to move forward
with the ICC.”  The bill may be brought to parliament by the end of March,
he said.  ICC Challenge    Kenya ’s government will ask the  United Nations Security
Council  to approve a one-year postponement of ICC litigation to
allow it time to establish a local mechanism to handle the
cases, according to a Feb. 7 statement from President Mwai Kibaki’s office.  Critics of establishing only a domestic court say it may be
vulnerable to political interference and ignite ethnic tensions.  Accusations of vote-rigging in the December 2007
presidential elections sparked two months of bloodshed.  The fighting stopped after Kibaki agreed to share power
with then-opposition leader  Raila Odinga , who was named prime
minister. The peace accord included a commitment to enact a new
constitution, which came into force in August, called for an
overhaul of the courts and police, and pledged to crackdown on
corruption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 