-- 
Kenyan President Kibaki Withdraws Nominations for Two Key State Positions

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-02-22T14:53:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/kenyan-president-kibaki-withdraws-nominations-for-two-key-state-positions.html
Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  backed
down in a dispute with Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  over the
appointment of four key state officials that has delayed
implementation of the country’s new constitution.  Kibaki withdrew his nominations for the posts of director
of public prosecution and budget controller and said he would
hold further talks with Odinga about the naming of a new
attorney general. The chief justice will be appointed in
consultation with the Judicial Service Commission, he told
reporters today in Nairobi, the capital.  “This will enable us to move forward with the
implementation process of the new constitution,” he said.  Kibaki and Odinga have been in dispute over the president’s
Jan. 28 nomination of the state officials after Odinga rejected
them because he wasn’t consulted on the appointments, as
required by law. Kenneth Marende, speaker of Kenya’s parliament,
ruled on Feb. 17 that the nominations were unconstitutional.  “The divisive issue has been settled within the
requirement of the new constitution,” Odinga told reporters in
Nairobi. It “is another victory for cooperation and the only
way to achieve the promise that our new constitution offers.”  International Court  The appointments are among changes to the judiciary planned
by Kenya to show it has the ability to try suspects linked to
the post-election violence. The Hague-based  International
Criminal Court  is considering cases against six Kenyans for
alleged crimes against humanity. Kibaki has said the cases
should be prosecuted in Kenya.  Former United Nations Secretary General  Kofi Annan , who
mediated an end to post-vote clashes, in an e-mailed statement
today urged the leaders to “reduce the political temperature.”
The U.S. called for Kibaki and Odinga to cooperate and ensure
the “appointments are made in a transparent and credible
manner,” Philip Crowley, the assistant secretary of state for
public affairs, said in a statement on Feb. 20.  Kibaki invited Odinga today for consultations over the
nomination of the attorney general, while denying that he had
overstepped his constitutional mandate in naming the four
officials.  The appointment of a new chief justice will involve the
Judicial Service Commission, Kibaki said in an e-mailed
statement.  Kenya enacted a new constitution in August that aims to
spread political power across the country’s 42 ethnic groups,
achieve more equitable land distribution and place checks and
balances on the president. The new charter replaced one dating
to when  Kenya  gained independence from Britain in 1963.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone ole Turana in Nairobi at
   jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 