-- 
Knicks Ticket Prices Triple for Carmelo Anthony's Arrival in New York

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-02-22T18:34:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/knicks-ticket-prices-triple-for-carmelo-anthony-s-arrival-in-new-york.html
New York Knicks ticket prices on the
secondary market tripled for tomorrow night’s potential debut of  Carmelo Anthony  at Madison Square Garden.  Anthony, a four-time All-Star and the National Basketball
Association’s sixth-leading scorer this season, joined the
Knicks in a trade with the Denver Nuggets today. His first game
with New York might be tomorrow against the  Milwaukee Bucks 
providing all players traded pass physicals with their new
teams.  Up until yesterday, fans were paying $91 on average for
tickets to the game against the Bucks on ticket reseller
 StubHub.com .  “That average price tripled yesterday and the low end
listing price starts at $250,” Glenn Lehrman, a spokesman for  EBay Inc .’s StubHub, said in an e-mail. “‘Knicks tickets’ have
been the top-searched keyword over the last 12 hours.”  The Knicks last night acquired 26-year-old Anthony, 34-
year-old guard Chauncey Billups, as well as Shelden Williams,
Anthony Carter and Renaldo Balkman from the Nuggets. In
exchange, Denver will get  Wilson Chandler ,  Raymond Felton ,  Danilo Gallinari , Timofey Mozgov, a 2014 first-round draft
picket, the Golden State Warriors’ 2012 and 2013 second-round
draft picks and $3 million in cash, Nuggets spokesman Aaron
Lopez confirmed in an e-mail.  During the offseason, the Knicks were among the teams
trying to land  LeBron James , the NBA’s two-time reigning most
valuable player. James went to the  Miami Heat , leaving the
Knicks with enough salary-cap room to add a second high-priced
player to go along with Amar’e Stoudemire.  “The bottom line is, he’s coming,” said Rob Stolker, an
independent venture capitalist who with two partners invested
$28,512 last summer in hopes of a big payday when James or other
headline players joined a Knicks’ team flush with salary-cap
space. “It’s unbelievable. This is why we did it. All of a
sudden, it’s starting to make some sense.”  Sold Tickets  Stolker today said he is kicking himself for already
selling his eight season-tickets for the Bucks’ visit.  “We sold tomorrow night’s game last Friday for a little
more than face,” Stolker, said in a telephone interview. “It
was clearly not a good decision in hindsight.”  Stolker, a former day trader, had his iPad in hand last
night when he saw news of Anthony’s trade scroll along the
television screen. He was on StubHub seconds later and watched
ticket prices more than double in a matter of minutes, some
climbing from $140 to $340, he said.  “In my trading days, the second I pulled that up I would
have just cleared everything up to $250 and then dealt with it
later,” Stolker said.  Plan Worked  Instead he said he’s content that the plan hatched last
year to invest in Knicks’ tickets with the hopes of a James
signing has turned out as well as it did. James, who plays with
All-Stars  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  in Miami, has helped the
Heat to a 41-15 record this season, leading the Southeast
Division, while the Knicks are 28-26 and in second place in the
Atlantic.  “Veteran players will now come and say, ‘I think there’s
enough there that we can have fun, beat the hated Miami and take
a championship back to Broadway,” Stolker said.  StubHub prices for Nuggets’ games have so far remained
unchanged, though a few more tickets are available than before
the trade, Lehrman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 