-- 
Korean Won Drops on Concern Mideast Tensions Will Derail Global Recovery

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 
2011-02-22T07:42:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/korean-won-drops-on-concern-mideast-tensions-will-derail-global-recovery.html
South Korea’s won fell to its lowest
in more than a week on concern rising fuel prices caused by
escalating tensions in the Middle East will derail the global
economic recovery, hurting exports.  Government bonds  advanced.  Foreign investors sold more Korean stocks than they bought
for the first time in four days as security forces in Libya,
holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, attacked anti-
government protesters following ousters of leaders in Tunisia
and  Egypt . The  Kospi index  of shares sank to a two-month low as
crude oil climbed to the highest level since September 2008.
Stock prices of builders slumped the most since 2009, led by
Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co., on concern orders will
fall as Korean construction sites were attacked in Libya.  “The political situation in the Middle East is one of the
reasons driving the won lower as it could affect the global
economic recovery,” said Sam Hong, a currency dealer at Shinhan
Bank in  Seoul . “The Korean economy is influenced by the global
markets.”  The won declined 0.9 percent to 1,127.60 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It earlier reached 1,128.55, the weakest level since
Feb. 11.    South Korea ’s government set up a 24-hour team to monitor
the unrest in the Middle East after three workers from one of
the nation’s construction companies were injured by rioters in
Libya, the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs said
in a statement yesterday.  Benchmark five-year bonds rose. The yield on the 4 percent
note due September 2015 slid eight basis points to 4.33 percent,
the biggest daily decline this year, according to Korea Stock
Exchange. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  