-- 
Nancy Kissel Testifies at Murder Trial Banker Husband Was Sexually Abusive

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-02-22T16:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/nancy-kissel-was-depressed-provoked-to-kill-banker-husband-lawyer-says.html
  Nancy Kissel , who has admitted
killing her Merrill Lynch & Co. banker husband, told Hong Kong’s
High Court yesterday that he was an absent spouse who physically
and sexually abused her.  “The more involved he got with  investment banking , the
more forceful he was with me sexually,” Kissel, 46, told the
nine-member jury in her retrial for murder.  Kissel’s lawyer Edward Fitzgerald said earlier the
Michigan-born mother of three was provoked by Robert Kissel on
the night of his Nov. 2, 2003 death. Fitzgerald said he will
call specialists in depression and post-traumatic stress
disorder to show that her mental condition at the time makes her
less culpable for the killing, he said.  Nancy Kissel was convicted of murder in 2005 and sentenced
to life in prison.  Hong Kong ’s Court of Final Appeal ruled in
February 2010 the conviction was unfair and ordered a new trial.
Kissel’s application for a halt to the criminal proceedings was
rejected by Judge Andrew Macrae in November. The retrial began
Jan. 11 and resumes tomorrow after a recess today.  Prosecutors rejected Kissel’s guilty plea to manslaughter
and argued that she drugged her husband Robert, bludgeoned him
to death in their bedroom and hid the body in a storeroom. She
was the main beneficiary of his $18 million estate and was
having an affair at the time of the killing.  Walking unsteadily and wearing a lavender sweater and black
pants, Kissel took the stand after Fitzgerald’s opening
statement and told him that she currently weighed 38 kilograms
(84 pounds), a loss of 16 kilograms since her imprisonment.  Club Med Vacation  She testified that she met her late husband in 1987 on a
Club Med vacation and that they were “very much” in love when
they wed in 1989.  “Having children was more something I really wanted. He
didn’t think we were financially in a position to start a
family,” Kissel said. “It was the first time that something
came between us.”  Nancy Kissel gave birth to two girls in the U.S. before the
couple moved in 1997 to Hong Kong with Robert Kissel’s then-
employer  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . Merrill hired him in 2000 to
head its distressed assets business in  Asia .  Kissel said her husband’s job took him on trips for weeks
at a time, sometimes with only a day at home in between. When
their son, who was born in Hong Kong, became ill and had to seek
treatment in the U.S. in 2001, Robert chose to go to  South Korea 
instead for a work trip, she said.  Never Enough?  “I kept thinking, when is enough, enough? How much money
do you need?” Nancy Kissel said. She said that between 1999 and
2002, her husband threw a punch at her, slapped her so hard she
fell down, and pushed her down a flight of stairs. He also broke
one of her ribs while forcing to her to have anal sex, she said.  Fitzgerald asked why she hadn’t mentioned these things to
friends or family members.  “I always said, my marriage was wonderful, my life was
wonderful because that’s what everyone saw. When you have money,
you have expensive things. But things are not what make you
happy. Things are not in your heart.”  The jury had heard during the prosecution’s arguments that  Robert Kissel  died at the hands of his intelligent and highly
organized wife, who became unhappy with the marriage by 2002.
Prosecution lawyer  David Perry  elicited testimony to support his
argument from domestic helpers, former colleagues, forensics
experts and Robert’s sister Jane Clayton.  Affair, Divorce  Nancy began an affair with an electrical technician in  Vermont  in the summer of 2003 and Robert was preparing to
divorce her, according to prosecution witnesses.  She conducted Internet searches for “overdose on sleeping
pills” and “medications causing heart attack” in late August
2003, and then obtained four different prescriptions for
sedatives from two psychiatrists, the jury was told.  Kissel blended the drugs into a milkshake she served to her
husband, hours before she smashed his skull with the edge of an
eight-pound lead ornament, Perry said.  Fitzgerald said yesterday that the choice of weapon was
unusual for a murder, and suggested a “frenzied attack in a
heightened state.” He added that there was no evidence of a
plan for the disposal of the body, which remained in the bedroom
for three days.  A manslaughter conviction may mean a sentence of eight to
12 years, her lawyers have said. She has already served more
than six years in prison. The retrial is scheduled for 50 days.  The case is HKSAR v. Nancy Ann Kissel, HCCC55/2010 in Hong
Kong’s High Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  