-- 
Natural Gas Futures Rise on Forecasts of Prolonged Cold Weather

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-02-22T14:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/natural-gas-futures-rise-on-forecasts-of-prolonged-cold-weather.html
Natural gas futures climbed for a
second day in New York on forecasts for prolonged cold weather
that may spark demand for the heating fuel.  Gas futures rose as much as 2.9 percent as temperatures may
be below normal across the northern U.S. from Feb. 27 through
March 8. Temperatures may be as much as 15 degrees below normal
in parts of the upper Midwest next week, according to Commodity
Weather Group in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “The forecasts are for cold weather mostly in the Midwest
and West,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst with Tradition
Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “It looks like we’ll see
another test of $4.”  Natural gas for March delivery rose 0.1 cent, or to $3.877
per million British thermal units at 9:40 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The futures have fallen 21 percent from a
year ago.  Floor trading was closed yesterday for the U.S. Presidents
Day holiday and electronic trades will be booked with today’s
transactions for settlement purposes.  The low temperature in Chicago on March 6 may be 17 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 8 Celsius), 10 degrees below normal, according
to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. The low
temperature in  Minneapolis  may be 13 degrees Fahrenheit, 6
degrees below normal.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Heating Demand Outlook  Heating demand in the Northwest may be 30 percent above
normal next week, according to Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri .  Cold weather in the major gas-producing regions this month
may lead to “misleading bullish” U.S. supply data later this
year, said J. Marshall Adkins and Kevin Smith, analysts with
Raymond James & Associates in Houston, in a note to clients
today. Below-normal temperatures can cause liquid to freeze in
gas lines, disrupting output from wells.  Frigid weather probably reduced gas production by about 5
billion cubic feet per day early last month, Adkins and Smith
said. The Energy Department is scheduled to release  monthly
production data  on Feb. 28. The data will cover output for
December. Production data for February will be released in
April.  Gross natural gas production in November was 76.05 billion
cubic feet per day, 1.1 percent above October output, according
to the Energy Department. Gross production excludes gas used for
repressuring, quantities vented and flared, and non-hydrocarbon
gases removed in treating or processing operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  