-- 
Nestle Says Revised Targets to Be More Challenging

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-02-23T07:25:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/nestle-aims-for-improvement-in-underlying-eps-ex-currencies.html
(Corrects definition of trading operating profit in
seventh paragraph of story published yesterday.)    Nestle SA , the world’s largest food
company, said sales and profit targets will be more challenging
after a change in accounting for revenue and the disposal of its
stake in eye-care company  Alcon Inc .  Nestle reiterated a goal for annual sales growth of 5
percent to 6 percent over the long term, excluding acquisitions,
divestments and exchange-rate shifts. The company also  set  a new
basis for earnings objectives, seeking annual growth in the so-
called trading operating profit margin, based on constant
currencies.  “It’s a stretch, but I feel that it’s a healthy stretch,”
Chief Executive Officer Paul Bulcke said at a meeting with
analysts that was webcast from  London . Nestle previously had a
“tailwind” earnings boost from Alcon, and the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company must adapt to the changes in how it
books revenue, he said.  The new accounting method deducts discounts and promotions
from sales rather than from operating profit, making results
comparable with rivals. Revenue from continuing businesses in
2010 was 87.9 billion Swiss francs ($94 billion) under the new
accounting policy, 16 percent less than under the prior
standard.    Kraft Foods Inc ., the world’s second-biggest food company,
reported 2010 revenue of $49.2 billion on Feb. 10. PepsiCo Inc.,
the biggest snack-food maker, had 2010 sales of $57.8 billion.  Shares Rise  Nestle rose as much as 10 centimes, or 0.2 percent, to
52.50 francs as of 2:06 p.m. in Zurich trading. Nestle shares
are up 0.2 percent from a year ago, versus gains of 7.3 percent
for Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft and 1.4 percent for
Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo.  The company defines trading operating profit as earnings
excluding interest, taxes, goodwill impairment and gains from
selling businesses while including some items such as
reorganization costs and asset impairment. Earnings at that
level for continuing businesses were 14.4 percent of revenue in
2010, Nestle said.  The manufacturer previously based the margin target on Ebit
as a proportion of sales. The manufacturer didn’t specify any
figure for the new measure, beyond saying it’s aiming for an
improvement each year.  Nestle, the maker of KitKat chocolate bars, Butterfinger
bars and DiGiorno pizza, also said it plans to boost underlying
earnings per share each year, excluding currency fluctuations.
Bulcke said Nestle may occasionally exceed or underperform the
sales target.  Net Income Affirmed  The company said on Nov. 19 when announcing the restatement
plans that the changes would reduce reported sales by about 15
percent and boost its margins. Net income, earnings per share
and the balance sheet aren’t affected by the accounting change,
Nestle has said.  Including Alcon, so-called organic sales growth from
pharmaceutical products was 10.8 percent last year, exceeding
the 5.9 percent increase for Nestle’s food and beverages
operations, according to figures released on Feb. 17. The
pharmaceutical unit boosted its operating margin by 5.2
percentage points, more than the 0.3 percentage-point increase
for food and beverages.  Nestle said separately that it plans to invest 3 billion
francs in the developed world and 2.5 billion francs in emerging
markets this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  