-- 
Wellink Would Consider Succeeding Trichet as ECB's President If Asked to

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-02-22T13:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/netherlands-wellink-says-would-consider-succeeding-ecb-s-trichet-if-asked.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council Member Nout Wellink said he would consider replacing
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  if asked.  “If you ask me, ‘would you think about it if you were
asked?’ Then the answer is: I would think about it seriously,”
Wellink said at the University of Amsterdam today. “My first
priority would be that we need just the best” candidate to take
the helm at the ECB, he said.  The exit from the ECB race of Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , previously named by economists as the frontrunner, has
opened the contest to candidates from  Italy ’s  Mario Draghi  to  Finland ’s Erkki Liikanen and Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch. Trichet
said on Feb. 21 that key qualities needed include the “capacity
to react in exceptional circumstances.”  “We all know that finding successors for these kinds of
positions is a complex process,” Wellink said. “It is
connected to other things. It’s often part of a package deal.”  Wellink, 67, has been President of the Dutch central bank
since July 1, 1997 and joined the ECB’s Governing Council in
January 1999. He has chaired the Basel Committee for Banking
Supervision since July 2006 and is a member of the Group of 10
Governors, the committee of central bank governors of the G-10
countries, and the Financial Stability Board.  ‘Excellent Job’  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said Feb. 7 on
radio BNR that Wellink would be “able to do an excellent job”
as ECB president. At the same time, “it is just that the
Netherlands has already provided one of the two presidents in
the history of the ECB. So the Netherlands most likely won’t be
named first by other countries.”  The late Wim Duisenberg, a former Dutch finance minister
and central bank president, was the first head of the Frankfurt-
based ECB between 1998 and 2003. Wellink’s term ends in July and
Trichet’s tenure ends in October.  European leaders won’t tackle the succession to Trichet
until after the euro-area has produced its comprehensive anti-
crisis package in March, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Feb. 14.  Irish bookmaker Paddy Power Plc on Feb. 16 offered odds of
4 to 9 on Draghi getting the job. That means a gambler betting 9
euros ($12) would win 4 euros and their stake back if Draghi
were picked. Liikanen was second favorite on 2 to 1, and the
bookmaker offered odds of 8 to 1 on Mersch and Wellink. Klaus Regling, head of  Europe ’s bailout fund, was a 20 to 1 outsider.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  