-- 
New Zealand Imposes Curfew as Christchurch Quake Death Toll Climbs to 75

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-02-23T06:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/new-zealand-quake-death-toll-climbs-to-75-as-rescuers-search-for-survivors.html
Police imposed a nightly curfew
in some areas of  Christchurch ,  New Zealand ’s second-largest
city, amid concerns more buildings may collapse following the
magnitude 6.3 earthquake that killed at least 75 people.  Members of the public who enter an area within the city
center’s four main avenues after 6:30 p.m. local time will be
arrested, according to the New Zealand Police  website .
Christchurch’s tallest building, the Grand Chancellor Hotel, is
unstable and appears to be moving, police said. Workers have
stopped searching the remains of the collapsed Canterbury
Television building because of safety concerns.  Fifty-five victims have been named with another 20
recovered and awaiting identification, New Zealand Prime
Minister John Key told reporters today. Rescuers are digging
through wreckage left by yesterday’s temblor, the nation’s
deadliest in 80 years. Television images show one side of the
26-story  Chancellor  cracking and sagging.  “Today, all New Zealanders grieve for you, Christchurch,”
Key said in Wellington as he prepared to board a plane for the
wrecked city. “Many people have lost their lives. Families have
lost their cherished loved ones. Mates have lost their mates.”  New Zealand declared a national state of emergency to
coordinate help from outside the Christchurch region, according
to the  Civil Defense Department ’s website. While people continue
to present themselves at triage centers and hospitals, confirmed
numbers of injured weren’t available.  Thirty aftershocks with a magnitude of 4 to 6 have been
felt since yesterday’s temblor, the defense department said.  Trapped Alive  About 300 people are unaccounted for with some possibly
trapped in buildings and the Grand Chancellor has been
evacuated, New Zealand Police said.  “There are 30 people we’re aware that are trapped alive in
a couple of buildings and there have been a number of bodies
removed,” Aaron Gilmore, a National Party member of parliament,
told Bloomberg Television.  Twenty-three Japanese students who were enrolled at an
education college in the city of about 400,000 are included in
the missing, Japan’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said today. One
Australian is among the dead, Prime Minister Julia Gillardsaid
in Canberra today.    Australia  is sending 300 police and 140 Australian rescuers
are to join the relief efforts. Japan will send a 70-person
emergency relief team, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  told his
nation’s parliament.  The death toll from the quake, the strongest since
September when the city was shaken by a 7.0 magnitude temblor,
is the worst since the  Napier earthquake  in 1931 killed 256.
Yesterday’s quake sent office workers fleeing into streets
strewn with shattered glass, paper, bricks and broken concrete.  City Counts Damage  Damage to central city buildings was greater than the
September temblor because it was shallower and centered just 10
kilometers southeast of Christchurch, according to
http:// geonet.org.nz . The Sept. 4 quake was focused 55 kilometers
northwest of the city and was also deeper.  Yesterday’s temblor struck at 12:51 p.m. local time during
the lunchtime break, whereas the September temblor hit at 4:35
a.m. and claimed no lives.  In the 17-story  Forsyth Barr Ltd.  building in the city
center, the stairwell collapsed and employees were lifted out by
cranes, John Owen, a director at Forsyth Barr, said in a
telephone interview. “It took four or five hours to get
everybody out,” he said.  At midday today, an army helicopter circled a nearly silent
city center almost 24 hours after the quake. At cordons, people
talked to army and police staff as they tried to access homes or
hotels. Others wheeled suitcases along deserted streets.  Flooding, Cracks  Cracks several meters long run along some streets. Other
main roads swell with sandy mud and surface flooding stretching
across footpaths and much of the roads.  On the corner of Gloucester Street and Oxford Terrace in
the center, the 10-level  Brannigans building’s  windows have been
shattered. Helmeted inspectors, meanwhile, go through the task
of checking buildings individually.  As reporters interviewed fire officers, an aftershock
rippled the glass exterior of the Art Gallery, which is serving
as the civil defense base. The shake toppled a chimney off the
heritage-listed Art Center.  Rescuers are pulling survivors from several city buildings,
as well as bodies, according to television reports. Searchers
are in contact with some trapped survivors, Police
Superintendent Russell Gibson said in a Television New Zealand
interview. Some 80 percent of the city is without water,
according to the [bn:URL= http://WWW.POLICE.GOVT.NZ ] New Zealand police website.   []                         Water Shortages  With lines stretching three blocks, residents Paul and Anna
McElroy gave up waiting for water earlier today at the
Phillipstown school in a suburb southeast of the city’s business
center. They later returned to fill as many containers as
possible once lines shortened.  “Water is what we need,” said Paul, 42, as he loaded soda
bottles of water into the car. “They need more of these places.
There are only six or so and it’s a real logjam.”  The quake may be the costliest natural disaster for
insurers since 2008. Insured losses from the temblor may be $12
billion, Michael Huttner, an analyst at JPMorgan, said in a note
to clients. That would be the most expensive calamity since the
$19.9 billion loss from Hurricane Ike, which struck the U.S. in
2008, according to the  Insurance Information Institute , a New
York-based trade group.  The  New Zealand dollar  rose from a two-month low on
speculation markets are overpricing the probability of a rate
cut by the Reserve Bank following the quake.  Currency Impact  The currency climbed 0.3 percent to 74.83 U.S. cents as of
5:55 p.m. in Sydney from 74.64 cents in  New York  yesterday. It
fell to as low as 74.33 cents earlier, the weakest since Dec.
23. The so-called kiwi rose to 62.11 yen from 61.7 yen.  The cost of protecting New Zealand sovereign bonds from
non-payment fell 1 basis point to 63.5 basis points as of 3:23
p.m. in Wellington, according to Deutsche Bank AG. They jumped 5
basis points yesterday, the biggest increase in almost three
months.  The quake served as a reminder of the jolt in Christchurch
on Sept. 4 that shook consumer confidence and contributed to a
0.2 percent drop in gross domestic product in the third quarter.
The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand estimates the September temblor
caused NZ$5 billion ($3.7 billion) of damage.  “It’s going to delay the rate at which repair work on
infrastructure proceeds,” Mark Binns, head of infrastructure at
Fletcher Building Ltd., said in a Television New Zealand
interview. “We’re going to have to look at resources from other
parts of New Zealand and potentially offshore.”  The government selected Fletcher Building to manage
Christchurch’s rebuilding following the Sept. 4 quake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Christchurch at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  