-- 
New Zealand Quake May Cost Insurers $6 Billion, Peel Hunt Says

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-02-22T11:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/new-zealand-s-quake-damage-may-cost-insurers-6-billion-peel-hunt-says.html
Insurers’ losses from  New Zealand ’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years may top the $6 billion of
claims from a previous temblor in September, according to Peel
Hunt LLP.  At least 65 people died in the 6.3 magnitude earthquake,
which occurred at 12:51 p.m. local time today. Buildings, roads
and sidewalks in Christchurch were badly damaged or destroyed.
Lloyd’s insurers including  Amlin Plc ,  Catlin Group Ltd . and  Beazley Plc  dropped in London trading.  “It seems likely that the market loss will be larger than
the September quake,” Mark Williamson, a London-based analyst
at Peel Hunt, wrote in a note to clients today. Overall losses
from last year’s disaster are estimated at between $5.5 billion
and $6 billion, he said.  Amlin, Catlin and Beazley, which provide reinsurance to
local insurers in the country, were forced to revise up their
initial estimates from the September earthquake as the
government-backed Earthquake Commission, a disaster relief fund
that buys reinsurance from Lloyd’s, raised its loss forecast.
The 7.0 magnitude earthquake that struck last September occurred
in the early morning and nobody died.  Officials at the three insurers declined to comment.  Prime Minister John Key described the scene as “utter
devastation” on  Television New Zealand . It’s too early to put
“hard and fast numbers” on losses for individual insurers,
Peel Hunt’s Williamson said.  Amlin, which expects to pay out $160 million for
September’s earthquake, dropped 1.8 percent to 387.9 pence at
10:29 a.m. in London trading. Catlin fell 0.6 percent to 381.4
pence and Beazley declined 1.9 percent to 133 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  