-- 
New Zealand's Central Bank May Hold Rates as Earthquake Postpones Recovery

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-02-23T06:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/new-zealand-s-central-bank-may-hold-rates-as-earthquake-postpones-recovery.html
  New Zealand ’s central bank may delay
interest-rate increases until next year as the nation’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years threatens to tip the economy
into a recession.  A magnitude 6.3 quake rocked the South Island city of
Christchurch, killing at least 75 people, toppling buildings and
closing the airport. The temblor’s economic costs will put more
strain on consumer confidence, tourism revenue and public
finances already facing an estimated NZ$5 billion ($3.7 billion)
cleanup bill from a Sept. 4 quake in which no one died.  New Zealand’s currency and swap rates slid on speculation
the damage will extend the Reserve Bank of New Zealand’s rate
pause and increase the risk that the economy will shrink. The
central bank’s view that rebuilding from last year’s quake will
help growth this year may need to be revised as construction
costs increase and repair plans are redrawn.  “One of the pillars for what we thought would be strong
growth in 2011 has been pushed back,” said Doug Steel, markets
economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “Clearly,
reconstruction from last year’s earthquake is going to be
delayed and more rebuilding will be required. The boost is more
likely to come in 2012 than this year.”  New Zealand’s currency yesterday slid to its lowest level
of the year against the  U.S. dollar . It traded today at 74.64
U.S. cents as of 5:07 p.m. in Sydney after yesterday falling to
as low as 74.51 cents, the lowest since Dec. 23.  Rescue Efforts  The five kilometer-deep quake, which struck at 12:51 p.m.
local time, brought down parts of buildings in the center of New
Zealand’s second-largest city, including the cathedral. As the
disaster entered its second day, rescuers dug through rubble in
Christchurch, a city of almost 400,000 people, searching for
bodies or survivors.  “Talking to family down there, they thought the earthquake
was more severe than last year’s,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief
economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland, who grew up in
Christchurch. He said yesterday’s disaster may cut 0.2
percentage point from gross domestic product “or possibly more
as the extent of the damage becomes clear.”  The cost to lock in fixed  interest rates  in New Zealand
instead of floating payments for eight months yesterday fell by
the most since April 2009 on speculation the Reserve Bank will
keep its key rate unchanged until at least October.  Bollard’s Pause  RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard has kept the official cash rate
at 3 percent since July, and in his January policy statement
said rates were “likely to increase modestly over the next two
years.” That so-called tightening bias might change depending
on the severity of the disaster, and a rate cut can’t be ruled
out.  “If there was any chance that Dr. Bollard was considering
tightening in the next couple of quarters, that would now be
completely removed from his thinking,” said Roland Randall, an
economist at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore . “Although it is
too extreme to expect that he will cut the policy rate as a
result of this event alone, that is a possibility.”  The chances doubled today Bollard will cut rates at next
month’s policy meeting, according to a Credit Suisse AG index
based on swaps trading. Investors are betting there is a 56
percent chance Bollard will reduce the rate by 25 basis points
at the RBNZ’s March 10 meeting, up from 28 percent yesterday,
the index shows.  ‘Stable’ Markets  In a statement released earlier, Bollard said the RBNZ is
working quickly to assist in the recovery of access to the
financial system and ensure markets “remain stable.”  “The  Reserve Bank  is ready and able to supply any cash
required by banks,” Bollard said. “We have ample cash reserves
and will issue cash to banks on any day required during this
emergency situation.”  Swaps markets are betting there’s a 20 percent possibility
the central bank will cut the benchmark rate at its next meeting,
a Credit Suisse AG index showed after the quake.  Earlier this month, Finance Minister Bill English said the
nation’s economy may have entered its second recession in two
years by contracting in the fourth quarter of last year.  “We had been expecting the recovery effort from the
previous earthquake in Christchurch to be ramping up about now
and starting to have a positive impact on GDP,” English said
today on Bloomberg Television. “This more severe earthquake
will now delay the recovery.”  Third-Quarter Contraction  The country’s economy was hobbled before yesterday’s quake.
New Zealand’s retail sales fell 0.4 percent in the fourth
quarter, matching the decline during the previous quarter in
which GDP shrank 0.2 percent. The government’s GDP report for
the final three months of 2010 is scheduled to be released March
24.    Consumer confidence  slumped to a 19-month low this month,
weighed down by more pessimism about personal finances and the
economy’s performance in the next year, a private survey showed
last week. The ANZ-Roy Morgan confidence index fell to 108.1
from 117.1 in January, Wellington-based ANZ National Bank Ltd.
said in a monthly survey.  Two straight quarters of shrinking GDP -- a standard
definition of a recession -- would make New Zealand the first
country with a Group of 10 currency to slide back into a
contraction since the end of 2009.  “Our view is that the Reserve Bank won’t be hiking
interest rates this year; we’ve pushed our rate hike out until
2012,” Khoon Goh, head of market economics at ANZ National Bank
Ltd. in Wellington, said yesterday in an interview.  Retailers’ Sales  Yesterday’s quake hit just as residents and businesses in
the Christchurch area were starting to rebound from last
September’s quake. An aftershock Dec. 26 cut short annual
“Boxing Day” shopping sales, so retailers held them again on
Feb. 12 to try to recoup lost revenue.  “The recovery continues to face headwinds from households
shunning spending in favor of saving and reducing debt,”
Katrina Ell, an associate economist at Moody’s Analytics, said
yesterday in a research note. “Tuesday’s tragic events could
exacerbate this trend, condemning the New Zealand economy to
another year of anemic growth due to forces beyond its
control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net 
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  