-- 
New Delhi Opens Airport Train, First Private India City Railway

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-02-22T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/new-delhi-s-1-3-billion-airport-train-to-begin-services-today.html
  New Delhi ’s 57 billion-rupee ($1.3
billion) airport  rail-link , managed by Anil Ambani’s  Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd ., will begin operations today, becoming
India’s first privately run urban-train service.  Commercial trips along the 23-kilometer (14-mile) railway
will start at 2 p.m., Krishna Maheshwari, director of Reliance’s
Delhi Airport Metro Express Ltd. unit, said by e-mail yesterday.
The train will whisk passengers from the airport to downtown in
18 minutes, compared with as much as two hours by car during
rush hour, according to the train operator.  “I would love to use it,” said B.N. Kumar, chief
executive officer of Mumbai-based Concept PR, who travels to the
Indian capital at least once a month. “Traffic congestion is a
big problem.”  Reliance,  Larsen & Toubro Ltd . and GMR Group have won
contracts to build and operate railways, airports and roads as
India opens up investment to ease transport bottlenecks in an
economy expanding more than 8 percent a year. The growth means
that Indian cities will need 35 new rail-based transit systems
over the next two decades, McKinsey & Co. said last year.  “Public-private partnerships are the way to go,” said
Vinayak Chatterjee, chairman of Gurgaon, India-based Feedback
Ventures Pvt., which advises on construction projects. The Delhi
airport railway is “a very interesting model,” he said.  Construction Delays  A trip on the airport train from the main New Delhi Railway
Station to terminal three, which opened in July, will initially
cost 80 rupees, according to Delhi Airport Metro advertisements.
That will eventually climb to 150 rupees, they said. The line,
which took 27 months to build, has four other stops.  Services were meant to begin before New Delhi hosted the
Commonwealth Games in October. They were delayed for “various
reasons beyond our control,” Maheshwari said, without
elaboration.  The cost of the project was about equally divided between
state-run Delhi Metro Rail Corp. and Mumbai-based Reliance,
which will run the line for 30 years. Delhi Metro, operator of
the city’s subway system, built tunnels and other infrastructure,
while Reliance and partner, Beasain, Spain-based trainmaker  Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles SA , paid for the
tracks, trains and other equipment.  Completion of the airport link will help Reliance bid for
other metro projects in India that may be worth 750 billion
rupees over the next 10 years, Maheshwari said in August. A
Reliance-led group last year won a contract to build the second
stage of a 110 billion-rupee rail project in Mumbai.  Delhi Metro is also expanding its rail network into more
suburbs to ease congestion in the capital, which was home to
16.8 million people in 2007, according to the latest city-
government estimate. That was a 22 percent increase from the
2001 census figure. Bombardier Inc., the world’s biggest
trainmaker, opened a plant in western Gujarat state after
winning a contract to supply 538 cars to the rail operator.  Larsen & Toubro,  India ’s biggest engineering company, last
year won a deal to build and operate a metro-rail network in the
southern city of Hyderabad. State governments are also building
railways in the cities of Chennai and Bangalore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Subramaniam Sharma in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 