-- 
New York Chef Vongerichten Adds Touch of Spice to London Dining

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-02-22T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/new-york-chef-vongerichten-adds-touch-of-spice-to-london-dining-interview.html
  Jean-Georges  Vongerichten isn’t a
name that rolls off the tongue of your average Londoner, yet the
opening of Spice Market in the new  W hotel  on Leicester Square
marks a return for this New York-based culinary master.  Born in Strasbourg, France, Vongerichten, 53, holds three
Michelin stars for Jean Georges and runs restaurants from  Las
Vegas  to Paris. He previously ran Vong, the Thai venue at the
Berkeley Hotel from 1995 to 2003. (The space was taken over by
Boxwood Cafe and now is home to Koffmann’s.)  Spice Market, which formally opened yesterday, is part of
an international chain that Vongerichten is developing with W
Hotels,  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc .’s luxury
boutique brand. He said he’s glad to be back eight years after
closing Vong and he can see that the city has changed.  “It feels amazing to be back in London,” he said
yesterday in an interview at Spice Market. “It was a terrific
time and a lot of people miss that place and talk to me about
it. Since we opened Vong, you have Nobu which opened after us,
Zuma and Hakkasan. For people in  London , Asian flavors are
always part of the culture, more than in  New York .”  The menu features dishes from across  Asia , including crab
dumplings, sugar-snap peas and aromatic spices; wild sea bass
sashimi, green-chili condiment, pistachios and mint; pork
vindaloo; wok-charred eggplant, sweet-chili glaze and peanuts;
Ovaltine kulfi, banana brulee, spiced milk chocolate sauce.  “It’s more Asian than Vong was,” Vongerichten said.
“Vong was French techniques, using Asian spices and flavors.
Here, we’re using woks in the kitchen. The dishes come from
across Asia, though Thai is still my favorite. I arrived in
Bangkok in 1980: I was 23 years old and it changed my life.”  Paris,  Shanghai   Vongerichten worked at the Oriental Hotel in Bangkok,
having learned his craft in  France  at l’Auberge de l’Ill and
with Paul Bocuse and Louis Outhier at l’Oasis. His restaurants
now include Market, in Paris; Prime in Las Vegas; and Perry St,
JoJo, Mercer Kitchen and ABC Kitchen in New York, the home of
Spice Market. He also operates a Jean Georges in Shanghai.  The London Spice Market is part of Culinary Concepts by
Jean-Georges, which he operates with his business partner Phil
Suarez. Their involvement ranges across everything from design
and concept to staff selection. Vongerichten said he spends
about three weeks a month back in New York, so he’s not going to
be a constant presence in London. How often will he visit?  “I go to Paris about three times a year,” he said. “I’ve
had a restaurant in Paris for 10 years now. I’ll probably be in
London four or five times a year, every other month: a couple of
weeks for the opening and then back and forth. Sometimes I think
it’s easier going to London than going to LA.”  Boulud, Puck  The opening of Spice Market follows the arrival last year
of Bar Boulud, brought by fellow three-Michelin-star New York
chef  Daniel Boulud . Beverly Hills chef Wolfgang Puck plans to
open a Cut steak house at 45 Park Lane in coming months.  How about the food at Spice Market? What’s special about it
for a city that already has so many Asian restaurants?  “For me, it’s about good food, good ingredients,” he
said. “I’ve been cooking this food now for 30 years and I feel,
how can I live without chilis any more or pepper? Food for me
has to pop, and at Spice Market the food really pops.”  Spice Market, W London -- Leicester Square, 10 Wardour
Street, London, W1D 6QF. Tel. +44-20-7758-1088 or click on
 http://www.spicemarketlondon.co.uk/ .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 