-- 
Christchurch Quake Rescuers Search Offices for Survivors

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-02-22T19:32:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/new-zealand-earthquake-kills-65-in-nation-s-deadliest-temblor-in-80-years.html
Rescuers in the New Zealand
city of Christchurch are combing through collapsed ruins of
office buildings today as they search for trapped survivors of  New Zealand ’s deadliest earthquake in eight decades.  Search-and-rescue workers are digging through wreckage left
by yesterday’s magnitude 6.3 quake that killed at least 38
people, Prime Minister John Key said in a Television New Zealand
interview today. That number is likely to rise, said Key, who
yesterday reported a provisional count of 65. More than 100
people may be trapped in collapsed structures, Christchurch
Mayor  Bob Parker  said yesterday.  “Our number one focus is on search and rescue,” Key said
in the interview. “Debris has fallen and potentially crushed a
number of people. In other buildings they are trapped.”  Searchers extracted people alive from several buildings
central city buildings, New Zealand Police said in an e-mailed
statement. Some were saved after limbs were amputated, Police
Superintendent Russell Gibson told  Television New Zealand .  Searchers are in contact with some survivors still trapped
in the rubble, Gibson said. There are also yet-unrecovered
bodies in at least two of the worst-affected buildings, he said.
About 250 rescuers have been deployed, Deputy Prime Minister
Bill English said yesterday.  The death toll from the quake, the strongest since
September when the city was shaken by a 7.0 magnitude temblor,
is the worst since the Napier earthquake in 1931 killed 256.
Yesterday’s quake sent office workers in the country’s second-
largest city fleeing into streets strewn with shattered glass,
paper, bricks and broken concrete.  ‘Utter Devastation’  “We might be witnessing New Zealand’s darkest day,” Key
said on Television New Zealand yesterday after travelling from
the capital of Wellington to the  South Island  city. “It’s just
a scene of utter devastation.”  Damage to central city buildings was greater than the
September temblor because it was shallower and centered just 10
kilometers southeast of Christchurch, according to geonet.org.nz.
The Sept. 4 quake was focused 55 kilometers northwest of the
city and was also deeper.  Yesterday’s temblor also struck at 12:51 p.m. local
time during the lunchtime break, whereas the September temblor,
hit at 4:35 a.m. and claimed no lives.  Emergency service workers continued to clear the streets of
the central business district overnight and extinguish fires in
ruined buildings. About 200 additional police are being sent
from around New Zealand to help the city of almost 400,000
people.  Cathedral Damage  The quake destroyed buildings and parts of structures in
the main business area of Christchurch, including a section of
its iconic cathedral. Two buses were crushed by falling
buildings, police said. Smoke billowed on to the streets from
office buildings reduced to rubble.  The nation’s currency, known as the kiwi, dropped for the
first time in five days yesterday. It fell as low as 74.70 U.S.
cents, the least since Dec. 28, before trading at 74.78 U.S.
cents as of 8:25 a.m. in Wellington. It fell 1.6 percent to
62.49 yen yesterday, the biggest slide since Nov. 23 and also
the weakest since Dec. 28.  The prime minister called an emergency Cabinet meeting in
Wellington yesterday before he travelled to Christchurch. New
Zealand may accept offers of international help, English told
reporters.  The impact of the quake was capable of “condemning the New
Zealand economy to another year of anemic growth due to forces
beyond its control,” Katrina Ell, a Sydney-based economist at
Moody’s Analytics  Australia  Pty Ltd., said in a report.  Airport, Phones  Christchurch’s airport closed after the quake hit and
reopened early today, according to a statement on its website.  Jetstar, the budget unit of Qantas Airways Ltd., said in a
statement that it plans to resume flights, initially domestic
services, around midday to and from Christchurch airport when it
fully reopens. Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd., Australia’s second-
biggest airline, said it had halted services to Christchurch.  Residents were being advised to use phones for  emergency
services  only after Telecom Corp. of New Zealand said some of
its network sites were badly damaged.  BP Oil New Zealand  said
that all its service stations in Christchurch had been shut for
safety inspections.  The offices of investment company  Pyne Gould Corp Ltd .,
located near Christchurch’s city center, collapsed after the
quake and trapped workers are still inside, according to TV3.
The company’s shares slumped 8.8 percent to 31 New Zealand cents
yesterday in Wellington.  Hospitals around the South Island have been cleared to
take earthquake patients, John Carter, New Zealand’s minister
for civil defense, told TV3. C  The quake served as a reminder of the jolt in Christchurch
on Sept. 4 that shook consumer confidence and contributed to a
0.2 percent drop in gross domestic product in the third quarter.
The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand estimates the September temblor
caused NZ$5 billion ($3.78 billion) of damage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  