-- 
Christchurch Quake in N.Z. Kills at Least 65, Wrecks City

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-02-22T07:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/new-zealand-s-christchurch-hit-by-6-3-earthquake-damaging-city-buildings.html
Christchurch  was rocked by the
deadliest earthquake to hit  New Zealand  in 80 years, killing at
least 65 people, toppling buildings, trapping office workers and
ripping apart sidewalks and roads.  The death toll from the magnitude 6.3 earthquake, the
strongest since September when the city was shaken by a 7.0
magnitude temblor, is likely to rise, New Zealand police said in
a statement. The quake sent office workers in the country’s
second-largest city fleeing into streets covered in shattered
glass, paper, bricks and broken concrete.  “We might be witnessing New Zealand’s darkest day,” Prime
Minister John Key said on  Television New Zealand  after
travelling from the capital of Wellington to the  South Island 
city. “It’s just a scene of utter devastation.”  The five kilometer-deep quake struck at 12:51 p.m local
time during the lunchtime break, inflicting more injuries than
the early morning September temblor when no one died. Today’s
quake was centered 10 kilometers southeast of Christchurch,
according to geonet.org.nz. A 5.5 magnitude aftershock followed
shortly after the first, the  U.S. Geological Survey   said .    Emergency services  are continuing to search the central
city, particularly the high-rise buildings, New Zealand police
said in the statement. Around 200 extra police are being sent
from around New Zealand to help the city of almost 400,000.  Buildings Destroyed  The quake destroyed buildings and parts of structures in
the central business district of Christchurch, including part of
its iconic cathedral. Two buses were crushed by falling
buildings, police said. Smoke billowed on to the streets from
office buildings that were reduced to rubble.  “What the picture will be like in the morning, God only
knows,” Christchurch Mayor  Bob Parker  said in a Television New
Zealand interview.  The nation’s currency, known as the kiwi, dropped for the
first time in five days. New Zealand’s dollar dropped to 74.93
U.S. cents, the least since Dec. 28, before trading at 75.01
U.S. cents as of 4:52 p.m. in Sydney from 76.38 cents yesterday
in  New York . It fell 1.6 percent to 62.49 yen, the biggest slide
since Nov. 23 and also the weakest since Dec. 28.  The prime minister called an emergency Cabinet meeting in
Wellington after the quake hit, before traveling to
Christchurch. New Zealand may accept offers of international
help, Deputy Prime Minister Bill English told reporters.  Economic Costs  The impact of the earthquake was capable of “condemning
the New Zealand economy to another year of anemic growth due to
forces beyond its control,” Katrina Ell, a Sydney-based
economist at Moody’s Analytics  Australia  Pty Ltd. said in a
report following the quake.  Christchurch’s airport is open for emergencies only,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Civil Defense
department. Ambulances are scarce and residents are driving into
the center to help the injured, broadcaster TV3 reported.  Jetstar, the budget unit of Qantas Airways Ltd., suspended
flights to Christchurch indefinitely, it said in an e-mailed
statement. Auckland and Wellington flights are also affected,
the carrier said. Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd., Australia’s second-
biggest airline, also halted services to Christchurch.  Residents were being advised to use phones for emergency
services only after Telecom Corp. of New Zealand said some of
its network sites were badly damaged.  Almost every building in the city center has broken walls
and collapsed roofs while a cloud of dust hangs over the city,
Christchurch resident Jenny Adams told Bloomberg Television.
Some office workers are pinned under desks, TV3 reported.  Injured Workers  The offices of investment company  Pyne Gould Corp Ltd .,
located near Christchurch’s city center, collapsed after the
quake and trapped workers are still inside, according to TV3.
The company’s shares slumped 8.8 percent to 31 New Zealand cents
in Wellington.  Injured office workers were being treated at a temporary
triage center near collapsed office buildings. Hospitals around
the South Island have been cleared to take earthquake patients,
John Carter, New Zealand’s minister for civil defense, told TV3.
Christchurch’s major has declared a state of emergency.  “The most important point we want to address at this
moment and in the next 24 hours is the safety of people,”
Carter told reporters in Wellington. “That’s where our focus
will be.”  Today’s quake served as a reminder of jolt in Christchurch
on Sept. 4 that shook consumer confidence and contributed to a
0.2 percent drop in gross domestic product in the third quarter.
The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand estimates the September temblor
caused NZ$5 billion ($3.78 billion) of damage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  