-- 
NHL Reaches Seven-Year, $375 Million Pact With Molson, Miller Beer Brands

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-02-23T15:06:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/nhl-reaches-seven-year-375-million-pact-with-molson-miller-beer-brands.html
(Corrects network coverage in fourth paragraph, spelling of
Labatt in sixth paragraph of story published yesterday.)  The  National Hockey League  reached a
seven-year endorsement agreement with  SABMiller Plc ’s
MillerCoors and Molson Coors Brewing Co., marking the largest
corporate sponsorship in league history.  The agreement, which begins with the 2011-12 season, is
worth $375 million, the Canadian Press reported, citing a person
it didn’t identify. Financial terms weren’t disclosed by the NHL
in a news release announcing the partnership.  Molson Canadian will replace Labatt as the official beer of
the NHL in both the U.S. and  Canada , the NHL said. Coors will
share some of the sponsorship in the U.S., according to the
league.  The agreement comes less than six months before the NHL’s
television contracts with  Comcast Corp .’s NBC and Versus
networks are due to expire. Molson Canadian will be the official
sponsor of several marquee NHL events, including the New Year’s
Day Winter Classic and February’s All-Star Game. Network
coverage of next season’s Winter Classic, All-Star Game and
Heritage Classic outdoor game have yet to be determined,
according to the league.  In recent months, the NHL has renewed several sponsorship
agreements, including ones with Bridgestone Corp., the world’s
largest tire maker;  McDonald’s Corp ., the world’s largest
restaurant company, and  Cisco Systems Inc ., the largest maker of
networking equipment. The league also reached new agreements
with  Hershey Co ., Canadian Tire Corp. and Tim Horton’s Inc.,
Canada’s largest fast-food chain. SABMiller is the world’s
second-largest brewer by volume.  Labatt Contract  The NHL will end its contract with Labatt Breweries of
Canada at the end of June, Labatt said in a statement. The
company said it had been in good-faith negotiations with the NHL
on a new contract through the 2014 season when the league
informed Labatt it was terminating the pact.  “We have an agreement with the league and are pursuing all
legal remedies available to us to enforce this agreement,”
Labatt spokesman Charlie Angelakos said in a news release. “We
will pursue our case aggressively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  