-- 
Nigeria Says Proposed Oil Industry Law Will Boost Hydrocarbons Reserves

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-02-22T15:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/nigeria-says-proposed-oil-industry-law-will-boost-hydrocarbons-reserves.html
  Nigeria  expects crude oil reserves
to rise to 40 billion barrels after the passage of a law clears
hurdles for investments, the nation’s petroleum minister said.  Oil exploration in Nigeria has slumped to the lowest in a
decade after producers including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and  Total
SA  backed away from investing until the country’s petroleum law
is passed. Only one exploration well was drilled in Nigeria in
the past two years, the lowest since 1999, according to the
Petroleum Ministry. The number of wells peaked at 34 in 2002.  “We will continue to engage the National Assembly to
ensure passage of the bill as soon as possible,” Petroleum
Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said today in Abuja. “The
government is not unmindful that a lot of investment decisions
are currently on hold while government is losing potential
revenues that could have accrued due to proposed changes in the
deepwater fiscal terms and current high  oil prices .”  Africa’s largest oil producer last year postponed by two
years to 2012 its target for reserves to reach 40 billion
barrels and delayed raising its production capacity to 4 million
barrels a day from 3.7 million barrels, Emmanuel Egbogah, a
presidential adviser, said on Nov. 16.  The country has 37 billion barrels in oil and condensate
reserves, according to the Department of Petroleum Resources.  Industry Clarity  A law to change the way the oil industry is funded and
regulated has been in the legislature for more than two years.
President Goodluck Jonathan said on Feb. 2 that the law is
expected to pass before the government term runs out in May.  Energy companies say the proposed legislation will hand too
much profit and control to the state and make investments in
deep water oil fields unprofitable.  “Little progress can be made until the bill has been
passed and the industry has clarity that it needs,” Ian Craig,
vice president for Sub-Saharan Africa at Shell, said today at an
industry conference in Abuja, the capital.  Nigeria is the fifth-biggest source of U.S. oil imports.
Shell,  Exxon Mobil corp .,  Chevron Corp ., Total SA and  Eni SpA 
run joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp. to pump the country’s crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  