-- 
Topix Falls Most Since September on Middle East Unrest, Moody's Downgrade

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-02-22T07:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/nikkei-225-falls-for-first-time-in-seven-days-on-middle-east-tensions.html
Japanese stocks fell, leading the
Topix index to its biggest drop since September, as tension
escalated in the Middle East and Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded the country’s debt outlook.  Chiyoda Corp., an engineering company that gets almost half
of its sales in the Middle East, sank 4.3 percent. Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank,
declined 3.6 percent. Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s largest
shipping line by sales, lost 2.8 percent. The price of crude oil
surged to a two-year high, increasing energy costs for companies.  “Oil prices haven’t risen this sharply in a while,”  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee about $17 billion in Tokyo as
chief strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co. “It’s a
negative surprise for the market.”  The  Nikkei 225  fell 1.8 percent to 10,664.70 as of the
close in Tokyo, the first decline in seven days. The broader
Topix lost 1.8 percent to 956.70, with about 8 times as many
shares declining as advancing. All but three of the Topix’s 33
industry groups fell.  Chiyoda sank 4.3 percent to 721 yen, while JGC Corp., an
engineering company that gets 34 percent of its revenue from the
Middle East, retreated 3.8 percent to 1,808 yen.  Banks contributed the most to the Topix’s decline.
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group fell 3.6 percent to 453 yen,
while Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., the country’s
second-largest publicly traded bank, slumped 4.5 percent to
3,050 yen.  Middle East Violence  All Asia-Pacific benchmarks dropped today, extending
declines yesterday in  Europe  as violence escalated in the Middle
East. The Libyan government attacked protesters, and rebels
claimed control of the second-biggest city after Muammar Qaddafi’s son threatened “rivers of blood” unless the uprising
ends.  Japanese shares extended declines after the country’s
credit rating outlook was cut to negative from stable by Moody’s,
citing the risk the government won’t do enough to tackle the
nation’s debt burden. Sixteen ruling party lawmakers last week
vowed to unite to oppose the policies of Prime Minister  Naoto
Kan , threatening his efforts to win approval for budget
legislation intended to rein in public debt.  The Topix climbed 8.4 percent this year through yesterday,
the most among indexes for the world’s 10 biggest equity markets.
The price of stocks in the gauge rose to 16.5 times estimated
earnings on average, near the highest level since July.  ‘Reason to Sell’  “From the point of valuations it’s not at all strange to
see some selling,” said Toyota Asset’s Hamasaki. “The surge in  oil prices  has given investors a good reason to sell.”  Oil jumped on concern crude supplies will be disrupted as
turmoil spreads through the Middle East and North Africa. New
York futures for April delivery rose as much as 9.8 percent from
the close on Feb. 18, while London-traded Brent rose to the
highest since September 2008.  Shipping lines also fell. Nippon Yusen slumped 2.8 percent
to 378 yen, while Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., operator of the
world’s largest merchant fleet, declined 3.8 percent to 553 yen.
Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd, Japan’s third-largest shipping line,
decreased 3.2 percent to 368 yen after the Baltic Dry Index of
shipping rates yesterday slipped 0.5 percent, the first drop
since Feb. 4.  The gauge that tracks shares of oil and coal producers had
the biggest gain among the Topix’s 33 industry groups. JX
Holdings Inc., Japan’s No. 1 oil refiner, advanced 1 percent to
591 yen. AOC Holdings Inc., an oil explorer and refiner, rallied
5 percent to 593 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 