-- 
Northwest Seeks to Raise $250 Million for Asia Stock Hedge Fund

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-02-22T01:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/northwest-seeks-to-raise-250-million-in-a-year-for-asia-stock-hedge-fund.html
Northwest Investment Management Ltd. ,
a Hong Kong-based company sold by  RAB Capital Plc  in 2009, plans
to raise $250 million in a year for an Asia-focused stock hedge
fund, said Chief Executive Officer George Philips.  The market-neutral Northwest Equity Alpha Fund, which won’t
bet on general market direction, is slated to start trading in
early April, Philips said in an interview yesterday. The six
principals of Northwest, the manager of $750 million assets that
Philips co-founded with David Rogers in 1998, will contribute an
unspecified amount of the initial capital, he added.  Northwest is tapping institutional investor demand for
stock  hedge funds  whose performances do not move in tandem with
the broader markets and with competitors, Philips said. The
Eurekahedge Asia Long/Short Equities Hedge Fund Index, which
tracks a strategy that invests in rising and falling stocks, was
89 percent correlated with the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index from 2000
to January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The route we want to take is reliant on not making the
mistake that many other groups have made in that space,” said
Philips, 46. “The link between economic growth and equity
returns is just not a good one. On top of it you are getting too
many people in a crowded space.”  Courting Pensions  Northwest expanded assets by 37 percent in 2010 as pension
and endowments concentrated their hedge fund investments in a
smaller group of established and larger houses in the wake of
the global financial crisis, said  Mark Smith , Northwest’s head
of business development.  About 75 percent of Northwest’s assets now come from such
institutions, he added. Funds of funds, which farm out money to
different hedge funds, contributed about 70 percent of
Northwest’s capital in 2007, Smith said in May.  The new fund may appeal to pension funds which already have
large amounts of money invested in equity funds that don’t short
and want to limit the market risks of additional equity
investments, Smith said. Shorting involves selling borrowed
stocks with the view they can be bought back cheaper.  Northwest already has two multi-strategy market-neutral
funds that trade shares, convertible bonds, warrants and options.
A third fund, which invests in warrants, bets on market
direction.  The new fund will use fundamental analyses to pick no more
than 15 stocks in each of its major markets:  Hong Kong , China,
Japan,  Taiwan  and  India , Philips said.  “Per market, people have 30, 40, 50 positions,” Philips
said. “Once you start going above that number, you do become
the market.”  Stock Picking  Northwest in April hired Nial Gooding, most recently a Hong
Kong-based executive director of equity sales at  UBS AG  focused
on Greater China, to strengthen its stock-picking ability,
Philips said. Gooding, 51, also worked for Chase Manhattan Bank,
Barclays Plc and CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  The Northwest Equity Alpha Fund will target an annual
return of at least 20 percent, Philips said. As part of the
strategies of the two existing market-neutral funds, it returned
30 percent between April 14, 2010, and Feb. 7, said Philips.  The new fund will limit borrowing to no more than 50
percent of its assets, Smith said. It will use index futures to
hedge risks, Philips added.  Philips and Rogers met trading baskets of Japanese warrants
and convertible bonds for Cresvale International.  The $369 million Northwest Fund Ltd. and the $300 million
Northwest  China  Opportunities Fund Ltd., the two market-neutral
funds, each returned about 7 percent in 2010. The $18 million
Northwest Warrant Fund Ltd. gained 61 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  