-- 
NYSE Deputy Chief Expects ‘Intense’ Deutsche Boerse Review

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-02-22T16:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/nyse-deputy-chief-sees-intense-antitrust-review-of-deutsche-boerse-deal.html
  NYSE Euronext  expects an “intense”
and lengthy European Union antitrust review of its proposed
$9.53 billion takeover by  Deutsche Boerse AG , a deal that would
create the largest equities and derivatives markets owner, the
company’s deputy chief executive officer said.  Dominique Cerutti told reporters in Brussels today that it
could take “maybe twelve” months, or until February 2012, to
win EU regulatory approval. U.S. and European financial markets
supervisors aren’t expected to raise problems, he said.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
must rule on the takeover, which would combine NYSE Euronext’s
Liffe and Eurex, the exchange jointly owned by Deutsche Boerse
and the Swiss Stock Exchange. The deal would put more than 90
percent of the region’s exchange-traded  derivatives market  in
the hands of one organization.  It is “likely” the commission will open an in-depth
investigation, which usually takes up to five months, Cerutti
said, and extensions could prolong the review until next
February, he said. The companies said last week they expected to
win approvals from the various regulators by December.  The EU’s review could focus on the impact on derivatives
markets and clearing systems, he said. The deal won’t ultimately
be rejected on antitrust grounds because “we don’t think we are
in a dominant position” for either area, he said.  ‘Evolving’ Market  They hold only a small part of a global derivatives market
where the vast majority of trades are over-the-counter and
Europe’s fragmented clearing system and the “evolving” market
as regulators push for more transparency mean that “we are not
by far in a dominant position,” he said.  Amadeu Altafaj Tardio, a spokesman for the European
Commission, declined to comment because the EU’s antitrust
agency has not yet been asked to examine the deal.  Eurex and Liffe have 93 percent of listed derivatives in
Europe, according to Donald Fandetti, an analyst at Citi
Investment Research & Analysis, a division of Citigroup Inc., in
a note to investors last week.    Deutsche Boerse  and NYSE Euronext resisted any suggestion
that they would sell Eurex or Liffe, saying in a statement last
week that they “complement each other ideally on interest rate
products, with Eurex specializing in the long end of the
interest rate curve and NYSE Liffe the short end.”  The newly formed company would trade more than 19 million
derivatives contracts a day, including more than 6 million U.S.
options contracts, according to the statement.  ‘Help Restructure’  The deal “would help restructure” financial markets as
regulators call for more transparency, Cerutti said. The
European Commission should use a planned overhaul of market
legislation to impose tougher rules on so-called multilateral
trading facilities such as Bats Global Markets and Chi-X  Europe 
Ltd. that compete with traditional exchanges, he said.  An uneven playing field for the facilities “has to be
fixed,” Cerutti said. The “level of opacity” in trading in
the EU “has to be handled, it is dangerous for everybody.”  EU regulators should try to reduce how trading is spread
across different venues, he said. The fragmentation makes it
“way too complex to manage for the regulators,” he said. The
commission published draft proposals on the changes in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  