-- 
Obama Tells Ohio Entrepreneurs Economy Depends on Small Business Success

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-02-22T19:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/obama-tells-ohio-entrepreneurs-economy-depends-on-small-business-success.html
President  Barack Obama  told a group
of entrepreneurs and small business owners in Ohio that they are
among the prime drivers of the  U.S. economy  as he promoted his
agenda to maintain government support for innovation and
education.  Obama said that while the federal government must get the
federal deficit under control, spending on education,
infrastructure and research will help companies stay ahead of
competitors around the world. He told the business owners
gathered at  Cleveland State University  he was there to hear
their ideas for what the government can do to help them grow.  “The big companies generally get most of the attention in
our economy,” Obama said in opening remarks before the audience
broke up into smaller groups for meetings with Cabinet members
and administration officials. “But it’s small businesses like
yours that help drive America’s economic growth.”  The  Cleveland  event was part of Obama’s campaign to
promote his budget priorities and economic policies, which have
hit resistance from Republicans in Congress. Ohio also is one of
the states, including New Jersey and Wisconsin, where a
Republican governor is seeking to change the rules on collective
bargaining for public employee unions to cut projected deficits.  Changes in Economy  Speaking in a state hit hard by job losses, Obama said
Cleveland was an example of how one-time manufacturing centers
can adapt to economic changes by building up new industries in
sectors such as biotechnology and clean energy.  “As the economy changed a lot of people wrote off
Cleveland as a shell of its former self,” he told the business
leaders. “You’ve been working to reinvent the rust belt as the
tech belt.”    Ohio  had a  9.6 percent unemployment rate  in December,
compared with a national average of 9 percent in January,
according to the Labor Department. The Cleveland metropolitan
area had an unemployment rate of  8.5 percent  in December,
according to Labor Department figures.  Today marks Obama’s 12th visit to Ohio since becoming
president, reflecting the state’s economic and political
importance to the president, according to Stuart Rothenberg,
editor of the Washington-based Rothenberg Political Report.  “Ohio is the heart of middle America,” Rothenberg said.
“Ohio is the new Michigan. It’s the place where job losses
really hit hard.”  Change of Emphasis  Last week the president had a private dinner with
executives from the biggest technology companies in the U.S.
including  Apple Inc .’s Steve Jobs, Facebook Inc.’s  Mark Zuckerberg , and  Google Inc .’s  Eric Schmidt . That was the latest
in a series of overtures to major corporations by Obama since
the start of the year. This week he is pivoting to small
businesses, which were a major focal point in his  State of the
Union address .  Paul Allen Beck, a political science professor at  Ohio
State University , in Columbus, said Cleveland presents a “real
challenge” for the president because many larger companies that
have been courted by the White House are also among those that
have moved jobs overseas.  “I think he appreciates that that’s a reality of the
modern world, that can’t be stopped,” Beck said. “The thing to
do is perhaps invest in ways that you’re developing domestic
industries that aren’t going to move overseas,” he said, citing
the development of green-energy technologies in the U.S.  Capital and Taxes  Obama was joined in Cleveland by administration officials
who led smaller sessions with the business owners. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  discussed ways the administration has
made it easier for small businesses to access capital and
discuss tax cuts the administration has backed.  Obama said that while large companies are finding it easier
to borrow, “capital’s still tight” for small firms.  He also attended a session led by Small Business
Administrator Karen Mills on helping entrepreneurs. Separately,
Commerce Secretary Gary Locke talked about the administration’s
goal of doubling exports within the next five years and Labor
Secretary Hilda Solis talked about education and training.
Energy Secretary Steven Chu discussed clean energy technology.  Austan Goolsbee, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, will take questions from people online. Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, will also
be at today’s summit.  Future Meetings  Mills announced today that as part of the Startup America
Partnership, a White House campaign seeking to increase private-
sector investments in startup companies and small businesses,
the White House will hold eight roundtable discussions with
entrepreneurs to discuss ways to make it easier for them to do
business. Roundtables will be held in Atlanta; Austin,  Texas ;
Boston; Boulder, Colorado; Durham,  North Carolina ; Minneapolis;
Pittsburgh; and Silicon Valley,  California .  The partnership is headed by  AOL Inc . co-founder Steve Case
and includes pledges from companies, including Facebook,  Intel
Corp .,  Hewlett-Packard Co ., and  International Business Machines
Corp ., to increase their investments in startup companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  