-- 
Mobile-Phone Use Found to Boost Brain-Cell Activity in Areas Near Antenna

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-02-22T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/mobile-phone-use-found-to-boost-brain-cell-activity-in-areas-near-antenna.html
Using a mobile phone for 50 minutes
stirs  brain  metabolism, although the health consequences are
unknown and need to be studied further, U.S. researchers said.  When mobile phones were on and held against the ear, brain
glucose metabolism, a marker of brain cell activity, was about 7
percent higher in areas closest to the antenna than when phones
were off, a study in today’s  Journal of the American Medical
Association  found. The study, the first to show the effects of
mobile-phone use on brain metabolism, was done by researchers
from the  National Institutes of Health  in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
and  Brookhaven National Laboratory  in Upton,  New York .  Studies, including a report last year from the  World Health
Organization ’s International Agency for Research on Cancer, have
produced conflicting results over the health dangers of mobile
phones, particularly their link to cancer. Today’s finding shows
that human brain metabolism is sensitive to the effects of
 radiofrequency-electromagnetic fields , a form of radiation, from
mobile phones.  “We need to investigate this carefully so that we can send
a clear-cut message that is as unequivocal as possible,” said
 Nora Volkow , director of the National Institutes of Health’s
National Institute on Drug Abuse, in a Feb. 18 telephone
interview. “We don’t know the clinical significance. In
principle, increasing brain glucose metabolism is not a bad
thing. You don’t need to stop using your cell phones. If you are
concerned, use a wire ear piece or use your speaker phone
mode.”  There were almost 293 million wireless accounts in the U.S.
as of June 2010, according to  CTIA -The Wireless Association, a
Washington-based trade group that represents carriers, phone
makers and suppliers. The number of U.S. households that only
have wireless phones was about 25 percent, the group said.  Industry Response  “The peer-reviewed scientific evidence has overwhelmingly
indicated that wireless devices, within the limits established
by the FCC, do not pose a public health risk or cause any
adverse health effects,” John Walls, vice president of public
affairs for CTIA, said in a Feb. 18 e-mail. “The leading global
health organizations such as the  American Cancer Society ,
 National Cancer Institute , World Health Organization and the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  all have concurred that
wireless devices are not a public health risk.”  The researchers from the National Institutes of Health and
Brookhaven National Laboratory included 47 people in the study.
They placed mobile phones on the right and left ears of
participants and then measured brain glucose metabolism once
when the phone on the right side was on but muted for 50 minutes
and a second time when both cell phones were off. After 50
minutes, the patients had their brain activity measured using a
positron emission tomography, or PET, scan.  Affected Brain Regions  Researchers found that only the regions closest to the
antenna, the orbitofrontal cortex and the temporal pole, saw a
rise in brain metabolism when the mobile phone was on. The
orbitofrontal cortex plays a role in decision making and reward
and punishment, and the temporal pole is involved in social and
emotional processes.  Henry Lai , who wrote an accompanying editorial in the
journal with Lennart Hardell from University Hospital in Orebro,  Sweden , said the results of today’s study add to information
about the possible effects of emissions from wireless phones on
the brain.  “It is an intriguing discovery and it certainly adds to
the concern that cell phone use is not completely safe,” said
Lai, a bioengineering researcher at the University of  Washington 
in  Seattle , in a Feb. 20 e-mail. “Before we understand the
impact of the results of this study, people who use cell phones
should limit their exposure to the radiation, particularly to
the head.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  