-- 
Governor Calls Wisconsin `Broke' in Arguing for Union Bill

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-23T15:17:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/ohio-union-protests-erupt-as-collective-bargaining-vote-nears-in-wisconsin.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker 
appealed to the public to support his bill that would restrict
collective bargaining for government workers, saying that the
state’s future depended on it.  “We’re broke in this state because time and time again,
politicians of both political parties ran away from the tough
decisions and punted them down the road for another day,”
Walker said in a 10-minute televised address yesterday. “We can
no longer do that.”  Walker spoke as 14 Democratic senators spent a fifth
straight day in  Illinois  to prevent the chamber from having the
quorum needed to vote on a bill to restrict collective-
bargaining rights for public employees.  Democratic House members in Indiana are using the same
tactic to stall Republican-sponsored bills, the New York Times
reported. In  Ohio , an estimated 5,500 protesters came to the
Statehouse in Columbus for a Senate hearing on a collective-
bargaining bill amid complaints by Democrats that not all
demonstrators were allowed inside.  “If you’re a bondholder, it is great news,” James Reynolds, chief executive officer of Loop Capital Markets LLC,
said today of the demonstrations in Ohio and Indiana.  “The fiscal discipline now you’re starting to see exerted
by the leadership in the states is pretty big,” Reynolds said
from  Chicago  on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop with Betty Liu.”  State Flexibility  States face deficits that may reach a combined $125 billion
in the next fiscal year, and Republican governors including
Walker, Ohio’s John Kasich and  New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie  are
trying to change rules for collective bargaining and worker
contributions for health care and pensions. In Madison, Walker’s
bill has prompted days of protests at the Capitol.  The governors say the changes are needed to give state and
local governments flexibility to manage costs in the face of
budget cuts. Labor leaders say the efforts are intended to
destroy or weaken unions.  Before Walker’s address, the Republican-controlled
Wisconsin Assembly convened yesterday for the first time since
Feb. 18 to debate the bill. Democrats proposed amendments to
slow its progress, Representative  Kelda Roys , a Madison
Democrat, said in an interview.  “The Republicans don’t want to vote in the dark of
night,” she said.  The bill would limit collective bargaining by public
workers only to wages. Voters would have to approve raises
higher that exceeded the increase in inflation, based on the  Consumer Price Index .  ‘Unease and Uncertainty’  Public workers also would have to pay 5.8 percent of their
salaries for pension costs. They pay nothing now. They would
have to foot about 12 percent of their health-care premiums, up
from 6 percent. Police and firefighters wouldn’t be covered by
the measure.  Walker has delayed the release of his budget by two weeks,
until March 1, a move that MF Global Holdings Inc. said in a
finance bulletin “may continue to feed a sense of unease and
uncertainty.”  “The fight is about politics, not economics,” wrote
Joshua Zeitz, a research analyst for the New York-based futures
and options broker. “We continue to believe that  Wisconsin  is
not in the throes of a real  budget crisis .”  In Ohio, protesters packed the Statehouse atrium. A crowd
gathered on the steps outside because the Highway Patrol limited
the number of people inside for safety, said Joe Andrews, a
spokesman for the Department of Public Safety.  Court Order  Representative Armond Budish, the House minority leader,
threatened to seek a court order to allow more demonstrators in
the Statehouse.  “This is a very sad day for the state of Ohio and the
people of Ohio when they can’t get into the house they own,”
Budish said at a press conference.  Gregg Dodd, the Statehouse spokesman, estimated the crowd
at about 5,500 inside and out.  Kasich’s bill would forbid collective bargaining for state
workers and limit negotiations to wages only for local
government employees.  “There are some things that shouldn’t be negotiated,”
Kasich told  CNN . “There are things that managers need to
control.”  In  Indiana , Democratic House members stayed away from a
legislative session, stalling Republican-sponsored bills
including one that would allow workers to opt out of private-
sector unions, the Times reported.  “We’re fighting over right-to-work, bills that deal with
schools, prevailing wage,” Brett Voorhies, a United
Steelworkers activist, said in an interview in Indianapolis.
“We’re fighting the attack on families.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  