-- 
Oil Rises to Two-Year High on Libya Unrest; Goldman Sees Brent at $110

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-02-22T13:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/oil-rises-to-two-year-high-on-libya-unrest-goldman-sees-brent-at-110.html
Oil jumped to the highest in more
than two years in New York as intensifying violence in Libya
stoked concern that supplies from the holder of  Africa ’s largest
crude reserves may be disrupted.  Futures for April delivery in New York rose as much as 9.8
percent from the Feb. 18 settlement and London-traded Brent
surged to the highest since September 2008, as soldiers deserted
Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi’s government and diplomats
resigned. Brent may trade between $105 and $110 a barrel in
coming weeks if the unrest continues, according to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  “Libya is quite an important oil exporter, especially to  Europe ,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst with Raiffeisen Bank
International AG in Vienna. “Now fear and uncertainty is
increasing over whether countries in the Gulf may be affected.”  Crude for April delivery rose as much as $8.77 to $98.48 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
and was at $95.96 at 12:27 p.m. London time. Floor trading was
closed yesterday for the U.S. Presidents Day holiday and
electronic trades will be booked with today’s transactions for
settlement purposes. The March contract, which expires today,
gained as much as $8.29, or 9.6 percent, to $94.49 a barrel.
Front-month futures are up 17 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed as much as $2.83, or 2.7
percent, to $108.57 a barrel. It increased 3.1 percent yesterday
to $105.74, the highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008.  Brent’s Premium Declines  The spread between the two main April crude oil contracts
narrowed to $11.12 a barrel from $12.56 yesterday. A disruption
of supplies as a result of civil unrest in  Libya  may lead to a
further reduction in the price difference between  Brent crude 
and West Texas Intermediate oil, according to Switzerland-based
researcher Petromatrix GmbH.  “If a real supply disruption develops in Libya in our
opinion it does not matter which benchmark better represents the
world supply and demand,” Petromatrix Managing Director  Olivier Jakob  said in a note today. “The U.S. investment flows that
will want to hedge against an oil price spike will come into 
WTI.''  Prices may extend gains, reaching a record, should the
unrest in Libya spread to larger producers in the Middle East,
such as Saudi Arabia, according to Goldman Sachs.  “The real key is the contagion risk,”  Jeffrey Currie , the
bank’s London-based head of commodities, said in  Hong Kong 
today. “Then prices could test historical highs.”  Prices May ‘Skyrocket’  Libya pumped 1.59 million barrels a day of oil in January,
equivalent of about 8 percent of U.S. consumption, based on a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The big risk for the world is that oil prices skyrocket
to, say, $120 a barrel for Brent,”  Arjuna Mahendran , the
Singapore-based head of investment strategy for Asia at  HSBC
Private Bank , told Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up  Asia ” program. “That could really cause a mini recession in
this consumption upsurge that we’ve seen in the U.S. starting
late last year.”  The oil-options market shows traders have never been less
certain whether prices will rise or fall as the unrest spreads.  Growing speculation the protests will drive oil higher
narrowed the difference between the cost of betting on gains and
declines to 0.57 percentage point on Feb. 18, an all-time low
for June futures, according to data from the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . That’s down from more than 2 percentage points on Jan.
24, before the violence began escalating around the region.  ‘Rivers of Blood’  Libya is the eighth-largest producer among those with
quotas in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, a
group that pumps 40 percent of the world’s oil.  Qaddafi said he hasn’t fled the country after government
forces attacked protesters and rebels claimed control of
Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest city. More than 300 people have
died, the International Federation for Human Rights said.
Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, earlier threatened that
“rivers of blood” would flow unless the uprising ends.  Anti-government riots that started in Tunisia have also
spread through  Egypt , Yemen, Algeria,  Iran , Djibouti,  Bahrain 
and Morocco. Countries in North Africa and the Middle East were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil output and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which
publishes its Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  Iranian ‘Provocation’  Egypt’s state-run Middle East News Agency reported that two
Iranian warships entered the Suez Canal, citing the Canal
Authority.  Israel  would consider the presence of Iranian
warships sailing through the waterway “a provocation,” said
Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor.  A Libyan port in Ras Lanuf operated by Harouge Oil
Operations was operating normally and a crude tanker there is
scheduled to leave later today, an official at the company’s
movement department said. Harouge is a joint venture operator on
behalf of state-owned National Oil Corp. and Petro-Canada.  Earlier today, Al Arabiya television said operations at
Libyan oil ports were suspended due to the unrest, without
saying where it got the information.  Protests in Bahrain, provoked by discontent among the
majority-Shiite Muslim population, have sparked concern the
violence will erupt in neighboring Saudi Arabia, which holds
one-fifth of the world’s oil.  Saudi Arabia  has a Shiite minority
concentrated in its eastern oil-producing hub.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  