-- 
Oil Rises to Two-Year High on Libya; Goldman Sees $110 Brent

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-02-22T07:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/oil-jumps-to-highest-in-two-years-as-libyan-unrest-stokes-supply-concern.html
Oil jumped to the highest in more
than two years as violence intensified in  Libya , stoking concern
crude supplies will be disrupted as violence escalates around
the Middle East and North Africa.  Futures for April delivery in New York rose as much as 9.8
percent from the Feb. 18 settlement and London-traded Brent
surged to the highest since September 2008, as soldiers deserted
Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi’s government and diplomats
resigned. Brent may trade between $105 and $110 a barrel in
coming weeks if uncertainty continues, according to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  “Oil is being bought on the risk that this contagion will
spread through the Middle East,”  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, said by
telephone today. “This effect is a knee-jerk reaction to the
fact that this could spread.”  Crude for April delivery rose as much as $8.77 to $98.48 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $97.78 at 3:33 p.m. Singapore time. On Feb. 18, the
contract settled at $89.71. Floor trading was closed yesterday
for the U.S. Presidents Day holiday and electronic trades will
be booked with today’s for settlement purposes.  The March contract, which expires today, gained as much as
$8.29, or 9.6 percent, to $94.49 a barrel. Front-month futures
are up 17 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed as much as $2.83, or 2.7
percent, to $108.57 a barrel. It increased 3.1 percent yesterday
to $105.74, the highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008.  ‘Contagion Risk’  Oil in  London  may rise on uncertainty in Libya and reach a
record if unrest spreads to larger producers in the Middle East,
such as Saudi Arabia, according to Goldman Sachs.  “The real key is the contagion risk,”  Jeffrey Currie , the
bank’s London-based head of commodities, said in  Hong Kong 
today. “Then prices could test historical highs.”  Libya, holder of the largest crude reserves in Africa,
pumped 1.59 million barrels a day of oil in January, equivalent
of about 8 percent of U.S. consumption, based on a Bloomberg
News survey.  “The big risk for the world is that oil prices skyrocket
to, say, $120 a barrel for Brent,”  Arjuna Mahendran , the
Singapore-based head of investment strategy for Asia at  HSBC
Private Bank , told Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up  Asia ” program. “That could really cause a mini recession in
this consumption upsurge that we’ve seen in the U.S. starting
late last year.”  $100 WTI Crude  Crude in  New York , which has lagged behind Brent, may rally
to $100 a barrel on the Middle East tension and a tightening of
global supplies, according to  Victor Shum , Singapore-based
senior principal at Purvin & Gertz Inc., a consultant.  “While there’s been minimal supply disruption,
geopolitical tensions have returned to oil markets and after the
spectacular oil demand growth in 2010, we are facing tighter
fundamentals,” he told Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move.”  The oil-options market shows traders have never been less
certain whether prices will rise or fall as the political unrest
spreads.  Growing speculation the protests will drive oil higher
narrowed the difference between the cost of betting on gains and
declines to 0.57 percentage point on Feb. 18, an all-time low
for June futures, according to data from the New York Mercantile
Exchange. That’s down from more than 2 percentage points on Jan.
24, before the violence began escalating around the region.  ‘Rivers of Blood’  Libya is the eighth-largest producer among those with
quotas in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, a
group that pumps 40 percent of the world’s oil.  Qaddafi said he hasn’t fled the country after government
forces attacked protesters and rebels claimed control of
Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest city. More than 300 people have
died, the International Federation for Human Rights said.
Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, earlier threatened that
“rivers of blood” would flow unless the uprising ends.  Shokri Ghanem, chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp., said
he had no information about a disruption in crude production. Al
Jazeera reported yesterday that Libya’s Nafoora oil field had
stopped producing because of an employee strike.  Anti-government riots that started in Tunisia have also
spread through  Egypt , Yemen,  Algeria , Iran, Djibouti,  Bahrain 
and  Morocco . Countries in North  Africa  and the Middle East were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil output and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which
publishes its Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  Iran Navy  Two Iranian naval ships entered Egypt’s Suez Canal and
headed toward the Mediterranean, Reuters reported today, citing
a canal official it didn’t identify. Israel would consider the
presence of Iranian warships sailing through the waterway “a
provocation,” said Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor.  Protests in Bahrain, provoked by discontent among the
majority-Shiite Muslim population, have sparked concern the
violence will erupt in neighboring Saudi Arabia, which holds
one-fifth of the world’s oil.  Saudi Arabia  has a Shiite minority
concentrated in its eastern oil-producing hub.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  