-- 
U.S. Oil Supply Rose a Sixth Week, Bloomberg Survey Shows

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-22T21:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/oil-supply-rises-a-sixth-week-most-consecutive-gains-since-may.html
U.S. crude stockpiles probably rose
for a sixth week, the longest series of gains since May, as a
glut forms at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the country’s biggest oil-
trading hub, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Inventories climbed 1.13 million barrels in the seven days
ended Feb. 18 from 345.9 million a week earlier, according to
the median of 12 analyst estimates before an Energy Department
report on Feb. 24. Ten respondents forecast an increase and two
projected no change.  Supplies at Cushing, the delivery point for New York-traded
West  Texas  Intermediate, rose to the highest level since at
least 2004 last month, according to the Energy Department.
TransCanada started deliveries to the hub on Feb. 8 in the
second phase of its Keystone pipeline project.  “We’re sitting on a lot of crude,” said Bill O’Grady,
chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis . “We’ve got a problem in Cushing and the most obvious
solution is to extend the Keystone pipeline.”  An expansion of the pipeline to the  Gulf Coast , the third
phase of the project, known as Keystone XL, may be operational
by early 2013 if regulators approve it. The XL extension will
run from Cushing to Nederland, Texas, linking Gulf refineries to  Canada ’s oil sands.  Cushing Stockpiles  Cushing stockpiles climbed in 11 of the past 14 weekly
reports from the Energy Department and peaked at 38.3 million
barrels in the last week of January.  “We’ve got a new pipeline heading into Cushing and not a
heck of a lot of oil moving out,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “It looks like
it’s heading for another record at Cushing this week.”  Refineries probably operated at 81.7 percent of capacity,
up 0.5 percentage point from the prior week, according to the
Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline stockpiles increased 850,000 barrels from 241.1
million, the survey showed. Supplies climbed in all but one of
the past 13 reports and surged to the highest level since March
1990 in the week ended Feb. 11. Seven respondents projected a
gain and five said there was a drop.  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably slipped 1.35 million barrels
from 161.3 million, the survey showed. Ten of the analysts
anticipated a drop and two projected an increase.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
11 a.m. on Feb. 24 in  Washington , a day later than usual because
of the President’s Day holiday yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net . 