-- 
Oil Surges More Than $7 to Highest Level Since 2008 on Libya

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-22T21:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/oil-surges-to-a-two-year-high-on-libya-unrest-goldman-sees-brent-at-110.html
Oil surged to the highest level in
more than two years as intensifying violence in  Libya  fueled
concern that supplies from the holder of Africa’s largest crude
reserves may be disrupted.  Prices in New York jumped 8.6 percent from the Feb. 18
settlement as soldiers deserted Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi’s
government and diplomats resigned. Saudi Arabian Oil Minister
Ali al-Naimi said there is “absolutely no shortage of supply”
and that OPEC will be ready to boost output if one develops.  “The world could deal with the loss of Libyan barrels, but
the worry is that it won’t stop at Libya,” said Bill O’Grady,
chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis . “We don’t know where this is going to end.”  Crude for March delivery gained $7.37 to $93.57 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since
Oct. 3, 2008. Futures have risen 17 percent in the past year.
U.S. financial markets were closed yesterday for the Presidents
Day holiday.  The March contract expired at the close of floor trading
today. The more-active April contract increased $5.71, or 6.4
percent, to settle at $95.42 a barrel.  Libya declared force majeure on all oil exports, Reuters
reported, citing sources it didn’t identify. Force majeure
allows producers to miss contractual obligations because of
circumstances beyond their control.  Qaddafi Will Fight  Qaddafi said he will fight until his last drop of blood,
after government forces attacked protesters and rebels claimed
control of Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest city. He said the
police and army will impose order tomorrow and vowed to use
force if necessary, in a speech on state-run television.  Saudi Arabia has 4 million barrels a day of spare capacity,
al-Naimi said at a press conference at the ministerial meeting
of the International Energy Forum in  Riyadh . All the world’s
producers, including Saudi Arabia, could pump an additional 6
million barrels, he said.  The kingdom is the largest oil exporter and the biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
The Energy Forum represents about 90 percent of global supply
and demand.  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said in a
statement earlier on its website that “the IEA stands ready, as
always, to make oil available to the market in the event of a
major supply disruption if alternative supplies cannot be made
available via normal market mechanisms.”  Price Surge  The world economy can withstand the surge in  oil prices 
sparked by the unrest in the Middle East for a short time,  John Lipsky , the No. 2 official at the  International Monetary Fund ,
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” today.  “If the fears of disruption prove to be temporary, the
markets are amply supplied,” said Lipsky, the first deputy
managing director at the IMF, which based its economic forecasts
for this year on $95-a-barrel oil. “More than that,
substantially more than that, for these kinds of reasons, fears
of disruption would be very difficult in many dimensions.”  Anti-government riots that started in Tunisia have also
spread through Egypt, Yemen, Algeria,  Iran ,  Bahrain  and Morocco.
Countries in North  Africa  and the Middle East were responsible
for 36 percent of global oil output and held 61 percent of
proved reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which publishes
its Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  “Violence isn’t necessary to disrupt supply,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that focuses on energy. “All we need is a strike or attack
on infrastructure.”  Brent Differential  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained 4 cents to $105.78 a barrel, the
highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008.  The spread between the two main April crude-oil contracts
narrowed to $10.36 a barrel, down from $12.81 Feb. 18.  Protests in Bahrain, provoked by discontent among the
majority-Shiite Muslim population, have sparked concern the
violence will erupt in neighboring Saudi Arabia. The kingdom
holds one-fifth of the world’s oil, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  Saudi Arabia  has a Shiite minority
concentrated in its eastern oil-producing hub.  Brent may surge to a record if the unrest in Libya
continues and spreads to other Middle Eastern oil producers such
as Saudi Arabia, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Brent
touched a record $147.50 a barrel in July 2008.  “The real key is the contagion risk,”  Jeffrey Currie , the
bank’s London-based head of commodities, said in  Hong Kong 
today. “Then prices could test historical highs.”  Libya pumped 1.59 million barrels a day of oil in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News, making it the
eighth-largest producer among those with quotas in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The group pumps
40 percent of the world’s oil.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 1.35
million contracts as of 3:55 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled
952,938 contracts Feb. 18, 29 percent above the average of the
past three months. Open interest was 1.51 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at   bbanker@bloomberg.net . 