-- 
Oil Rises to 28-Month High on Libya, Middle East Supply Concern

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-02-23T09:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/oil-rises-for-fifth-day-in-new-york-as-libyan-unrest-stokes-supply-concern.html
Oil rose to its highest in more than
two years as Libya’s violent uprising threatened to disrupt
exports from  Africa ’s third-biggest supplier and spread to other
crude-producing nations in the Middle East.  Futures gained as much as 0.7 percent after Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight a growing rebellion until his
“last drop of blood.” London-traded Brent advanced after
settling at the highest since September 2008. The Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries will boost output if there is a
supply shortage, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said
yesterday.  “It’s still the risk that this contagion spreads to Saudi
Arabia or  Iran ,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne . “OPEC
could step in and increase production to offset that if they
needed to.”  Crude for April delivery rose as much as 66 cents to $96.08
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $95.25 at 9:10 a.m.  London  time. The
contract yesterday increased $5.71 to $95.42, the highest since
October 2008. Futures are up 22 percent from a year ago.  The March contract, which expired at the close of floor
trading yesterday, surged $7.37, or 8.6 percent, to $93.57.  Brent oil for April settlement climbed as much as $1.72, or
1.6 percent, to $107.50 a barrel, on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange. Yesterday, it gained 4 cents to
$105.78, the highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008.  Saudi Arabia  Saudi Arabia, the largest oil exporter and the biggest
producer in the OPEC, has 4 million barrels a day of spare
capacity, al-Naimi said at a press conference at the ministerial
meeting of the International Energy Forum in  Riyadh . All the
world’s producers, including  Saudi Arabia , could pump an
additional 6 million barrels, he said.  Libya, which pumps 1.6 million barrels a day, is the ninth-
largest producer in 12-nation OPEC, exporting most of its crude
and fuels across the Mediterranean to Europe. The nation has the
largest reserves in Africa.  “WTI will probably reach $100 a barrel, and I don’t think
it will exceed $110 at all, unless the unrest spreads to the
Gulf,” Ong Eng Tong, a consultant with Hamburg-based oil trader
Mabanaft GmbH, told Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move” program. “Crude is still not short at this
moment.”  ‘Buying Level’  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said in a
statement yesterday on its website that “the IEA stands ready,
as always, to make oil available to the market in the event of a
major supply disruption if alternative supplies cannot be made
available via normal market mechanisms.”  Oil in  New York  has entered a “buying level” on technical
charts that may trigger a rally to as high as $104 a barrel by
next month, according to Societe Generale SA. Prices will extend
gains if the market settles above $95.80, according to Stephanie Aymes, a cross-commodity technical analyst at Societe Generale
in London.  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
stockpiles rose for a sixth week, matching the longest streak of
gains since May, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Supplies
probably increased 1.13 million barrels in the seven days ended
Feb. 18 from 345.9 million a week earlier. The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will publish its own data today.  Relative Strength  New York crude’s relative strength index, a measure of how
fast prices have risen or fallen, climbed to the highest in four
months as oil rallied. The RSI was 69.38 today, compared with
44.29 on Feb. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
reading of 70 or more signals to some traders that a market is
“overbought” and may drop. Brent’s RSI was 69.31.    Libya  is the latest nation to be rocked by protests ignited
by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and fanned by
the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.  Countries in North Africa and the Middle East were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil output and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which
publishes its Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  