-- 
Holly to Pay $2.9 Billion for Frontier Oil in All-Stock Deal

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   S t e p h e n   C u n n i n g h a m
-- 
2011-02-22T21:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/holly-to-pay-2-9-billion-for-frontier-oil-in-all-stock-deal-1-.html
  Holly Corp ., the fourth-largest U.S.
independent refiner, agreed to buy  Frontier Oil Corp . for about
$2.9 billion, giving the company more access to discounted crude
supplies.  Frontier stockholders will get 0.4811 Holly share as well
as a 28-cent-a-share special dividend and a reinstated 6-cent
quarterly dividend, the companies said today in a statement.
Excluding the special dividend and quarterly dividend, the per-
share price is $26.99, a 4 percent discount to Houston-based
Frontier’s Feb. 18 closing price.  Adding Frontier increases Dallas-based Holly’s ability to
process oil that often trades at a discount to easier-to-refine
grades, according to slides the companies posted for a
conference call today. Heavy and sour crude capacity will rise
to 58 percent of Holly’s total, from 50 percent now, according
to the slides.  “This creates the best-positioned company in the group of
U.S. independent refiners,” said Sam Margolin, a New York-based
analyst for Dahlman Rose & Co. who rates both stocks “buy” and
doesn’t own the shares. Frontier owns two of the five refineries
closest to Cushing,  Oklahoma , the trading and storage hub, and
has access to discounted crude there.  Including the special dividend and two quarters of the
reinstated 6-cent-a-share dividend, Holly is paying a 2.6
percent discount for Frontier, based on Feb. 18 closing prices.
Companies acquiring U.S. refiners in the past 10 years have paid
a 17 percent premium on average, according to Bloomberg data.  The companies previously agreed to merge in 2003 in a $464
million agreement, which collapsed after Holly said
environmental litigation facing Frontier could harm
shareholders.  Combining Operations  The combined company, HollyFrontier Corp., will be based in  Dallas . Frontier Chief Executive Officer Mike Jennings will be
CEO and Matt Clifton, Holly’s CEO, will be executive chairman.
Holly shareholders will own about 51 percent of the combined
company, which will have equity and debt of about $7 billion and
the capacity to process 440,000 barrels of oil daily.  Holly will pay about $15,500 a barrel of refining capacity
acquired in the deal, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Frontier’s  Wyoming  plant is close to  oil fields  in a
geological formation known as the Bakken shale, giving the
refinery cheaper access to supplies than more distant rivals,
Louis Gagliardi, managing director of energy at Hedgeye Risk
Management in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , said in an interview
before the transaction was announced.  “It’s the only trick pony in town,” Gagliardi said.  Discounted Crude  Bakken crude, available by pipeline, trades at a discount
to benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The combined company will have increased access to rising
crude oil production from the Permian Basin of West Texas and  New Mexico , the Eagle Ford shale of South Texas and the
Williston Basin of  North Dakota  and Wyoming, Frontier CEO
Jennings said today in an interview.  “There’s an influx of crude oil,” Jennings said. “That’s
going to drive a good portion of our strategy and our financial
performance.”  Fuel lines now under construction by Holly from  Salt Lake
City  to  Las Vegas  will enable HollyFrontier to compete with
higher-priced gasoline from California refineries, Clifton said
in the interview.  The acquisition is the largest by a U.S. refiner since
Valero Energy Corp. bought Premcor Inc. in 2005, and Holly’s
largest purchase.  Suits Blocked Deal  Frontier had offered to buy Holly in March 2003 in a $464
million agreement. The deal collapsed when Holly said that
Frontier’s stock could be hurt by lawsuits over contamination
from an oil well near a high school in  Beverly Hills ,  California .  Frontier sued after Holly refused to pay a $16 million
breakup fee. In 2005, a Delaware judge required Frontier to pay
Holly a nominal $1 in damages.  Holly has since expanded, acquiring two refineries in
Tulsa, Oklahoma. Frontier has considered acquiring other Rocky
Mountain refineries, Jennings told Bloomberg in 2009, and hasn’t
made any acquisitions.  Both companies have changed management since the 2003
attempt.  ‘Two Different Companies’  “It’s been so long ago, it’s really two different
companies,” Clifton said today on a conference call with
investors.  Holly’s shares fell 54 cents to $55.57 at 4:01 p.m. in
composite trading in New York. Frontier’s shares fell $1.15, or
about 4 percent, to $26.97.  The current deal is expected to close in the third quarter,
and includes an $80 million breakup provision. The agreement is
subject to shareholder approval and antitrust review.  Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley are Holly’s financial
advisers in the and Vinson & Elkins LLP is its legal adviser.
Frontier’s financial advisers are Citigroup Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG and its legal adviser is Andrews Kurth LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Cunningham in London at 
 scunningha10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  