-- 
Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Fall 2.4% From Year Earlier

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-22T16:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-declined-2-4-from-year-earlier.html
Residential real-estate prices
dropped in the 12 months to December by the most in a year, a
sign the U.S. housing market is struggling even as the rest of
the economy recovers.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities fell
2.4 percent, the biggest year-over-year decrease since December
2009, the group said today in  New York . The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 2.3 percent
decrease.  A predicted increase in foreclosures this year as banks
resume seizures may depress home values further, prompting
would-be buyers to hold off on purchases. Unemployment at 9
percent and declines in housing are among reasons the  Federal
Reserve  has signaled it will proceed with its unconventional
monetary stimulus.    Home prices  are still declining amid excess supply,”
said  Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Research in New York. “Although
transactions have started to pickup, buyers are looking for very
low prices. There is a backlog of distressed properties and it
will flow into the market this year. We expect to see a gradual
drop in prices.”  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in February to the
highest level in three years as more Americans believed their
incomes and the economy will grow, a report today from the
Conference Board also showed. The New York-based research
group’s sentiment index increased to 70.4, the highest level
since February 2008, from 64.8 the prior month.  Bloomberg Index  The Conference Board’s measure contrasts with the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, which held near a two-month low last
week. The Bloomberg gauge, formerly the ABC News U.S. Weekly
Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 43.4 compared with minus 46
the prior week.  The measure often mirrors changes in prices Americans pay
at the gas pump, whereas changes in the labor market have more
of an influence on the Conference Board’s confidence index.  Stocks dropped on concern over rising unrest in North
Africa and the Middle East. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
1 percent to 1,329.4 at 11:15 a.m. in New York.  Treasury
securities  rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note
down to 3.48 percent from 3.59 percent late yesterday.  The median forecast was based on a survey of 23 economists
surveyed. Estimates ranged from declines of 3.1 percent to 1.7
percent.  Fourth Quarter  Nationally, prices decreased 4.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from the same time in 2009 and were down 3.9 percent
from the previous three months, the biggest quarter-to-quarter
drop in almost two years. At 130.38, the index was just shy of
the recession low of 129.2 reached in the first quarter of 2009.  Home prices in the top 20 cities fell 0.4 percent in
December from the prior month after adjusting for seasonal
variations, following a 0.6 percent November decrease.
Unadjusted prices fell 1 percent from the prior month as 19 of
the 20 cities showed declines.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  The Case-Shiller gauge is based on a three-month average,
which means the December data were influenced by transactions in
November and October.  Eighteen Cities  Eighteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by a 9.1 percent drop in  Detroit .  “We ended 2010 with a weak report,”  David Blitzer ,
chairman of the index committee at S&P, said in a statement.
“Despite improvements in the overall economy, housing continues
to drift lower and weaker.”  Washington showed the biggest year-over-year increase, with
prices rising 4.1 percent in the 12 months to December.  Fed policy makers described the real estate market as
“depressed” in a Jan. 26 statement following their policy
meeting in  Washington . The central bankers said falling home
values continued to stymie the  consumer spending  that accounts
for about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  The share of U.S. mortgages in the foreclosure process at
the end of 2010 matched an all-time high, the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  said last week, as lenders and servicers delayed
home seizures to investigate charges of improper documentation.  Worth Less  At the end of last year about 15.7 million mortgaged
single-family homes, or 27 percent, were worth less than the
amount of loans outstanding, according to Zillow Inc., a
Seattle-based real estate information company. It was the
highest share in data going back to the first quarter of 2009.  Industry projections reinforce the concern about housing.
The number of homes receiving a foreclosure notice will climb
about 20 percent in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing
crisis, said RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data
seller.  “The issue is unemployment, fear and lack of confidence,
and that’s what’s got to turn right now,”  Ara Hovnanian , chief
executive officer of  New Jersey ’s largest homebuilder, said Feb.
14 on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .    Hovnanian Enterprises Inc . on Dec. 22 reported a fourth-
quarter loss bigger than analysts expected as revenue fell 19
percent. The company has cut about 75 percent of its workforce
in the past four years, Hovnanian said during the interview. He
said he expects the industry “to start building some momentum”
in the second quarter.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  