-- 
U.S. Home Prices in December Probably Had Biggest 12-Month Drop in a Year

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-22T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/home-prices-in-u-s-probably-posted-biggest-decline-in-year.html
Residential real-estate prices
dropped in the 12 months to December by the most in a year, a
sign the U.S. housing market is struggling even as the rest of
the economy recovers, economists said before a report today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities fell
2.4 percent, the biggest year-over-year decrease since December
2009, according to the median forecast of 19 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Another report may show  consumer confidence 
fell this month from the highest level in almost three years.  Foreclosures are forecast to rise this year as banks resume
seizures, further depressing values and prompting would-be
buyers to hold off on purchases. Unemployment at 9 percent and
declines in housing are among reasons the  Federal Reserve  has
signaled it will proceed with its unconventional monetary
stimulus.  “We’re seeing declines in  home prices  and they are broad-
based,” said  Julia Coronado , chief North America economist at
BNP Paribas in New York. “We’re seeing very weak demand for
housing, lots of distressed supply coming on the market. There
is every reason to expect downward pressure for a while.”  S&P/Case-Shiller’s report is due at 9 a.m.  New York  time.
Forecasts for the 12-month change ranged from declines of 1.7
percent to 8.5 percent.  The Conference Board’s consumer sentiment measure decreased
to 65 this month from a revised 65.6 in January that was the
highest since March 2008, economists forecast data from the New
York-based research group will show at 10 a.m.  Confidence Revised  The Conference Board last week revised the data back to
November after announcing changes in its sampling methodology.
The change brought last month’s sentiment gauge up from the
eight-month high of 60.6 previously estimated. The measure
averaged 97 in the six years leading up the recession that began
in December 2007 and ended in June 2009.  “Consumer sentiment measures are off the floor but still
at historically low levels,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S.
economist at IHS  Global Insight  Inc. in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  Home prices fell 0.5 percent in December for a second month
after adjusting for seasonal variations, according to
economists’ estimates for S&P/Case-Shiller.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  The Case-Shiller gauge is based on a three-month average,
which means the December data was influenced by transactions in
November and October.  Fed View  Fed policy makers described the real-estate market as
“depressed” in a Jan. 26 statement following their policy
meeting in Washington. The central bankers said falling home
values continued to stymie the  consumer spending  that accounts
for about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  The share of U.S. mortgages in the foreclosure process at
the end of 2010 matched an all-time high, the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  said last week, as lenders and servicers delayed
home seizures to investigate charges of improper documentation.  At the end of last year about 15.7 million mortgaged
single-family homes, or 27 percent, were worth less than the
amount of loans outstanding, according to Zillow Inc., a
Seattle-based real estate information company. It was the
highest share in data going back to the first quarter of 2009.  More Foreclosures  Industry projections reinforce the concern about housing.
The number of homes receiving a foreclosure notice will climb
about 20 percent in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing
crisis, said RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data
seller.  “The issue is unemployment, fear and lack of confidence,
and that’s what’s got to turn right now,”  Ara Hovnanian , chief
executive officer of  New Jersey ’s largest homebuilder, said Feb.
14 on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom
Keene .    Hovnanian Enterprises Inc . on Dec. 22 reported a fourth-
quarter loss bigger than analysts expected as revenue fell 19
percent. The company has cut about 75 percent of its workforce
in the past four years, Hovnanian said during the interview. He
said he expects the industry “to start building some momentum”
in the second quarter.  Homebuilder shares have underperformed the broader stock
market since the middle of last year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilder index of 12 builders has gained 24
percent since June 30, compared with a 30 percent increase for
the  S&P 500 Index .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  