-- 
Home Depot Fourth-Quarter Profit Rises 72% as Customers Boosted Spending

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-02-22T21:05:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/home-depot-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-72-on-increased-customer-spending.html
  Home Depot Inc ., the largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, raised its full-year earnings
forecast and posted a 72 percent gain in fourth-quarter profit
after selling more appliances, windows and snow-removal
equipment.  Net income increased to $587 million, or 36 cents a share,
in the quarter ended Jan. 30, Atlanta-based Home Depot said
today in a statement. Analysts had predicted 31 cents, based on
the average of 21 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The average purchase jumped the most in 4 1/2 years, by 2.6
percent to $51.31, amid a recovery in U.S. consumers’
confidence. Customers bought holiday decorations, tools and snow
blowers, as well as energy-efficient windows and doors before
the Dec. 31 expiration of a tax credit, Craig Menear, executive
vice president of merchandising, told analysts on a conference
call. Operating expenses declined 1.9 percent.  The results point to “strong execution in both
merchandising and expense management,”  Colin McGranahan , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , wrote today
in a note to clients. He rates the shares as “market perform.”  Revenue rose 3.8 percent to $15.1 billion. Analysts
projected sales of $14.8 billion in average.  Consumers ‘Cautious’    Consumer confidence  is helping,” Chief Financial Officer
Carol Tome said today in a telephone interview. Homeowners
purchased discounted appliances on Black Friday, the day after
Thanksgiving, while restraining spending on kitchen remodeling.
“Looking to 2011, consumers are still cautious about big-ticket
items,” she said.  Home Depot slipped 39 cents to $38.09 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have advanced 8.6
percent this year.  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in February to the
highest level in three years as Americans became more optimistic
about their incomes and the economy.  The Conference Board’s index of sentiment increased to
70.4, the highest since February 2008, from 64.8 the prior
month, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed today.  Home Depot increased its full-year earnings forecast to a
gain of as much as 9.5 percent to $2.20, excluding share
repurchases, up from an increase of as much as 9 percent
predicted in December.  The percentage gain in the average purchase last quarter
was the biggest since a 4.2 percent rise in the second quarter
of 2006, according to Ron DeFeo, a company spokesman.  The company reported net income of $342 million, or 20
cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Chris Burritt  in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello in New York at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 