-- 
Hong Kong’s Stocks Fall Most in Three Months as Developers Drop

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-02-22T08:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/hong-kong-s-stocks-fall-most-in-three-months-as-developers-drop.html
  Hong Kong  stocks fell, sending the
Hang Seng Index to its biggest drop in almost three months, as
developers slid on concern the city may try to curb property
prices and as tension escalated in the Middle East.  Hang Lung Properties Ltd., which gets about 84 percent of
its revenue from Hong Kong, declined 2.4 percent on speculation
the city’s government may increase land supply in tomorrow’s
budget announcement. Airlines fell as oil prices rose after the
son of Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi threatened “rivers of
blood” unless the uprising ends.  Alibaba.com Ltd . plunged 8.6
percent after saying its chief executive officer resigned
following a company probe that found fraudulent vendors.  “The Hong Kong government may try to make some noise and
tune up the market to let people know that it may impose
policies and property prices won’t continue to gain,” said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research director at Cinda
International Holdings Ltd. With unrest in the Middle East,
“most investors in the stock market are trying to unload their
portfolio to reduce their risk exposure.”  The Hang Seng Index fell 2.1 percent to 22,990.81 at the
close, the steepest decline since Nov. 23. All but three stocks
dropped among the measure’s 45 constituents. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of H shares of Chinese companies slid 2.4
percent to 12,351.66. The declines mirror a global rout in
equities as all benchmarks in  Asia  fell, following retreats in  Europe . The U.S. market was closed yesterday for a holiday.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index slid 2.2 percent to 22,942.
The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for Hong
Kong stock options, jumped 10 percent to 19.55 for the biggest
gain in nine months. The current level indicates traders expect
a 5.6 percent swing in the  Hang Seng Index  during the next 30
days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 