-- 
Louis Dreyfus Said to Close Commodity Fund to New Investors

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-02-22T05:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/louis-dreyfus-said-to-close-commodity-fund-to-new-investors.html
The $2 billion commodity hedge fund
of Louis Dreyfus Group, the world’s largest rice and cotton
trader, stopped accepting new money from investors, according to
two people, after assets advanced 20-fold in about two years.  The Louis Dreyfus Commodities Alpha Fund, managed by
Geneva-based Ian McIntosh, started with $100 million in November
2008 and focuses mainly on farm products including grains,
oilseeds, sugar, coffee and cocoa. The fund returned 17.3
percent in 2010, according to the people who have direct
knowledge of the matter. They declined to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  Investors increased their allocation to commodities as
cotton and rubber soared to records, and coffee more than
doubled in the past year, after drought and floods ruined crops.
Commodities-related funds attracted $5 billion in the fourth
quarter, the biggest such inflow since the period ended June 30,
2009, said Farhan Mumtaz, an analyst at Eurekahedge Pte.  “Physical commodity market knowledge assists in more
accurate supply and demand analysis” for  hedge funds  trading
raw materials, said Adam Taylor, assistant portfolio manager at
London-based Liongate Capital Management LP, which invests more
than $500 million in such funds.  The Louis Dreyfus Group, founded about 160 years ago,
trades grains, oilseeds, sugar, ethanol, coffee and cotton, and
has offices in more than 55 countries, its website said. The
company has expanded into energy, real estate and electricity
distribution in  France . McIntosh, 49, has been with Louis
Dreyfus since 1984. The fund also trades metals and freight.  Fund Returns  Commodity hedge funds returned on average 10.65 percent in
2010, the Newedge Commodity Trading Index shows. Investors in
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Commodity Index received 9.02 percent.  Assets managed by commodity-related funds were $195.8
billion as of Dec. 31, Eurekahedge’s Mumtaz said in  Singapore .  Cotton jumped to a record $2.0893 a pound on ICE Futures
U.S. on Feb. 18 and more than doubled in the past 12 months on
demand from  China  and as floods destroyed crops in Australia and  Pakistan . Rubber surged to an all-time high of 535.7 yen per
kilogram the same day after floods in  Thailand  disrupted output.  Hedge funds are largely unregulated investment vehicles
whose managers can trade any asset, aim to make money regardless
of whether markets rise or fall and participate substantially in
profits from money invested.  For related news:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  