-- 
Hewlett-Packard Misses Estimates as Consumers Curb Spending

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-02-23T00:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/hp-forecast-misses-estimates-as-consumers-hold-back-spending-shares-fall.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co ., the world’s
largest computer maker, forecast profit and sales that missed
analysts’ estimates after a slump in  consumer spending  throttled
growth. The shares tumbled 12 percent in late trading.  Excluding some costs, profit will be $1.21 a share at most
in the second quarter,  Palo Alto , California-based HP said today
in a statement. Sales will be as much as $31.6 billion. That
compares with predictions of $1.26 in profit and $32.6 billion
in revenue, the average estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Home-computer shoppers held off on purchases, even as
corporate customers picked up spending. That eroded revenue
during  Leo Apotheker 's inaugural quarter as chief executive 
officer. HP, which gets about a third of its sales from  Europe ,
the Middle East and  Africa , also was hurt by weakness there.  “The enterprise continues to hold up, but certainly not
enough to offset the consumer-centric weakness,” said Amit Daryanani, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. “The
revenue miss is a surprise to everyone.”  Investors are waiting for Apotheker, who took over Nov. 1,
to present his strategy at an event for reporters and analysts
in San Francisco on March 14. Former HP CEO  Mark Hurd , who left
in August, had cut costs to boost HP’s profitability and stock
price during his five-year term.  Shares Plunge  HP fell $5.77 to $42.46 in extended trading. The shares,
which had climbed 15 percent this year, closed at $48.23 at 4
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  Fiscal first-quarter net income rose to $2.6 billion, or
$1.17 a share, from $2.25 billion, or 93 cents, a year earlier.
Excluding some costs, profit was $1.36 a share. Sales rose to
$32.3 billion in the period, which ended Jan. 31. Analysts in
the Bloomberg survey were projecting profit of $1.29 and sales
of $33 billion on average.  On the positive side, HP is expanding operating margins in
its personal systems group, Daryanani said.  “It doesn’t look like they are using pricing as a lever to
drive revenues up, which is a good thing,” he said. Daryanani
has an “outperform” rating on HP shares and doesn’t own them.  To put HP on a new course, Apotheker and Chairman  Ray Lane 
have shuffled HP’s board and are relying on acquisitions to
expand in software. They’re also aiming to strengthen HP’s hand
in the burgeoning markets for smartphones and tablet computers.  ‘Isolated Areas’  “We have isolated areas we need to improve,” Apotheker
said during a conference call with analysts today. Sales of PCs
to consumers declined 12 percent in the first quarter, HP said,
and total personal systems group revenue fell 1 percent to $10.5
billion. Services revenue dropped 2 percent to $8.61 billion.  Businesses continue to replace aging PCs with newer models,
Apotheker said.  “This market still has some legs,” he said. Market
research firm Gartner Inc. forecasts that worldwide PC shipments
will  increase  almost 16 percent this year to 409 million units.  On Jan. 20, HP replaced four board members and added a new
director. The new selections include former EBay Inc. CEO  Meg Whitman  and former Alcatel-Lucent SA CEO  Patricia Russo .  On the acquisition front, HP purchased business-
intelligence software maker Vertica Feb. 14 for an undisclosed
amount. That followed a decision to discontinue the company’s
own data-analysis program, called NeoView. Vertica’s customers
include Web companies Twitter Inc., Zynga Inc. and Groupon Inc.,
according to its  website .  Details Needed?  HP needs to better explain its lower sales guidance, said  Abhey Lamba , an ISI Group analyst in New York. HP stock could
suffer until then, he said.  “They will probably remain in the penalty box until we get
more clarity about what’s going on,” Lamba said in an
interview. He has a “buy” rating on HP shares, which he
doesn’t own personally.  Later this year, HP will introduce a TouchPad tablet
computer based on the WebOS operating system, gained in last
year’s $1.2 billion acquisition of Palm Inc. The company
introduced new smartphones running the software on Feb. 9.  HP also is dealing with a flaw in new chips from  Intel
Corp ., the main supplier of PC processors. Earlier this month,
HP said it had stopped making computers with the chips and put a
hold on shipping affected inventory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  