-- 
Mideast Stocks Tumble, Credit Risk Advances on Libya Crackdown

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-02-22T11:59:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/persian-gulf-shares-decline-led-by-qatar-on-libya-protest-economic-risk.html
Middle East shares dropped, sending
Qatar’s index down the most since May, on concern worsening
violence in Libya and regional instability may derail economic
growth. Dubai bonds fell and Morocco’s credit risk soared.  Commercial Bank of Qatar, the Gulf country’s second-biggest
bank by assets, lost 1.7 percent and Qatar National Bank dropped
to the lowest level in almost five months. The  QE Index  tumbled
3.6 percent, the most since May 25, to 8,185.24 at the 1:10 p.m.
close in Doha. The measure has lost 8.5 percent since Feb. 11,
when Egypt’s president stepped down. The yield on Dubai’s 5-year
dollar bond rose to the highest in three weeks and the cost of
insuring Morocco’s debt against default soared 17 basis points.  “The situation has deteriorated and it’s inevitable that
investors should be concerned,” said Paul Cooper, Dubai-based
managing director at Sarasin-Alpen & Partners Ltd., which
oversees more than $500 million in the Middle East. “The
derisking of portfolios would suggest markets will come down.”  Violence in Libya intensified yesterday as the government
attacked protesters and rebels claimed control of the second-
biggest city, Benghazi. Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi said he
hadn’t fled the country as soldiers deserted the crackdown and
diplomats resigned. Uprisings have already toppled regimes in
neighboring Tunisia and  Egypt . Demonstrations have spread to
Bahrain, Yemen, Iran and Morocco.  Islamic Bonds  Libya, holder of the largest crude oil reserves on the
African continent, yesterday had its sovereign  credit rating  cut
at  Fitch Ratings  and today at Standard & Poor’s Rating Services.
Bahrain’s rating was yesterday lowered at S&P. In Bahrain, seven
people were killed in unrest that gripped the island nation,
Maysoon Sabkar, spokeswoman for the state Information Affairs
Authority, said today.  The yield on Bahrain’s 6.247 percent five-year Islamic bond
rose for a seventh day, climbing 2 basis points to 4.12 percent,
according to Bloomberg composite prices at 11:39 a.m. in  London .
The yield on Dubai’s five-year note maturing in October 2015
climbed 10 basis points to 7.08 percent.  Egypt’s stock exchange, closed since the end of trading on
Jan. 27, hasn’t decided when it will resume trading, the state-
run Middle East News Agency reported today, citing Chairman
Khaled Seyam. The bourse extended the suspension for the
remainder of the week.    Commercial Bank of Qatar  declined to 75.5 riyals, the
lowest since Aug. 31. Qatar National, the country’s biggest
lender, dropped 3.5 percent to 123.9 riyals, the lowest since
Oct. 12.  Oil Soars  Oil jumped to the highest in more than two years on concern
crude supplies will be disrupted as violence escalates. Crude
oil for April delivery rose as much as 9.8 percent to $98.48 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
including  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the
world’s oil.  Morocco’s credit-default swaps soared to 205. Authorities
in the North African country found five burnt bodies in a bank
set on fire during pro-democracy protests, the Associated Press
reported yesterday, citing the interior ministry. The country’s
benchmark stock index rose for the first time in three days,
gaining 0.9 percent.  Tunisia’s Tunindex retreated 0.9 percent, bringing the drop
since the ouster of the North African country’s president on
Jan. 14 to 3.1 percent.  In the Gulf, the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  lost 1 percent.
Dubai’s  DFM General Index  declined 2.4 percent to 1,479.41, the
lowest since Aug. 16.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index  retreated
1.6 percent, Oman’s  MSM30 Index  fell 1.5 percent and Kuwait’s
measure slipped 0.1 percent. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul dropped 0.5
percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index gained for the first time
in three days, rising 0.2 percent.  “This will turn out to be a good buying opportunity if the
weakness continues, but given the uncertainty that prevails
that’s unlikely to happen any time soon,” said Cooper of
Sarasin-Alpen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  