-- 
Portugal Asks EU to Provide for More Sugar Imports Without Duty

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-02-22T17:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/portugal-asks-eu-to-provide-for-more-sugar-imports-without-duty.html
  Portugal  asked the European Union to
provide for additional imports of raw sugar into the bloc at
zero duty to ease supply, according to the Portuguese
Association of Sugar Refiners.  The government yesterday proposed permitting inbound
shipments of at least 500,000 metric tons of tariff-free raw
sweetener for the 2010-11 marketing year, Francisco Avillez, the
group’s president, said by phone today. The additional imports
would be exclusively for full-time refiners for at least the
first three months, he said.  European Union agricultural officials plan to vote Feb. 24
on a proposal to allow more sugar imports and the sale of so-
called out-of-quota sweetener within the bloc. The EU sugar
market has “tightened considerably,” causing companies
difficulty in finding supplies, the Association of the German
Confectionery Industry said on Feb. 18.  The officials will vote on a proposal to scrap a levy on
500,000 tons of out-of-quota sugar and allow its sale in the EU,
European Commission spokesman Roger Waite said by e-mail
yesterday. They also will consider a tender system in which
importers would submit offers with the total duty they are ready
to pay, he said by phone today.  The European Sugar Refiners’ Association questioned the
tender system in a letter dated Feb. 18 and addressed to EU
Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Ciolos. The letter was e-mailed
to Bloomberg News today by the Portuguese association, a member
of ESRA.  Import Conditions  “The conditions for economic viability in the import of
raw sugar haven’t changed and, if anything, have worsened,”
ESRA said. “Therefore, the only approach which is consistent
with the assessment made by the Management Committee in December
2010 is the opening of a Tariff Rate Quota at a zero tariff
rate,” it said, referring to the EU Sugar Management Committee.  The commission wants to have a tender system so it can
“maintain some sort of control” over the volumes that would be
imported, according to Waite.  “We feel that the tender system provides more flexibility
than simply having a set volume coming in at zero tariff,” he
said by phone from Brussels today. “We have the right of
initiative, and we prefer a tender system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 