-- 
Price Momentum Plus Value Equals Tempting Stocks: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-02-22T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/price-gains-plus-value-equals-tempting-stocks-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
     Feb. 22 (Bloomberg) - When I choose stocks, I put very
little weight on relative strength. Yet I know many investors
swear by it.  The metric shows price momentum over a specific time span.
To calculate it, take a large group of stocks and rank them by
price appreciation. Then slice the results into 100 percentiles
and presto -- you have a relative strength rating.  Many people won’t buy a stock unless it has been
outperforming its peers. That’s why once or twice a year I like
to write about stocks that combine value and price momentum.  This time, I started with a universe of 1,695 U.S. stocks
with a market value of $1 billion or more. I then looked for a
share price gain of 20 percent or more in the 60 trading days
through Feb. 15, cutting the field to 487.  Next, I applied my two most basic value-investing criteria:
a share price no more than 15 times the company’s earnings for
the past four quarters, and debt less than stockholders’ equity.
Those two filters narrowed the group to 57. I would like to
recommend four of them.
      MetLife Inc . is recovering from woes it suffered during the
financial crisis. Like other big insurance companies, MetLife
holds a large number of stocks and bonds. These securities
wilted during the panic. In 2009 the company lost $2.89 a share.  The insurer climbed back to post earnings of $3 a share in
2010. This year, analysts expect profits to increase more than
50 percent, to about $4.70. They think MetLife can tack on about
another dollar in earnings in 2012.  Insurers May Rebound  During recessions people tend to skimp on insurance because
their budgets are too tight. And they often increase their
coverage as the economy recovers. This dynamic could help
MetLife this year and next.  One of the cheapest stocks on this list is  PolyOne Corp ., a
plastics manufacturer located in Avon Lake,  Ohio . Its shares
trade at about eight times earnings.  Responding to the downturn, the company cut jobs and
reduced production. After a loss in 2008, PolyOne made a profit
in 2009 and increased its gain in 2010. Analysts expect earnings
to fall this year, to about $1.02 a share from $1.69 in 2010.  In the past, PolyOne has beaten analysts’ estimates. I
think it might do that again this year. Seven of the eight
analysts who cover the company rate it a “buy.” Normally I
prefer to go against the crowd, but in this case I agree with
the majority.  Hot Stocks  The two hottest stocks in the group during the period were  Micron Technology Inc . and  GT Solar International Inc . They were
up 57 percent and 55 percent, respectively. I have discussed
both in previous columns, so won’t comment here. However, I
still like them at today’s prices.  Houston-based  W&T Offshore Inc . has also been a big gainer,
up 48 percent in the 60-trading-day period. The company owns
more than 70 oil and gas wells, primarily in the  Gulf of Mexico .
In November it announced plans to purchase Royal Dutch Shell
Plc’s holdings in six wells for $450 million.  Tracy W. Krohn, the founder and chief executive of W&T,
personally owns more than 52 percent of the stock. That means he
has a freer hand than most chief executives, and little
incentive to smooth out quarterly earnings, as some do.  The stock is unpopular. Ten of 13 analysts who cover it say
“hold” and three say “sell.” In this case, I am back in my
usual role as a contrarian. I think production in the Gulf of
Mexico may resume a normal pace more quickly than people expect.  Debt Free  W&T has more debt than I would prefer. By contrast, one of
the strongest balance sheets in this group belongs to  TriQuint
Semiconductor Inc . of Hillsboro,  Oregon . It is debt free.  TriQuint develops semiconductor technologies and materials
used in military and civilian equipment, especially wireless
applications. That seems to me to be an area likely to continue
expanding for the next few years.  The company lost money in four straight years starting in
2001. It has posted a profit every year since except in 2008.  This month TriQuint announced that its first quarter
earnings will be less than analysts estimated. Some analysts
said a problem in production capacity was the main culprit.
That’s the kind of real but temporary bad news on which I often
like to invest. The stock sells for 12 times earnings.  Critics of relative strength often say that using it tends
to pull investors into more frequent trading, which pushes up
commissions and taxes. I think there is some truth to the
criticism, though I’m neutral on the larger question of whether
investors should favor stocks that are rising. I neither endorse
nor disqualify a stock because it has risen, or because it has
fallen.  Disclosure note: Personally and for clients, I own shares
of GT Solar. I have no long or short positions in the other
stocks mentioned in this column.    John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  