-- 
Libya Split as Qaddafi Holds Tripoli, Rebels Control East

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l ,   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-02-23T19:06:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/qaddafi-says-he-hasn-t-fled-libya-as-regime-unravels.html
Libyans claiming to have ousted
Muammar Qaddafi’s troops organized committees to run and defend
their eastern cities, as forces loyal to the leader retained
control of the capital, Tripoli.  In Benghazi, armed members of popular committees surrounded
a courthouse as women held a sit-in after marching from the now-
deserted army base, a resident said. Two air force pilots bailed
out of their plane and let it crash near Benghazi after refusing
orders to attack the city, local newspaper Quryna said, and the
army commander at Tobruk in the northeast said his unit has
joined the rebels. In Tripoli, where heavy gunfire was heard
overnight, protesters stayed off the streets as the government
urged people to go back to work and show that life is normal,
the  Associated Press  said.  The European Union announced it was suspending talks on a
“framework” accord to smooth relations and “is ready to take
further measures” against the North African nation. The Obama
administration is talking with other governments about imposing
economic sanctions, including a possible asset freeze on Qaddafi
and top regime officials, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters in  Washington . President Obama will make
a statement today or tomorrow, said his chief spokesman, Jay Carney.  “We are reviewing a variety of options with our
international partners to compel or to persuade the government
of Libya to cease this terrible violence,” Carney told
reporters at the White House.  Evacuations  Western and regional governments rushed to evacuate
thousands of their citizens from  Libya  after Qaddafi’s warning
last night that he will fight the rebels until death. About 300
people have already been killed,  Human Rights Watch  said.  Italy 
warned that more than 250,000 migrant workers may flee to
Europe.  The fighting in Libya, which holds Africa’s largest oil
reserves, is the most violent yet seen in six weeks of popular
uprisings across the Middle East and North  Africa , which have
already unseated longtime rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Oil
prices  surged, extending this week’s increase to 13 percent, on
concern supplies may be disrupted as the unrest spreads.  Assassination or War  “Civil war is most likely unless someone assassinates
Qaddafi today or tomorrow,” said Robert Baer, a former Central
Intelligence Agency officer and author of several books on the
Middle East. The ruler’s supporters “are going to hold onto a
part of the country, an armed force with a lot of money.”  Crude for April delivery rose as high as $98.19 a barrel
today, and traded at $97.90 at 11:40 a.m. in  New York . Higher
oil prices helped push the  S&P 500  down 0.6 percent, extending
its two-day drop to 2.6 percent. Nomura Holdings Inc. predicted
oil may jump to $220 a barrel if exports in Libya and
neighboring Algeria are shut down.  Shares in oil extractors with Libyan interests have
slumped, with Italy’s  Eni SpA  dropping 7 percent this week and
Austria’s OMV AG plunging 11 percent. Both companies, along with  France ’s Total SA, have cut back production in Libya.  ‘Immigration Wave’  The U.S. has chartered a ferry that will take American
citizens from Tripoli, to Malta today and  Turkey  said it has
mounted the biggest evacuation in its history, with three ships
and several planes dispatched to remove some 5,000 nationals by
sea and air. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said getting
British citizens out of the Libya is the top Foreign Office
priority, as his government deployed a Royal Navy frigate near
Libya to help.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy said the European Union
should consider imposing sanctions on Libya, and Italian Foreign
Minister Franco Frattini said the EU needs a mechanism to
“split the economic and social burden of an immigration wave.”  Egyptians crossing back into their country from Libya
across a border now in the hands of Qaddafi’s opponents
described attacks by government forces on protesters.  “Gunfire starts at sunset and lasts all night in
Tripoli,” said Mohamed Hassan, a carpenter. Yasser al-Badry,
also a carpenter, said live bullets were “all over the ground”
after one crackdown against protesters in the capital.  ‘Eradicated Within Hours’  A Libyan Foreign Ministry official said on state
television, which didn’t identify him, that the uprising is
dominated by Islamic extremists and can be “eradicated within
hours.”  Qaddafi supporters wandered through Tripoli today firing
into the air, and in some districts people barricaded their
streets to keep the gunmen out, the AP said, citing residents.  In Benghazi, anti-Qaddafi militias in front of the
courtroom were collecting weapons from people who had seized
them from army supplies, a local resident said by phone,
declining to be identified on concern there will be reprisals.
Residents have also formed committees to direct traffic, clean
the streets & distribute water and food, the person said.  Major General Suleiman Mahmoud, commander of the Libyan
army in Tobruk, told  Al Jazeera  that his forces have deserted
Qaddafi and are siding with local residents. “We are supporting
the Libyan people,” he said in a phone interview with the
channel, adding that Tobruk was peaceful and residents were
organizing themselves.  Misrata Clashes  There was fighting in Misrata, about 150 kilometers (90
miles) east of Tripoli, where rebel forces claimed to have taken
control, the AP said. A radio station in the city was damaged in
an attack by pro-Qaddafi forces, Quryna said.  Protesters in Libya, where Qaddafi seized power in a 1969
coup, and elsewhere in the region have been driven by a
combination of economic complaints such as high prices and
scarce jobs, and the repression of political and civil rights by
leaders in power for decades.    Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter, today moved
to increase  living standards  after protests reached neighboring  Bahrain . King Abdullah today announced at least $11 billion in
spending increases on social security and housing.  Saudi Arabia has a Shiite Muslim minority in the eastern
provinces, where most of its oil is produced. Shiites have been
leading protests in Bahrain, home of the  U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet , where they form a majority and say they suffer
discrimination under a Sunni monarchy.  Bahrain Dialogue  The largest Bahraini opposition group said it is looking
for “significant steps” by the government before agreeing to
join in a national dialogue, after at least seven died in
clashes between protesters and security forces. Tens of
thousands marched in the capital, Manama, yesterday to call for
more democracy and equal rights.  Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who has ruled for
more than 30 years, has been urged to quit by protesters who
clashed with pro-government forces for a 12th straight day
yesterday. At least two people were killed and 10 others wounded
yesterday, the media committee of the protesters said.  Saudi Arabia’s benchmark Tadawul stock index fell for a
ninth day, dropping 0.2 percent. Other regional markets pared
losses, with Dubai’s main index rising 1.3 percent from a six-
month low. The Bloomberg GCC200 regional benchmark added 0.1
percent.  Libya, with a population of about 6.3 million, pumps 1.6
million barrels of oil a day, selling most of it to  Europe ,
according to Bloomberg estimates. That’s about 1.8 percent of
world supply. It’s the third-biggest producer in Africa after
Nigeria and Angola, while Libyan reserves of 44.3 billion
barrels are the continent’s largest, according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A Derhally in London at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  