-- 
Real Madrid Joins Manchester United in Race for Rodwell: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-02-22T11:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/real-madrid-joins-manchester-united-in-race-for-rodwell-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Bid Battle for Rodwell?  Real Madrid  joined    Manchester United  and  Manchester City  in
the race to sign  Everton ’s Jack Rodwell, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  United may bid as much as 15 million pounds ($24 million)
for the 19-year-old, who can play in central midfield or at
center-back. Real  Madrid  manager  Jose Mourinho  has asked his
scouts to keep an eye on Rodwell’s progress, the paper said.  Nasri Barcelona-Bound?  Arsenal ’s Samir Nasri may leave the  London  club for
 Barcelona  this summer, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  “As things are right now, I am happy here and I have
confidence from the manager,” the paper quoted the 23-year-old
French midfielder as saying. “But things can change quickly in
football and then we may have a new situation,” said Nasri, who
has 15 months left on his contract.  Russian Swoop?  Russian Premier League side FC Krasnodar is targeting
 Tottenham Hotspur ’s Niko Kranjcar and Barcelona winger Alexander Hleb, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The recently promoted Russian club, founded four years ago
by a retail billionaire, may pay as much as 5 million pounds for
Hleb, who is on loan this season at Birmingham. Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  is likely to turn down an offer for Croatia
international Kranjcar, the Mail said.  Suits Breed Success?  A soccer coach who wears suits on match days and a track
suit on the training pitch is most likely to get the best
performance out of his team, the  Daily Telegraph  reported,
citing research by the University of Portsmouth.  “A coach in a suit suggests strategic prowess which is
obviously ideal for a match,” the paper cited Portsmouth
researcher Richard Thelwell as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 