-- 
Treasuries Rise as U.S. Sells Two-Year Notes Amid Libya Turmoil

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-02-22T22:04:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/treasuries-rise-as-u-s-sells-2-year-notes-amid-libya-linked-refuge-demand.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
note yields down the most this year, as violence in  Libya 
bolstered refuge appeal for  U.S. debt .  Two-year note yields fell the most in almost two months as
the $35 billion of the securities auctioned today drew the
highest demand from the class of investors including foreign
central banks since November. Treasuries gained as crude oil
futures touched a 28-month high, boosting speculation fuel costs
will limit global economic growth and Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said he hadn’t fled the country as the political crisis
deepened after a crackdown on demonstrators left hundreds dead.  “Treasuries are getting a safety bid as we are facing
massive tension and disruption in the Middle East as the Libyan
story stokes fears that the unrest could spread,” said Scott Graham, head of government bond trading at in  Chicago  at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit.  The current two-year note yield fell seven basis points to
0.69 percent at 5:03 p.m. in  New York , according to BGCantor
Market Data, the least since Feb. 3. The 0.625 percent
securities maturing in January 2013 rose 4/32, or $1.25 per
$1,000 of face value, to 99 28/32.  The yield on the 10-year note dropped 13 basis points 3.46
percent, the lowest since Feb. 2.  Oil Flows  Crude oil futures contracts for April delivery rose as high
as $98.48 a barrel in New York, the most since October 2008.  Libyan security forces attacked protesters yesterday as
demonstrations spread across the Middle East and North Africa.
The region produces 36 percent of the world’s oil, according to
statistics compiled by BP Plc.  The two-year notes drew a yield of 0.745 percent, compared
with a forecast of 0.752 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven of the  Federal Reserve ’s 20 primary dealers. Indirect
bidders, an investor class that includes foreign central banks,
purchased 31.3 percent of the notes, compared with an average of
33.8 percent for the past 10 sales.  The two-year auction’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 3.03, the lowest since May, compared with an
average of 3.40 at the previous 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 6.8 percent of the
notes, compared with an average of 15.9 percent at the past 10
offerings.  ‘Rather Large Portion’  “Dealers took down a rather large portion of the auction,
so it might limit the gains of the front end given the potential
for a re-auction from dealers to other investors,” said  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit
Suisse AG, one of 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“Indirect investors seem to be moving out the curve looking for
yield. Still, it was a pretty strong auction.”  Two-year notes have lost investors 0.2 percent so far this
year, compared with a 1 percent decline for the broader Treasury
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Today’s note offering is the first of three note auctions
this week totaling $99 billion. The Treasury will sell $35
billion in five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year
bonds on Feb. 24. The auction sizes match those at the past four
monthly sales of the maturities.  Fed Buys  The Fed bought $7.2 billion of Treasuries maturing from
August 2016 to February 2018 today as part of its efforts to
sustain the economic expansion.  Residential real-estate prices dropped in the 12 months to
December by the most in a year, a sign the U.S. housing market
is struggling even as the rest of the economy recovers.
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in February to the highest
level in three years as Americans became more optimistic about
their incomes and the economy.  “The geopolitical situation is pushing yields down despite
the growth picture holding up,” said Jeffrey  Cleveland , senior
economist at Payden & Rygel in  Los Angeles , which manages $56
billion.  Fund managers became more bearish on the outlook for
Treasuries through March, according to a weekly survey by Ried
Thunberg ICAP Inc. Ried’s sentiment index fell to 47 for the
seven days ended Feb. 18 from 49 the week before. A figure less
than 50 indicates investors expect prices to decline. The fund
managers surveyed turned less pessimistic when asked about the
outlook for Treasuries through June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  