-- 
Record Glut of Oil Refineries Selling at 80% Discount: Real M&A

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   J e s s i c a   R e s n i c k - A u l t
-- 
2011-02-22T02:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/record-glut-of-refineries-sells-at-80-discount-as-margins-surge-real-m-a.html
Oil companies from  Chevron Corp . to  BP Plc  are selling more refineries than at any time in history
even as a rebound in demand for gasoline and diesel pushes
profits from running the plants to the highest level since 2007.  A glut of refineries put up for sale by integrated oil
companies after the global recession dragged down profits are
now available for 80 percent less than they fetched in 2006,
Dahlman Rose & Co.’s Sam Margolin says. Meanwhile  Tesoro Corp .,
the subject of more than a dozen takeover rumors since 2007, has
the cheapest valuation among U.S. refiners based on projected
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.    Blackstone Group LP , billionaires David and Charles Koch
and energy producers from Brazil and Russia may be eyeing
acquisitions of individual plants or company takeovers with
refining margins almost tripling since Nov. 1, according to IHS
Herold’s John Parry. There are 2.5 million barrels of daily
refining capacity for sale globally, he said, enough to process
the entire crude output of Nigeria or Norway.  “I’ve never seen this many refineries for sale,” said
Louis Gagliardi, managing director of energy at Hedgeye Risk
Management in  New Haven , Connecticut. Buyers will do well “if
the plant has a supply source right in its backyard, or it’s
large enough to enjoy some economies of scale,” he said.  As a Texaco Inc. executive in the 1990s, Gagliardi was part
of a special-projects group that vetted all projects worth $10
million or more for the board of directors.  Volatility in Margins  While the margins earned from turning West Texas crude and
similar grades of oil into gasoline and diesel in the U.S.
climbed to $25.43 a barrel last week, the highest level since
2007, integrated oil and gas companies that engage in
exploration and production along with processing and marketing
of the fuels have been trimming their refinery holdings to
reduce the volatility of their earnings.  The oil-processing plants are vulnerable to swings in crude  oil prices  and to fluctuations in consumer demand. Ten-day
volatility in the benchmark crude futures contract traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange reached 157.7 on Dec. 31, 2008, the
highest level since 1991, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, has been
trying to sell the Pembroke refinery in Wales, its only
remaining European plant, since March 2010. The energy
producer’s refining unit lost $613 million in the last quarter
before it announced the sale after the longest U.S. recession
since the Great Depression crimped fuel demand.  Lowest Valuation  San Ramon, California-based Chevron has the lowest
valuation among integrated U.S. oil companies with a market
capitalization of at least $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Including net debt, it trades at 3.9 times
estimated Ebitda for 2011. Chevron is rated A2H, the second-
highest investment grade level, according to Bloomberg’s Company
Credit Ratings, which analyze borrowers based on indebtedness,
stock volatility, profitability and other financial ratios.  Sean Comey, a spokesman for Chevron, declined in an e-mail
to comment on the company’s efforts to sell refining assets.    Murphy Oil Corp . said in July it would put its three
refining plants up for sale to exit that business and focus more
on production. The El Dorado, Arkansas-based company’s refinery
in Meraux, Louisiana, leaked oil into a surrounding neighborhood
after Hurricane Katrina’s flooding drenched the facility.  Refineries, Convenience Stores    Marathon Oil Corp . announced plans to spin off its six
refineries and its Speedway convenience-store chain last month.
The Houston-based company’s profit from the refining business
had dropped 2.7 percent in the first three quarters of 2010,
while earnings from exploration and production rose 85 percent.  The company is valued at 4.2 times estimated Ebitda, the
second-lowest behind Chevron among U.S. integrated oil
producers. Marathon Oil, which will create the fifth-largest
American refiner when it spins off Marathon Petroleum Corp., has
a cheaper valuation than any of the U.S. refiners that don’t
drill oil wells, Bloomberg data show.  John Porretto, a spokesman for Marathon Oil, declined to
comment on speculation or future business.  BP,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company, said this month it
will sell its Texas City and Carson refineries as the London-
based energy producer recovers from the Gulf of  Mexico  spill,
the worst in U.S. history. The Texas City refinery was the site
of a 2005 explosion that killed 15 people.  Iain Conn, BP’s head of refining and marketing, told
reporters in  London  on Feb. 1 the company expects to raise at
least $4.4 billion from sales of U.S. refineries and retail
assets.  Cheapest Grades  The U.S. refineries for sale by BP can process the cheapest
grades of crude, such as those from Venezuela or Mexico, and
have waterfront locations that reduce costs to receive crude and
dispatch cargoes of gasoline and diesel, said Ann Kohler, a
senior vice president at CRT Capital Group in Stamford,
Connecticut.  BP’s Texas City refinery was deemed one of the country’s
most attractive in 2008 by William Klesse, San Antonio-based  Valero Energy Corp .’s chief executive officer. At that time, a
Gulf Coast plant with the ability to process sludgy grades of
crude oil could fetch $1,700 per complexity barrel, a measure
used to price assets based upon their quality. The refinery will
likely sell for just $350 per complexity barrel today, CRT’s
Kohler said. That’s about 80 percent less than five years ago.  Toledo Plant    Sunoco Inc . of Philadelphia is also getting about 20
percent of historic valuations for its plant in Toledo, Ohio.
PBF Energy Co. agreed to pay $400 million, which amounts to
$2,285 for each barrel of processing capacity without adjusting
for complexity, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The price represents more than an 80 percent discount to
the record $20,000 per-barrel Houston-based Lyondell Chemical
Co. paid in 2006 to buy the Venezuelan state oil company’s stake
in a jointly-operated Houston plant, according to Margolin, an
analyst at Dahlman Rose in New York.  PBF is a Parsippany, New Jersey-based acquisition vehicle
led by former Phibro crude trader and refining magnate Thomas D. O’Malley and backed by Blackstone and First Reserve Corp. of
Greenwich,  Connecticut . PBF has acquired Valero plants in
Delaware City, Delaware, and Paulsboro,  New Jersey , for a total
of $560 million.  O’Malley declined to comment through PBF President Michael
Gayda. Christine Anderson, a Blackstone spokeswoman, didn’t
return a telephone message seeking comment.  ‘Lot of Upside’  While prices for refineries have started to inch up as the
rebound in energy demand boosts margins, assets still are cheap
relative to future profitability, according to Tony James,
president of New York-based Blackstone.  “Each refinery has gotten a little more expensive as the
cycles healed,” James said during a Feb. 3 conference call with
analysts and investors. “But we still think we’re at the low”
part of the refining cycle with “a lot of upside,” he said.  Koch Industries Inc., the holding company controlled by the
Koch brothers, hasn’t added to its refinery network since the
1998 acquisition of a Rotterdam plant from New York-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s J. Aron & Co. unit, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Melissa Cohlmia, a spokeswoman for Wichita, Kansas-based
Koch, didn’t return a phone message left at her office.  Petrobras, Lukoil  Foreign oil producers such as Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA  and  Lukoil OAO  of Moscow may also use U.S.
refinery acquisitions to gain footholds in the world’s largest
gasoline market, IHS’s Parry said. Petrobras, as the Brazilian
oil company is known, expanded its ownership stake in a
Pasadena, Texas, refinery to 100 percent in 2009. Lukoil has
owned more than 1,000 U.S. filling stations since purchasing
Getty Petroleum Marketing Inc. in 2001.  Sophie Gates, a spokeswoman for Petrobras’s U.S. unit,
didn’t immediately return a telephone message left at her
Houston office. George Wilkins, a spokesman for Lukoil’s U.S.
business, didn’t immediately return a phone message.  Companies with facilities along the U.S. Gulf Coast and the
Midwest will command more suitors and better prices than
European refineries that aren’t as adept at handling the
cheapest, dirtiest grades of crude, according to IHS’s Parry.  Tesoro, the operator of plants from North Dakota to Hawaii,
was named a takeover target at least 13 times from 2007 through
2010 by electronic news services, brokerages or newspapers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Including net debt, the
San Antonio-based company trades at 4.8 times estimated Ebitda
for 2011, the lowest valuation of any U.S. refiner with a market
capitalization of more than $1 billion, the data show.  Relative Value  That’s also 28 percent less than the median Ebitda multiple
of 6.7 paid in acquisitions of global oil refining companies in
the past five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Tesoro is
rated B3L by Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings, the lowest
investment grade level, and BB+, one step below investment
grade, by  Standard & Poor’s .  “It’s longstanding Tesoro policy not to comment regarding
strategy and/or mergers and acquisition conjecture which may or
may not have relevance to our strategies,” Mike Marcy, a
spokesman for the refiner, said in a telephone interview.  Tesoro’s net income may reach $261.7 million this year,
compared to losses of $29 million in 2010 and $140 million the
year before, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Just as all these companies are putting refineries up for
sale, refining is actually becoming a good business again,”
said Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc. in Houston.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 