-- 
Reid Seeks Temporary U.S. Spending Bill to Buy Time for Longer-Term Deal

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-22T22:06:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/reid-seeks-temporary-u-s-spending-bill-to-buy-time-for-longer-term-deal.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said he will introduce a temporary spending measure to keep the
government operating into early April, an effort to buy time for
negotiations on a longer-term agreement.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said he is tapping his top aide to
open private talks with the office of House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, on a broader deal including further
cuts to fund the government through the Sept. 30 close of the
fiscal year.  “We need to sit down and have an adult conversation with
them across a conference table and figure out how we’re going to
fund the government for the rest of the year,” Reid told
reporters in a conference call.  Congressional leaders of both parties are maneuvering over
spending cuts as the prospect of a government shutdown in early
March looms. Current spending authority expires on March 4, and
if Congress doesn’t act on a new spending plan by then, the
government will shut down. Congress is in recess this week.  The Republican-led House on Feb. 19 passed a $1.2 trillion
measure that slashes $61 billion in federal spending this year.
The White House says President  Barack Obama  would veto the bill
if it reached his desk.  Democrats who control the Senate have made it clear the
measure won’t get that far. They are proposing to keep spending
at current levels until the two sides can hash out an
alternative.  ‘Work Together’  “It is time to drop the threats and ultimatums, and work
together on a path forward,” Reid said in a statement
announcing his plans. “I am asking Speaker Boehner to simply
take the threat of a government shutdown off the table, and work
with us to negotiate a responsible, long-term solution.”  Boehner rejected Reid’s proposal for a stopgap measure
without additional cuts, insisting as he has previously that any
new funding bill contain more spending reductions. If Reid
refuses to act on the Republicans’ measure, which would fund the
government through Sept. 30, the House will take up a temporary
one “that also cuts spending,” Boehner said in a statement.  “Senate Democratic leaders are insisting on a status quo
that has left us with a mountain of debt and a stalled economy
with unemployment near 10 percent,” Boehner said.
“Republicans’ goal is to cut spending and reduce the size of
government, not to shut it down.”  Private Talks  The dueling public statements set the stage for high-
stakes, behind-the-scenes talks in which Democrats and
Republicans will haggle over how much -- and where -- to slash
federal spending.  Boehner said Democrats “should stop creating more
uncertainty by spreading fears of a government shutdown and
start telling the American people what -- if anything -- they
are willing to cut.”  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
made his own push for bipartisan talks on the budget dispute.  “A government shutdown is not an acceptable outcome, and I
call upon Leader Reid to commit to a good-faith effort to work
with us and take that threat off the table,” Cantor said in a
statement.  Democrats argue they’ve already agreed to some cuts by
embracing spending levels currently in place that are $41
billion below what Obama originally proposed.  ‘Painful’ Cuts  Senator Chuck Schumer of  New York , the third-ranking
Democrat, called Reid’s offer “an olive branch” and said
freezing current spending levels represents “a huge cut that
we’ve already put on the table.”  Signing onto that approach late last year as part of a
year-end budget deal was “was painful to many members of our
caucus,” Schumer said. Republicans and Democrats, he added, are
“ far apart, not on whether we should cut, but on what we
should cut.”  Republicans counter that the spending measure now in effect
locked in huge spending increases that occurred over the last
few years.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said Reid’s proposal showed Democrats “can’t find a
single dime of federal spending to cut” and are “insisting on
the status quo, even for a short-term spending bill.”  The White House said it neither wants nor expects a
shutdown. Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said
today Obama’s team agrees with congressional leaders that “we
do not want a shutdown of the government and that we can come to
an agreement that avoids that.”  The White House Office of Management and Budget, as well as
other federal agencies, are prepared “for any contingency as a
matter of course,”  Kenneth Baer , a spokesman for the office,
said in an e-mail. Still, “this is beside the point” because
Obama and congressional leaders have said “no one anticipates
or wants a government shutdown,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  