-- 
Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for February (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-02-22T15:08:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-february-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector activity
survey for February.  Fifth District Survey of Manufacturing Activity Manufacturing
Activity Advanced at a Healthy Pace in February; Expectations
Strengthened and Price Growth Quickened  Overview  Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region expanded for
the fifth straight month, according to the Richmond Fed’s latest
survey. All broad indicators--shipments, new orders and
employment--posted solid gains. Other indicators also suggested
stronger activity. District contacts reported that backlogs grew
at a quicker pace and that growth in capacity utilization was
virtually unchanged. Manufacturers reported that delivery times
and finished goods inventories grew at a somewhat higher rate.  Looking ahead, manufacturers in February were more optimistic
about their future prospects. Respondents at an increasing number
of firms looked for rapid growth in shipments, new orders, backlog
of orders, capacity utilization, employment, and the average
workweek in the next six months.  Survey measures of current prices revealed that both prices of raw
materials and finished goods grew at a brisk pace in February.
Moreover, respondents indicated that during the next six months
they expected growth in raw materials prices to quicken, and
finished goods prices to change little from what they had
anticipated last month.  Current Activity  In February, the seasonally adjusted composite index of
manufacturing activity--our broadest measure of manufacturing--
rose seven points to 25 from January’s reading of 18. Among the
index’s components, shipments increased six points to 29, new
orders advanced ten points to finish at 27, and the jobs index
edged up two points to 16.  Other indicators also suggested stronger activity. The index for
backlogs of orders grew more quickly, gaining seven points to 12,
while capacity utilization was almost unchanged at 17. The
delivery times index moved up five points to end at 20, and our
gauges for inventories were mixed in February. The finished goods
inventory index added three points in February to end at 10, while
the raw materials inventories index eased one point to 8.  Employment  Hiring conditions continued to improve at District plants in
February. The manufacturing employment index added two points to
end at 16, and the average workweek measure moved up three points
to 20. Moreover, wage growth gained five points to 18.  Expectations  Respondents in the current survey were more optimistic about their
business prospects during the next six months. The index of
expected shipments increased eleven points to end at 49, and the
volume of new orders index rose eight points to 48. Backlogs
jumped thirteen points to 31 and the capacity utilization index
rose seven points to 41. The vendor lead time index inched up four
points to 16. In contrast, readings for planned  capital
expenditures  declined, the index registered a nine-point loss to
20.  District manufacturers’ intentions to expand hiring were also more
optimistic in February. The expected manufacturing employment
index jumped ten points to 27, and the average workweek indicator
advanced seven points to 20. The expected wages index held steady
at 44.  Prices  District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices
increased at an average annual rate of 4.72 percent--a sharp
uptick from January’s reading of 2.79 percent. Many contacts
attributed the increase to rising materials price pressures.
Finished goods prices rose at a 3.38 percent pace, also up
considerably from January’s reading of 2.17 percent last month.  Looking ahead, respondents expected that the prices they pay will
advance at a 3.47 percent pace compared to January’s reading of
3.17 percent. Additionally, contacts looked for finished goods
prices to increase at a 2.38 percent annual rate, little changed
from last month’s expectation of 2.34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  