-- 
Richmond Fed Service Firm Survey for February (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-02-22T15:11:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/richmond-fed-service-firm-survey-for-february-text-.html
The following is the text from the
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s service sector activity survey for
February.  Fifth District Survey of Service Sector Activity Service Sector
Activity Maintains Momentum, Retail Softens, Non-Retail Activity
Remains Up  Overview Activity in the broad service sector continued to grow in
February, despite weaker conditions at retail establishments,
according to the latest survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond. Retail sales slumped in February, as shopper traffic
declined and big-ticket sales fell; inventories rose. Revenues
grew at non-retail services firms, although slightly less rapidly
than a month earlier. Looking ahead six months, survey respondents
expected stronger consumer demand, although optimism among
services providers was partly offset by a bleaker outlook from
retailers, compared to a month ago.  Turning to service sector labor, employment rose overall in
February, with both retail and non-retail sectors adding employees.
Widespread growth in average retail wages continued, while average
wages at services firms flattened.  Price growth edged up slightly this month, and survey participants
anticipated the pace of price growth would quicken in the six
months ahead.  Overall Service Sector Conditions  Service sector revenues rose overall, with the index ending the
survey period at 11 in February, just one point below last months’
reading. However, the strength was concentrated in non-retail
services firms, as retail sales weakened this month. Hiring grew
in the broad service sector, with a slight gain in retail
categories, for the first time since April 2007. The overall index
added a point, reaching a reading of 10. Average wage growth in
the sector slowed compared to last month, trimming that index by
three points to 6. Survey respondents looked for stronger consumer
demand for the period through August of this year, pushing the
expectations index to 17 from January’s reading of 10. The
strengthening came from non-retail categories, however.  Retail  Retail sales weakened in February. The index fell to -12 from last
month’s reading of 33. A sharp drop in big-ticket sales
contributed to the overall softness; the big-ticket index ended
the month twenty-eight points lower, at -37. Inventory growth
nearly matched January’s, with that index one point higher, at 20.
Shopper traffic declined compared to last month, leaving the index
thirty-nine points lower, at -9. Looking to the next six months,
retailers’ wariness about the business climate sank the
expectations index to -31 from 15.  Retail employment made slight gains, however, with the index
picking up eleven points to finish at 3. In addition, average
retail wage growth remained strong, at an index of 27 in February,
two points above last month’s reading.  Services-Providing Firms  Activity at non-retail services firms continued to advance,
although a bit more slowly than a month ago, with the revenues
index slipping two points to 7 in February. Hiring also stepped
down slightly, with the index for employment cropping three points
to settle at 9. Average wage growth leveled off at services-
providing firms, leaving that index at 1, following last month’s 5.
Looking ahead, survey respondents expected solid demand at
services firms --the outlook index doubled from last month’s
reading to 22 in February.  Prices  Prices grew at an annualized 0.55 percent pace in February,
ticking up from January’s 0.36 rate. Separately, retail price
growth moved up more quickly, at a 1.46 percent pace, compared to
1.16 percent in January. At services firms, price change picked up
slightly, to a 0.41 percent pace, after last month’s 0.16 percent
growth rate.  For the six months ahead, survey respondents expected overall
service sector prices to accelerate to a 1.56 percent rate; a
month ago, their outlook was for 1.23 percent price growth across
the service sector. Within the service sector, retailers predicted
price growth of 1.78 percent during the next six months, compared
to their expectation last month for 1.40 percent growth in prices.
Non-retail services providers anticipated their prices would grow
at a 1.54 percent clip during the next six months; in January,
they looked for a 1.22 percent rate of growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  