-- 
RIM Says Competitors Tried to Profit From Indian Dispute

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-02-22T21:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/rim-says-competitors-tried-to-profit-from-indian-dispute-1-.html
  Research In Motion Ltd .’s
competitors have tried to profit from regulatory scrutiny the
BlackBerry maker faces in  India  by suggesting that it is the
only target of government pressure, the company said.  The Indian government has assured RIM it will “not be
singled out” by any policy on how products and services that
use encryption are regulated, the Waterloo, Ontario-based
company said.  Telecommunications regulators in several countries have
threatened to shut down BlackBerry services over concerns its
secure messaging could be used to foment social unrest or
coordinate terrorist attacks.  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab
Emirates  contemplated such steps last year before backing down.  “Some of RIM’s competitors have attempted to compound and
profit from the confusion by suggesting or implying that RIM’s
BlackBerry Enterprise Server software will be singled out by
Indian regulators,” the company said in the e-mailed statement.
The other companies suggested their own enterprise products and
services “will somehow escape scrutiny by the Government of
India, even though they also utilize end-to-end encryption.”  RIM’s statement today named several companies that use
encryption software in their products and services in India,
including  Apple Inc .,  Cisco Systems Inc ., Good Technology Inc.
and  Google Inc . The company did not name any company it said
tried to profit from regulatory pressure.  Monitoring E-mail  Indian authorities last year pressured RIM to allow the
country’s security agencies to monitor BlackBerry Messenger
service and Internet-based e-mail on the devices or face a
possible shutdown. On Jan. 14, RIM said it had offered a
solution to the Indian government to provide access.  When it comes to enterprise e-mail, RIM says it cannot let
foreign governments monitor the service because it is encrypted,
and the only people who can provide access are the businesses
and organizations that hold the encryption keys.  Robert Crow, RIM’s vice president of industry, government
and university relations, told reporters in  New Delhi  last month
that doubts about RIM’s ability to operate in the world’s
second-most-populous nation have hurt India’s reputation “as a
safe place to do investment” and made corporate customers
“nervous.”  The company’s stock fell $2.44, or 3.5 percent, to $67.42
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
shares have climbed 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  