-- 
Roche's `Brilliant Concept' Fades After Studies Make Cancer Doctors Pause

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-02-23T09:57:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/roche-s-brilliant-concept-fades-after-studies-make-cancer-doctors-pause.html
The Avastin medicine has largely
lived up to its billing as an innovative way to attack tumors,
along the way generating the most revenue for any cancer drug
while being  Roche Holding AG ’s best-selling treatment with 6.46
billion Swiss francs ($6.88 billion) in sales last year.  Only now are the limitations of Avastin, introduced in
2004, becoming clear to doctors. Even before U.S. regulators in
December moved to revoke the drug’s conditional approval for
treating breast cancer, Kent Osborne, a Texas oncologist, said
in an interview that he was reducing use of the drug, citing its
“huge” costs, disappointing benefits and frequent side
effects.  “We’re talking about breast cancer that has spread and
our job here, since we can’t cure patients yet, is to palliate
them,” said Osborne, director of  Baylor College of Medicine ’s
cancer center in Houston. “If you have a drug that makes their
quality of life worse, you haven’t accomplished that goal.”  Avastin, developed by Roche’s Genentech unit, is the first
commercial medicine to capitalize on a theory, first proposed 40
years ago, that tumor growth can be stopped by turning off a
cancer cell’s access to blood. Studies show Avastin, in
combination with chemotherapy, can extend life about five months
in patients with advanced colorectal tumors. Still, the drug has
failed to live up to early expectations that it would forestall
death for years in patients with cancer that has spread.  Peak Sales  In 2009, Bill Burns, then the head of pharmaceuticals at
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche, said the drug’s annual sales
might reach as much as 9 billion Swiss francs by this year.
Three weeks ago, however, Roche Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan said the drug’s sales may now only reach 7 billion
francs.  Avastin’s failure to win full U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval against  breast cancer  -- a market
estimated by researcher GlobalData to have been valued at $8.7
billion in 2009 -- is muting enthusiasm for Avastin, which works
by deactivating a chemical known as vascular endothelial growth
factor, or VEGF, which spurs blood-vessel growth. The drug’s
poor record against early-stage cancers, and survival gains of
only a few months for most patients with advanced cancer, are
additional reasons for the slowing sales growth.  ‘Brilliant Concept’  “The last time Avastin appeared to be a ‘revolutionary’
treatment was when it was a laboratory idea,” Leonard Saltz, a
research oncologist at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in  New York , said in an interview. “Stopping the blood supply to a
tumor is a brilliant concept, but in my opinion we have not
really succeeded in bringing it to fruition in clinical
trials.”  As doctors get a better sense of Avastin’s limits,
governments in Europe and U.S. insurers are questioning its
annual cost of as much as  $100,000 . The U.K.’s National
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in London has
refused to recommend the drug for any tumor type. The agency,
which advises the U.K. National Health Service on cost-effective
treatments, is carrying out additional reviews of the drug.  “Scientifically it’s a very important discovery, but in
the clinic it hasn’t been as significant as we thought it would
be,” said Lee Newcomer, an oncologist and vice president at
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc ., the biggest
U.S. health insurer by revenue. Newcomer said his view of the
drug is based on journal studies and on the FDA’s statements.  ‘Removal of Growth’  Roche shares have fallen 9.2 percent since July 16, when an
FDA staff review concluded the follow-up trials of Avastin
against breast cancer weren’t as positive as earlier tests. The
stock rose 60 centimes, or 0.4 percent, to 137.6 francs at 10:33
a.m. in Zurich trading.  “Clearly a lot of the premium that Roche had attracted was
based on Avastin growing and the removal of that growth does put
the consensus ‘buy’ case much more at risk,” said Amit Roy, an
analyst at Nomura International in  London . “It removes the
critical driver for the stock and from an investment point of
view, people are struggling to get excited about this story.”  Sales of Avastin may have peaked in 2010 and may fall to
about 5.7 billion francs by 2013, according to Roy, who has a
price target of 130 francs.  The FDA said on Dec. 16 that it was starting the process to
rescind Avastin’s accelerated approval granted in 2008 for use
against breast tumors. That provisional clearance was based on a
study that showed Avastin, combined with chemotherapy, slowed
the spread of breast cancer cells to other tissue by 5.5 months.  Study Failures  Two follow-up studies were unable to show a similar effect.
In one trial, Avastin kept cancer at bay for 0.9 months, while
the comparable figure in another study was 1.2 months. Neither
trial showed that Avastin prolonged the lives of the patients.  The FDA said patients given the medicine alongside
chemotherapy had more side effects than those on the traditional
cancer drugs alone. Two studies showed a trend toward an
increased rate of death among patients given Avastin, the FDA
said.  “They didn’t show that adding Avastin to a variety of
chemotherapeutic regimens improved or prolonged the life of
women with metastatic breast cancer,”  Janet Woodcock , director
of the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research in  Silver
Spring ,  Maryland , said on a conference call in December.  What the drug did do was add “many serious side effects,”
Woodcock said. “That’s sort of the bottom line.”  Appeal  Roche last month appealed the FDA’s decision to withdraw
marketing permission in breast cancer, saying the agency should
wait for results of a new study of Avastin with paclitaxel
chemotherapy. The Swiss drugmaker said Jan. 18 it requested a
hearing and that it expects to hear back from the FDA within 30
to 60 days.  “Since the introduction of Avastin we have seen that more
patients live longer without their disease getting worse, and in
some cancers Avastin prolongs survival,” Annette Walz, a
spokeswoman at Roche, said. The company continues to “stand
by” Avastin’s data in metastatic breast cancer, she said. The
drug can keep breast cancer under control for a certain time and
so the patient may benefit longer, Walz said.  “Avastin is and will forever be in the history books of
Roche one of the biggest success stories of this company,”
Roche’s CEO Schwan said in an interview Feb. 2. “It has
revolutionized the treatment of cancer. There’s already a
million patients who have been treated with Avastin -- that’s
what I call a real success story.”  Works in Some  The drug does work for some people, and that’s why doctors
prescribe it, said Larry Norton, an oncologist who specializes
in breast tumors at  Sloan-Kettering .  “There are some individuals who are getting enormous
benefit from Avastin even though on average the treatment
advantage is small,” Norton said. By “enormous,” Norton said
he means “many months of disease control” or even more than a
year for patients who benefit the most.  Sandy Walker, 62, is an example of the kind of success that
has encouraged doctors to keep trying the drug. Walker took part
in a clinical trial of Avastin after she was diagnosed with
advanced ovarian cancer in 2007. She took Avastin for 22 months,
keeping the tumor at bay. The cancer returned after she stopped
taking the drug at the end of the trial, and she has been back
on Avastin ever since. She says she hasn’t experienced any side
effects, though she’d be willing to accept them.  ‘Worth Any Risk’  “When I stopped Avastin and the cancer came back and then
went away again, it was worth any risk,” Walker said in an
interview from her home in Greensboro,  North Carolina . “I’m
going on four years now and when I was first diagnosed I didn’t
know if I’d have another six weeks.”  Roche  reported  Feb. 8 that Avastin, combined with
chemotherapy, delayed progression of ovarian cancer for a longer
time than chemotherapy alone. The company didn’t disclose
exactly how much more time the treatment provided before the
tumor began growing again, saying it would release the full
results at a science meeting.  The drug in all has received regulatory approval for
treating cancers of the colon, lung, kidney,  breast  and brain.
Avastin has failed to work in trials in gastric and prostate
cancer.  “When they’ve tried Avastin with first-line chemotherapies
outside the U.S., it has failed to boost survival in any
cancer,” Nomura’s Roy said. “When they’ve tried it in early-
stage cancers it’s failed in all tumors and the clinical data in
the current indications don’t support full penetration outside
the U.S. Avastin just isn’t as good as it appeared five years
ago.”  No Improvement  Avastin initially won approval in 2004 against colon  cancer 
that had spread to other organs after a study showed the drug
added about five months of life -- a record survival time --when
paired with a chemotherapy. In a 2006 follow-up trial,
researchers looked for similar improvement in survival. Instead,
they found that the addition of Avastin to two newer types of
chemotherapy, called Folfox and Xelox, checked growth for just
1.4 months and offered no significant improvement in survival.  “We all hoped and thought that the first study would be
the starting point,” said Saltz of Sloan-Kettering, who was the
lead investigator for the second clinical trial. “What we
didn’t realize was, it was about as good as it was going to
get.”  Tests with two types of chemotherapy against  lung cancer 
resulted in an outcome similar to that of the colorectal cancer
study: Avastin boosted overall survival and progression-free
survival when combined with carboplatin chemotherapy. When
combined with the slightly more powerful cisplatin chemotherapy,
which is more widely prescribed in  Europe , Avastin didn’t
improve overall survival and had a smaller effect on
progression-free survival, a study found.  Not Relevant  “I don’t think Avastin is clinically all that relevant in
lung cancer,” said Robert Pirker, a professor at the  Medical
University of Vienna . “The problem with Avastin is you don’t
have a proven survival benefit in patients given optimum
chemotherapy such as cisplatin-based chemotherapy.”  The study results have fueled speculation about how the
drug really works. The theory that Avastin kills tumors by
cutting off the blood supply is open to question because there’s
little evidence to indicate it works on its own, Saltz said.
Avastin may change the permeability of blood vessels, allowing
improved delivery of chemotherapy into the tumor, he said.  Axel Grothey, an oncologist who specializes in colorectal
cancer at the Rochester, Minnesota-based  Mayo Clinic , describes
Avastin as a “chemo equalizer,” saying it makes older
chemotherapies work better. There may be a limit to what can be
achieved by adding Avastin to the traditional treatments, he
said.  “If you have a weak chemotherapy backbone and you add
Avastin to it, the increase in effectiveness is quite
pronounced,” Grothey said. “If you already have a strong
chemotherapy backbone, like modern combination regimens, the
added benefit of Avastin is not as great anymore.” 