-- 
Trump’s Run for President Requires Memory Loss: Kevin Hassett

-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 
2011-02-22T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/trump-run-for-president-requires-memory-loss-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
After making a big splash at the
Conservative Political Action Conference in  Washington  this
month,  Donald Trump  was asked if he is considering a run for the
presidency.  “I’m incredibly tempted,” he responded.  If Trump gives in to temptation, his past actions and
positions may collectively provide the biggest handicap for a
major candidate in the history of presidential politics.  If he decides to run, Trump also will carry with him a host
of significant advantages. It would be wrong to dismiss him out
of hand as many political insiders have.  First of all, he is one of the most recognized men in
America, with the kind of instant and singular name recognition
shared by a very few.  Second, his public image is already well developed and
reasonably presidential, especially if one bases the judgment
solely on his professional life. He is a successful businessman
who has a magnetic leadership quality that has proven itself in
the  Nielsen ratings .  Third, given his  fortune , he can outspend the competition
from Day One and has already signaled that he would be willing
to spend “hundreds of millions of dollars.”  Finally, Trump could just be the right person at the right
time. Americans have signaled that they are fed up with politics
as usual and that they hunger for an outsider to restore reason.
They might respond favorably to a candidate that argues, as
Trump has, that “I am not a political pro trying to top off his
resume.”  Outpolling Gore  All of these advantages might add up to a potent candidacy
were Trump to run as an independent, as he considered doing in
1999 when, at one point, he polled ahead of Democratic
frontrunner  Al Gore .  Perhaps recognizing that an independent has little chance
in our two-party system, Trump now is a registered Republican
and would likely seek that nomination were he to run. That is
where the problem lies.  To be sure, Trump looked like a solid Republican
presidential candidate at the CPAC meeting and on subsequent
television appearances last week. He asserted, for example, in
an interview with Fox News host Greta Van Susteren that, “I’m
probably as conservative as anybody on your show, and that’s
going a pretty strong step. I’m Republican, a very conservative
Republican. I believe strongly in just about all conservative
principles, just about.”  Wild Odds  That statement might be true today, but Trump’s problem is
that it is wildly at odds with his history.  This is a man who was a registered Republican from 1987 to
1999, then switched to the Independence Party in October 1999.
In August 2001, he became a Democrat and flipped back to
Republican in 2009.  While such  peregrinations  can sometimes be characterized as
a philosophical journey, Trump would have trouble making that
case. He was hardly a reluctant Democrat.  “I probably identify more as a Democrat,” Trump told
Cable News Network’s Wolf Blitzer in 2004. “It just seems that
the economy does better under the Democrats than the
Republicans.”  He has also backed this up with hard cash, providing a
steady source of  contributions  to Democratic candidates, even
recently. Trump has given money to  Hillary Clinton ,  Kirsten Gillibrand , Charles Rangel and  Arlen Specter , and tossed $50,000
toward Obama’s former chief of staff,  Rahm Emanuel , to aid his
current quest to become  Chicago ’s next mayor.  Well-Known Conservatives  In the past, when asked about a possible cabinet were he to
be elected president, he listed favorably such committed
liberals as Rangel and  Oprah Winfrey .  Imagine what his opponents might do with this in a
Republican primary.  And his problems don’t stop with old campaign donations.
When Trump was considering a candidacy in 1999, he staked out
positions that were deeply at odds with his current stances.
Other Republican candidates, notably former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney, have similar problems, but Trump takes it
to a whole new level.  In 1999, he told Tim Russert on “Meet the Press,” “I am
pro-choice in every respect.” Last week he said to Van
Susteren, “I’m pro-life. I think that’s a big social issue.”  On health care, the old Trump said, “Our people are our
greatest asset. We must take care of our own. We must have
universal health care.” Today he promises to end the new
health-care law, and has added that, “I do not think it’s
constitutional.”  Too Radical  On  tax policy , he once called for a one-time levy of 14.25
percent on fortunes of more than $10 million. This government
seizure of private property seems too radical even for a
Democratic candidate. A wealth tax would give any card-carrying
conservative a heart attack. And it is a misguided policy. After
all, who would possibly trust the government not to try the  wealth tax  trick again at some point down the road? The capital
flight from the U.S. would be astonishing.  He appears to still have a tin ear on tax policy, calling
now for a 25 percent tax on all  imports  from  China , a measure
that would be terrifyingly similar to the Smoot-Hawley tariffs
that set off a trade war in 1930, and helped turn the stock
market crash of 1929 into the Great Depression.  Trump has an impressive history of achieving the seemingly
impossible. As he considers a presidential run, he should weigh
whether he can do it again, this time by persuading
conservatives to ignore his past.    Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the  American Enterprise Institute , is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  