-- 
Rupiah Falls as Investors Shun Riskier Assets on Middle East

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-02-22T10:24:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/rupiah-falls-as-investors-shun-riskier-assets-on-middle-east.html
  Indonesia ’s rupiah fell by the most
in more than a month on speculation investors are shunning
emerging-market assets as the political turmoil in the Middle
East spreads.  The currency retreated from a three-year year high as the
MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks dropped for a second
day. Demonstrations in  Libya , holder of Africa’s largest oil
reserves, intensified as protesters claimed control of the
second-biggest city, Benghazi, and Muammar Qaddafi’s son
threatened “rivers of blood” unless the uprising ends. Crude
oil surged to the highest price in more than two years in  London 
on concern turmoil in the region will disrupt supplies.  “There is risk aversion from events in the Middle East and
North Africa,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “All the Asian currencies,
including the rupiah, are seeing the impact as investors are
watching how the situation unfolds.”  The rupiah fell 0.4 percent to 8,883 per dollar as of 3:25
p.m. in Jakarta today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 8,828 yesterday, the strongest level since June 2007.  Anti-government demonstrations have spread across the
Middle East, which accounts for 36 percent of global crude-oil
output. The protests in Libya, Yemen and Bahrain follow ousters
of leaders in Tunisia and Egypt.  Government bonds rose, with the yield on the 8.25 percent
note due July 2021 falling 10 basis points to 8.7 percent,
according to midday prices by the Inter-Dealer Market
Association.  Overseas funds have increased their holdings of Indonesian
government debt to 198.8 trillion rupiah ($22.4 billion) as of
Feb. 18, from 195 trillion rupiah by the end of January,
according to the  finance ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  