-- 
Russia’s RTS Stock-Index Futures Decline on Turmoil in Libya

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-02-22T21:52:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/russia-s-rts-stock-index-futures-fall-at-start-of-trading.html
  Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
declined as violence intensified in Libya, pushing oil to a two-
year high and raising the prospect of higher fuel prices.  Futures on the RTS expiring in March dropped 1 percent to
183,340 at 3:50 p.m. New York time yesterday. Contracts on OAO
Gazprom, the natural-gas export monopoly, slid 0.8 percent.
Futures on OAO Lukoil, the country’s second-biggest oil
producer, fell 0.3 percent. Russian markets are closed today for
Defenders of the Fatherland Day.  “There is some  risk aversion  taking place,”  Luis Saenz ,
the London-based director of international sales at brokerage
Otkritie Securities Ltd., said in a telephone interview. The
“repercussions from what’s happening in Libya” are weighing on
stocks, he said.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed yesterday to fight a
growing rebellion until his “last drop of blood” and pledged
to deploy the army and police to impose order. Continued
protests “will lead to civil war,” Qaddafi said from the
capital, Tripoli.  Qaddafi’s crackdown on a weeklong uprising has already left
more than 200 dead, according to  Human Rights Watch . In
Benghazi, the independence flag of the constitutional monarchy
overthrown by Qaddafi in 1969 flew on streets and over several
buildings.  Oil for March delivery jumped 8.6 percent to $93.57 a
barrel on concern that supplies will be disrupted amid the
turmoil in the Middle East. Brent crude for April settlement
gained 0.5 percent to $106.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange yesterday.  Libya  holds Africa’s largest
oil reserves.  Stocks Fall  Global equities fell yesterday with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index plunging 2.1 percent and the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index declining 1.7 percent.  The 30-stock Micex Index fell yesterday as much as 1.8
percent and closed 0.7 percent lower at 1,700.98 in Moscow. OAO
Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, slipped 1.9 percent and OAO
Severstal, the largest steelmaker, retreated 1.2 percent.
Gazprom dropped 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  