-- 
Russian President Medvedev Says Arab World May ‘Fall to Pieces’

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-02-22T15:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/russian-president-medvedev-says-arab-world-may-fall-to-pieces-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said extremism may spread in the Middle East, causing Arab
states to “fall to pieces,” following a wave of discontent in
the region.  “Look at the situation in the Middle East and the Arab
world,” he told a security meeting today in the city of
Vladikavkaz in the volatile Russian North Caucasus region in
comments broadcast by state television. “It is quite possible
that complicated events will take place including fanatics
coming to power. It will mean fires for decades and a further
spread of extremism.”  Uprisings have toppled regimes in Tunisia and  Egypt , with
demonstrations spreading to Bahrain, Yemen,  Iran  and  Algeria .
Violence intensified in  Libya  yesterday as the government
attacked protesters and rebels claimed control of the second-
biggest city, Benghazi.  Medvedev said a similar scenario had been prepared for  Russia , but it wouldn’t succeed. He didn’t specify to whom he
was referring.  Separately, Medvedev called on citizens to help domestic
law-enforcement agencies to fight terrorism.  Last month’s suicide bombing at Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport
killed 36 people including foreigners and injured dozens more in
the second major attack on the Russian capital in less than a
year. Chechen rebel leader Doku Umarov claimed responsibility
for both bombings and vowed a “year of blood and tears” for
Russia.  “Those who seek blood will get bogged down in their own
blood,” Medvedev said today. “Neither we, nor other countries,
can afford a different approach. Even those who fiercely
criticized us 10 years ago understand it now.”  Chechen rebels fought two wars against the federal
government since 1994. The separatist movement grew into an
Islamist insurgency that took its fight to neighboring provinces
in Russia’s mostly Muslim North Caucasus region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  