-- 
Russia’s Nabiullina Advocates Tripling Debt to Support Growth

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-02-22T16:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/russia-s-nabiullina-advocates-tripling-debt-to-support-growth.html
  Russia  may almost triple the amount
of sovereign debt over the next two decades as the government
boosts spending to diversify the economy of the world’s biggest
energy supplier, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said.  State debt may rise to 27 percent of gross domestic product
without reaching a “critical” level, Nabiullina told reporters
in Moscow today. Government debt currently stands at 9.5 percent
of GDP, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said Feb. 2.  The government may need to continue running a deficit for
two decades to meet its spending commitments, Nabiullina said.
The shortfall may average between 2 percent and 3 percent of GDP
a year to 2030 to fund infrastructure, pension and health-care
reforms, lifting the level of state debt above 30 percent after
2025, according to the ministry’s explanatory note submitted to
the government Feb. 10.  “This debt is safe from the point of view of not putting
pressure on private investments,” Nabiullina said. “Of course,
the smaller the debt, the better.”  The Economy Ministry has two scenarios for Russia’s
economic development through 2030, one based on “inertia” and
the other on innovation, which proposes earmarking extra funds
for education and research, Nabiullina said. Both forecasts are
based on Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, rising by
about 1 percent annually in real terms to $101 per barrel in
2020 and $140 per barrel in 2030.  Budget Deficit  The  Finance Ministry  is trying to narrow the budget
shortfall from a 2010 gap of 3.9 percent. Urals crude averaged
$94.4 per barrel in 2008 before plummeting to $61.1 the
following year, helping swing the budget from a 4.1 percent
surplus to a 5.9 percent gap, Kudrin  said  last week in
Krasnoyarsk, Russia.  “When people say to me, let’s run a 3 percent deficit when
oil costs $90 per barrel, I think that’s a hopeless policy,”
Kudrin said. “State debt can’t be more than 30 percent.”  That level would pose dangers for Russia because of the
country’s dependence on volatile revenue from oil, according to
Kudrin. Increased state borrowing would also choke companies’
ability to raise funds, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in  London  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net . 