-- 
RWE Said to Plan $11 Billion in Asset Sales; Shares Climb

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-02-22T16:41:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/rwe-said-to-plan-11-billion-in-asset-sales-starting-with-german-network.html
  RWE AG  plans to sell about 8 billion
euros ($11 billion) of assets, starting with its German power
network, as the country’s second-largest utility cuts debt,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  RWE is in talks to sell a majority stake in its Amprion
grid in  Germany  to a group of investors led by Commerzbank AG,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the plan
is confidential. The Essen-based company may dispose of assets
in the U.K., one of the people said. RWE is scheduled to update
investors on its strategy on Feb. 24 after supervisory board
meetings this week.  RWE, led by Chief Executive Officer Juergen Grossmann, and
its biggest competitors in Germany will see their earnings
sliced by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s plan to tax nuclear power
plants to help plug the  budget deficit . E.ON AG and Vattenfall
AB have sold  power lines  in Germany to satisfy European Union
regulators, reduce debt and save on spending.  “The German nuclear tax is really the decisive factor for
RWE’s disposals,” said Peter Wirtz, an analyst at WestLB AG in
Dusselfdorf. “The tax saps cash flows, and RWE’s earnings
aren’t rebounding as fast as they had expected.”  RWE rose 0.5 percent to close at 52.50 euros in Frankfurt,
valuing the company at about 29.5 billion euros. The shares have
lost 19 percent in the last year.  Nuclear Tax  Germany’s planned 2.3 billion-euro nuclear fuel tax and
contributions to a government-run renewable energy fund will cut
RWE’s annual recurrent net income, which it uses to calculate
its dividend, by 500 million euros starting in 2011, the company
said in September.  “Utility shares were really ploughed into the ground last
year,” Thomas Deser, a Frankfurt-based  fund manager  with Union
Investment, said earlier this month. “The horror scenario that
has been priced into the German utility stocks may have been
largely theoretical.”  Union Investment has more than 170 billion euros of assets
under management including more than 1 percent of E.ON and RWE
respectively.  RWE may reach a deal on selling as much as 75 percent of
the  Amprion network company  by April if the parties can agree on
the profits they stand to earn, the people said. The
Commerzbank-led investor group, which could have as many as
eight members, wants to fix its return over the next 10 years,
said the person. The grid may be valued at 2 billion euros
including debt, said WestLB’s Wirtz.  ‘Vale of Tears’  RWE is considering institutional investors as partners in
its extra-high-voltage grid to share investment costs,
spokeswoman Annett Urbaczka said in an e-mail. She declined to
comment further. Commerzbank spokeswoman Sandra Fohlmeister
declined to comment.  “RWE may say this week that while the company will go
through a vale of tears it will come out and do well in three
years,” said Michael Schaefer, an Equinet AG analyst with an
“accumulate” recommendation on the stock. “The question is
whether investors will go with them.”  Schaefer said he expects RWE to sweeten shareholders by
setting an annual dividend floor of 3.10 euros share for the
period through 2013 and pay 3.50 euros for last year, unchanged
from the payment for 2009.  In the U.K., RWE’s npower unit produces about 8 percent of
the country’s electricity and serves about 6.7 million
residential and business customers. RWE paid 5.2 billion pounds
($8.6 billion) for Innogy Holdings Plc, now npower, in 2002.  Fixed Returns  RWE may focus on selling holdings in German municipal
utilities and eastern European assets as it currently “isn’t a
good time” to sell power generation assets because of a squeeze
in profits from burning fuels to produce electricity, said
Schaefer, who is based in  Frankfurt .  The fees German power grid operators can charge are
determined by the Bonn-based Federal Network Agency, the
industry’s regulator, which makes fixing the return for the
prospective investors in Amprion more difficult, said the
person.  RWE may sell a stake in Amprion to a company that doesn’t
compete with RWE in power generation or transmission, such as a
financial investor, a person familiar with the matter said in
October. RWE wants to maintain the division as part of the
company and remain the operator of its assets, the person said
at the time.  Antitrust Approval  Amprion has an 11,000-kilometer (6,840-mile) grid that
supplies about 27 million people in western and southern
Germany, according to its website. The division, which is based
in the German city of Dortmund, had 5.7 billion euros in revenue
in 2009, according to RWE’s report on the period.  Dutch electricity-grid operator TenneT BV won European
Union antitrust approval to buy E.ON’s network for 1.1 billion
euros in February last year. Elia System Operator NV,  Belgium ’s
high-voltage grid operator, and Industry Funds Management Ltd.
won EU approval for their 810 million-euro purchase of
Vattenfall’s German power lines in May.  “Insecurity is never good for a stock,” said Deser at
Union Investment. “RWE probably won’t have a firework of a
share price, but there may be a stabilization” after the
strategy day. “Grossmann will be able to show that the company
still has a strong dividend and that it can pick itself up when
energy prices rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  