-- 
Saint-Gobain Said to Rebuff Buyout Firm Approaches for Packaging Unit

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-02-22T13:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/saint-gobain-said-to-rebuff-buyout-approaches-for-packaging-unit-verallia.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA,  Europe ’s
biggest supplier of building materials, has rebuffed approaches
from buyout firms for its packaging unit in favor of an initial
public offering, four people familiar with the situation said.  Private equity firms including a group formed by TPG
Capital, Blackstone Group LP and Axa Private Equity have renewed
interest in conducting due diligence and making an offer, said
the people, who declined to be identified as talks were private.
Saint-Gobain is considering the IPO option only, they said.  Saint-Gobain, based in Courbevoie near Paris, may sell a
minority stake in Verallia, which makes beverage bottles and
food jars, in an IPO this year, the company said Oct. 13. Chief
Executive Officer Pierre-Andre de Chalendar postponed an attempt
to sell the unit because of the onset of the financial crisis in
2008. A share sale may value Verallia at more than 4 billion
euros ($5.4 billion), two of the people said.  “Listing the unit isn’t a completely satisfactory solution
because they will have to offer a discount of 10 percent to 15
percent,” said Sven Edelfelt, a Paris-based Aurel-BGC analyst.  Saint-Gobain’s listing of Verallia could go ahead from the
second quarter, “market conditions permitting,” said company
spokeswoman Sophie Chevallon. She declined to comment on
potential suitors.  Leveraged buyout firms including the TPG-led group and
Apollo Global Management LLC worked on purchasing the whole unit
when it was first put up for sale four years ago. The buyout
firms are confident they will get funding as banks are resuming
lending, the people said.  ‘Ready to Proceed’  Industrial companies including Irish packaging maker Ardagh
Glass Ltd. also submitted a bid in 2007 and held talks again
with Saint-Gobain to purchase Verallia about a year ago, one of
the people said. After failing to reach an accord with Saint-
Gobain, Ardagh instead went on to purchase Impress Cooperative
U.A. for 1.7 billion euros from private equity firm Doughty
Hanson & Co in September.  Under pressure from Saint-Gobain shareholders, including
Paris-based investment firm Wendel, which holds a 17 percent
stake, de Chalendar said in November he’ll use the proceeds to
buy back shares, boost the dividend, and make small- and medium-
sized acquisitions in Europe,  Asia  and  South America .  Officials for Axa SA’s private equity unit, Blackstone and
TPG declined to comment. Ed Micheau, an outside spokesman for
Ardagh, declined to comment.  The Saint-Gobain unit is the world’s second-largest
packaging business after  Owens-Illinois Inc ., based in
Perrysburg,  Ohio , which had $6.63 billion of sales in 2010. The
U.S. company, which has a market value of $5.1 billion, or 6.4
times its operating profit, said on Jan. 27 that organic sales
may grow in a range of 2 percent to 5 percent in 2011.  Mixed History  Verallia, which employs 15,000 people, had 3.45 billion
euros of revenue and an operating income of 437 million euros in
2009. Europe accounted for 57 percent of its sales,  North
America  for 32 percent, and Asia and emerging countries for just
11 percent.  Sales  were little changed in the first nine months.  Saint-Gobain sold two of its units to private equity firms
in the past decade. In 2003, it sold Terreal to Carlyle Group
Inc. and Eurazeo for 400 million euros. The buyout firms sold
the tile and bricks maker for 860 million euros two years later.  In 2007, Saint-Gobain then sold perfume bottle maker
Desjonqueres to buyout firms Cognetas LLP and Sagard Private
Equity Partners for 670 million euros, this time retaining a 20
percent stake. The investment was wiped out last year after the
company failed to meet obligations on its debt and creditors
took it over.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at
   achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 