-- 
SAP Eyes Wider Market With Real-Time Business Analytics Software

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-02-22T21:12:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/sap-eyes-wider-market-with-data-analytics-software-that-can-run-on-mobile.html
  SAP AG , the world’s largest maker of
business applications, said an update of its data-analysis
software will broaden its customer base and provide more revenue
potential.  SAP is currently shipping to some customers the fourth
version of programs from  BusinessObjects , the company it bought
for $6.8 billion in 2008. The edition, which will be released
generally in May, will be introduced at an event in  New York 
tomorrow. The software has a more user-friendly design and can
integrate and analyze data from multiple sources.  “There’s a lot of pent-up demand,” said Dave Weisbeck,
senior vice president for SAP’s solution management, business
intelligence and enterprise-information management. The software
can run on smartphones and tablet computers, opening it to new
users who want to analyze data from their own operations or from
social media comments on the Web, he said.  Within companies that have SAP’s business-intelligence
software, probably only about 10 percent to 15 percent of
employees actually use it. The ability to use the analytics tool
on mobile devices will make it more widely accepted, Weisbeck
said in an interview. SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , competes
with  Oracle Corp .,  International Business Machines Corp ., EMC
Corp., and Teradata Corp. in the data-analysis sofware market.  SAP gained 41 cents to 43.72 euros today in Frankfurt
trading.  IPad, Android  Sanjay Poonen, president of SAP’s Solutions Go-to-Market,
said that BusinessObjects 4.0 will be included in the annual
software maintenance fees for customers using BusinessObjects
3.0.  In December, SAP delivered “in-memory”  database software 
called  Hana  that can hold hundreds of millions of database
records. For example, the program can store years’ worth of
sales data in a computer’s memory, instead of retrieving it from
disk drives. SAP is working with companies including Hewlett-
Packard Co. and IBM to sell server computers with the Hana
software installed.  A company with about 100,000 employees will probably have
to pay in the single-digit millions of dollars to get the in-
memory technology with BusinessObjects 4.0, Poonen said in an
interview. “A larger deployment onto mobile devices is another
seven figures,” he said.  The software will be available on various mobile devices
including  Apple Inc .’s iPad, and will support mobile-operating
systems including  Google Inc .’s Android and  Microsoft Corp .’s
Windows Phone 7. SAP won’t immediately deliver a version for
HP’s WebOS operating system.  “We’re going to go where the market share is pushing us,”
Poonen said.  Important, Incremental  The release is a first step for  in-memory technology , which
lets users access and analyze data in real time, Poonen and
Weisbeck said. In the future, it will be available as a database
that underpins SAP’s Business By Design software, which users
can access over the Web.  Frank Niemann, a consultant for Pierre Audoin Consultants
in Munich, said SAP customers have been waiting for the software
to be better integrated with SAP programs.  “It’s an important, if incremental, update,” Niemann said.
He doesn’t anticipate the product will “storm the market.”  Co-Chief Executive Officer Bill McDermott said in January
that the company outpaced the competition in business analytics
and snared 200 customers from rivals in the fourth quarter.  SAP said last month that operating profit will rise as much
as 16 percent this year to between 4.45 billion euros ($6.1
billion) and 4.65 billion euros this year from 4 billion euros
in 2010. Software and related-services sales will climb 10
percent to 14 percent from 9.87 billion euros. Both forecasts
are based on constant currencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  