-- 
Sarkozy’s Popularity Hits Record Low, Le Pen’s Rises, Poll Shows

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-02-22T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/sarkozy-s-popularity-hits-record-low-le-pen-s-rises-poll-shows.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
approval rating fell to the lowest since his May 2007 election,
while the far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen’s
popularity rose, a BVA survey showed.  Sixty-six percent of respondents in the survey by  BVA , a
Paris-based polling institute, said they have a bad or rather
bad opinion of the French leader, 5 percentage points more than
last month. Sarkozy’s approval rating dropped 4 points to 30
percent, the poll conducted for  L’Express  weekly magazine,
France Inter radio and the Orange mobile phone company showed.  Marine Le Pen, daughter of the  National Front ’s historic
leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, who retired last year, is attracting
more supporters. Her approval rating gained 3 points to 22
percent. Backing for Le Pen among “right-wing” voters,
including supporters of Sarkozy’s  Union for a Popular Movement 
party, climbed 14 percentage point in one month to 43 percent.  Prime Minister Francois Fillon’s approval rating declined 7
points to 43 percent, the poll showed.  The approval rating for International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the potential
opposition Socialist party candidate to Sarkozy in next year’s
presidential race, dropped 5 percentage points to 52 percent,
according to BVA. More than half of the respondents, or 52
percent, said they would want Strauss-Kahn to win the election
while 21 percent said they wanted Sarkozy to win.  Strauss-Kahn’s approval rating among “left-wing” voters
fell 3 points this month to 57 percent while Socialist Party
leader  Martine Aubry ’s popularity advanced to 62 percent.  BVA surveyed 982 people age 18 or older on Feb. 18-19. The
Paris-based polling agency didn’t publish a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 