-- 
Sazka, Takefuji, Espanola del Zinc, Arcandor, Quinn: Bankruptcy

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-02-22T15:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/sazka-takefuji-espanola-del-zinc-arcandor-quinn-bankruptcy.html
Three investment companies have made
offers to acquire a majority stake in Sazka AS, a Czech lottery
operator that has missed payments on its debt,  Hospodarske
Noviny  reported today, citing Sazka shareholders and the
investment companies.  Penta Investments and E-Invest have jointly offered to put
1.7 billion koruna ($94.4 million) into Sazka in exchange for a
54 percent stake, and KKCG, owned by Czech entrepreneur Karel
Komarek, has offered 2.8 billion koruna for 67 percent, the
newspaper reported. Entrepreneur Radovan Vitek has offered 1
billion for 100 percent of Sazka, it said.  Komarek and Vitek have bought part of Sazka’s debt and they
have both filed for an insolvency procedure against the lottery
company.  Takefuji Overcharged Interest at $29 Billion, Filing Shows    Takefuji Corp ., the bankrupt Japanese consumer lender,
overcharged customers a total of 2.4 trillion yen ($29 billion)
in interest as of Oct. 31, according to a court document
obtained by Bloomberg News.  That’s more than eight times the 273 billion yen Takefuji
set aside for repayment claims as of March 2010, according to
the document filed by the Tokyo-based company on Jan. 31. If
Takefuji repaid all the overcharged interest, that would leave
it with 75 billion yen in outstanding loans, the document said.
Kentaro Itai, a spokesman for Takefuji, declined to comment.  The filing comes as Takefuji approaches its Feb. 28
deadline for customer repayment claims and seeks a sponsor to
resume operations. Takefuji went bankrupt in September, becoming
the biggest casualty of a government crackdown that capped  interest rates  at 20 percent and restricted lending to about a
third of a borrower’s annual income.  “The figure of 2.4 trillion yen is a bit higher than
earlier expected,” said Takehiro Tsuda, a Tokyo-based analyst
at Citigroup Global Markets Japan. “But the reduced balance of
outstanding loans is unlikely to dissuade potential sponsors”
because the actual amount of interest repayments will probably
be smaller, he said.  Espanola del Zinc Ends Appeal Against Bankruptcy, Board Resigns    Espanola del Zinc SA  ended an appeal against bankruptcy
proceedings after the investor who planned to take over the
company withdrew a funding proposal, the company said in a stock
market filing yesterday. The company’s board resigned and will
cease to work for Espanola del Zinc when the process of
liquidation begins.    Zimbabwe ’s Royal Bank Reopens After Six Years, Newsday Reports  Royal Bank of Zimbabwe Ltd. reopened yesterday after a six-
year closure,  Newsday  reported, citing Chief Executive Officer
Jeff Mzwimbi.  The closely held lender was closed by Zimbabwe’s central
bank after failing to meet minimum  capital requirements  amid
Zimbabwe’s decade-long economic crisis, the Harare-based
newspaper said. Royal now plans to lend primarily to farmers,
Newsday reported.  Goerg Files Second Suit Against Middelhoff, FT Deutschland Says  German insolvency administrator Klaus  Hubert Goerg  filed a
second suit for exaggerated business expenses and excessive
bonuses against Thomas Middelhoff, the former chief executive
officer of bankrupt retailer  Arcandor AG ,  Financial Times
Deutschland  reported yesterday, citing an unidentified Goerg
spokesman.  Middelhoff charged Arcandor for some private flights and
flights for his previous employer, the newspaper said, citing
Goerg. Middelhoff and some other executives at Arcandor also
received and agreed on bonuses that were too high, according to
the FTD.  “There hasn’t been any violation of duty by my client
Thomas Middelhoff,” the managers’ lawyer Winfried Holtermueller
said in an e-mailed statement from Middelhoff’s spokesman Feb.
19.  French Pharmacies Face Bankruptcy Risk, Le Parisien Reports  French pharmacy sales are falling after a government effort
to rein in health care costs and 24 percent of France’s 22,259
pharmacies are at “strong risk” of bankruptcy in 2011, Le
Parisien  reported  Feb. 20, citing estimates by credit-insurance
company Coface.    France  on average has one pharmacy for every 2,849
inhabitants, and 126 pharmacies went out of business last year,
according to the newspaper. The number of pharmacy bankruptcies
in 2010 was three times that in 2006, Le Parisien said.  Quinn Insurance Administrators Say Sale Delayed by Irish Vote  Quinn Insurance Ltd.’s sale has been delayed by Ireland’s
general election, administrators of the insurer said in an e-
mail to staff last week.  “We have completed our work, but there are a number of
matters that need to be finalized by other parties before a
decision on the sale can be announced,” the administrators
said. The e-mail was confirmed by Kevin Sammon, a spokesman for
the administrators. The election is set for Feb. 25.  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Ltd. and Liberty Mutual Group Inc.,
the Boston-based insurer, may be named joint preferred bidder
for Quinn Insurance Ltd., two people with knowledge of the talks
said on Feb. 9.  Zurich Financial Services AG  has also been in
talks to buy Quinn, they said.  With reporting by  Peter Laca  in  Prague , Omar Valdimarsson in  London , Ben Sills in  Madrid  and Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo,
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf, Brian Latham in Durban, Rudy
Ruitenberg in Paris, Joe Brennan in Dublin.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  