-- 
Bernanke to Get Inflation, Scots Pension Fund Manager Says

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-02-22T13:33:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/scottish-fund-manager-says-matter-of-time-before-bernanke-gets-inflation.html
Inflation in the U.S. may accelerate
more quickly and spook some investors as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  stokes the economy, according to
Edinburgh’s largest manager of money for outside clients.  “If Bernanke wants inflation he’s going to get it,”
Gerald Smith, 48, who helps oversee 72 billion pounds ($117
billion) as deputy chief investment officer of  Baillie Gifford &
Co. , said in an interview at his Edinburgh office. “I have
personally been surprised that U.S. inflation hasn’t picked up
already, but that’s a matter of time.”  The Fed injected $600 billion into the  U.S. economy  on Nov.
3 with a program of buying Treasuries in a second round of so-
called quantitative easing. It initially spent $1.7 trillion
after the financial crisis to end the recession.  Consumer prices rose by more than economists had forecast
in January for a second consecutive month led by the cost of
buying food and fuel, according to a government report on Feb.
17. The year-on-year inflation rate rose to 1.6 percent from 1.5
percent the previous month and 1.1 percent in November.  Expectations of inflation are rising in the U.S. as
measured by the five-year breakeven rate, which is derived from
the yield difference between regular and inflation-linked
Treasuries. The rate rose 4 basis points today to 2.10
percentage points compared with 1.13 percent on Aug. 24. The
last time it closed that high was in August 2008, the month
before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Managing Dollars  Baillie Gifford, which was founded in 1908, manages assets
for seven of the world’s largest 15 pension funds, including the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the largest U.S.
retirement plan, according to its  website . Other clients include
 Vanguard Group Inc. , the world’s largest mutual fund company.  Smith uses the  Billion Prices Project , which tracks the
daily prices of online goods in several countries around the
world, as one indicator of future price movements.  Founded by Professors Roberto Rigobon and Alberto Cavallo
at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan School of
Management , the index shows  U.S. prices  rising at their fastest
rate since at least July 2008.  “That is actually starting to show some upward signs in
inflation so I think U.S. inflation will surprise on the
upside,” Smith said. “Now maybe it’s going to lag behind other
markets, but certainly the trend is going to be upwards.”  Lagging Rate  The U.S. consumer price index in January was the fifth-
lowest among 78 countries according to data collated by
Bloomberg. In the U.K., the main rate of inflation jumped to an
annual 4 percent last month and it’s above that level in
countries such as  China  and  South Korea .  One reason why U.S. inflation is lagging is because the
“massive expansion” of the monetary base was offset by
borrowers repaying debt, said Smith, who takes over as chief
investment officer in April.  The  Bank of England  is acting as if it has the same dual
mandate as the Fed to encourage growth as well as curbing price
rises, Smith said in the Feb. 17 interview. It has kept interest 
rates at a record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009.  “They don’t have a mandate for growth,” Smith said. “If
they were just acting on the inflationary outlook I think they
would be raising  interest rates . Their inflation forecast has
been absolutely horrendous, that is a statement of fact.”  Smith, who has philosophy degrees from St. Andrews
University and Oxford University, joined Baillie Gifford in
1987. He was head of emerging-market stocks from 1997 to 2008
when he became deputy chief investment officer. He still manages
Monks Investment Trust Plc, a 919 million-pound closed-end fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net . 