-- 
Serbia Has Staff-Level Agreement With IMF, Chief of Mission Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-02-22T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/serbia-has-staff-level-agreement-with-imf-chief-of-mission-says.html
Serbia and the  International
Monetary Fund  reached a staff-level agreement on completion of
an ongoing loan, paving the way for the IMF board to give a
positive assessment by end-March, chief of mission Albert Jaeger
said.  To have the program approved by the IMF board by March 30,
Serbia needs to send to Parliament a new corporate debt
restructuring law that will set up the framework to deal with
private sector corporate debts on a voluntary basis, Jaeger said
in an interview today in Belgrade.  “The main issues remain 2011 fiscal targets given
pressures from trade unions to raise wages,” Jaeger said adding
that compliance with public sector-wage restrictions is vital to
maintain the support of the lender. “We have to give our board
assurances.”    Serbia  has relied on a 3 billion-euro ($4.1 billion)
bailout loan from the IMF since mid-2009 to offset external
liquidity pressures amid capital flight triggered by the global
financial turmoil that hurt the country in late 2008. The Balkan
nation is wants to lure new investment as it emerges from its
first recession since 1999, when a NATO bombing aimed at forcing
the country’s troops out of  Kosovo  destroyed most of its
infrastructure.  “The stress here is one-off, so that we have no carry-over
effects to the 2012 budget.” If Serbia slips on its wage
commitments, the IMF “will probably have to reconsider the
program.”  Getting inflation back into an acceptable target range
remains the key monetary policy challenge, he said.  “Clearly, the central bank has responded forcefully to the
inflation surprise” and “they are on track to probably achieve
their target,” he said.  Serbia’s end-2010 inflation rate was 10.3 percent and the
National Bank of Serbia seeks to bring it down to around 6
percent by the end of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  