-- 
Seven Thailand Protest Leaders Jailed Since May Granted Bail

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-02-22T08:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/seven-thailand-protest-leaders-jailed-since-may-granted-bail-1-.html
A Thai court granted bail to seven
leaders of anti-government demonstrations jailed since a
military crackdown in May, meeting a key demand from the protest
group after it threatened to stage larger rallies.  The suspects will be released after they post bail of
600,000 ($19,582) baht each, according to a Criminal Court judge
whose name was withheld for security reasons. They are among 19
people charged with terrorism for leading Red Shirt
demonstrators in protests last year that killed 91 people and
led to arson attacks.  The Red Shirts, backed by exiled former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , have held bi-weekly rallies in Bangkok to
pressure the court to release the imprisoned leaders. The group
occupied a Bangkok business district for six weeks last year to
push for an immediate election.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said on Feb. 9 an election
would be held by the end of June, about six months before his
term is set to expire. Abhisit took power in a 2008
parliamentary vote after a court disbanded the pro-Thaksin
ruling party for election fraud, and has faced protests from the
Red Shirts ever since.  Those set to be released include Nattawut Saikuar, a former
government spokesman, and Weng Tojirakarn, who participated in
televised negotiations with Abhisit before the May 19 crackdown.
Weng’s wife, Thida Thavornseth, became acting chairwoman of the
Red Shirts, formerly known as the  United Front  for Democracy
Against Dictatorship, after his imprisonment.  The court also granted bail to another Red Shirt supporter
who served as an aide to the leaders, the judge said. The
defendants cannot leave the country or incite protests, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  