-- 
Billionaires May Lose From Push to Halt U.K. Libel Tourism

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-02-22T09:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/sheikhs-billionaires-may-lose-from-attack-on-u-k-libel-tourism.html
A Saudi Arabian sheikh and a
Ukrainian businessman may be among the last of the so-called
libel tourists in the U.K.  The government  may rewrite defamation laws that currently
allow a non-citizen to sue a foreign media outlet for
reputational damage claims in the U.K. That would close the 
door for people who’ve sometimes used  London  courts to silence
critics. U.S. film director  Roman Polanski , former California
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and Russian billionaire  Boris Berezovsky  have won suits filed under the statute.  Labeling the law a “laughing stock,” Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  vowed to publish a draft bill this spring,
targeting libel tourism and the high costs of bringing suit. 
The law, whose critics say it’s only accessible to the rich, 
dates back to Victorian times and is plaintiff-friendly, 
placing the burden of proof on the defendant, contrary to laws
in the U.S. and most of continental  Europe .  “Britain’s libel law is not only archaic and outdated but
incredibly expensive,” said Mike Harris, public affairs
consultant at Libel Reform, citing hourly legal fees of 400
pounds ($650). “The law is used by rich people who will pay
whatever they can to defend their reputations.”  Ukrainian billionaire Dimitry Firtash is suing the Kyiv
Post, a Kiev, Ukraine-based newspaper, over a story on his gas
company, RosUkrEergo AG, which he says suggests corruption.
Saudi sheikh Mohammed Hussein Ali Al Amoudi is suing over a
story in the U.S.-based Ethiopian Review website that he says
alleges family improprieties. The jurisdiction hearing in the
Firtash case is slated for Feb. 24.  Overblown  Advocates of the current law say the debate is overblown,
pointing out that few libel cases make it to trial.  “Unlike in the U.S., we balance the right to reputation
with freedom of speech,” said Nigel Tait, a partner at
prominent British libel law firm  Carter-Ruck , who has
represented Elton John and  Simon Cowell . “Our laws and
procedures are fair all around.”  The changes will only drive fees up with claimants having
to prove more and lawyers racking up more hours, he said.  “We have a reputation for fairness and honesty,” he said,
adding that individuals from former Soviet Union countries and
the Middle East often choose London to file claims because
courts are more neutral.  Firtash’s Case  The Firtash suit says the Kyiv Post article alleges
“massive criminal corruption” that could threaten the “fiscal
stability” of Ukraine and “the energy security of Europe.”
His lawyer, Simon Smith, declined to comment on the matter.  According to Kyiv Post editor Brian Bonner,  Firtash said 
his reputation was damaged even though barely anyone in the U.K.
read the article. The newspaper has since blocked U.K. access to
its website, fearing similar claims. Bonner said the newspaper
is ready to settle the case.  “We’re a Ukrainian newspaper and he’s a Ukrainian
businessman and 30 people downloaded this in the U.K.,” Bonner
said. “If we lose, estimates are this could cost $1.5 million
in fees, which is a huge price for an independent paper sold two
years ago for $1.1 million.”  Saudi sheikh Al Amoudi, who owns several properties in the
U.K., said a story in the U.S.-based Ethiopian Review website
has subjected him to “serious libel centered around one of his
young, unmarried daughters.”  “The Al Amoudi case is definitely libel tourism because
Sheikh Al Amoudi lives for the most part outside the U.K. and is
not a British citizen and the majority of readers of the
Ethiopian Review are outside the U.K.,” Libel Reform’s Harris
said. He said the draft bill is expected in late March.  U.K. Interests  The sheik, through a spokesman, disagreed with any
characterization of his claim as libel tourism and said that
“the libels have been published via an international website
with a considerable readership in the U.K.”  He also added that “the publisher of these allegations has
for a long time been critical of the sheikh.”  Al Amoudi’s lawyer, Ruth Hoy, couldn’t be reached for
comment on the case. The statement said the suit was brought in
the U.K. “because of the considerable connections that the
sheikh and his family have to the U.K., where significant
publication and damage has occurred.”  President  Barack Obama  last year signed a bill protecting
U.S. writers from foreign libel judgments. The Speech Act
prevents foreign libel judgments not in line with the U.S.
Constitution from being enforced.  Low Threshold  The issue came to the fore after American author Rachel Ehrenfeld was sued in London by Saudi billionaire Khalid bin Mahfouz for alleging his links to funding terrorism, even though
only 23 copies of the book were sold in the U.K.  “People can bring cases here that they simply shouldn’t be
able to; the threshold is so low,” said David Hooper, a lawyer
at law firm Reynolds Porter Chamberlain. “We need to get to
grips with the Internet age.”  The Web has made publications and articles borderless,
rendering current U.K. laws obsolete, some lawyers say.  “We have outdated Victorian libel laws and the assumption
that everyone tells the truth is ridiculous,” said  Mark Stephens , a media lawyer who worked on the Ehrenfeld case and is
defending the Kyiv Post and Ethiopian Review. Stephens
represents several media organizations in the U.K., including
Bloomberg News.  Victorian Laws  The laws have been used in a wide range of cases.  Polanski won his case against  Vanity Fair , claiming he was
libeled in a 2002 article that said he made sexual advances
toward a young model as he was traveling to the funeral of his
wife, Sharon Tate. He got 50,000 pounds in damages.  Human Rights Watch  in 2005 was threatened with a libel suit
in London by a  Rwandan genocide  suspect mentioned in one of the
group’s reports. The group eventually clarified its report.  Plaintiffs have been so successful in these cases that
lawyers operate on conditional fee agreements, meaning they only
get paid if they win. Changing libel laws might make such cases
more expensive, said Steven Heffer, head of media at Collyer
Bristow Solicitors in London.  “The burden should remain where it is; why should it be for
you to prove that you’re not something,” he said. “If a
journalist makes an allegation they have to back it up.”  Leave Burden Alone  One Heffer case involved Julia Svetlichnaja, who the Sunday 
Times alleged was a Kremlin agent after she interviewed Russian
Alexander Litvinenko shortly before he died from polonium-210
poisoning. Svetlichnaja wouldn’t have been able to bring about a
suit had she been forced to pay lawyers’ fees in advance, Heffer
said. She won the case.  Hooper at Reynolds Porter argues that high costs have been
driven up by the fact plaintiffs typically win their cases. In
contested cases damages may amount to 15,000 pounds, but lawyers
cost 50,000 pounds, he said.  “It’s traditionally been a preserve of the rich,” he
said. “No one’s been controlling it, but I think it’s going to
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Kristen Schweizer in
London at   kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 