-- 
Singapore Exchange’s ASX Bid ‘Unusually High,’ Says TSE Head

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i
-- 
2011-02-22T09:48:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/singapore-exchange-s-asx-bid-unusually-high-says-tokyo-exchange-s-saito.html
  Singapore Exchange Ltd . is paying an
“unusually high” price for its proposed takeover of  ASX Ltd .,
said  Atsushi Saito , president of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, a
shareholder of the  Singapore  bourse.  Singapore Exchange offered to buy ASX in a cash and share
deal valued at A$8.4 billion, ($8.42 billion), representing a 42
percent premium to the Australian bourse operator’s share price
at the time the bid was announced on Oct. 25. That compares with
the 8.1 percent premium for the trans-Atlantic mergers announced
this month between  Deutsche Boerse AG  and NYSE Euronext as well
as London Stock Exchange Group Plc and Toronto Stock Exchange
owner TMX Group Inc.  “SGX’s bid price is unusually high,” Saito told reporters
at a briefing in Tokyo today. “The current level of premium is
a little bit too much. If SGX pays more than the current level,
as the current shareholder, TSE can’t support it.” TSE holds a
4.99 percent stake in the Singapore bourse operator, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore Exchange’s ASX bid, which won approval from
Australia’s competition watchdog on Dec. 15, still requires the
support of the companies’ shareholders, a majority of the
Australian parliament and government investment regulators. ASX
was offered on Feb. 15 more seats on the board of the merged
bourse in order to woo politicians who have expressed opposition
to the sale on national interest grounds.  NYSE Price ‘Logical’  “I assume shareholders of ASX will not be convinced if SGX
doesn’t pay enough,” Saito said. “From the aspect of valuation,  Deutsche Boerse ’s offered price for  NYSE Euronext  seems
logical.”  Deutsche Boerse is buying NYSE Euronext for $9.53 billion
in an all-share transaction that will create the world’s biggest
exchange. The deal values the parent of the New York Stock
Exchange at 8.3 times earnings before interest, taxes
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s less than half the 18.45 times Ebitda
Singapore Exchange offered to ASX to create the world’s fifth
largest bourse, the data show.  “It sounds like a bit of a warning shot,” said  Chris Hall ,
who helps manage $4 billion at Argo Investment Ltd. in  Adelaide ,
Australia, which owns ASX shares. “Last week Singapore Exchange
made some non-monetary concessions, and this might be a bit of
saber-rattling to say they may be happy to tolerate the current
bid, but as a major shareholder they wouldn’t be supportive of
Singapore Exchange raising the bid at all.”  Changes ‘Strengthen Merger’  On Feb. 15, Singapore Exchange offered to give more board
seats to Australians in the combined entity to overcome
opposition to the deal from lawmakers in Canberra. The
Singaporean bourse also pledged to keep key staff in  Australia 
and to invest in services in the country.  “The new governance arrangements and commitments announced
last week in our view strengthen the merger proposal,” ASX
spokesman Matthew Gibbs, who hasn’t seen TSE’s comments, said.
“ASX maintains a strong belief in the need to participate in
global exchange consolidation and in the business logic of the
combination with Singapore Exchange.” SGX spokeswoman Magdalyn
Liew hasn’t replied to an e-mail seeking comment.  Before this latest wave of exchange mergers, the median
Ebitda multiple paid for 10 completed acquisitions since 2002
was 20.4 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. NYSE
combined with Euronext NV in 2007. TMX bought Montreal Exchange
Inc. in 2008, a year after London Stock Exchange Group purchased
Borsa Italiana SpA.  ‘Global Trend’  Rising competition from alternative trading venues, faster
trading systems and increasing globalization of capital markets
had driven almost $100 billion in exchange mergers in the past
10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The latest developments underscore the rationale for
exchange consolidation and the merits of an enlarged group,”
said  Magnus Bocker , chief executive officer of  Singapore
Exchange  in an e-mailed statement on Feb. 10. “Exchange
consolidation is a global trend and one which is only set to
accelerate. Capital will gravitate over time to exchanges with
the most liquidity and the most efficient operations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .
Takako Iwatani in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  