-- 
Singh's U-Turn on Telecoms Probe Panel Ends Impasse in India's Parliament

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-02-22T07:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/singh-accedes-to-india-cross-party-demands-for-mobile-phone-licenses-probe.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
agreed to a parliamentary probe into the sale of mobile-phone
licenses, surrendering to three months of opposition demands
that had derailed legislation and eroded investor confidence.  “We can ill afford the situation that our parliament is
not allowed to function during the crucial budget session,”
Singh, 78, said in the lower house of parliament six days before
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee will deliver his policy
statement for the next financial year. “It is in these special
circumstances that our government agrees to setting up a joint
parliamentary committee,” Singh told lawmakers.  The government’s legislative agenda has been paralyzed
since November by protests over alleged revenue losses during a
2008 sale of 2G telecoms permits, with the ruling Congress
party’s chief rival, the  Bharatiya Janata Party , leading calls
for an investigation by a bipartisan panel of lawmakers. The
final parliament session of 2010 was the least productive in 25
years. Sushma Swaraj, a BJP leader, said today parliament should
start running normally.  India’s benchmark stock index, the Sensex, has lost 10
percent this year, making it the world’s worst performing
benchmark index after Egypt and  Tunisia , as inflation, the most
aggressive monetary policy in  Asia , and concerns over prolonged
political gridlock and corruption led investors to sell Indian
stocks. The index was the best performer among the world’s 10
biggest markets last year, buoyed by strong growth and corporate
earnings.  Singh Questions  Investors say that even after agreeing to the probe by
lawmakers the governing alliance will struggle to regain
authority to introduce the changes in the $1.3 trillion economy
sought by business leaders when Singh won re-election in 2009.
As he begins the third year of a potential five-year term,
corruption and sliding support may have further diminished the
already reticent Singh’s political stature, they said.  “There is such upside if the politicians could pull their
finger out,” said Hugh Young, Singapore-based head of equities
at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which manages $297 billion of
assets. “But one has to question Manmohan Singh’s real ability
to drive anything through.”  When Singh’s Congress secured its biggest election victory
in 20 years in 2009, investors hoped that it would usher in
policies to further open India’s economy. The rupee and stocks
rose to record gains the month after the ballot as investors
anticipated measures to encourage foreign investment.  Spending on Poor  Instead, Congress headed by party chief  Sonia Gandhi  has
prioritized raising spending on a $9 billion program to
guarantee 100 days of work for 41 million rural families and
provide subsidized food grains for an additional 100 million
poor among its 1.2 billion people.  “The government has not delivered to the extent that it
should have in the second term because of a lack of leadership
and cohesiveness,” said Jay Shankar, chief economist at
Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai. “As we move closer to
the next election the government is likely to introduce more
populist measures.”  Bills to change rules governing the acquisition of land for
industry as up to $100 billion in investments remains stalled,
including proposed projects of  South Korea ’s Posco and
ArcelorMittal, and force miners to share profits with local
communities were delayed late last year.  Wal-Mart Entry  While the government issued a discussion paper in July
saying that allowing overseas multi-brand companies including
the world’s largest retailer, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., and  Carrefour SA , ranked number two globally,
to sell goods to Indian consumers would lower prices and benefit
farmers, Singh has failed to act on a policy that may risk the
livelihoods of millions of small shopkeepers.  The prime minister last week in a rare meeting with senior
journalists vowed to punish those found guilty of fraud,
acknowledging that a political atmosphere dominated by claims of
wrongdoing by his ministers had hurt the image of  India  overseas.
In a bid to refocus his government and rejecting media claims
that he had become a “lame-duck” leader, Singh said
Mukherjee’s Feb. 28 budget will signal a return to the
administration’s “reform agenda.”  “We are a functioning democracy and must strive to resolve
our differences in a spirit of accommodation and collaboration,
not confrontation,” Singh said today. “This, I hope, will
renew our confidence in India’s forward march.”  Investment Slump  An AC Nielsen opinion poll for the India Today magazine
published last month forecast that Singh’s coalition may win 42
seats fewer than the 259 it secured in May 2009 if an election
was called.  “It’s good that wisdom has dawned on the government,”
Gurudas Dasgupta, a lawmaker of the  Communist Party of India ,
said in parliament. “It’s better to be late than never.”  India’s chief auditor said in November the 2G licenses were
sold for an “unbelievably low” $2.7 billion when they may have
been worth at least 10 times more. Former telecommunications
minister  Andimuthu Raja , ministry bureaucrats and company
executives have been questioned by the  Central Bureau of
Investigation . Raja, who has denied any wrongdoing, is now in
jail under judicial custody.    India’s economy  will probably expand 8.6 percent in the
year ending March 31 from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
2008, the  Central Statistical Office  said on Feb. 7.  Foreign direct investment into India slumped last year,
totaling only a quarter of its Asian rival China, the world’s
fastest major growing economy, according to United Nations data.
Investment in India fell by 32 percent to $23.7 billion in 2010,
while in  China  it climbed 6 percent to $101 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  