-- 
South Africa’s Police Chief Broke Tender Laws, Probe Finds

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-22T16:49:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/south-africa-s-police-chief-broke-tender-laws-probe-finds-1-.html
South African Police Commissioner
Bheki Cele broke government procurement rules when he authorized
payment for a 500 million rand ($69 million) lease for new
police headquarters, an ombudsman ruled.  A joint investigation with the police’s Special
Investigations Unit revealed that Cele’s conduct was “improper,
unlawful and amounted to maladministration,” Public Protector
Thuli Madonsela said in report e-mailed from  Pretoria  today. The
same finding was made against Siviwe Dongwana, who as director-
general of the Public Works Department signed the lease for the
building and was suspended from his post on Dec. 7.  Madonsela investigated the 10-year lease for the 18-storey
building in the capital Pretoria following an Aug. 1 report in
the  Sunday Times  alleging that tender procedures had been
flaunted.  “The procurement of the lease was not in accordance with a
system that is cost-effective,” Madonsela said. “The
constitutional requirements of fairness, equitability and
transparency were not complied with.”  Cele told Madonsela in a written submission that he
delegated responsibility for signing the lease and was under the
impression all legalities had been complied with.  The Ministry of Public Works said in its submission that
the need for a new police headquarters was so pressing in light
of  South Africa ’s imminent hosting of the soccer  World Cup ,
“the deviation from normal procurement processes” was
justified. It also said that no other suitable accommodation was
available.  Roux Shabangu  Roux Shabangu, a member of the ruling  African National
Congress , bought the building on July 28, almost two months
after Cele agreed the police should lease it, the Johannesburg-
based Sunday Times reported.  Based on the available evidence, Madonsela was unable to
conclude that an improper relationship existed between Cele and
Shabangu.  Cele, a member of the ANC’s National Executive Committee,
its highest permanent decision-making body, last year became a
general after introducing military ranks into the police force.    Jackie Selebi , Cecle’s predecessor, was convicted on
corruption charges last year, and sentenced to 15 years in
prison.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 