-- 
South African Economic Growth Climbs to 4.4% on Manufacturing Expansion

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-02-22T09:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/south-african-economic-growth-climbs-to-4-6-on-manufacturing-expansion.html
(Corrects growth in headline and second paragraph.)    South Africa ’s economic growth
accelerated in the fourth quarter as manufacturing rebounded
following the end of a strike by auto workers and interest rates
at a 30-year low spurred consumer spending.  Gross domestic product expanded an annualized 4.4 percent
from the third quarter, when it grew a revised 2.7 percent, the
statistics office said in a report released in  Pretoria  today.
The median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for growth of 4.2 percent.  Manufacturing, which accounts for 15 percent of the
economy, returned to growth in the final three months of last
year as carmakers boosted output after strikes disrupted
production in August and September. The  Reserve Bank  cut its
benchmark interest rate three times to 5.5 percent last year to
support  consumer spending  in Africa’s biggest economy.  “Improving consumption expenditure has supported the
strong growth in retail and vehicle sales,” Kgotso Radira, an
economist at Investec Ltd. in Johannesburg, said before today’s
data. “Going forward, growth in exporting sectors, such as
mining and manufacturing, will depend on the pace of global
growth and the rand exchange rate.”  The growth rate is still short of the 7 percent the
government says it needs in order to create 5 million jobs by
2020 and slash the  unemployment rate  to 15 percent. South
Africa’s jobless rate of 24 percent is the highest of 61
countries tracked by Bloomberg.  “The South African recovery has been relatively
hesitant,” central bank Governor Gill Marcus said on Feb. 4.
“However, recent indicators are more positive and suggest that
the recovery will be sustained, and we can look forward to more
vibrant growth in the coming years. But significant challenges
remain.”  The bank expects growth to average 3.4 percent in 2011 and
3.6 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 