-- 
South African Stocks and Bonds Slump as Middle East, Libya Unrest Deepens

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-22T15:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/south-african-bonds-retreat-and-rand-slumps-as-middle-east-unrest-deepens.html
South African stocks fell the most
this month and bonds slumped as worsening civil unrest in the
Middle East and North  Africa  drove  oil prices  to a two-year
high, threatening to derail the global economic recovery.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index declined 1.1 percent,
the steepest drop since Jan. 28, to 32,444.2 by the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg.  South Africa ’s 13.5 percent bond due September
2015 fell for a second day, losing 32 cents to 121.589 rand,
raising the yield by seven basis points to 7.784 percent.  The “focus has remained solely on the violence in the
Middle East and North Africa as the region contributes a
significant portion to global oil output,” Tradition Analytics
researchers led by Quinten Bertenshaw in Johannesburg wrote in a
client note today. “This increased violence has boosted risk-
off trades in the short term.”  Oil futures surged as much as 9.6 percent after violence
erupted in  Libya  last night, stoking concern that output will be
disrupted in the holder of Africa’s biggest crude reserves. Al-
Jazeera reported that at least 250 people died in the Libyan
capital of Tripoli alone during anti-government protests that
mirror those which toppled regimes in Tunisia and  Egypt .  The rand slumped as much as 1.2 percent to 7.2444 per
dollar, the steepest intraday slide since Feb. 11, before
reversing losses after a report showed South Africa’s economy
grew more than estimated in the fourth quarter. The currency
traded 0.4 percent stronger at 7.1333 after the GDP report.  GDP Data  Gross domestic product expanded an annualized 4.4 percent
from the third quarter as mining and manufacturing rebounded and  interest rates  at a 30-year low spurred  consumer spending , the
Pretoria-based statistics office said today. That was higher
than the 4.2 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, and
followed a revised 2.7 percent expansion in the third quarter.  “The data bodes well for South Africa’s growth prospects,
which is rand-positive,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts
Tebogo Mosepele and Johan Botha wrote in a client note after
release of the GDP data.  A separate report showed the central bank’s leading
economic indicator rose 1.4 percent in December from the
previous month, the biggest increase in eight months. The
indicator climbed to 131.5 from 129.7 in November, the Pretoria-
based  Reserve Bank  said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  