-- 
South Africa Approves Plan to Combat Acid Water Drainage From Gold Mines

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-22T15:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/south-africa-approves-plan-to-combat-acid-water-drainage-from-gold-mines.html
  South Africa ’s Cabinet said it has
approved a plan to combat the drainage of acid water from the
country’s gold mines to ensure ground water supplies are not
contaminated.  “We want to give all South Africans the assurance that
this matter is receiving attention,”  Trevor Manuel , a minister
in the Presidency, told reporters in Cape Town today. Money to
address the problem will be set aside in the national budget,
which will be released tomorrow. The government will also try to
reclaim any expenses that are incurred from profit-making mines.  South Africa has the world’s deepest gold mines and workers
extract the metal out of rock as far as 2.35 miles (3.8
kilometers) underground. Operators in the country include
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.,  Gold Fields Ltd . and Harmony Gold Mining
Co. Mining in the country dates back to the 1600s and many
operators abandoned their shafts when they stopped being
financially viable, leaving the government to take custody.  On Sept. 7 last year, Johannesburg-base Business Day
newspaper cited Buyelwa Sonjica, South Africa’s former water
minister, as saying acid water was 550 meters (1,805 feet) below
the surface of Johannesburg and could rise 400 meters to a
critical level of 150 meters below the surface if 200 million
rand ($28 million) wasn’t spent remedying the situation. Water
levels have risen over the past few months following heavy
rains.  The oxidation of pyrites, which are exposed during mining
operations, results in the production of sulfuric acid that in
turn raises water acidity levels. Mine water will have to be
pumped to the surface and its acidity neutralized, Manuel said,
adding that it was too soon to determine a final cost.  Already Decanting  Acid water has already begun decanting into the western
water basin, which lies in the vicinity of the town of
Krugersdorp, north-west of Johannesburg, and pumping there will
be prioritized, said Trevor Balzer, the acting director-general
of the water affairs department. Pumping in the central basin,
which lies below Johannesburg, is due to begin by March next
year, three months before acid water is expected to reach
environmentally critical levels, he said.  The Cabinet plans to investigate the viability of imposing
an environmental levy, government spokesman Jimmy Manyi told
reporters in  Cape Town  today. He did not provide further
details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  