-- 
Suits Against Vaccine Makers Curbed by U.S. Supreme Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-02-22T19:43:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/suits-against-vaccine-makers-curbed-by-u-s-supreme-court-in-pfizer-case.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  reinforced
the shield that protects drugmakers from lawsuits over vaccines,
 ruling  against two parents who blame  Pfizer Inc .’s Wyeth unit
for their teen-age daughter’s seizure disorder.  The justices, voting 6-2, said a 1986 federal law preempts
claims that a drugmaker should have sold a safer formulation of
a vaccine. The law, designed to encourage vaccine production by
limiting patient suits, channels most complaints into a company-
financed no-fault system that offers limited but guaranteed
payments for injuries shown to be caused by a product.  “The vaccine manufacturers fund from their sales an
informal, efficient compensation program for vaccine injuries,”
Justice  Antonin Scalia  wrote for the majority. “In exchange
they avoid costly tort litigation and the occasional
disproportionate jury verdict.”  The ruling is a victory for the four companies that supply
vaccines for the U.S. market -- Wyeth,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ,
Merck & Co. and  Sanofi-Aventis SA . A ruling letting the parents
sue Wyeth might have allowed suits by thousands of families that
say vaccines caused autism in their children. Since 1988, the
no-fault process has  led to  almost $2 billion in compensation to
more than 2,500 families.  The issue for the Supreme Court was whether the 1986 law
leaves open the possibility that patients can sue manufacturers
when the side effects were avoidable. The Obama administration
joined Wyeth, acquired in 2009 by New York-based Pfizer, in
urging the justices to bar those types of suits.  ‘Regulatory Vacuum’  Justices Sonia Sotomayor and  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  dissented.
Sotomayor said the ruling “leaves a regulatory vacuum in which
no one ensures that vaccine manufacturers adequately take
account of scientific and technological advancements when
designing or distributing their products.”  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in the ruling.  Most lower courts that had considered the issue had reached
similar conclusions, so the high court ruling won’t mark a
change in much of the country.  The case concerned Hannah Bruesewitz, who as an infant
began experiencing seizures after receiving the third of five
scheduled doses of Wyeth’s Tri-Immunol diphtheria-pertussis-
tetanus vaccine in 1992.  Seeking Compensation  Her parents, Russell and Robalee Bruesewitz, sought
compensation from the special court that handles vaccine claims.
That court rejected the claim, saying there was no proof that
the vaccine contributed to Hannah’s problems. The Bruesewitz
family then took the case to federal court in Philadelphia.  “We have great sympathy for the Bruesewitzes,” Pfizer
Executive Vice President Amy Schulman said in a statement. At
the same time, she said the vaccine law “appropriately places
the responsibility for determining the optimal design of life-
saving childhood vaccines in the hands of expert federal
agencies, not a patchwork of state tort systems.”  The family’s Supreme Court lawyer, David Frederick, said
the ruling “eliminates the only mechanism for ensuring that
manufacturers stop subjecting children to outmoded and
unnecessarily dangerous vaccines.”  The  American Academy  of Pediatrics, which represents 60,000
doctors, hailed the ruling. President O. Marion Burton said the
decision “protects children by strengthening our national
immunization system and ensuring that vaccines will continue to
prevent the spread of infectious diseases in this country.”  The case is Bruesewitz v. Wyeth, 09-152.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 