-- 
U.K. Proposed `Special Laws' to Meet FIFA Demands on 2018 World Cup Bid

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-22T18:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/u-k-proposed-special-laws-to-meet-fifa-demands-on-2018-world-cup-bid.html
The U.K. government today released
details of “special laws” and guarantees it would have had to
give soccer’s governing body if  England  had won the right to
host the 2018 World Cup.  The list of eight government guarantees was made public
today following a Freedom of Information request from Bloomberg
News during the bidding process. It reveals FIFA’s demands for
tax exemptions, visa waivers and new laws to combat “ambush
marketing.”  The guarantees would have cost the U.K. about 250 million
pounds ($404 million), the U.K. Treasury said in a letter to
Bloomberg News. The tournament could have contributed between
2.1 billion pounds and 3.2 billion pounds to the U.K. economy,
according to a report for the bid team. The Treasury said no
government money was loaned for the bid.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , Prince William and
former England captain  David Beckham  all lobbied FIFA officials,
including its President Sepp Blatter, before the Dec. 2 vote
that awarded the 2018 tournament to  Russia . England finished
last behind joint-candidatures from Spain and  Portugal  and the
Netherlands and  Belgium . Qatar was selected for 2022.  “All government guarantees are legally and
constitutionally valid and enforceable against the United
Kingdom,” the then-U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  wrote to
Blatter on Dec. 14, 2009. He said the government irrevocably and
unconditionally waived any right of immunity of the United
Kingdom and its assets.  Tax Exempt  FIFA, which has tax exempt status in its home town of
Zurich, said the guarantees “underline the commitment of the
host country in staging the tournament.”  FIFA receives almost all its income from the quadrennial  World Cup . Television and marketing rights to last year’s event
in South Africa generated about $3.4 billion.  “A comprehensive tax exemption of the host country is
absolutely necessary and has been accepted not only by (2014
host)  Brazil , but by all previous host countries in respect to
earlier editions of the FIFA World Cup,” the governing body
said in an e-mailed statement.  The bidding processes for the 2018 and 2022 tournaments
were overshadowed by controversy after two officials from FIFA’s
executive committee were suspended following a corruption
investigation.  60 Days  The list of guarantees would have necessitated the U.K.
government enacting “special laws” for about 60 days before
the tournament and for the same amount of time afterwards, the
documents show.  Among the regulations requested by  FIFA  was that all ticket
holders and officials be granted free visas into the country.
Home Secretary Theresa May, in a letter dated Sept. 23, 2010,
agreed. She said the U.K. government would bear 5 million
pounds’ worth of the related costs, and the rest would be met by
the English Football Association.  People “wishing to attend competitions and or events will
not be denied entry visas without satisfying FIFA that important
reasons exist,” the government said.  The government also ceded to requests from FIFA for tax
exemptions for all its staff and service providers. Labor laws
that would have impinged on FIFA’s ability to perform its
activities would have been suspended.  At the World Cup in  South Africa , some local traders
complained they couldn’t benefit from selling products close to
stadiums. The U.K. said it would meet FIFA’s requirements to
create a 2-kilometer perimeter around stadiums, and said the
right to conduct commercial activities there was subject to the
approval of FIFA or its appointees. The government also agreed
to suspend some labor laws that affected FIFA’s activities and
to lift restrictions on the import and export of foreign
currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  