-- 
U.K. Posts Biggest Budget Surplus Since July 2008 on Taxes

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-22T09:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/u-k-posts-biggest-budget-surplus-since-july-2008-on-surge-in-tax-revenue.html
Britain posted the biggest  budget
surplus  since July 2008 as government revenue surged in the
biggest tax-collection month of the year.  Revenue exceeded spending by 3.74 billion pounds ($6
billion), compared with a deficit of 1.27 billion pounds a year
earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London
today. The median of 13 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey was for
a surplus of 100 million pounds. The surplus including
government support for banks was 5.25 billion pounds.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is pledging to
stick to his deficit-cutting program to tackle a shortfall
that’s set to reach 10 percent of economic output this year.
Osborne today received a boost from his U.S. counterpart,  Timothy F. Geithner , who said the cuts pose little risk to the
recovery.  “The government has got the benefit of the doubt from the
market, so to back down now would be the wrong decision,”  Alan
Clarke , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said in a
telephone interview before the release.  Today’s figures reflect a bumper month for tax receipts,
with the government receiving a fifth of all taxes on company
profits. It also gets final payments of income tax for the
previous fiscal year and early payments of tax and national-
insurance contributions on bank bonuses.  The statistics office said there were “healthy” receipts
of self-assessed income tax in January.  Government revenue rose 12.4 percent in January from a year
earlier, the most since April, with taxes on income and  capital
gains  surging 18.9 percent. That was the biggest increase since
January 2005. Spending climbed 4.4 percent.  Below Forecast  With two months of the fiscal year remaining, the deficit
excluding financial interventions was 113 billion pounds. The
government is on course to borrow 145.6 billion pounds for the
year as a whole, 2.9 billion less than it forecast in November,
the Institute for Fiscal Studies, a London-based research group,
said last month.  There was a public-sector cash surplus of 14.4 billion
pounds in January. Economists predicted a 6 billion-pound
surplus. The central-government surplus, the measure the
Treasury says most closely indicates gilt sales, was 14.7
billion pounds.  With government spending cuts eliminating more than 300,000
public-sector jobs over the next four years and inflation
running at double the  Bank of England  target, the opposition  Labour Party  says the pace of fiscal tightening risks pushing
the economy back into recession.  Geithner, in a BBC television interview taped Feb. 19 and
shown today, said he was “very impressed” with Osborne’s
budget strategy.  Asked whether the coalition’s program of spending cuts and
tax increases would cut off the economic recovery, Geithner
responded that it “remains to be seen but I don’t see much risk
of that at the moment.” The interview took place after Group of
20 finance ministers and central bankers met in Paris to discuss
ways to monitor and rebalance the global economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in  London  at 
 Shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  