-- 
U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Index Soars as Libya Turmoil Escalates

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-02-22T22:14:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/u-s-credit-swaps-benchmark-rises-most-since-november-on-libya-violence.html
The cost of protecting U.S.
investment-grade corporate bonds from default increased to the
highest level since January as escalating violence in Libya
overshadowed rising consumer confidence in the U.S.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 3.4 basis points to a mid-
price of 83.1 basis points as of 5:08 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Contracts on
Atlanta-based  Delta Air Lines Inc . and  AMR Corp ., the parent
company of American Airlines, climbed.  Oil prices surged and the Standard & Poor’s 500 index
plunged as Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight an
intensifying rebellion until his “last drop of blood.” The
political unrest eclipsed the Conference Board’s sentiment
index, which increased to 70.4, the highest level since February
2008, from 64.8 the prior month, according to figures today from
the New York-based private research group.  “When there’s something creating political unrest and
volatility, it doesn’t help your cost of capital,” said  Joel Levington , managing director at Brookfield Investment Management
Inc. in New York. “The uncertainty will be reflected in stock
prices and eventually in bond spreads.”  The credit default swap index, which typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has
increased from a one-year low of 79 on Feb. 8. The gauge last
reached this level on Jan. 31 and rose the most since Jan. 6,
Markit data show.  Credit-default swaps on  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR rose 36
basis points to 827 basis points, according to data provider
CMA. The contracts reached a two-year low of 742 last month.  ‘Civil War’  Swaps on Delta, the world’s second-largest carrier, climbed
38 to 628, CMA data show. Contracts on Chicago-based  United
Continental Holdings Inc ., the world’s largest carrier, climbed
27 to 617.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Continued protests “will lead to civil war,” Qaddafi
said, speaking from Tripoli. Protestors will face death
penalties for taking up arms against the state in an uprising
whose “masterminds” are abroad, he said.  The  S&P 500  fell 2.05 percent to 1,317.29. Oil for March
delivery rose $7.37, or 8.6 percent, to $93.57, in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 