-- 
Consumer Confidence in U.S. Increases to Three-Year High

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-02-22T16:03:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/u-s-consumer-confidence-rose-in-february-to-three-year-high.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
in February to the highest level in three years as Americans
became more optimistic about their incomes and the economy.  The Conference Board’s index of sentiment increased to
70.4, the highest since February 2008, from 64.8 the prior
month, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed today. Economists projected the gauge would be little
changed at 65.5, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  A pickup in optimism and job gains may encourage Americans
to increase purchases, bolstering  consumer spending , the biggest
part of the economy. At the same time, unemployment at 9 percent
or higher for almost two years and mounting home foreclosures
threaten to restrain households.  “The consumer believes that growth is picking up pace,”
said  Jonathan Basile , senior economist at Credit Suisse in New
York, whose forecast of 70 for the index was the most accurate.
“The ducks are in a row for stronger consumer spending this
year.”  Stocks held losses after the report as crude  oil prices 
jumped on concern over rising unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.8 percent to
1,332.56 at 11:01 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  rose,
pushing down the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 3.50
percent from 3.59 percent late yesterday.  Bloomberg Index  The Conference Board’s measure contrasts with the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, which held near a two-month low last
week. The Bloomberg gauge, formerly the ABC News U.S. Weekly
Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 43.4 compared with minus 46
the prior week.  The measure often mirrors changes in prices Americans pay
at the gas pump, whereas changes in the labor market have more
of an influence on the Conference Board’s confidence index.  The share of Americans who said they expect their incomes
to increase in the next six months rose to 17.3 in February from
15.3 a month earlier, today’s data showed. Those who said jobs
were currently plentiful rose to 4.9 this month from 4.6, the
fourth straight gain.  The Conference Board’s measure of present conditions
climbed to 33.4 in February from 31.1, the fifth consecutive
increase.  Estimates of the  consumer confidence  in the Bloomberg
survey of 67 economists ranged from 58.5 to 70. The Conference
Board last week revised the data back to November after
announcing changes in its sampling methodology. The measure
averaged 97 in the six years leading up to the recession that
began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009.  Michigan Gauge  The gain compares with the Feb. 11 Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary consumer sentiment
index, which rose this month as falling unemployment and rising
stock prices lifted U.S. households.  A report earlier today showed housing prices fell in
December. The S&P/Case Shiller index of home values in 20 cities
dropped 2.4 percent from December 2009, the biggest decrease in
a year.  The Conference Board’s index of expectations for the next
six months rose to 95.1 from 87.3.  The percent of respondents expecting more jobs available in
the next six months slipped to 19.8 from 20.8 the previous
month.  Jobs Hard to Get  The share of consumers who said jobs are hard to get
decreased to 45.7 percent from 47 percent.  Confidence rose in two of nine U.S. regions, led by the
East North Central, which includes Michigan and  Ohio .  Americans stepped up their purchases in the final three
months of 2010. Consumer spending grew at a 4.4 percent annual
pace, the fastest since the last quarter of 2004, according to a
Jan. 28 Commerce Department report.    Home Depot Inc ., the world’s largest home-improvement
retailer, this month said it is hiring more than 60,000
temporary workers in the U.S., as well as adding permanent
employees for the second year in a row.  The Atlanta-based company is boosting staff as it prepares
for the biggest selling season of the year, March through mid-
June, Craig Menear, executive vice president of merchandising,
said in a telephone interview Feb. 14.  Still, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in Senate
testimony on Jan. 7 said it may take five years for the labor
market to “normalize fully.” Unemployment fell to 9 percent in
January from 9.4 percent a month earlier as the U.S. added
36,000 jobs, according to Labor Department figures released Feb.
4.  Tax Cuts  President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 17 signed into law an $858
billion bill that extended for two years tax cuts for all income
levels. The measure also expanded jobless insurance benefits to
the long-term unemployed for 13 months and reduced payroll taxes
for workers by two percentage points this year.  At the same time, people are paying more at the pump, which
may limit spending on other goods and services. The average
price of a gallon of gasoline rose to $3.16 on Feb. 17, the
highest since October 2008, according to AAA. Prices of regular-
grade gasoline have exceeded $3 a gallon since Dec. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  