-- 
UN Security Council Meets Today to Discuss Violence in Libya

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-02-22T08:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/un-security-council-meets-today-to-discuss-violence-in-libya.html
The  United Nations   Security Council 
will meet today to discuss the situation in Libya, where a
violent crackdown on anti-government demonstrators has left
hundreds dead.  The consultations are scheduled to start at 9 a.m. in  New
York . Ibrahim Dabbashi, deputy ambassador and second in command
at the Libyan mission, broke with Tripoli and called on the UN
to establish a “no-fly zone” around the country to prevent
mercenaries and arms from going to the government.  “This is something which the Security Council will have to
decide,” Secretary General Ban Ki-moon told reporters in  Los
Angeles  yesterday, according to a transcript of the news
conference. In a 40-minute phone conversation with Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , Ban “forcefully urged him to stop violence
against demonstrators.”  Qaddafi, in comments broadcast on state television today,
said he hasn’t fled the country amid an eruption of violence the
International Federation for Human Rights says has killed more
than 300 people. Planes and helicopters fired on protesters and
witnesses reported massacres in two neighborhoods of Tripoli, Al
Arabiya TV said.  Dabbashi yesterday called for Qaddafi’s resignation and, in
appearances on international television networks, asked for an
emergency meeting of the Geneva-based  Human Rights Council  to
investigate alleged human rights violations. He charged the
regime with “genocide.”  ‘Voice of the People’  “We find it impossible to stay silent,” Dabbashi said.
“We have to transfer the voice of the Libyan people to the
world. The Libyan mission will be in the service of the Libyan
people rather than in the service of the regime.”  Libya, which has Africa’s largest oil reserves, is the
latest Arab nation to be rocked by protests ignited by last
month’s ouster of Tunisian dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and
the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak . U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said “the world is watching
the situation in  Libya  with alarm.”  Crude for April delivery surged 8.3 percent from the Feb.
18 close in New York to $97.18 a barrel as of 5 p.m. in Tokyo.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 2 percent. Standard & Poor’s
500 Index futures sank 1.3 percent from last week.  Dabbashi called on Libya’s neighbors, Egypt and Tunisia, to
allow medical supplies to enter the country to treat wounded
protesters. He also asked all countries to help prevent Qaddafi
from escaping to their territory and to monitor money transfers
by the regime.  -- Editors: Jerrold Colten, Louis Meixler  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  