-- 
Luxury Bookseller Pursues Potter, Bond for Royal Customers

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-02-22T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/luxury-bookseller-pursues-potter-bond-for-royal-customers.html
Angus Robb is a senior executive
with a knack for turning mildew into money.  “I love nothing better than traipsing around smelly places
to find the right book,” says Robb, who wears tailored suits
and red-and-green gumball cufflinks. His official title is store
director of  Asprey ’s flagship luxury-gift emporium on New Bond
Street in London.  “I wouldn’t stay here if Asprey took the rare books away
from my brief,” Robb says in a salon that since 1781 has been
celebrated for offering the rich and royal polo-pony bridles,
ostrich-skin satchels and walking sticks tipped with sterling-
silver badger heads. “We’ve always had an odd, eccentric mix of
products.”  For 700 of Asprey’s clients such as the Prince of  Wales ,
investing in blue-chip books is top of that peculiar pile. Robb
says the trade in ephemera is a meager $500 million-a-year
global market that’s controlled by some 10 book brokers whose
wares won’t be found on  Amazon.com Inc .’s website.  “Most investors don’t see books as an investment,” Robb
says. “But everything today must be monetized.”  Need a pristine first edition of Ian Fleming’s “Casino
Royale?” That would be 21,000 pounds ($33,900). How about an
original 14th-century copy of “Cosmographia,” Claudius
Ptolemy’s 2nd-century B.C. version of the Michelin Guide? Only
two volumes are known to exist. The price: $4 million and
perhaps dropping.  Nostalgia Value  “During recessions one usually finds profit from those
seeking nostalgia,” the 47-year-old Robb says. “That didn’t
happen this time. The market value has dropped about 20 percent
since the recession.”  Asprey’s for-profit library greeted its first investors
during World Wars I and II. “The wars affected our ability to
acquire the silver, leather and other valuable materials we
needed to make our products,” Robb says. “So we introduced
books. Back then books were the only  luxury goods  around.”  Robb joined Asprey in 1988 as a specialist in antique
furniture. In 2000, he took command of Asprey’s niche carriage
trade in books. Almost all of Robb’s customers negotiate with
him over the phone or through intermediaries.  “I rarely see my most important clients,” Robb says of
the process that adds to the mystery of his passion. “I get a
call and head off on the treasure hunt. It can take anywhere
from one month to one year to find what they’re looking for.”  Robb says book buyers these days fall into two categories:
They’re either seeking something special for themselves or a
rare printed treat to offer a client.  First Carol  “It’s an interesting selection, like a 95,000 pound copy
of an 1807 volume of ‘Doctor Thornton’s Flower Book’ or a 19,500
pound first edition of  Charles Dickens ’s ‘A Christmas Carol,’”
Robb says.   James Bond  is big, too, a sign of the times, I
suspect.”  Robb says another significant signpost is  Google Books , the
Internet library of logorrhea that since 2004 has digested 15
million of the estimated 130 million titles published since the
15th-century invention of the printing press, according to a
2010  Harvard University  study by Jean-Baptiste Michel.  “Internet publishing adds to the difficulty of assessing
what books, printed today on paper will become the investments
of the future,” Robb says. “It’s impossible to calculate the
true growth potential of a modern first edition.”  Wizard Editions  There are exceptions. Chief among them are first editions
of   Harry Potter  and the Philosopher’s Stone,” the opening
salvo of J.K. Rowling’s seven-volume wizard franchise. “Only
500 first editions of Philosopher’s Stone were printed,” Robb
says. “They now sell for between 7,000 and 10,000 pounds. This
is a gilt that will go up in price.”  Robb says the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  of his market
includes original volumes written by Jane Austen, Charles Darwin, Beatrix Potter, Dickens, William Shakespeare and  Winston Churchill .  Recent market movers -- U.K. art dealer Michael Tollemache
last year paid $11.5 million at a Sotheby’s London auction for
an original four-volume edition of John James Audubon’s “Birds
of America” and Microsoft Corp. founder  Bill Gates  shelled out
$30.8 million in 1994 for  Leonardo da Vinci ’s “Codex
Leicester” -- are fluky super-events.  Clark Kent  Yet the superhero market remains robust, particularly for
those who invested in an original copy of Action Comics 1.
Published in June 1938 for 10 U.S. cents, the story that
launched Clark Kent’s career sold for $317,000 in 2009. In
February 2010, a copy of the comic book featuring Superman’s
first adventure anonymously changed hands over  ComicConnect.com 
for $1 million. A month later, it fetched $1.5 million.  “Some of our clients are interested in comics,” Robb
says, his red eyebrows arching at the prices. “It’s a very
niche market.”  What Asprey lacks in quantity -- it currently has only 650
books in stock -- it makes up in variety and controversy.
Offerings include a 900 pound sketchbook of bawdy 1935 drawings
called “Caricatures of Lloyds of  London ” that was popular
among investment bankers looking for a holiday gift.  The storm comes in the wake of  Auburn University  English
professor Alan Gribben’s decision to have  NewSouth Books  roll
out a bowdlerized version of  Mark Twain ’s “Adventures of
Huckleberry Finn,” replacing the word “nigger” with “slave”
to foster political correctness among new readers of the
American classic.  Boosting Value  “Overly precious,” is how Robb describes U.S. euphemism
police sanitizing Twain’s passages, descriptions that
nonetheless continue to accurately mirror 19th-century American
attitudes. “Expurgating Twain’s words in all new editions will
only increase the value of the old editions.”  For Robb, the cascade effect of the U.S.’s Huckleberry Finn
controversy is palpable and sitting on the Edwardian table in
front of him. It’s called “Negro.”  It was published in 1934 by Nancy Cunard, the daughter of
luxury-passenger-line owner Bache Cunard. Robb describes the
855-page book as a “monumental anthology of commentary and
articles on many aspects of black life, culture and politics.”  Dedicated to the black American jazz musician “Henry
Crowder, my new Negro friend,” Cunard’s coffee-table-sized tome
is perhaps the earliest historical compilation of the treatment
of blacks globally. The pages of “Negro” include rarely seen
offerings by Langston Hughes, William Carlos Williams and W.E.
Dubois.  Beckett Translation  The 5,800 pound book, in which the N-word pops up with the
frequency of a rap song, comes with maps, sheet music, essays,
photographs and the observations of black boxing champions and
the singer Josephine Baker. Playwright Samuel Beckett provides
an English translation (accompanying the original offensive
monkey drawings) of Frenchman Georges Sadoul’s “Sambo Without
Tears.”  “Nancy Cunard was a rebellious lady for her time and she
published the most socially incorrect book of that time,” Robb
says. “This is a groundbreaking book and it’s the only one
known to still exist.”  Robb says most of Asprey’s literary treasures lead a calmer
shelf life. “A few weeks ago I peddled my bicycle out to
Chiswick on a Saturday night to find a collection of Russian
ballet programs,” he gushes. “We sold it for 7,000 pounds to a
private client who collects ballet books.”  Information: Asprey, 167 New Bond Street, London W15 4AY.
 http://www.asprey.com  or tel. +44-207-493-6767.  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas at   ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 