-- 
Vale to Spend More Than $1 Billion Building Guinea Railroad

-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-02-22T18:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/vale-may-spend-more-than-1-billion-building-662-kilometer-guinea-railroad.html
  Vale SA , the world’s second-largest
mining company by market value, will spend more than $1 billion
to rebuild a 662-kilometer (411-mile) railway in Guinea, where
it plans to start producing  iron ore  next year.  The railroad, running between the capital Conakry and
Kankan, may be in operation by 2013 or 2014, Vale Chief
Executive Officer Roger Agnelli said today, after Ricardo Saad,
project manager for Vale’s Guinean Simandou mine, disclosed the
investment. Then rail line has been out of operation since 1983.  “We shall be capable of building the railroad as soon as
possible so that we can mark our presence in Guinea,” Agnelli
told reporters in Conakry as the first track was laid. The event
was also attended by President  Alpha Conde  and former Brazilian
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva .  Mining companies including Vale and Rio Tinto Group have
been lured by Guinea’s mineral riches. The West African country
holds as much as half of the world’s bauxite, used to make
aluminum, more than 4 billion metric tons of “high-grade” iron
ore and “significant” deposits of diamonds and gold, according
to the U.S. State Department.  Simandou, Zogota  Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro, last year agreed to pay $2.5
billion for Guinean iron-ore deposits. The sites include
Simandou North Blocks 1 and 2, assets that were confiscated from
Rio over a development dispute, and the Zogota project in
Simandou South.  Conde said he sought a “win-win” cooperation with  Brazil ,
after saying last month the government plans to own at least a
third of new mining projects. “We’re actually doing a new
mining code so that Guinea is the owner of the mines,” Conde
said today.  Vale lost 1.1 percent to 48.65 reais in Sao Paulo trading
as of 2:44 p.m. local time, valuing the company at 283.2 billion
reais ($169.4 billion). BHP Billiton Ltd., based in  Melbourne ,
is the world’s largest mining company by market value.  Vale, which targets  investment  of $861 million in the
Simandou area during 2011, said in a statement today it will
start production from Zogota in 2012 and ramp up to capacity of
15 million tons a year. The development of Blocks 1 and 2 will
boost annual capacity to 50 million tons by 2020, the company
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Emily Bowers  at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 