-- 
Vietnam Raises Rates for Second Time in a Week as Dung Battles Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-23T03:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/vietnam-premier-to-push-central-bank-to-fight-inflation.html
  Vietnam ’s central bank raised its
reverse repurchase rate, the second increase in borrowing costs
in less than a week, as Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung prepares
to order tighter policies to tame inflation.  The State Bank of Vietnam raised the rate it charges
commercial banks in daily open-market operations to 12 percent
from 11 percent for the seven-day term yesterday, Deputy
Governor Nguyen Toan Thang said by telephone in Hanoi. Dung will
sign a resolution today directing the central bank and
ministries to curb inflation by tightening monetary and fiscal
policy, Le Xuan Nghia, an adviser to the premier, said yesterday.  Vietnam is under pressure to curb inflation that is poised
to accelerate from a 23-month high as electricity prices rise
and four currency devaluations in 15 months spur import costs.
The nation raised its refinancing rate by 2 percentage points to
11 percent last week, joining neighbors from  Thailand  to  China 
in tightening policy.  “This step to tighten monetary policy is a move in the
right direction,” Benedict Bingham, the International Monetary
Fund’s senior resident representative in Vietnam, said after the
rate increase yesterday. “It’s probably a more significant move
than the refinance rate adjustment.”  As the country reduces its reliance on the  base rate  as a
benchmark for monetary policy, Vietnam will probably focus
instead “on one of the other policy rates, most likely the repo
rate, or perhaps the refinance rate,” he said earlier this week.  Stock Moves  Vietnam’s VN Index has fallen 3 percent this year amid
concern accelerating inflation will prompt the central bank to
raise  interest rates . The benchmark stock measure fluctuated,
rising as much as 0.9 percent and declining as much as 0.7
percent before trading little changed at 10:35 a.m. local time.
The rate increase was announced after yesterday’s market close.  Stocks dropped yesterday, with the benchmark index
completing the biggest two-day decline in 15 months.  “Whatever the government is going to do now, it’ll aim to
tighten monetary policy to fight inflation,” Nguyen Duc Hai,
chief analyst at Hanoi-based Vietcombank Securities, said by
phone today. “Tightening monetary policy will hurt the stock
market as it will make it more difficult, more expensive for
investors to get funds. It will also add cost for companies’
production and so may lessen corporate earnings.”  Credit Growth  Prime Minister Dung will approve lowering the target for
credit growth this year to about 20 percent from 23 percent in
the resolution, Nghia said by phone yesterday. There will be a
series of instructions and ministries and the  central bank  are
expected to come up with detailed measures to carry out the
directive, said Nghia, who is vice-chairman of the National
Financial Supervisory Commission.  The government will focus on the “main task” of curbing
inflation in 2011, according to a statement on its website late
yesterday that cited Dung. Authorities consulted with economists
on the resolution and also plan to come up with a
“comprehensive” initiative in the first quarter, according to
the statement.  The resolution would direct the central bank to implement a
“tight and cautious” monetary policy, and combine monetary and
fiscal policy to ensure credit growth of less than 20 percent
this year, according to the statement. The  State Bank  of Vietnam
will have to manage interest and foreign-exchange rates at
“suitable levels” to control inflation, and the government will
ensure adequate foreign currency to meet demand, it said.  Budget Deficit  Dung will ask relevant ministries to tighten fiscal policy,
cut 10 percent of public expenses and narrow the budget deficit
to less than 5 percent of gross domestic product, according to
the statement. He will also call on businesses to speed up
production to control the trade deficit. Vietnam will adjust
petroleum and electricity prices based on market conditions, the
statement showed.  “If inflationary pressures are not curbed soon, they will
eventually filter into wages and into the prices of
manufacturing goods, affecting the overall competitiveness of
Vietnamese exports,” Deepak Mishra, the  World Bank’s  lead
economist in Vietnam, said in a Feb. 21 telephone interview in
Hanoi. “We remain worried that overall inflation is high.”  The nation’s inflation rate reached 12.17 percent last
month, the highest level since February 2009. The government’s
target to keep inflation at or below 7 percent this year will be
difficult to meet, Thoi Bao Kinh Te Vietnam newspaper reported
yesterday, citing Nguyen Tien Thoa, the head of price control at
the Ministry of Finance.  Power Costs  Electricity prices will rise by an average 15.3 percent,
starting March 1, Hoang Quoc Vuong, deputy minister of trade and
industry, said Feb. 21.  The reverse repurchase rate had been held at 11 percent
since Jan. 10, after the State Bank of Vietnam raised it six
times from 7 percent since November.  “The move is necessary after we increased the refinancing
rate and overnight rate,” said Thang, a deputy governor at the
central bank.  The increase will help the central bank withdraw more money
from the financial system, reducing loanable funds and easing
inflation pressure, Hai Pham, an analyst with Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group in  Singapore , said in a note yesterday.  The market has tumbled “thanks to a toxic mix of  currency
devaluation , high inflation and perceived inaction from the
government,” Michel Tosto, director for institutional sales and
brokerage at Ho Chi Minh City-based Viet Capital Securities,
wrote in an e-mail Feb. 21.  Trade Deficit  The country posted a trade deficit of $12.4 billion in 2010.
The State Bank of Vietnam devalued the nation’s currency by
about 7 percent on Feb. 11, the most since at least 1993, to
curb the nation’s trade gap and narrow the difference between
official and black-market exchange rates.  The IMF has urged Vietnam to “focus more decisively” on
containing price gains and Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
Southeast Asian country’s sovereign credit ratings in December.  Nghia said the outlines of the prime minister’s
instructions were first discussed in meetings in December, which
were in response to international investors’ concerns about
macroeconomic stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  