-- 
Vietnam Stocks Tumble a Second Day on Concern About Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-22T03:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/vietnam-stocks-tumble-a-second-day-on-concern-about-inflation.html
  Vietnam  stocks slumped, with the
benchmark index set the biggest two-day tumble in 15 months,
amid concern accelerating inflation will prompt the central bank
to raise interest rates for the first time since November.  The benchmark VN Index on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock
Exchange sank 2.8 percent to 470.32 as of 10:17 a.m. local
time. Coupled with yesterday’s 4 percent plunge, the gauge is
set for the sharpest drop over two days since November 2009.
HAGL Joint-Stock Co., the nation’s second-biggest publicly
traded developer, fell 3.8 percent to 48,600 dong.  “Investors are selling stocks on concern accelerating
inflation will lead to macroeconomic instability,” Giang Trung Kien, head of research at FPT Securities Joint-Stock Co., said
by phone. The government may raise  interest rates  to withdraw
money from circulation, hurting  cash flow  into the stock market,
Kien said. Investors would also find it unattractive to borrow
money from banks to invest in stocks, he said.  Vietnam’s target to keep inflation at or below 7 percent
this year will be difficult to meet, Thoi Bao Kinh Te Vietnam
newspaper reported today, citing Nguyen Tien Thoa, the head of
price control at the Ministry of Finance. Monthly inflation
accelerated in the two biggest cities in February, online
newswire VnEconomy reported yesterday.  The  consumer price index  rose 1.98 percent in Hanoi in
February from last month, faster than the 1.68 percent gain in
January, while the index advanced 1.61 percent in  Ho Chi Minh
City  in February, against a 1.01 percent increase in January,
the VnEconomy report said.  “Since investors tend to move in a pack in a major
downturn, the overall negative sentiment may trigger further
selling and expand stocks’ losses in the next couple of trading
sessions,” wrote Tran Quang Vu, analyst at ACBS Securities in a
note today.  --Nguyen Kieu Giang. Editors: Reinie Booysen, Shiyin Chen  To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  