-- 
Vitol’s Taylor Expects More OPEC Oil, Brent to Slide to $90-$100

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-22T16:43:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/vitol-s-taylor-expects-more-opec-oil-brent-to-slide-to-90-100.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will probably increase oil supplies in the
next four months, reducing Brent prices to a range of $90 to
$100 a barrel, Vitol Group’s chief executive officer said.  “If OPEC put more barrels into the market, which we expect
will happen sometime in the first half of the year, then we do
believe prices will stabilize below current levels and move to a
range between $90 and $100,” Ian Taylor said today at an
International Petroleum Week event in London.  Brent futures surged to a two-year high of $108.70 a barrel
yesterday as intensifying violence in  Libya , holder of  Africa ’s
largest crude reserves, heightened concern that supplies may be
disrupted. Brent will likely take “center stage” as the
world’s oil benchmark, replacing the U.S. marker, West Texas
Intermediate, Taylor said.  There is a “relative surplus” of production capacity
across the energy market, including oil, liquefied natural gas,
and tankers, Taylor said. Crude stockpiles are “comfortable,”
and the OPEC has spare production capacity of about 6 million
barrels of daily output, he added. This would be “quickly”
deployed in the event of Libyan exports being halted, he said.    Oil prices , up 35 percent in London in the past year, have
climbed because of a combination of “robust” economic growth
and “significant” buying by funds and other financial
investors, Taylor said. Funds have invested about $350 billion
in commodities in the past decade, he said.    London ’s Brent contract, normally cheaper than WTI, is
about $12 more expensive than the U.S. benchmark on concerns
that excess supplies in the U.S. are undermining WTI’s ability
to reflect global market conditions.  “The more reliable Brent futures contract will take center
stage,” Taylor said. “It may take many months or possibly
years for the logistical changes to be made which will allow WTI
demand increases to meet the supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  