-- 
Wal-Mart Falls Most Since May After U.S. Comparable Sales Miss Forecast

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-02-22T21:11:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/wal-mart-fourth-quarter-u-s-comparable-sales-decline-more-than-forecast.html
  Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., the largest
retailer, fell the most in nine months in New York trading after
posting a seventh straight sales decline at its U.S. stores,
short of its own projections for the holiday period.  The shares sank 3.1 percent after Wal-Mart said today that
sales at U.S. stores open at least a year fell 1.8 percent in
the quarter ended Jan. 28. Chief Executive Officer Mike Duke
said in October that U.S. comparable sales would be
“positive.”  Duke, 61, said Wal-Mart is “disappointed” by the results
and that it will take time to revive Wal-Mart store sales in the
U.S., which account for almost two-thirds of total revenue. The
CEO put thousands of products back on shelves, offered $5 Barbie
dolls to holiday shoppers, and began focusing on smaller stores
to lure back U.S. consumers living paycheck to paycheck.  “There’s finally a sense of reality at Wal-Mart that the
U.S. is going to take longer to turn around,”  David Strasser ,
an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott in New York, said today in
an interview. “Some of the problems are self-inflicted. Their
customer is still very much in a recession/depression.”  Net income in the fourth quarter rose 27 percent to $6.06
billion, or $1.70 a share, from $4.76 billion, or $1.25, a year
earlier. Profit from continuing operations, excluding a tax
benefit, was $1.34, compared with the average analyst projection
of $1.31. Wal-Mart forecast full-year profit of $4.35 to $4.50 a
share, compared with the average analyst estimate of $4.44.  Wal-Mart, based in  Bentonville ,  Arkansas , fell $1.71 to
$53.67 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. It was the largest drop since May 20.  Duke’s Overhaul  Strasser, who has a “buy” rating on Wal-Mart shares,
foresees improvement under U.S. stores chief  Bill Simon , who
replaced Eduardo Castro-Wright in June. Duke has overhauled his
management team since taking the helm in February 2009. Last
month, Wal-Mart named Duncan Mac Naughton chief merchandising
officer, replacing  John Fleming , who left in August. Charles Holley succeeded Tom Schoewe as chief financial officer Nov. 30.  “Many of the fourth-quarter problems stemmed from
merchandise assortment and presentation issues that contributed
to customer traffic declines,” Duke said in a pre-recorded call
for analysts. “There is no greater priority” than improving
U.S. sales.  The pace of job growth, rising gas prices, and Americans’
drive to pay down debt have some shoppers tightening their
budgets, posing hurdles for discount retailers.  Unemployment  More Americans than projected filed first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  in the week ended Feb. 12, a sign
improvements in the labor market will take time. Gas prices,
averaged nationwide, have increased 21 percent over the past
year, the AAA said Feb. 18 on its website.  The retailer predicted the movement in first-quarter fiscal
2012 comparable-store sales in the U.S. would be between a 2
percent drop and little change.  First-quarter profit will be 91 cents to 96 cents a share,
Wal-Mart said. Analysts on average anticipate 96 cents.  Total revenue in the fourth quarter advanced 2.4 percent to
$116.4 billion. Sales abroad rose 6.6 percent on a constant
currency basis, led by  Brazil ,  Mexico  and  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in  New York  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  