-- 
Whitehaven Coal Reports First-Half Loss on Contracts

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-02-22T06:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/whitehaven-coal-reports-first-half-loss-on-contracts-1-.html
  Whitehaven Coal Ltd ., the Australian
producer that put itself up for sale in October, swung to a
first-half net loss after having to buy coal to fulfill supply
contracts when wet weather hampered output.  The net loss was A$35 million ($35 million), or 7.1 cents a
share, in the six months ended Dec. 31, from net income of A$83
million, or 18 cents a share, a year earlier, the Sydney-based
company said today in a statement. This compares with a A$5
million profit estimate from UBS AG.  “While Whitehaven’s operations were not directly affected
by the devastating floods experienced in Queensland, New South  Wales  and Victoria, we did lose a total of 3,800 operating hours
across our mines during the half - almost four times the hours
lost during the same period last year,” Managing Director Tony Haggarty said in the statement.  Whitehaven dropped 1.4 percent to A$6.95 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trade in Sydney, trimming gains over the past 12 months
to 33 percent. The company will pay a first-half dividend of 3.3
cents a share.  The last of the legacy supply contracts will run out at the
end of 2012, Chief Financial Officer Austen Perrin said during a
conference call.    Australia  had its wettest September-to-November spring on
record, with heavy rain and flooding across Queensland and New
South Wales crimping output and driving up cash prices for both
thermal and steelmaking coal.  Coal Sales  A A$32.2 million provision has been made for further
losses, which are likely in the second half, over the remainder
of these legacy supply contracts, the company said.  “Coal production is expected to increase significantly in
the second half, subject to no further adverse weather
conditions,” the company said. “Whitehaven currently expects
its full year underlying net profit after tax to be in the range
of A$83 million to A$88 million, with significant items reducing
reported net profit after tax to between A$15 million and A$20
million.”  Demand for coal from steel and power producers has spurred
mining companies to add assets, with the most expensive deal in
the industry’s history, Alpha Natural Resources Inc. agreeing
Jan. 29 to buy Massey Energy Co. for $7.1 billion in cash and
stock.  The formal bidding process for a potential transaction may
“continue for a number of months and may or may not result in a
final proposal being made,” Whitehaven said today in a
presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net 
WHC AU <Equity> 