-- 
Wienerberger Reinstates Dividend, Forecasts Earnings Growth

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-02-22T16:42:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/wienerberger-declines-as-2010-loss-misses-analyst-estimates-1-.html
  Wienerberger AG , the world’s biggest
brickmaker, reinstated dividend payments after a two-year
hiatus, saying 2011 is off to a good start and that earnings
will improve “substantially” this year.  The fourth-quarter net loss narrowed to 30 million euros
($41 million) from a 68 million euros a year earlier as the
company cut costs, Benjamin del Fabro, an investor-relations
spokesman, said today by phone. The deficit was less than the
average estimate of a 13.6 million-euro loss in a Bloomberg
survey of five analysts.  Chief Executive Officer Heimo Scheuch said in a statement
that he expects a “substantial improvement” in earnings this
year. He didn’t provide a detailed forecast. The company, which
was unprofitable in both 2009 and 2010, plans a dividend of 10
cents a share.  “The reintroduction of dividend payments is proof of the
increased confidence of management and the strong balance sheet
and liquidity reserve,” Klaus Ofner, an analyst at Raiffeisen
Centrobank, wrote in a research report.  Wienerberger has slashed spending by closing 39 plants and
mothballing another 19 in 2008 and 2009 to counter declines in
residential construction in mainland  Europe , the U.K. and the
U.S. It sold new shares in 2009 to bolster its balance sheet.
The company is expected to end losses this year with net income
of 25.7 million euros, according to the average of eight analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Rise  Wienerberger rose 1 percent to 15 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in Vienna, snapping six days of declines. The
stock was the third-biggest gainer on the STOXX 600 Construction
& Materials Index, which lost 1.1 percent.  “Wienerberger’s improved result in the fourth quarter and
the positive comment on trading in January indicates that the
group has good momentum,” Flor O’Donoghue, a Dublin-based
analyst at J&E Davy Holdings Ltd., said in a report. O’Donoghue
raised her recommendation on the stock today to “outperform”
from “underperform,” citing “signs that the group is over the
worst, and enjoying improving earnings momentum.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  