-- 
Workers' Rights Battle Goes National at Pivotal Time for Labor

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/wisconsin-workers-rights-battle-goes-national-at-pivotal-time-for-labor.html
Unions and their allies are planning
rallies, vigils and press conferences in at least 27 states this
week against what they see as a national attack on government
employees that is a seminal moment for organized labor.  Demonstrations are spreading from  Wisconsin  and  Ohio , where
bills from Republican governors to curtail collective-bargaining
rights have attracted thousands of protesters. Efforts include
lobbying all week against measures in Indiana and a Feb. 25 AFL-
CIO  rally  to warn New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  “not to
balance the budget on the backs of middle-class families.”  U.S. states face deficits that may total $125 billion
nationwide in the next fiscal year. Labor leaders say
legislative battles over curbs on government employees’ power
and pay are an assault on unions and their support of the
Democratic Party. The state collective-bargaining bills and the
Washington showdown over federal spending, may answer
fundamental questions about government’s role and the future of
the U.S. worker, they say.  “The  Republican Party ’s strategy is to turn working
Americans against one another -- unionized versus non-unionized,
public versus private, older workers close to  retirement age 
against younger ones who don’t believe Social Security will be
there for them,”  Robert B. Reich , a professor of public policy
at the  University of California , Berkeley, said in an e-mail.
Reich was labor secretary under President  Bill Clinton .  Across the Nation  In 17 states, government employees are the subjects of
efforts to restrict their union rights and curb earnings, said
Steven Kreisberg, collective bargaining director of the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. Measures
are pending to limit negotiations, impose unpaid time off and
cut pay, he said in a telephone interview from  Washington . Bills
to restrict collective bargaining are under consideration in
Wisconsin, Ohio,  Michigan ,  Tennessee  and  Idaho , he said.  Christie and other Republican governors including
Wisconsin’s  Scott Walker  and John Kasich of Ohio say states and
the nation are out of money, and governments at all levels need
the tools to reduce budgets.  “Our bills are due, it’s time for us to move forward,”
Walker, 43, said yesterday at a press conference in the state
Capitol in Madison. “We’re going to balance the budget the
right way, and we’re not going to push it off to the next
generation of taxpayers.”  It’s a critical moment for labor because of the share of
membership now coming from government ranks, said John Russo, a
professor and co-director of the Center for Working-Class
Studies at Youngstown State University in Ohio.  In Solidarity  Nationwide, of the 14.7 million workers in unions last
year, 7.6 million of them worked for governments, according to
the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Unions and their allies are holding “solidarity events”
in Ohio, Indiana,  New Jersey  and 24 other states this week,
Eddie Vale, an AFL-CIO spokesman, said in a telephone interview
from Madison, Wisconsin.  President  Barack Obama  has called the Wisconsin bill “an
assault on unions.” Organizing for America, the White House’s
political operation, is helping state Democrats make phone calls
and perform other grassroots work in opposition to the
legislation in Ohio, said Chris Redfern, chairman of the state
party.  “It is, at the end of the day, one of those seminal
moments in our political lifetimes: do we go back, or do we go
forward?” Redfern said in a telephone interview from Columbus,
the capital.  Money Flowing  Government unions are major contributors to Democrats as
the  Supreme Court ’s Citizens United decision has opened
financial floodgates for money in politics. Last year, unions
spent more than $200 million to try to maintain the party’s
control of Congress, following the $400 million they spent to
elect Democrats to the White House and Congress in 2008,
Bloomberg News reported Nov. 3.  Yesterday, the Arizona  Democratic Party  sent members an e-
mail urging them to attend a statehouse rally or work on a
“virtual phone bank” to let people know what’s happening in
Wisconsin.  The state became a flashpoint after Walker unveiled a
“budget-repair bill” on Feb. 11 to help fill a $137 million
deficit in the current fiscal year and an estimated $3.6 billion
shortfall in the next biennium, Vale said.  The People’s Voice  Walker wants to restrict collective bargaining and require
government workers to pay more of their health-care and pension
costs. The move is more about breaking unions than balancing the
budget, said Senate Democratic Leader Mark Miller of Monona, who
with 13 Democratic colleagues fled the state to prevent the
Republican-controlled Senate from voting. He spoke by telephone
from an Illinois location he wouldn’t disclose.  Crowds of as many as 60,000 have been flocking to the
Capitol in Madison to demonstrate, and protesters are expected
to return today.  John Ganahl, a 47-year-old from Madison who works in video
production, came to the scene yesterday.  “It’s OK that our government employees contribute to their
pension and their health care,” Ganahl said. “What I don’t
think is fair is to remove collective bargaining. I think that
that removes the voice of the people.”  The bill is strictly concerned with the budget and granting
agencies flexibility, Walker said at the news conference. The
measure still would let workers negotiate wages, he said.  Busing Them In  The 50,000-member  Indiana  State Teachers Association and
other labor groups plan events at the statehouse in Indianapolis
every day this week, Jeff Harris, a spokesman for the state AFL-
CIO, said in a telephone interview. The AFL-CIO is nation’s
largest union organization and says it represents more than 12
million people.  Republican Governor Mitch Daniels, who issued an executive
order on his first day in 2005 that ended collective bargaining
for state employees, supports a bill to limit teachers to
negotiations for wages and wage-related benefits, spokeswoman
Jane Jankowski said in an e-mail.  Today in Ohio, buses are scheduled to leave from Akron,
Cincinnati,  Cleveland , Dayton, Toledo and Youngstown to bring
protesters to Columbus. A Senate committee has a 4 p.m. hearing
on a bill to eliminate collective bargaining for state workers
and restrict bargaining for teachers and local government
workers to wages only.  The Ohio Civil Service Employees Association, the Ohio
Association of Public School Employees and the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees have held
five meetings since Feb. 7 to mobilize members to join protests,
make phone calls and call radio talk shows, said Dennis Willard,
a spokesman for the unions.  Time to Pay  National attention on the protests in Wisconsin encouraged
members to get involved, he said.  Walker, a first-term governor whose fellow Republicans
control the Assembly and Senate, campaigned on a platform of
fiscal conservatism after clashing with unions while Milwaukee
County’s elected executive. He wants government employees to pay
5.8 percent of their salaries toward their pensions; they pay
nothing now. He also wants them to pay about 12 percent of their
health-care premiums, up from 6 percent, to generate $30 million
for the state in this fiscal year and $300 million in the next
biennium.  Unions have agreed to accept those provisions if Walker
drops his attempts to restrict collective bargaining to wages
and to require workers to vote each year on membership, said
Miller, the Wisconsin Senate Democratic leader.  The governor’s rejection of that offer exposes him as being
“bent on taking worker’s rights,” Miller said.  Managing Money  It’s difficult to predict how much the proposed change in
collective-bargaining rules would save local governments and
schools because not all entities will apply the changes in the
same way, said Andrew Reschovsky, a professor of public affairs
and applied economics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.  The Ohio Legislative Services Commission also didn’t
estimate savings, noting that about 360,000 state and local
government workers were covered by 3,290 contracts in fiscal
2010.  “If a company can’t manage its costs, it usually goes
bankrupt,” Kasich told reporters Feb. 18. “But if a company
can manage its costs, and if the state can manage its costs, and
if local government can manage its costs, we’re going to be on
the right footing.”  Former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, a Democrat who lost
last year to Kasich, said government workers are “scapegoats”
for budget deficits they didn’t cause.  “The final conclusion will be determined by whether or not
the people are willing to fight for their rights and to stand up
for their rights and not allow themselves to be bullied,”
Strickland said in a telephone interview from Columbus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  