-- 
Wisconsin’s War With Union Represents Progress: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-02-22T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/wisconsin-s-war-with-union-represents-progress-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Targeting public unions is unwise,
rash and retrograde. That’s the take in some quarters on
Republican Governor  Scott Walker ’s plan to curtail collective
bargaining for public-sector unions in his state,  Wisconsin .  In a tone reminiscent of a Madison professor pouring cold
water over an ill-judged dissertation, President  Barack Obama 
recently admonished: “It’s important not to vilify them or
suggest somehow all these budget problems are due to public
employees.” On Salon.com, contributor Stephanie Taylor
described Walker’s effort to strip away long-standing public-
sector bargaining rights as “ a step backward , not forward, in
the march of American progress.”  Such analysis has it backward. Walker’s decision to reduce
public-union powers isn’t rash. It is overdue. Teacher pensions
do weigh down state budgets, both in Wisconsin and the other 49
states. And Walker’s move won’t necessarily hurt his career. It
may catapult him to the national stage, or even the presidency.  As for the gubernatorial campaign to end collective
bargaining for his own employees, it may benefit the average
worker across the country. That’s what happened in 1919 when
another unknown Republican governor, Calvin Coolidge, stood firm
in  Massachusetts  against a strong union representing government
workers.  American Uprising  The similarities start with the indispensability of the
group at issue. Teachers and prison guards are two classes that
are crucial to Wisconsin’s functioning. In their day, the  Boston
police , Coolidge’s target, were even more crucial. As World War
I closed, many Americans, especially in rough port cities,
wondered if revolutions in Russia and  Europe  might inspire
Americans to rise up as well. Industrialization was new enough
that people believed it may require another political format.  In February 1919, the city of  Seattle  had moved close to
anarchy in a general strike. Returning veterans were cash-short
and angry. In Boston, the police were public insurance against
the city morphing into another Petrograd.  And just as Wisconsin’s teachers do now, the police of  Boston  made a compelling case. Their pay raises had lagged
behind  inflation . Vermin populated their police stations; rats
were known to make meals of the leather in police helmets. Yet
the police commissioner seemed indifferent, arrogant in his
knowledge that police contracts prohibited unionization.  Off the Job  In the summer of 1919, the patrolmen and officers
determined to protest. In August, they announced plans to
unionize. Members of the Boston Social Club, the policemen’s
euphemistically named proto-union, then affiliated publicly with
the American  Federation of Labor . This choice, too, was made
carefully: the convivial Sam Gompers was known for his ability
to get along with public officials. Then, on Sept. 9 at 5:45
p.m., about 1,000 patrolmen walked off the job.  The sound of breaking glass filled the city within hours.
Riots ensued in South Boston and  West End . Groceries were
looted. Crowds sabotaged a rail track so that a trolley
derailed. In Roxbury, the New York Times correspondent reported,
a conductor was shot in the leg by a youngster with a rifle.
With Coolidge’s backing, the police commissioner,  Edwin Curtis ,
fired the police for breach of contract.  Like Walker, Curtis, with Coolidge in the background, chose
not to grant the police their concessions. The state government
got the blame for leaving Boston unprotected. On Sept. 11,
inexcusably late in the view of many, Governor Coolidge called
out the state guard. Commissioner Curtis, for his part, made it
clear there would be no compromise in Massachusetts.  No Right  The police were fired. Instead of melting into
conciliation, Coolidge plowed ahead, in mid-September sending
the astonished Gompers a decidedly cold and categorical letter.
There was,  Coolidge wrote , “no right to strike against the
public safety by anybody, anywhere, any time.”  It was an election year in 1919 for the Bay State.
Democrats expected the statement would hurt Coolidge’s re-
election campaign, especially in combination with his failure to
keep Boston streets safe in those crucial September days. The
party included an explicit line reflecting that in their
platform: “we condemn Governor Coolidge for his inaction and
failing to protect the lives and property of the people of
Boston.”  Richard H. Long , Coolidge’s opponent, sided with the
strikers. The former policemen campaigned across the state
against Coolidge. Coolidge, a career politician, is said to have
told a colleague: “I do not care whether I am re-elected or
not.”  ‘Boston Police’  But Coolidge was re-elected. And his suddenly became a
national name. In 1920, the Republicans made Coolidge the vice
presidential candidate. Three years later, when President Warren Harding died and Coolidge became president, “Boston Police”
remained American code for the principle that union causes do
not trump others. The concern that the U.S. might succumb to
European-style revolutions lifted. Strikes abated. Wages rose
without unions in Motor City. Private-sector union membership
declined. Joblessness dropped. Companies poured cash, which they
otherwise would have spent on union relations, into innovation.  Walker isn’t identical to Coolidge. Walker actually
exempted many law-enforcement officials from his new
restrictions on bargaining: an error. Walker isn’t staving off
progressivism, as Coolidge was. He is staving off bankruptcy.  But he may yet crystallize consensus, as Coolidge did. In
1919, as in 2011, the country suddenly realized that someone has
to stop those excesses, and began to tell itself that that
someone might as well be a governor.    Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the  Council on Foreign Relations , is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  