-- 
Woodside Being `Proactive' With Shell About Remaining Stake, Voelte Says

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-02-22T06:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/woodside-being-proactive-with-shell-about-remaining-stake.html
  Woodside Petroleum Ltd . is being
“proactive” with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  about its remaining
shares in the Australian company after the sale of a 10 percent
stake last year, Chief Executive Officer Don Voelte said.  “It’s just a conversation at this time,” Voelte said in
an interview with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First
Up.” Should Shell decide to sell its remaining 24.27 percent
stake in the company, Woodside has “proactively” tried to
ensure it’s “done in a more managed way this time,” he said.  Shell,  Europe ’s biggest oil company, sold 10 percent of its
holding in Woodside for about $3.3 billion in November. The
Hague-based company is planning a sixfold increase in Australian
gas production and Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser is
targeting asset sales of as much as $5 billion this year.  “We were a bit surprised” that Shell decided to sell 10
percent last year, Voelte said today. “We didn’t get much
notification.”  Woodside rose 0.1 percent to A$42.64 in Sydney trading by
the market’s 4:10 p.m. close. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
dropped 0.9 percent.  Shell said its Woodside stake had been an important part of
company’s Australian portfolio, and that it looked forward to
working with the Perth-based producer as a partner.  “However, with Shell’s recent portfolio progress in
Australia, our world-wide push to simplify the company and to
improve our capital efficiency, we will increasingly focus our
investment in  Australia  through direct interests in assets and
joint ventures, rather than indirect stakes,” Claire Wilkinson,
a Shell spokeswoman based in Perth, said in e-mailed comments.  “We will manage our remaining position in Woodside over
time, in the context of our global portfolio,” she said.  Woodside, the nation’s second-largest oil and gas producer,
said yesterday that net income climbed to $1.58 billion in 2010
from $1.47 billion in the prior year. Only  BHP Billiton Ltd . has
higher output among Australian producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  