-- 
TMX Deal Creates ‘Offensive Player’ for Takeovers, CEO Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-22T21:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/tmx-merger-with-lse-builds-offensive-player-for-takeovers-kloet-says.html
The proposed merger of  TMX Group
Inc . and  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  will “get done,”
creating an “offensive player” to pursue additional takeovers
in the U.S. and other markets, said TMX Group Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Kloet.  “It allows us to be an offensive player in the game, in a
very important way, and gives Canada a chance to have a big seat
at the table,” Kloet said in an interview today at Bloomberg’s
Toronto office. “I very much like our position in the global
space if we make this combination.”  The LSE agreed Feb. 9 to buy the Toronto Stock Exchange
owner in a C$3.2 billion ($3.25 billion) stock deal, following a
decade-long wave of mergers among exchange companies. Since
then,  Deutsche Boerse AG  agreed to buy New York Stock Exchange
parent  NYSE Euronext  in a $9.54 billion takeover to create the
world’s biggest exchange operator.  TMX-LSE, as a larger, combined exchange owner, would be
better placed to pursue acquisitions in the U.S. and around the
world, Kloet, 52, said. The combined company would have C$1.6
billion in revenue and about 2,400 employees working in
countries spanning three continents, he said.  Kloet declined to comment on a Globe and Mail report that
the TMX had been in talks with  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . last year,
before its agreement with the London Stock Exchange.  Get Deal Done  The TMX-LSE transaction requires approval from the federal
government and five Canadian provincial regulators including
Ontario and  Quebec , as well as the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The deal has about a 50-50 chance of gaining
approval given the opposition from some lawmakers in Canada,
said  Thomas Caldwell , CEO of Caldwell Securities Ltd. and a TMX
shareholder.  TMX rose 19 cents to C$41.20 at the 4 p.m. close of trading
on the Toronto Stock Exchange, about 5 percent below LSE’s offer
price of C$43.30 a share.  “I think we will get the deal done,” Kloet said earlier
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “I understand there’s a
political element to this, we always expected that, and we
expect to see that through.”  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan, whose government
has the right to block the deal, has called the Toronto exchange
a “strategic asset” for the country and has questioned the
impact of the takeover.  “They should quit calling it a merger. It’s not,” Duncan
told reporters today, in comments broadcast by Business News
Network television. “They should talk about the next step. If
these two merge, is it their plan to do a further merger? I
think that’s an important question.”  Committee Hearings  Ontario today formed a committee to consider the impact of
the deal on the provincial economy, Toronto’s financial-services
sector and northern Ontario’s mining industries. The committee,
chaired by Deputy House Leader Gerry Phillips, will hold at
least four public hearings in Toronto and release a report on
April 7, according to the government  website .  Canadian Industry Minister Tony Clement said Feb. 14 he
will review the deal under the Investment  Canada  Act to
determine if it’s beneficial to the country’s economy.  “We’re an important part of the capital markets in Canada,
there’s no doubt about that,” Kloet said.  Kloet said there will be a “net benefit” to Canada, a
federal government requirement for approving foreign takeovers.
The combination will benefit issuers as well as investors.  Broadens Investors  “It broadens the number of investors by having us on the
same technology, having us in the same company, and having a
broader array of products will automatically put more eyeballs
on Canada,” Kloet said. “Because of those two I think it’s
good for Canadian companies.”  Kloet said he has trouble seeing how the deal would lead to
job losses at banks, law firms and accountants in Toronto,
Canada’s financial capital.  “I hear that comment about the large number of lawyers and
accountants that are employed by the industry in Ontario,”
Kloet said. “Our model respects the regulatory structure of
capital markets here. Companies that want to list on the Toronto
Stock Exchange are still going to have to go through the same
process they do now.”  “I have every confidence that our lawyers and accountants
are going to be every bit as competitive in that structure as
they are in the existing structure,” he said.  Kloet said he doesn’t anticipate problems getting two-
thirds approval from TMX shareholders when they vote on the
transaction.  “For the most part our investors like the deal,” Kloet
said. “I’m quite confident we’ll get to the two-third vote.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; Nick
Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  