-- 
Yankees Players Are More Focused in Spring Training, Steinbrenner Says

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-02-22T05:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/yankees-players-are-more-focused-in-spring-training-steinbrenner-says.html
The  New York Yankees  are more
focused in their preparations for the Major League Baseball
season after allowing celebrations of their 2009  World Series 
success to go on too long, Co-Chairman Hank Steinbrenner said.  Players were “too busy building mansions and other things
and not concentrating on winning” last season after claiming a
record-extending 27th World Series to end an eight-year
championship drought, Steinbrenner told reporters yesterday. The
Yankees lost the American League Championship Series in October
4-2 to the  Texas Rangers .  Steinbrenner said his comments weren’t targeted at team
captain  Derek Jeter , whose $7.7 million waterfront home near the
Yankees’ spring training complex in Tampa,  Florida , was
completed in January, according to the Yankees’ website. The 36-
year-old shortstop batted .270 in 2010, his worst performance on
that measure since his debut season for the Yankees in 1995, and
below his career average of .314.  “I’m not singling anybody out,” Steinbrenner said
yesterday, according to remarks posted on the team’s website.
“From what I’ve been told by everyone that’s down there with
them, our coaches and so forth, they’ve come in with a real new
drive and determination, the kind they had in ’09.”  Jeter needs 74 hits to become the 28th major league batter
to reach 3,000 career hits. He told reporters in Tampa that he’s
focused on improving on last season’s performance, when he had
67 runs batted in, his second-worst season on that measure since
2003, and 10 home runs, his fewest for seven campaigns.  “I felt as though I had a lot of things I can improve on
last season,” Jeter told reporters in Tampa two days ago.
“That’s what I’m working on.”  ‘Not Acceptable’    Alex Rodriguez , baseball’s highest-paid player, “can still
do it, big time,” Steinbrenner said. Rodriguez hit .270 with 30
home runs and 125 RBIs in 137 games last season, compared with
career averages of .303, 43 home runs and 129 RBIs.  “There’s no question that I feel I can improve on what
I’ve done the last several years,” Rodriguez told reporters in
Tampa yesterday. “For me, those years are really not
acceptable, although they weren’t too bad.”  Baseball has to look at changing its revenue-sharing and
so-called luxury tax formulas, Steinbrenner said. The Yankees’
2010 payments will be about $130 million, he said.  “Socialism, communism, whatever you want to call it, is
never the answer,” Steinbrenner said. “If you don’t want to
worry about teams in minor markets, don’t put teams in minor
markets, or don’t leave teams in minor markets if they’re truly
minor.”  Since 2003, teams have been liable for the luxury tax if
the amount they pay their players exceeds the average across all
MLB teams. The Yankees had an opening-day payroll of $206
million in 2010, the highest in the league for the 10th straight
year, according to the  Associated Press .  The Yankees begin the 2011 regular season at home against
the  Detroit Tigers  on March 31 and play three games from April
8-10 at the division-rival  Boston Red Sox .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 