-- 
Yen to Strengthen Past 80 to Dollar, Fuel M&A, Sakakibara Says

-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 
2011-02-22T03:43:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/yen-to-strengthen-past-80-to-dollar-fuel-m-a-sakakibara-says.html
The yen will rise beyond its postwar
high of 79.75 versus the dollar and stay stronger than 80 this
year because of structural weakness of the  U.S. economy , said
Eisuke Sakakibara, formerly Japan’s top currency official.  “The U.S. still faces a balance-sheet problem, with
businesses saddled with bad loans and households with excess
debts, so the sustainability of recovery is still doubtful,”
Sakakibara said last night at an event hosted by the Tokyo
Foreign Exchange Market Committee and the Forex Club Japan.
“The dollar’s downward trend will continue over the medium to
long term.”  Sakakibara, 69, said that Finance MinisterYoshihiko Noda
should declare that a strong currency is in Japan’s interest.
Sakakibara became known as “Mr. Yen” during his 1997-1999
tenure at the Ministry of Finance for his efforts to influence
the yen rate through verbal and actual intervention in the  currency markets .  The yen reached 80.22 per dollar on Nov. 1, the strongest
since April 1995 and short of the postwar record reached in the
same month. Sakakibara said in September after the nation’s
first currency intervention since 2004 that such efforts to
weaken the yen would fail to stop its gain to a record in 2010.
The yen traded at 83.29 per dollar as of 12:27 p.m. in Tokyo
after reaching a two-month low of 83.98 last week.  The currency will decline to 86 per dollar by the middle of
this year and to 89 by year-end, according to median forecasts
of economists and analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Large Japanese companies are weathering the yen’s impact on
exports, and the currency’s strength will help fuel investments
and mergers overseas, said Sakakibara, who is now a professor at  Aoyama Gakuin University  in Tokyo.  U.S. preeminence in the global economy appears to be
ending, while  Europe ’s economy is showing signs of collapse
because of the debt crisis in peripheral nations, Sakakibara
said. The center of the global economy is shifting to  Asia  --
primarily China and  India  -- and Asian currencies will advance
against the dollar and the euro over the long term, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  