-- 
Zurich to Buy 51% of Santander Latin America Insurance Unit

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-02-22T12:39:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-22/zurich-financial-buys-1-67-billion-stake-in-santander-latin-america-unit.html
  Zurich Financial Services AG ,  Switzerland ’s largest insurer, agreed to pay as much as $2.1
billion for 51 percent of  Banco Santander SA ’s insurance
business in  Brazil , Mexico,  Chile ,  Argentina  and Uruguay.  The Zurich-based company will make an initial payment of
$1.67 billion with Santander receiving as much as $420 million
over the next 25 years depending on the performance of the unit,
the Swiss insurer said today in an e-mailed  statement . Zurich
will manage the insurance joint-venture.  The acquisition will make the Swiss insurer the fourth-
largest in Latin America, after Banco Bradesco SA, Mapfre SA and
Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Zurich said. It will also gain access
to more than 5,600 Santander branches and 36 million customers
in the region through a 25-year distribution agreement.  “It’s an interesting and promising deal, because they
achieve scale in the biggest Latin American markets  Mexico ,
Brazil and Argentina,” said Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based
analyst with Vontobel Holding AG. “It’s in line with Zurich’s
focus to grow Asian and Latin American operations.”  The transaction is between 1.9 to 2.1 times book value,
according to a presentation on Zurich’s website. Last October’s
bid by Apollo Global Management and CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
for Brit Insurance Holdings NV was priced at about 1 times book
value.  Latin American Share  Zurich fell 0.7 percent to 268.4 francs as of 1:37 p.m.
local time, paring this year’s gain to 11 percent. The 27-member
Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index was also down 0.7 percent.
Santander dropped 1 percent to 8.86 euros in  Madrid  trading.  The joint venture will double the contribution of Latin
America to about 8 percent of the company’s total revenue and
furthers Zurich strategy of expanding into emerging markets
where people are taking out auto or life insurance for the first
time. Zurich and Santander would have produced $3.9 billion in
gross written premiums plus $2.9 billion in pension
contributions in 2010, the Swiss insurer said.  “Santander’s Latin American insurance operations offer a
rare combination of high growth potential and strong cash flow
generation,” Zurich Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn said in
today’s statement. The insurer expects to complete the agreement
in the first half of this year.  The Swiss company aims to increase the contribution of new
business from  Asia , the Middle East and Latin America to 30
percent of the life insurance total by 2013 from the current 15
percent to 20 percent, Zurich told investors on Dec. 2.  Boosting Earnings  Zurich plans to finance a majority of the payment from
existing cash, with the balance financed through the issuance of
hybrid debt, Chief Financial Officer Dieter Wemmer told
journalists during a conference call.  The acquisition is expected to add to Zurich’s earnings per
share immediately and will aid achieving its return-on-equity
target of 16 percent over the medium term, the company said. The
new business value for 2010 was estimated at $160 million,
Wemmer said.  The insurer said on Feb. 10 that full-year net income fell
13 percent to $3.43 billion after agreeing to pay $455 million
to settle a U.S. class action lawsuit related to its Farmers
Group unit. Operating profit declined by the same margin to $4.9
billion.  The firms will establish Zurich Santander Insurance
America, S.L. in Madrid to serve as the new holding company for
the joint venture in which Zurich will have management control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  