-- 
Al Davis, Maverick Owner of NFL’s Oakland Raiders, Dies at 82

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-10-09T05:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/al-davis-renegade-owner-of-nfl-s-oakland-raiders-dies-at-82.html
Al Davis, the renegade owner of the
Oakland Raiders whose battles with the  National Football League 
gave him an outlaw image matching that of his silver-and-black-
clad team, died at the age of 82.  The Raiders announced his death yesterday on their
 website , without providing any further details.  While imploring his players on the field to “Just win,
baby,” Davis ran some of football’s biggest sideshows.  He first faced off with the NFL in the 1960s when, as the
hard-charging commissioner of the rival American Football
League, he escalated a tug-of-war for top players. The two
leagues merged months into his tenure.  As owner of the Raiders, the team he led and loved as far
back as 1963, he moved the franchise out of Oakland and to  Los
Angeles , then back to Oakland 13 years later, in a bid for a
better stadium. He feuded with the NFL and with at least one
Raiders star, Marcus Allen.  The Raiders won Super Bowls in 1976, 1980 and 1983 as well
as 15 AFC West titles during an extended reign as one of the
league’s best teams from 1963 to 2002. More recently they were
among the league’s worst, winning 29 games and losing 83 from
2003 through 2009, before posting an 8-8 record in 2010.
Oakland has a 2-2 record this season going into today’s game in
Houston.  ‘I’m the Raiders’  “People love the Raiders and every time they think of the
Raiders, they think of Mr. Davis,” Willie Brown, a Hall of
Fame cornerback and now an assistant with the team, said in a
statement. “It’s a sad day in the Raider nation.”  Forbes magazine  estimated  the franchise’s value at $761
million in 2011, higher than only one other team, the
 Jacksonville Jaguars , in the 32-team league.  “History will dictate what my legacy is,” Davis said in
an interview for “ Straight Outta L.A. ,” a documentary
directed by rapper Ice Cube for ESPN in 2010. “Maverick is
fine, ‘cause I am. Outlaw I’m not. But if believing in what you
believe and sticking up for your rights and sticking up for the
rights of others from time to time -- do it your way. Don’t let
the culture tell you what do. That’s being a Raider.”  Regarding the team’s recent run of ineptitude, he said,
“We slipped tremendously, and it’s my fault. I’m the
custodian. I’m the Raiders, at least the face of it.”  On and On  Davis was  inducted  in 1992 into the Pro Football Hall of
Fame, which hailed him as the only person to work in
professional football as personnel assistant, scout, assistant
coach, head coach, general manager, commissioner and team
owner. “I love the game, I love the league, I love my team,”
he said at his induction ceremony.  Dallas Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  said yesterday, “There
was no element of the game of professional football for which
Al did not enjoy a thorough and complete level of knowledge and
passion.”  “He’ll be sorely missed,” said Jim Plunkett, who
quarterbacked the Raiders’ last two Super Bowl-winning teams.
“His contributions to the game of football go on and on.”  “Al Davis’s passion for football and his influence on the
game were extraordinary,” NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said
in a  statement . “He defined the Raiders and contributed to pro
football at every level.”  Racehorse Football  Arthur Allen Davis was born on July 4, 1929, in Brockton,
 Massachusetts , the second of two sons in a Jewish family. He
grew up in the  New York  City borough of  Brooklyn , where his
family had moved for his father’s work as a rain-coat
manufacturer.  He was a reserve on the Erasmus Hall High School
basketball team and was cut from the varsity football team at
 Syracuse University , where he earned an English degree,
according to a 1991 Los Angeles Times profile.  Right out of college, he became line coach for the
football team at Adelphi College in New York, then head coach
of the U.S. Army team at Ft. Belvoir, Virginia. For one year,
1954, he ran player personnel for the  Baltimore Colts  of the
NFL, then returned to the college ranks at The Citadel, where
he introduced an early no-huddle offense called racehorse
football, and at the University of  Southern California .  “All my life, all I wanted to do was coach and lead
men,” he told the ESPN documentary. The Los Angeles Times
reported in 1991 that Davis’s fascination with military history
was reflected in a slogan on each edition of the team’s travel
itinerary: “Let’s go to war!”  NFL, AFL Merger  In 1960, he moved permanently to the pros, coaching
receivers for the Los Angeles Chargers in their inaugural
season in the American Football League. Before the 1963 season
he became head coach and general manager of the  Oakland
Raiders , who had won just nine games and lost 33 in their first
three years. Davis turned the team around, winning AFL coach of
the year honors after a 10-4 season.  AFL owners named him commissioner in April 1966. He
pledged to fight the bigger, more established NFL for top
players and declared himself uninterested in merging the two
leagues.  Within months, though, back-channel negotiations among
owners of the two leagues produced a merger agreement and, in
January 1967, the first game between NFL and AFL champions --
what would later become known as Super Bowl I.  Davis, “feeling betrayed and made to look foolish” by
the merger, according to biographer  Mark Ribowsky , returned to
the Raiders as part-owner and managing general partner. The
team earned a spot in  Super Bowl II , losing to the  Green Bay
Packers .  Sole General Partner  During the next two decades, Davis first outmaneuvered one
partner and then outlived another to become the franchise’s
majority owner and sole general partner. His ascendancy
coincided with that of the team. The Raiders cruised through
the 1976 season on the way to their first championship in Super
Bowl XI, winning again in 1980 and 1983.  The first two championships were as Oakland’s team, while
the 1983 triumph culminated the team’s first year as the
Raiders of Los Angeles.  Davis moved the franchise, over the objections of other
NFL team owners, after asking for the addition of luxury boxes
at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum. With the Los Angeles
Coliseum Commission, the Raiders went to court to successfully
challenge an NFL rule requiring teams to win league consent
before relocating. The team and commission also won millions in
damages in an antitrust case against the league.  Back to Oakland  In 1987, following the collapse of plans to renovate their
new home, Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, the Raiders signed a
deal with another nearby city -- Irwindale, which agreed to
lend $115 million for a new 65,000-seat stadium to be built by
1990.  That too, devolved into squabbling, and in 1990, after a
public courtship with yet another suitor,  Sacramento , the
Raiders announced they would return to Oakland, which also fell
through. The team signed a 20-year lease agreement to remain in
Los Angeles, with $145 million in promised renovations to the
Los Angeles Coliseum. Those renovations weren’t made.  After the 1994 season, Davis gave up on one final
prospect, a new stadium at Hollywood Park in Los Angeles. “The
owners stopped me,” he said on ESPN. “For them to give their
OK, they wanted me to take a second team, and I wouldn’t take a
second NFL team into Hollywood Park. I just wanted to be
alone.” He brought the team back to Oakland, which agreed to
add seats and make other improvements to its stadium.  His Own Course  Davis followed his own course other times as well.  In the 1987 draft, Davis used the Raiders’ final pick to
choose Bo Jackson, even though Jackson one year earlier had
rebuffed football for  Major League Baseball . Wooed by Davis,
who offered full-time pay for part-time play, Jackson joined
the Raiders after the 1987 baseball season ended and went on to
play through 1991.  In 1989, Davis promoted Art Shell, a former Raider star
player, from assistant coach to head coach, making him the
first black head coach in the modern era of the NFL.  Davis never cited a reason for his long feud with Allen,
the running back who was the team’s first-round draft pick in
1982 and most valuable player of  Super Bowl XVIII . In a
television interview in his final months with the team in 1992,
Allen said Davis had “attempted to ruin” his career.  Asked about Allen in the ESPN documentary, Davis would say
only, “It’s a deeper story than you even dream, that I was
well aware of, and I just got a certain approach to life.”  Davis and his wife, Carol, had a son, Mark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  