-- 
Aramco-Dow Sadara Chemical Joint Venture May Tap Debt Market

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-10-08T12:27:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/aramco-dow-s-sadara-chemical-joint-venture-may-tap-debt-market.html
The Sadara chemical joint venture
being built by Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  may
tap debt markets to help finance the project.  The venture will look at all sources of funding as “it’s a
big project that needs a lot of debt,” said Khalid Al-Falih,
chief executive of the state oil company also known as  Saudi
Aramco . The project will examine bond and sukuk markets.  Financing costs will be low because the two companies have
a good reputation and “we will make sure it will stay low,”
Al-Falih said at a ceremony in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, today.  The  plant  will make 3 million tons of chemical products a
year, generating about $10 billion worth of sales per annum,
within a few years, he said earlier today in a speech. The
multi-billion dollar joint venture will be the largest in  Saudi
Arabia  and will make chemical products new to the  Middle East .  Dow Chemical Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said
the project will create 14,000 new jobs in Saudi Arabia, 4,000
of which are from direct employment and the rest indirectly.
Liveris said in Dhahran that he was not concerned about the
possibility of cheap U.S. shale gas reserves affecting the
profitability or competitiveness of products that Sadara will
make. Sadara will use ethane gas for one-third of its feedstock
and liquids for the rest, according to Al-Falih.  IPO Planned  Aramco owns 65 percent of the Sadara venture and Dow
Chemical the rest. Aramco plans to sell part of its stake in an
initial public offering though not before late 2013, Al-Falih
said.  After the IPO, Aramco and Dow will hold each hold 35
percent of the project.  The Aramco chief executive said the Sadara venture has no
plans to acquire small- or medium-sized chemical producers in
Saudi Arabia and will “not crush existing producers.” The
global market for petrochemicals and special chemical products
is about $3 trillion a year, he said.  All 26 units of the Sadara project will be built in one
phase and work is already underway preparing the ground. The
overall cost will be less than $20 billion, Al-Falih said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Dhahran at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  