-- 
Brewers, Cardinals Win One-Run Games, Reach NL’s Championship Series

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-08T13:45:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/brewers-cardinals-win-1-run-games-reach-nl-championship-series.html
The St. Louis Cardinals shut out the
Philadelphia Phillies 1-0 and the  Milwaukee Brewers  defeated the
Arizona Diamondbacks 3-2 in 10 innings in fifth-game deciders to
advance to the National League Championship Series.  The Brewers, who won their first postseason series since
1982, will host the Cardinals tomorrow in the first game of a
best-of-seven series for a chance to go to the  World Series . The
Texas Rangers host the Detroit Tigers tonight in the start of
the  American League  Championship Series.  At Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Chris Carpenter,
11-9 during the regular season, pitched nine scoreless innings,
giving up three hits and striking out three for the Cardinals.
He threw 70 strikes in 110 pitches.  “I was able to keep the ball down and the guys made some
great plays behind me,” Carpenter said in a televised interview
after beating a Phillies team which had  Major League Baseball ’s
best regular-season record and was the favorite of Las Vegas
oddsmakers to win the World Series. “Everyone was expecting us
to have no chance. We just played like we knew we could.”  Carpenter said his greatest pitch of the game was the final
one with two outs in the ninth to Ryan Howard, who hit a ground
ball and then stumbled leaving the batter’s box and collapsed
along the first-base line. Howard injured his left Achilles
tendon and will have an MRI exam today, according to the
Phillies  website .  Only Score  Rafael Furcal scored on Skip Schumaker’s double in the
first inning to give the Cardinals a 1-0 lead. Schumaker left
the game in the bottom of the third with a tight right oblique
muscle.  Roy Halladay  surrendered one run on six hits and struck out
seven in eight innings for the Phillies. Ryan Madson pitched a
perfect ninth inning, striking out two.  The Cardinals, down by 10 1/2 games in the wild-card chase
in late August, rallied to reach the division series.  “We have some characters with great guts and great
heart,” said manager  Tony La Russa .  At Miller Park in  Milwaukee , the Brewers won their first
National League postseason series. In 1982, the team was a
member of the American League.  “We heard all about 1982,” Ryan Braun said in a televised
interview. “Now we can start our own legacy.”  Nyjer Morgan hit a single up the middle off J.J. Putz to
drive home Carlos Gomez from second base in the bottom of the
10th inning. Gomez, who had reached first on a single with one
out, had advanced to second on a steal.  The Diamondbacks had tied the game 2-2 in the ninth on a
run-scoring bunt single by Willie Bloomquist. It was  Arizona ’s
first run since the third inning, when Justin Upton hit a solo
home run off starter Yovani Gallardo.  Jerry Hairston Jr.’s sacrifice fly in the fourth drove in
the Brewers’ first run in the game. Yuniesky Betancourt hit a
run-scoring single in the sixth to give the Brewers a 2-1 lead.  Milwaukee reliever John Axford got the win, allowing one
run on three hits in two innings while striking out two. Putz
took the loss, allowing a run on two hits in a third of an
inning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  