-- 
Canada Dollar Gains for First Week in 3 on Risk-Appetite Revival

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-10-08T04:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/canada-dollar-gains-for-first-week-in-3-on-risk-appetite-revival.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened for the
first week in three as risk appetite outweighed concern that
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is worsening, sending crude oil,
the nation’s biggest export, and stocks higher.  The currency’s advance versus its U.S. counterpart was
capped as commodities and equities reversed gains yesterday
after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Italy and Spain, underlining the
potential for the debt crisis to spread. The Canadian dollar
rose 1 percent in the five days ended yesterday. A report next
week is forecast to show Canada’s trade deficit widened to C$1
billion ($960 million) in August.  “A bid to equities, a bid to commodities and some downside
volatility are all contributing factors to a better performance
by the Canadian dollar,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, closed yesterday at C$1.0395
per U.S. dollar in Toronto, from C$1.0503 on Sept. 30. It
touched C$1.0658 on Oct. 4, the weakest level since August 2010.
One Canadian dollar buys 96.20 U.S. cents.  The currency lost 6.9 percent in September, the most in
almost three years, as volatility surged on speculation European
officials will fail to contain the region’s debt crisis. It rose
yesterday the most on an intraday basis since Aug. 9, 1.3
percent, after Canada and the U.S. reported higher-than-forecast
job growth in September.  Commodity Currencies  The loonie performed sixth-best among the U.S. dollar’s 16
most-traded counterparts this week, lagging behind the Brazilian
real,  Mexico ’s peso,  South Africa ’s rand, and the dollars of
 Australia  and  New Zealand . All five nations, like Canada, are
commodities exporters.  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials  climbed
1.8 percent this week, its first five-day gain in a month, as
global-recession speculation receded amid optimism European
leaders will take measures to ease the debt crisis. Raw
materials generate about half of Canada’s export revenue.  The  European Central Bank  said Oct. 6 it will reintroduce
year-long loans and resume purchases of covered bonds to
encourage lending, and the European Commission was pushing for a
coordinated capital injection into banks.  November futures on crude oil hit $84 a barrel, from as low
as $74.95, and ended the week up 4.8 percent at $82.98 a barrel
in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.1 percent
this week after tumbling 14 percent from July through September,
the biggest loss since the last quarter of 2008.  Job Gains  Canadian employment rose by 60,900 in September, more than
four times the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, after
a decline of 5,500 in August,  Statistics Canada  said yesterday
in Ottawa. The  unemployment rate  fell to 7.1 percent, the lowest
since December 2008.  “The data out of Canada is better than expected, and the
macro community will like that and be interested to buy the
Canadian dollar at these levels,”  Stephen Gallo , head of market
analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in  London , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Fair value for Canada is
stronger than current levels. On a short-term basis, I would be
a very gentle buyer of the Canadian dollar at these levels.”  Payrolls in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner,
climbed by 103,000 workers last month, Labor Department data
showed yesterday in  Washington . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for an increase of 60,000.  The employment data’s impact was countered when Fitch
lowered the long-term issuer default ratings of Italy and  Spain ,
citing their vulnerability to the debt crisis. Italy had its
ratings cut to A+ from AA-, while Spain was cut to AA- from AA+.  ‘Uncertainties That Prevail’  The loonie advanced this week “as a measure of stronger-
than-expected economics on both sides of the 49th,” said
National Bank’s Spitz, referring to the line of latitude that
demarcates part of the Canada-U.S. border. Still, he said, “one
payroll number and a lack of any downside headline surprises out
of Europe over the last couple of days doesn’t necessarily
negate the uncertainties that prevail.”  Options trading showed bearishness on the Canadian currency
declined over the course of the week. The premium charged for
the right to buy the  U.S. dollar  versus the Canadian dollar in
three months over contracts to sell touched 3.32 percentage
points yesterday after reaching a record 4.43 percentage points
on Oct. 4, so called risk-reversal rates show.  Volatility in the greenback versus the Canadian dollar
reached a two-week low. One-month implied volatility on the
currency pair touched 12.8 percent yesterday, the lowest level
since Sept. 22. It climbed as high as 16 percent on Oct. 4. The
average over the past five years is 11.6 percent.  Bonds Fall  Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency.  Canada’s government bonds fell on the week, pushing the 10-
year note’s yield higher by nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 2.24 percent. The yields touched a record
low 1.994 percent on Oct. 4. The price of the 3.25 percent
security maturing in June 2021 dropped 81 cents to C$108.72.  Canada’s government bonds have returned 7.3 percent this
year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  The nation will auction on Oct. 12 C$3.5 billion of bonds
due in March 2017. The previous  sale  of five-year notes, on July
6, fetched an average yield of 2.31 percent.  The nation’s international merchandise trade gap increased
to C$1 billion in August, from C$750 million the month before,
according to the median of 20 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.
Statistics Canada is due to release the report on Oct. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  