-- 
China Cuts Retail Gasoline Prices For First Time in 2011 as Oil Falls

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-10T07:19:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/china-to-cut-retail-gasoline-diesel-prices-tomorrow-ndrc-says.html
China  cut fuel prices for the first
time this year amid a slump in crude-oil costs and government
efforts to tame inflation.  Wholesale gasoline and diesel prices were both reduced by
300 yuan ($47.20) a metric ton, effective yesterday, the
National Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s top
economic planner, said. That represents a 3.5 percent drop for
gasoline and 3.9 percent for diesel, according to prices
provided in an Oct. 8 statement by the NDRC.  Policy makers for the world’s second-largest economy are
trying to cool inflation while sustaining an expansion as a
deepening debt crisis in  Europe  and faltering growth in the U.S.
threaten to sap export demand. The increase in China’s  consumer
price index  eased to 6.2 percent in August after hitting a
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  China’s two biggest oil refiners,  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028)  and PetroChina Co., “are being asked to perform
national service by offering cheap fuels amid the domestic
inflation clampdown,”  Gordon Kwan , Mirae Asset Securities
Ltd.’s head of regional energy research in  Hong Kong , said in an
e-mail in response to Bloomberg questions. “These fuel price
cuts do not surprise us and more could come if the Brent crude
price falls below $100 per barrel this winter.”  Share Slump  China Petroleum, or Sinopec, fell as much as 6.3 percent,
the most since Sept. 22, to HK$7.02 today and were at HK$7.11 at
3:17 p.m. in Hong Kong. PetroChina dropped as much as 3.3
percent. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  slid as much as 1.5
percent.  Brent crude , the benchmark for about half the world’s oil,
has fallen 13 percent and New York oil is down 23 percent since
China last adjusted prices on April 6. China last reduced oil-
product prices in June 2010 and has increased them four times,
by about 20 percent, since then.  “China hadn’t raised fuel prices enough” when crude
climbed to high levels in late-April and early May, amid
concerns of inflation, and this delayed any move to cut prices
before now, the NDRC said in a  separate statement  on its
website, citing comments from an official it didn’t identify.  Gasoline prices were cut to 8,280 yuan ton and diesel
prices were lowered to 7,430 yuan, the NDRC said. The upper
limit for retail gasoline dropped as much as 3.3 percent and
diesel by 3.6 percent.  Refining Losses  Chinese refiners will face losses after the cuts and the
government has told  oil companies  to ensure supply, NDRC said.  “This price cut could continue to squeeze the domestic
refining margin for the giant oil duo,” Kwan said. “We
estimate that they will lose an average of US$6.5 for every
barrel of imported oil refined into fuels.”  Sustained fuel price cuts should help lower China’s
Producer Price Index and Consumer Price Index in the winter
months, Kwan said.  China adjusts gasoline, diesel and kerosene rates when the
moving average of three crude grades comprising Brent, Dubai and
Cinta changes more than 4 percent over 22 working days. The
government may increase the frequency of fuel price adjustments
and change the global crude price benchmarks it monitors, the
NDRC said in the statement, without being more specific.  China’s industrial output slowed in August for a second
month, giving policy makers more room to pause monetary
tightening as the economy cools and a global slowdown threatens
exports and jobs.  China is cutting fuel prices as tightness in domestic fuel
supply eases. The government reduced fuel-oil import tariffs in
July. It also pressured privately held refineries to increase
processing, the official Xinhua News Agency said on Aug. 8,
citing an unidentified NDRC official.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  