-- 
China Home Prices Drop in September For First Time in a Year, Soufun Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-08T04:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/china-home-prices-drop-for-first-time-in-a-year-soufun-says.html
China ’s home prices fell 0.03 percent
from a month earlier in September, the first decline in a year,
said  Soufun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real estate
website owner.  Residential prices rose in 54 of 100 cities tracked by
Soufun and fell in 44 cities, with average home values
nationwide at 8,877 yuan ($1,396) a square meter, Soufun said in
an e-mailed statement today. Compared with the same month last
year, average prices rose 6.15 percent, Soufun said.  China’s efforts to control its  property market  are at a
critical stage and the nation needs to focus on curbing price
increases in less-affluent cities, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on
Sept. 1. The government said in July that it will rein in
residential prices in smaller cities after it raised down-
payment requirements and mortgage rates earlier this year.  Today’s statement showed that price data remain mixed.
Among the 10 largest cities,  home prices  last month dropped 0.23
percent in  Shanghai  from August and slid 1.39 percent in
Chongqing, while Beijing saw a 0.24 percent increase. Compared
with September 2010, home costs climbed in all 10 cities.  China’s property market is in a “deadlock” as demand
remains strong even after the government limited the number of
homes individuals can buy and tried to cap price gains, Lu Zhongyuan, deputy director of the State Council Development
Research Center, said at a briefing in Beijing last week. The
government will probably maintain property curbs into next year,
Lu said.  Housing transactions in Beijing during the first six days
of October plunged 62 percent from the same period in September
and shrank nearly 10 percent on year, the Beijing Times reported
today, citing local government data.  Chinese developers face an “increasingly severe” credit
outlook, which may force them to cut prices and turn to costlier
sources of funding as sales weaken,  Standard & Poor’s  said Sept.
27.  “The worst isn’t over for China’s real estate
developers,” S&P analysts led by Frank Lu wrote in a report.
“Developers are bracing themselves for slower sales and lower
property prices ahead.”  --Li Yanping. Editor: Neil Western, Jim McDonald  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ; 