-- 
Max Bank Tests Danish Consolidation Bill as Bail-In Shelved

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-10-10T13:33:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/denmark-s-max-bank-will-fail-under-bail-in-law-government-says.html
Max Bank A/S became  Denmark ’s first
insolvent lender to test a bank package designed to sidestep the
country’s bail-in laws after the state was able to find a buyer
and avert senior creditor losses.  Sparekassen Sjaelland A/S will take over the healthy parts
of Max Bank after it was declared insolvent by the Financial
Supervisory Authority, the government said late yesterday. The
state will assume the bank’s bad loans. Under the consolidation
bill, the transaction will be subsidized by Denmark’s guarantee
fund. Senior creditors will be spared, while shareholders will
lose their investments.  “I’m pleased that the new consolidation initiatives, which
are backed by a broad majority in parliament, have proven
workable,” Economy and Growth Minister Ole Sohn said in a
statement on the ministry’s website. “This solution means that
no depositors or other simple creditors in  Max Bank (MAX)  will lose
money.”  The maneuver allows Max Bank to avoid  Europe ’s toughest
bank resolution laws, which had led to senior bondholder losses
twice since February. Those credit events had left international
funding markets closed to most of Denmark’s roughly 120 banks.
Lawmakers last month passed the consolidation bill in an effort
to avoid triggering more senior creditor losses and to help
banks return to bond markets and generate funds needed to avoid
a credit crunch.  Bank Profits  Max Bank’s resolution will hit bank industry profits as
lenders are forced to cover losses through the Deposit Guarantee
Fund, Simon Christensen, a senior analyst at  Nordea Markets ,
said in a note.  “We estimate the loss that the Danish banking sector
should cover through the Depositor Guarantee Fund to range
between 3 percent and 5 percent of consensus profit before tax
in 2011,” Christensen said in the note.  There’s no guarantee that the consolidation bill can be
deployed successfully again in future, Joergen A. Horwitz, the
director of the Danish Bankers Association, said in a note.  Bank shares were the worst performers amongst Danish
equities today. The sub-index for the country’s financials
declined 0.3 percent as of 3.25 p.m. in Copenhagen, compared
with a 0.8 percent increase in the all-share KAX index.  Max Bank was declared insolvent after the FSA told it to
raise writedowns and said its solvency ratio didn’t meet the new
requirement, it said in a statement over the weekend. Neither
Max Bank nor the regulator published details of the demands.  ‘Regrettable Situation’  “Max Bank had fallen into a regrettable situation,” Sohn
said. “The FSA’s inspection showed that the bank no longer
lived up to its solvency requirements primarily because of its
engagements within real estate.”  Sparekassen Sjaelland will take over all private and
corporate clients at Max Bank with engagements of less than 5
million kroner ($900,000) a piece, the government said. The
remaining commitments will be transferred to a unit of The
Financial Stability Company, the state’s winding-down arm, it
said.  Max Bank wrote down 79.2 million kroner of bad loans in the
first six months of the year in addition to 218 million kroner
combined for the years 2009 and 2010. In its annual report
published Feb. 28, Max Bank said 34 percent of its loans were
related to the building and real estate industries, identified
by the FSA as among Denmark’s riskiest.  The bank had a solvency ratio of 13.8 percent at the end of
June, exceeding its own calculated requirement of 11.3 percent,
it said in August.  Max Bank Bonds  Max Bank has bonds out worth 3 billion kroner, according to
Bloomberg data. The bank’s stock market value was 59.5 million
kroner as of the Oct. 7 closing price, after the shares lost 72
percent this year.  The bank had assets of 9.39 billion kroner at the end of
June, according to its first-half earnings report. It was the
third-riskiest of 99 Danish banks graded by researcher Niro
Invest ApS in a June survey.  Max Bank said Oct. 8 the OMX Copenhagen stock exchange had
agreed to suspend trading of its shares and bonds.  Henrik Bjerre-Nielsen, chief executive officer of Financial
Stability, didn’t answer calls seeking details. Max Bank CEO
Henrik Lund didn’t respond to a message left on his voice mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  