-- 
Medvedev Aide Dvorkovich Would Follow Boss to New Government

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-10-08T16:31:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/medvedev-aide-dvorkovich-would-follow-boss-to-new-government.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s
top economic aide, Arkady Dvorkovich, said he probably will
leave his Kremlin post after presidential elections next year
and hopes to join a government led by his current boss.  “I hope that President Medvedev, if after elections he
will move to the position of prime minister, he will, I hope,
propose” a position in the government, Dvorkovich said in
English in an  interview  with U.S. journalist Larry King posted
on the website of Moscow-based radio station Ekho Moskvy.  The interview appeared the same day that Medvedev told
 United Russia  party members that it was too early to speculate
on how he would act as prime minister. Medvedev said last month
that United Russia should back Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to
return to the Kremlin after elections next year. Putin said
Medvedev may replace him as head of the government.  The reshuffle has already sparked the departure of Finance
Minister Alexei Kudrin, who agreed to step down after a dispute
with Medvedev about military and social spending increases.
Putin said last week at an investment conference that he had
agreed with Medvedev that Kudrin, who was finance minister since
2000, would remain “part of our team.”  Dvorkovich, a former deputy economy minister and adviser to
then-President Putin, said he wasn’t insulted that Medvedev
didn’t tell him before announcing publicly that he wouldn’t seek
a second term. Dvorkovich joined Medvedev in the Kremlin during
the first month of the new administration, in May 2008. “I
respect the president’s position 100 percent,” Dvorkovich said.  King, who had interviewed Putin on his  Larry King  Live show
for  CNN  before leaving in December, was in Moscow for 36 hours,
according to Ekho Moskvy. The interview also included
billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg , who oversees Medvedev’s
initiative to develop an innovation hub outside Moscow, and Ekho
Moskvy editor Alexei Venediktov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  