-- 
EU’s Rehn Says Overlapping Rescue Funds Wouldn’t Double Capital

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-10-08T13:56:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/eu-s-rehn-says-overlapping-rescue-funds-wouldn-t-double-capital.html
Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said an overlap of Europe’s temporary and
permanent rescue funds wouldn’t double the amount of capital
available to fight the sovereign debt crisis.  While bringing forward the permanent fund by a year to mid-
2012 would result in some overlap with the existing fund, it
wouldn’t be “to the full extent,” Rehn said in a television
interview on  Finland ’s YLE TV1 today.  European officials are under pressure to do more to contain
the region’s debt crisis as  Greece  teeters on the brink of
default. Euro-area governments are seeking ways to improve the
effectiveness of the 440 billion-euro ($590 billion) European
Financial Stability Facility and its permanent successor, the
500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism. The European
Commission argues that the establishment of the ESM should be
brought forward from its current start date of mid-2013.  Speeding up implementation of the fund would be a
“sensible” measure “if we want  Europe  to have enough power to
counter market turbulence,” Rehn said.  He said the EFSF will subside as countries repay their
bailout loans over the long term, and the ESM will grow to its
full size as its capital is paid by member states in five
installments over five years. This “gradual” overlap wouldn’t
double Europe’s firepower to 940 billion euros, Rehn said.  Greece has funds until mid-November and a decision on
paying the sixth tranche of its initial bailout should be made
by the end of this month, Rehn said. “In principle” it’s
possible the tranche won’t be paid and it’s up to Greece to show
it is taking action to ensure that doesn’t happen, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  