-- 
Generic-Drug Demand Leads Perrigo to Top Gain: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-10-09T15:38:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/generic-drug-demand-leads-perrigo-to-top-gain-israel-overnight.html
The only non-Israeli company on the
 Tel Aviv  benchmark TA-25 stock index,  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , is defying
the market’s slump this year, surging the most since 2007 on
speculation the maker of generic drugs will benefit as consumers
switch from more expensive brand names.  Perrigo, the Allegan, Michigan-based company that joined
the index after buying B’nei Brak, Israel-based Agis Industries
Ltd. in 2005, has climbed 54 percent in 2011 while the TA-25 is
down 22 percent. Perrigo was little changed at the 4:30 p.m.
close in Tel Aviv after sliding 2.1 percent in New York on Oct.
7. The U.S. shares dropped 1.9 percent last week, while the
Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest New York-traded
Israeli companies rose 0.6 percent, led by  ClickSoftware
Technologies Ltd. (CKSW)  The TA-25 fell 1.4 percent today.  Perrigo, the biggest U.S. maker of generic over-the-counter
drugs, is benefiting from rising demand for lower-cost
medications amid sluggish economic growth and an  unemployment
rate  that has been stuck at about 9 percent. The company sells
its products to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest
retailer, and  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , which has more than 7,000
stores across the country, according to its website.  “Perrigo has attractive growth within the current
uncertain economic climate, especially with their offering of
private label OTC drugs, which are often marketed as cheaper
alternatives,” said Jonathan Kreizman, a Tel Aviv-based analyst
at Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd.  The TA-25 Index, which entered a  bear market  in August,
would have dropped 26 percent if Perrigo would have been
excluded from the gauge, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
last week.  $100 Target  Clal Finance raised its price estimate on the shares to
$100 on Oct. 6.  Perrigo said last week that it received tentative approval
from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for its medicine that
treats problems with the scalp. Sales for the equivalent Stiefel
Laboratories foam were about $40 million in the 12 months ending
September 2011, according to Wolters Kluwer.  The company expects 2012 fiscal year revenue to increase as
much as 18 percent from this year, Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Papa told investors on a Sept. 27 webcast. Sales rose 12
percent to $2.76 billion in the 12-month period ending June 25.  “We’re one of the few companies in healthcare that does
not significantly get a majority of their business from products
that are reimbursed by third-party and government,” Papa said.  Higher Demand  The company will benefit from higher demand for store
brands. Generic products make up 32 percent of over-the-counter
drug sales in the U.S., up from 10 percent in 1990 and 25
percent in 2009, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “Perrigo has demonstrated very impressive growth,” David Steinberg, a San Francisco-based analyst at Deutsche said in an
e-mailed report last week. The company “is the dominant player
in its primary market with no significant competitor,” he said.  The TA-25 Index is headed for its first annual decline in
three years, with  Discount Investment Corp. (DISI) , billionaire Nochi Dankner’s holding company with interests in telecommunications,
manufacturing and retail, leading the drop. The benchmark
entered bear-market territory after falling 20 percent from its
record close on April 21.  About $10 trillion was wiped from global equity markets in
the third quarter on concern that growth will abate in the wake
of  Europe ’s debt crisis. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 that the recovery will be “somewhat
slower” in coming quarters.  Index Falls  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest New York-
traded Israeli companies fell 1.7 percent to 80.39 on Oct. 7.  The shekel was little changed at 3.7165 against the dollar
in  New York . The currency has dropped 3 percent in the past 12
months, the best performer among 10 emerging markets in Europe,
the  Middle East  and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  Israel , whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside  North America  after
 China . It is also home to the largest number of startup
companies per capita in the world.  ClickSoftware, the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company that
counts EON AG and PG&E Corp. as customers for software that
helps track orders, fell 0.8 percent to $9.03 on Oct. 7. That
cut the company’s gain for the week to 16 percent, the most
among the 25 largest New York-traded Israeli companies.
ClickSoftware boosted its revenue forecast on Oct. 3 after
announcing it received an order from a “multi-billion dollar”
electricity generator.  Teva Drops  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest
maker of generic drugs, lost 2.2 percent to 136.8 shekels, or
the equivalent of $36.81. The U.S. shares dropped 83 cents to
$36.75 on Oct. 7 after a unit of the Petach Tikva-based company
and two other drugmakers were ordered to pay at least $20.1
million for selling an anesthetic in a way that led three
patients to develop Hepatitis C. The New York-listed American
depositary receipts traded at an 87 cent discount to the Tel
Aviv-listed shares in New York last week, the second largest in
the Bloomberg index after EZchip Semiconductor.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD)  declined 2.5 percent to
38.41 shekels, or the equivalent of $10.33. The U.S. shares fell
11 percent last week to $10.42, the biggest drop in the
Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index. The Internet provider, also based
in Petach Tikva, said Oct. 3 that Chief Executive Officer Eli
Holtzman retired.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;  Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  