-- 
German Bonds Fall as Market Trims Bets on ECB Interest-Rate Cut

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-10-08T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/german-bonds-fall-as-market-trims-bets-on-ecb-interest-rate-cut.html
German two-year notes fell for a
second week as investors pared back expectations for an
interest-rate cut after the  European Central Bank  kept its
benchmark rate on hold this week.  Ten-year bunds also posted a weekly decline as ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  opted for non-standard policy
measures, including one-year loans for banks, to contain the
debt crisis. Belgian 10-year bond yields rose by the most this
week since January 2009, as concern deepened that Dexia SA is
inching toward a breakup that could further jeopardize  Europe ’s
financial system. Bunds also fell as a report showed U.S.
employers added more jobs than forecast in September.  “Bund yields have risen and the  bond market  is quite right
to scale back rate-cut expectations,” said  Luca Jellinek , head
of European interest-rate strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate
and Investment Bank in  London . “If a threat  of a double dips
escalates, I think they will cut rates. But if it’s just the
matter of growth slowing, I don’t think the ECB will feel
compelled to cut rates given inflation remains elevated.”  Two-year German note yields were five basis points higher
from last week at 0.60 percent. They rose as much as 15 basis
points on Oct. 6, the biggest gain since Aug. 8. Ten-year bund
yields rose 12 basis points to 2.0 percent.  The yield difference between two- and 10-year German bonds
widened to 140 basis points from 133 basis points. That’s below
this year average of 154 basis points. A narrower spread
suggested investors prefer longer-dated bonds on bets
inflationary pressure will recede as economic growth slows.  ECB Rates  U.S. payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers after a revised
57,000 increase the prior month that was more than originally
estimated, Labor Department data showed in  Washington  yesterday.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise
of 60,000. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  Italian 10-year bond yields fell two basis points as the
European Central Bank bought the nation’s securities nearly
every day this week, according to people with knowledge of the
transactions.  ECB policy makers, who have raised borrowing costs twice
this year, resisted calls for a rate cut on Oct. 6. Instead,
Trichet said the central bank will offer banks a 12-month loan
in October, and a 13-month loan in December. It will also start
buying 40 billion euros of covered bonds in November.  Euribor Futures  The central bank kept  interest rates  at a record low of
1.50 percent even as Trichet said the downside risks to the
economy have “intensified.” The median estimate of 52
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for the central bank to
keep rates unchanged. Five predicted the central bank would cut
borrowing costs to 1.25 percent, and six said it would lower the
rate to 1 percent to boost growth.  Euribor futures fell, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December rising nine basis points to 1.35
percent, signaling that investors reduced wagers on lower
interest rates.  The yield on 10-year Belgian bonds rose 33 basis points to
3.98 percent this week, the biggest advance since the week ended
June 4, 2010, as Dexia edged toward a breakup.  Dexia shares were suspended in Brussels on Oct. 6 and will
resume trading on Oct. 10.  German bonds have handed investors 7.3 percent this year,
while U.S. Treasuries have returned 8.8 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Belgium ’s bonds have returned 2.3
percent while Italy’s have lost 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  