-- 
Obama, South Korea’s Lee to Promote Trade Deal in Detroit Visit

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-10-08T00:45:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/obama-south-korea-s-lee-to-promote-trade-deal-in-detroit-visit.html
President  Barack Obama  and South
Korean President Lee Myung-bak will visit the Detroit area
together on Oct. 14 to promote the pending trade agreement
between the two countries, two administration officials said.  Lee will be in the U.S. next week on an official state
visit, including a dinner at the White House on Oct. 13. The
following day, Obama and Lee will travel together to the heart
of the U.S. auto industry, according to two administration
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the White
House hasn’t announced the Michigan visit.  The officials declined to say whether the leaders would
visit auto plants or what stops the trip would include. One of
the officials said that the leaders would talk about the pending
U.S.- South Korea  free trade accord and how it could expand
economic opportunities for both countries.  Obama, who has set a goal of doubling U.S. exports, said in
a speech to Congress on Sept. 8 that “If Americans can buy Kias
and Hyundais, I want to see folks in South Korea driving Fords
and Chevys and Chryslers.”  Lee also has been invited to address a joint session of
Congress Oct. 13 by House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican.  On the eve of Lee’s state visit, the House and Senate are
tentatively scheduled to vote on free-trade agreement with South
Korea, as well as accords with Colombia and  Panama .  Obama sent Congress legislation for the agreements on Oct.
3 after Boehner said he would consider a measure to aid workers
hurt by foreign competition that the administration insisted on.  The South Korea deal, the biggest since the  North American
Free Trade Agreement  in 1994, would boost U.S. exports by as
much as $10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full
effect, according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.  While the trade agreement was reached more than four years
ago, it was delayed as lawmakers complained about South Korean
barriers to exports of U.S. autos and beef.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  