-- 
Obama Asks Americans to Push Senate Passage of Jobs Bill

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-10-08T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/obama-asks-americans-to-push-senate-passage-of-jobs-bill.html
President  Barack Obama  said his $447
billion jobs package, which faces a test vote in the Senate,
would provide the  U.S. economy  “with the jolt that it really
needs right now” and asked Americans to urge their senators to
support the legislation.  “This jobs bill can help guard against another downturn
here in America,” Obama said today in a weekly  radio and
Internet address .  Obama met yesterday with Senate Democratic leaders at the
White House on a strategy for holding a vote on the plan, a mix
of tax cuts and spending aimed at spurring hiring as the
nation’s jobless rate remained at 9.1 percent last month. It’s
been at 9 percent or higher since April.  The president renewed his call for opponents of the package
to “explain why” they oppose provisions, including cutting the
 payroll tax  for workers and employers in half, giving direct aid
to states and spending $105 billion on infrastructure projects.  “If the Republicans in Congress think they have a better
plan for creating jobs right now, they should prove it,” Obama
said. Republicans, who hold the majority in the  House of
Representatives , oppose tax increases.  Obama defended his plan to raise taxes on the wealthy to
pay for the measure. He said at a news conference Oct. 6 that
he’s “comfortable” with a proposal by Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid to offset the cost of the jobs package by imposing a
5.6 percent surtax on those earning at least $1 million. The
Congressional Budget Office estimates that would generate $453
billion.  Same Rate  “We can either keep taxes exactly as they are for
millionaires and billionaires, or we can ask them to pay at
least the same rate as a plumber or a bus driver,” he said in
the radio address. “And in the process, we can put teachers and
construction workers and veterans back on the job. We can either
fight to protect their tax cuts, or we can cut taxes for
virtually every worker and small business in America. But we
can’t afford to do both.”  Obama’s plan faces hurdles in the House, where Republicans
hold the majority and oppose the tax increases in the plan, and
in the Senate, where it will take 60 votes to end efforts to
obstruct it and Democrats have just 53 seats. Reid has set a
vote to proceed on the legislation for Oct. 11.  Senator  John Thune  of South Dakota, in the weekly
 Republican address , said the president’s jobs package is a
“cynical political ploy” to boost his re-election prospects
and “nothing but a rehash of the same failed ideas he’s already
tried, combined with a huge tax increase.”  ‘Flawed’ Plan  Thune said the plan is “so flawed that  Senate Democrats 
have rejected” elements of it. At the same time, Thune said
congressional Democrats’ proposals are “not to grow jobs, but
to improve their political standing.” Thune said Obama is to
blame for an additional 2 million unemployed, 6 million in
poverty, 13 million on food stamps and a 39 percent debt
increase since he took office.  Thune called for the U.S. to do “all it can to lower trade
barriers” in order to sell more U.S. goods overseas. He
criticized Obama for a delay in submitting to Congress trade
agreements with Panama,  Colombia  and  South Korea . Obama
submitted the trade deals to Congress this week and a vote is
scheduled for next week.  Citing a dispute between the National Labor Relations Board
and Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , Thune said Obama’s administration
“would rather have people unemployed than allow them to work in
non-union jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in  Washington  at 
1923 or  mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 