-- 
Oil Stops Leaking From Ship on Reef as New Zealand Plans to Unload Fuel

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-10-08T01:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/oil-stops-leaking-from-ship-on-reef-as-new-zealand-plans-to-unload-fuel.html
Oil may have stopped seeping from a
container ship stuck on a reef near the northerly  New Zealand 
port of Tauranga as  authorities  prepare to remove fuel from the
stricken vessel.  A film of thinly spread oil, known as sheen, is moving away
from nearby islands, Maritime New Zealand said in a statement at
11 a.m. local time today. The slick is shifting westward and is
lying between two miles (3.2 kilometers) and five miles from the
236-meter (774-foot) vessel, the government agency said.  “From our perspective, this is good,” National On-Scene
Commander Rob Service said in the statement. “There are darker
patches in isolated pockets.” Chemicals to help disperse the
fuel will be withheld for any thicker areas of oil, he said.  New Zealand has scrambled 500 defense personnel and
deployed four naval vessels, as well as underwater and aerial
assessment teams to prepare for any cleanup. Maritime New
Zealand has said the priority is removing fuel from the stranded
ship, which struck the reef about 12 nautical miles off the
country’s  northeastern coast  on Oct. 5.  The 32-year-old, Liberian-flagged Rena is carrying 25
uninjured crew members, 2,171 containers and some dangerous
goods, according to Maritime New Zealand.  That cargo includes four containers of ferrosilicon, a
solid substance that can be hazardous when in contact with water
and can emit hydrogen, the agency said. New Zealand’s Green
Party today called on the government to release details of the
ship’s entire cargo.  Damaged Pipes  Two of the ship’s holds have flooded and the ship is
listing although it is stable, according to the  Maritime New
Zealand  website. Fuel escaped from damaged pipes while tanks
containing more oil are undamaged, according to the website.  The “complex” operation to remove Rena’s fuel is likely
to start on Oct. 10, Service said late yesterday in a statement.  Salvage and environmental experts are converging on
Tauranga, and nearby islands and reefs, to consider ways to
protect the shoreline. The port is in New Zealand’s Bay of
Plenty, southeast of Auckland.  While no oil has reached beaches, the slick has harmed
seabirds. Five blue penguins and two shags, some completely
covered with oil, were taken to a wildlife response center for
treatment,  Maritime New Zealand  said in an earlier statement.  More than 100 workers are involved in preparation to
collect the oil, including specialist vessels, an oil boom, and
personnel and equipment from  Australia , New Zealand Transport
Minister Steven Joyce told reporters in Tauranga yesterday.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, has 89 containers of product destined for customers in
 Asia  and the  Middle East  on the ship, the Auckland-based company
has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  