-- 
Pakistan Reduces Key Rate, Beating Forecasts to Boost Expansion

-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-10-08T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/pakistan-cuts-key-rate-more-than-analysts-forecast-on-growth.html
Pakistan ’s central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  by a more-than-expected 1.5 percentage
points to spur investment after terrorism and floods undermined
economic growth.  The  State Bank of Pakistan  lowered the discount rate to 12
percent from 13.5 percent,  Syed Wasimuddin , a central bank
spokesman, said in Karachi yesterday. Three of five economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted a 1 percentage point cut,
and the remainder forecast a 0.5 percent reduction.  Acting Governor Yaseen Anwar had room to act and join
emerging markets from  Russia  to  Brazil  in lowering borrowing
costs after Pakistan’s inflation rate dropped 2 percentage
points in the past three months. A rate cut might support an
economy that’s seen growing  less than half  the pace of fellow
South Asian nations India,  Bangladesh  and  Sri Lanka  this year.  “It’s a bold decision and would help prop up growth,”
said Suleman Akhtar, head of research at Foundation Securities
Ltd. in Karachi. “Further rate moves would depend on the extent
to which the weakening rupee boosts import costs and stokes
inflationary pressure.”  The Pakistan rupee has declined 1.9 percent this year and
dropped to a record low on Sept. 16, prompting the central bank
last month to conduct what it called a “calibrated
intervention” to stabilize the currency.  Stocks, Bonds  The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index has fallen 1.4 percent
since the start of this year, while Pakistan’s 10-year
government bond yields are trading at 12.6 percent, the highest
level after Greece and  Venezuela , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Consumer prices rose 10.46 percent in September from a year
earlier, after climbing 12.43 percent in July, according to the
 Federal Bureau of Statistics .  The central bank decided to slash its policy rate for a
second straight meeting because of a “high probability” of
meeting the FY12 inflation goal and to stimulate investment,
according to yesterday’s statement. The  State Bank  is targeting
an average inflation of 12 percent in the year ending June 30.  Even so, there are “upside risks” to meet the inflation
target of 9.5 percent for the following fiscal year, stemming
from “persistence of  government borrowing ” from commercial
banks, exchange rate depreciation and a likely “upward
adjustment” in energy costs, the statement said.  Acting Chief  Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani’s government named Anwar,
a deputy governor since March 2007, as the central bank’s acting
chief after Shahid Kardar quit on July 12. The State Bank
unexpectedly cut rates in the July 30 policy decision, almost
three weeks after Kardar resigned blaming state spending for
fanning prices.  Anwar cited the government’s commitment to “zero
borrowings” from the central bank as one of the reasons for
reducing rates in July. The federal government paid back 33
billion rupees ($377 million) to the central bank this fiscal
year against 238 billion rupees  borrowing  in the same period a
year ago, according to the central bank.  “Any reduction in interest rates would benefit our plans
to expand capacity,” Taha Hamdani, Karachi-based chief
financial officer at Thatta Cement Co., said before the report.
The company plans to spend 3 billion rupees in the next two
years to double production to 3,000 tons a day.  Policy makers in Pakistan are aiming to boost economic
growth to 4.2 percent in the fiscal year ending June 30, from
2.4 percent in the previous year, one of the lowest expansions
in the past decade, as the country struggled to cope with floods
and militant attacks.  Floods, Terrorism  Floods in August forced more than one million people from
their homes and damaged crops in parts of southern Pakistan
still recovering from last year’s worst ever monsoon inundations
that devastated the region. Terror attacks in the South Asian
nation have killed at least 35,000 people since 2006, according
to government estimates.  Foreign direct investment in Pakistan fell 40 percent to
$112.4 million in the first two months of the fiscal year that
started July 1 from a year earlier. By contrast,  India , from
which Pakistan was partitioned in 1947 following independence
from British rule, got $13.4 billion in the three months through
June, a quarterly record.  As Pakistan’s relations with the U.S., its biggest donor,
frayed since Navy Seals killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden
in a unilateral raid on May 2,  China  has emerged as a key ally,
according to Saleem H. Mandviwalla, the chairman of the
government’s Board of Investment.  “Pakistan needs to fire on all cylinders to support
growth,” said Farid Aliani, a Karachi-based analyst at BMA
Captial Ltd. “Easing monetary policy would help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 fsharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at   dschumacher@bloomberg.net  