-- 
Panetta Sees End to Libya Mission, Says Critics Have Been ‘Proven Wrong’

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/panetta-eyes-end-of-libyan-operation-during-first-nato-tour.html
If U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  wouldn’t declare the military operation in  Libya  over
quite yet, he was already talking about it in the past tense.
  Panetta yesterday stopped at two military bases in  Italy 
involved in the six-month Libya mission. Meeting with about 150
coalition troops at the Italian Naval Air Station Sigonella, he
praised their role and the results.       “There were an awful lot of questions about the mission
overall, and I think the critics have been proven wrong,”
Panetta said.       The U.S. and its partners, led by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, are close to wrapping up their six-month  mission
in Libya as National Transitional Council forces stamp out the
remaining resistance of Muammar Qaddafi’s forces and search for
the deposed leader.  Panetta and his counterparts in NATO ended two days of
meetings in Brussels Oct. 6 relieved at the successes of the
operation even as they lamented the alliance weaknesses it
exposed.       “It’s clear that the end is in sight,” NATO Secretary
General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters in Brussels two
days ago. Loyalist forces in Libya “are fighting for a lost
cause. The threat to civilians is fading away. The recent
positive developments in Libya are irreversible,” he said.  Supporters of Qaddafi in Sirte yesterday battled forces of
the interim government, backed by NATO warplanes. The alliance,
joined by non-member nations including Qatar, has flown more
than 25,000 missions over Libya since it took over the operation
on March 30.  Drone Missions  About 4,000 of those sorties came out of Sigonella, Panetta
said as he stood on a tarmac in front of a  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC)  Global Hawk drone. The Libya operation’s intelligence
units also drew on data collected by General Atomics Predator
drones, “something I was very familiar with in my past job,”
said Panetta, the former Central Intelligence Agency director.  NATO has begun turning to the question of what comes next
in Libya and what role it might play. Rasmussen said any
alliance role wouldn’t be “major.”       Panetta used the position of the U.S. as NATO’s biggest
contributor to urge in public and behind closed doors that the
alliance shore up its capabilities. Even after the U.S. stepped
out of the lead in the Libya operation, the alliance relied
heavily on American intelligence, aircraft and even ammunition
to prosecute the war.  Budget Constraints  “The major theme of this session has been the need to
ensure that NATO has the military capabilities that we need to
successfully operate in the 21st century, even at a time of
growing budget constraints,” Panetta told reporters in
Brussels.       He cited the U.S. missile defense system of radar and
rocket interceptors that NATO adopted last year as an example.  Panetta used the occasion of the alliance meetings to
announce an agreement with  Spain  to station four U.S. Navy ships
equipped with Aegis radar at a base on Spain’s southwestern
coast, making it the fourth country to participate.       On another NATO-led mission, the 10-year-old war in
Afghanistan, Panetta declared “significant progress.” He and
his counterparts from the 48-member coalition heard an
assessment from Marine General John Allen, the top U.S. and
coalition commander in Afghanistan.       “General Allen’s briefing made clear that, although hard
fighting lies ahead, last year’s surge of forces has created the
right conditions for transition” to Afghan self-defense,
Panetta said Oct. 6.  U.S. Capabilities  Even as the U.S. draws down, it maintains capabilities that
other coalition partners depend on such as intelligence,
helicopters and medical evacuation teams, particularly in the
country’s north and west, Panetta said.       Afghan Defense Minister Abdul Rahim Wardak said he doesn’t
think this year’s withdrawal of 10,000 U.S. forces will have
much effect, in part because the majority will be support units.  He also expressed confidence that the U.S. and its partners
in the coalition won’t abandon  Afghanistan  as they did in the
1990s after the  Soviet Union  withdrew.       Long-term cooperation agreements Afghanistan is negotiating
with the U.S. and others “will be something that will convince
the Afghan people that the international community will”
continue its support, he told reporters at NATO headquarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  