-- 
Poland Re-Elects Tusk on Economy as Crisis Looms, Poll Shows

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-10-09T21:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/poles-may-re-elect-prime-minister-tusk-as-kaczynski-narrows-gap.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk
probably won a second term in office as voters count on him to
guide the European Union’s largest eastern member through
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Tusk’s Civic Platform party won 39.6 percent of the vote,
while its main rival, Law & Justice, won 30.1 percent, according
to an exit poll by TNS OBOP released by public television TVP.
Partial results are due after midnight. If the exit poll figures
 are confirmed, Civic Platform will have 212 deputies in the
460-seat lower chamber of parliament, the pollster said.  Tusk averted recession during the global financial crisis
and pledged to cut the budget gap to within 3 percent of
economic output next year. The victory would make him the first
Polish premier to win a second term since the end of communism
22 years ago.  “This was a vote for stability, responsibility and a safe
pair of hands,” said Krzysztof Bobinski, president of the Unia
& Polska research foundation, in a telephone interview after the
exit poll was released.  Controlling public finances will be the greatest challenge
for the administration that emerges from today’s election, Jan Amrit Poser, chief economist at Bank Sarasin, said at a
conference in Warsaw on Oct. 7. The general government deficit
soared to 7.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2010,
exceeding the EU’s 3 percent limit for a third consecutive year.  Zloty Slump  The zloty slumped about 10 percent against the euro in the
third quarter, making it one of the worst performers among more
than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg, on concern Europe’s
debt crisis will slow economic growth.  The zloty’s tumble sent local-currency  government bonds 
down 15.7 percent in dollar terms last quarter, the third-worst
returns worldwide after Greece and  Hungary , according to indexes
of debt due in more than one year compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analyst Societies and Bloomberg.  The ruling party’s victory is “good news” for investors
and will calm financial markets, whose volatility last week
“may have betrayed some nervousness about the outcome,” Deputy
Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  told reporters in Warsaw.  Poland was the only member of the 27-nation European Union
to avoid recession at the height of the economic crisis in 2009.
The government forecasts 4 percent growth next year, compared
with the International Monetary Fund’s prediction of 3 percent
expansion.  ‘Pretty Good’  Three other parties won enough support to exceed the 5
percent threshold for gaining seats in parliament. The Peasants’
Party, Tusk’s junior coalition partner, garnered 8.2 percent,
which would give it 27 seats, enough to form a majority
government with  Civic Platform .  “The results are looking pretty good -- as long as Civic
Platform manages to continue the present coalition,” said
 Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in  London . “That would be a sign of predictability and
stability, and that’s what the markets want to see.”  The Peasants Party will give “serious consideration” to
its coalition options as the results present several possible
scenarios, its leader Waldemar Pawlak said. The Palikot
Movement, founded by former ruling-party politician Janusz
Palikot, received 10.1 percent in the exit poll, and may support
some of Tusk’s policies. The  Democratic Left Alliance  won 7.7
percent of the vote, according to OBOP.  Civic Platform’s performance compares with its 41.5 percent
tally in the 2007 election, when Law & Justice got 32.1 percent,
the Democratic  Left Alliance  13.2 percent and the Peasants Party
8.9 percent.  ‘Twice as Fast’  Palikot, a former vodka distiller, clashed with Tusk last
year. He urges a quicker overhaul of public finances by cutting
spending on bureaucracy, the Catholic church and pensions. After
the vote today, Palikot said he wants to “prod the government
toward acceleration.”  “The next government will have to act twice as fast as in
the previous four years since the country faces even bigger
challenges,” Prime Minister Donald Tusk said today in Warsaw.  Poland, a country of 38 million people, was the biggest net
recipient of EU funding in the bloc’s 2007-2013 budget, getting
67 billion euros ($97 billion) in aid to iron out differences
between richer and poorer states.  The funding, which helped the Polish economy grow 4.4
percent a year in 2007-2010, may be cut if the country doesn’t
reduce its deficit to within the EU limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year from 7.9 percent in 2010.  Aid Effect  The EU aid has added an average of 1.5 percentage points to
economic growth each year, according to  Poland ’s Regional
Development Ministry, and remains essential for economic
expansion as budget cuts may limit consumer demand and public
investment. The government estimates 4 percent growth next year.  A phone poll by Warsaw-based pollster Homo Homini for
Polsat television showed the Platform gained 34.9 percent, Law &
Justice with 29.6 percent, the Democratic Left Alliance at 12.8
percent, the Peasants Party at 9.9 percent and the Palikot
Movement with 9.6 percent.  Final results will be published late on Oct. 11, the
 Electoral Commission  said. According to the Polish constitution,
President Bronislaw Komorowski must designate a new prime
minister within 14 days of dismissing the outgoing government.
The prime minister then has 14 days to present this new
cabinet’s program to parliament and win a confidence motion with
at least 231 votes in the lower chamber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  