-- 
Protest-Friendly ‘Hipsters’ Dance With Midler to Put On Show

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-10-08T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/protest-friendly-hipsters-dance-with-midler-to-put-on-show.html
“F*cking Hipsters”  at the  New York
Musical Theatre Festival  is so of-the-moment it could have been
inspired by the  Wall Street  protests now in their third week. In
truth, it was conceived a year ago.  A tuneful, comic concoction, it’s about an idealistic
Brooklyn indie rock band encountering cynical greed that almost
tears it apart.  “In our show, the community wins,” said book writer
Keythe Farley (who also wrote “Bat Boy: The Musical”) in an e-
mail. “I hope that will be true for our country as well.”  As the demonstrators camp out in Zuccotti Park a few blocks
from the New York Stock Exchange, the show’s fictional band
cohabitates in a Williamsburg, Brooklyn, loft.  No one captures the occupiers’ do-it-yourself ethos better
than  Brandon Wardell , who produced the musical, is the lead actor and
plays guitar and ukulele in the fictional band. (Wardell also
acted in and was among the producers of Broadway’s “Catch Me If
You Can.”)  He and a producing partner, Randy Spence, invested some of
their own savings toward the roughly $30,000 budget. They also
raised $5,680 from 99 people via  Kickstarter , the same Internet
site through which “The Occupied Wall Street Journal”
collected $55,000 and counting from contributors as of Friday
afternoon. A few Broadway producers also chipped in.  West Coasters  Farley created “Hipsters” with fellow Los Angelenos Lori
Scarlett and John Ballinger. Director and choreographer  John
Carrafa  sat on the festival jury and helped select “Hipsters.”
He said he liked it so much he decided to stage it himself.  Because actors are paid just $500 for the NYMF run, many
missed rehearsals to take more lucrative gigs. Carrafa himself
pulled a near-all-nighter before the first preview,
choreographing Bette Midler in an Acura car commercial on  Long
Island .  “That’s how I make money, so I can do this,” he said.  Holly Coombs, associate producer, drove a U-Haul truck the
morning of the first preview with instruments and sets from a
Chelsea rehearsal studio to the theater on West 42nd Street.  “I’ve never driven in New York,” Coombs said. “I was
terrified. Needless to say, I bought the $11 of insurance.”  Farley said the song “F*ck On!” was inspired by recent
protests in  Wisconsin . He’s in solidarity with the Wall Street
protesters.  “If I hadn’t been so busy getting the show on its feet,”
he said, “I’d have been down there marching with them.”  “F*cking Hipsters” is at 1 p.m. today at 555 W. 42nd St.
Information:  http://www.nymf.org .  To contact the writer of this column:  Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 