-- 
Retailers Face ‘Biggest Test’ Since 2008 as Profit Warnings Rise

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-10-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/retailers-face-biggest-test-since-2008-as-profit-warnings-rise.html
U.K. retailers issued more profit
warnings in the first nine months of the year than in the last
two years combined, facing their biggest test since 2008, Ernst
& Young LLP said.  Retailers have to keep a “tight rein” on stock and cash
levels on approaching Christmas and December-quarter rent day,
the accounting firm said.  “Some are clearly running on empty and desperately need
tills to start ringing,” Alan Hudson, head of U.K.
restructuring at Ernst & Young, said in the statement, “Retail
insolvency usually peaks in January, but there is a danger that
we might see further retailers fail in the final months of 2011
as they run out of cash.”  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s largest supermarket chain, last week
reported a decline in second-quarter sales in stores open more
than a year, its worst performance in at least six years.
Retailers such as Woolworths Group Plc went into administration
before Christmas 2008, as the U.K. economy began slumping into
what turned into the toughest recession since World War II.  U.K. economic growth slowed more than expected in the
second quarter, as  consumer spending  fell 0.8 percent, the most
since 2009, the  Office for National Statistics  said on Oct. 5.
Consumers are spending less as the government implements budget
cuts to lower the fiscal deficit and inflation has climbed to
more than twice the 2 percent target set by the  Bank of England .  U.K. companies have been “exceptionally cautious” in
their outlook, so worsening economic conditions this year and
austere Christmas trading are priced in for most, Keith McGregor, a restructuring partner at Ernst & Young, said in the
report. “ Even a flat final quarter could result in only a
modest year-on-year rise in profit warnings,” he said.  Companies issued fewer profit warnings in the third quarter
compared with the second, on lowered forecasts rather than
economic improvement, according to the report. 