-- 
Saudi Shares Rise Most in Three Weeks on Oil Gains, European Debt Optimism

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-10-08T13:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/saudi-shares-rise-most-in-3-weeks-led-by-sabic-on-oil-european-optimism.html
Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index
gained the most in three weeks after crude oil climbed above $80
a barrel and global markets advanced yesterday amid optimism
European leaders will curb the region’s debt crisis.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, increased the most since March.  Methanol
Chemicals Co. (CHEMANOL)  soared 5.3 percent after the producer of methanol
derivatives posted a profit in the third quarter. The 148-
company  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  advanced 1.4 percent, the
biggest gain since Sept. 17, to 6,084.55 at the 3:30 p.m. close
in Riyadh.  Oil rose in  New York  yesterday, capping the biggest weekly
gain in seven months, as larger-than-forecast U.S. jobs growth
eased concern that the economy is slowing. Crude oil for
November delivery surged 4.8 percent in the week to $82.98 a
barrel. Saudi Arabia, holder of one-fifth of the world’s proven
oil reserves, depends on oil for 86 percent of its revenue.  “Oil back above the $80 level and the good bounce U.S.
markets had in the last two days due to European optimism about
recapitalizing the banks” is pushing markets higher, said Samer Darwiche, a financial analyst at Gulfmena Investments in Dubai.
“The Tadawul is catching up.”  Stimulus  U.S. stocks rose last week, driving the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index up from the threshold of a bear market, amid European
optimism and after U.S. economic data improved. The  S&P 500 
advanced 2.1 percent, breaking a two-week losing streak. The
 European Central Bank  said it will bring back yearlong loans,
giving banks access to unlimited cash through January 2013. The
ECB will also resume purchases of covered bonds to encourage
lending and the Bank of England announced its biggest stimulus
since the depths of the recession.  Sabic climbed 2.9 percent, the most since March 20, to
90.25 riyals.  Methanol Chemicals posted the biggest gain since March 12,
soaring to 11.85 riyals. The company also known as Chemanol
posted a 26.7 million-riyal ($7.1 million) profit in the third
quarter after a loss in the year-earlier period.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in  Riyadh  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  