-- 
Al-Naimi Says World Oil Market Is Not Oversupplied, Demand Fluctuates

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-10-08T10:22:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/saudi-arabia-produced-9-39-million-barrels-a-day-naimi-says-1-.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali Al- Naimi said there’s no excess supply in world oil markets and
that the kingdom has been adjusting output to match fluctuating
demand over recent months.  “There is no oversupply in the market right now,” he told
reporters in Dhahran today.  The country, OPEC’s biggest producer, will keep pumping at
current rates even if Libyan output returns to the market this
year, as long as customers are in need of the oil, the minister
said. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries meets
next on Dec. 14 in Vienna to decide whether it needs to alter
production targets.  Saudi Arabia  supplied 9.39 million barrels of crude oil a
day to the market in September, Al-Naimi said. Corresponding
figures for June, July and August were 9.8 million, 9.6 million
and 9.8 million, he said.  “I’m giving you these numbers to show that demand is
fluctuating this year,” he said. “Demand is always
fluctuating, but our position is we would supply whatever our
customers are asking for.”  OPEC’s main crude oil grades rose above $100 a barrel on
Oct. 6, after falling below that level earlier in the week for
the first time since February.  Basket Below $100  The price advanced to $101.63, from $99.90 on Oct. 5,
according to OPEC’s website. The so-called OPEC basket is
calculated on the basis of one key export blend from each of the
organization’s 12 members, weighted according to production.  OPEC ministers last met in June, when six members including
Iran and  Venezuela  rejected a Saudi proposal to replace lost
Libyan crude. Saudi Arabia and some other members had already
boosted production after armed conflict in  Libya  that began in
February curbed almost all of that country’s 1.6 million barrels
a day of production.  Bloomberg estimates show Libya producing 100,000 barrels a
day on average last month, and Saudi Arabia 9.76 million barrels
a day. Libya is the only OPEC member not exceeding its official
quota, aside from  Iraq  which has no target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Dhahran at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  