-- 
Slovak Ruling Party Won’t Back EFSF After Prime Minister Rejects Demands

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-10-08T11:52:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/slovak-ruling-party-won-t-back-efsf-after-prime-minister-rejects-demands.html
Slovakia’s ruling Freedom and
Solidarity party won’t back the overhaul of the European bailout
mechanism after Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova  rejected the
party’s conditions for approval, a lawmaker said.  The party, known as SaS, insists its three coalition
partners agree to two conditions before it will back the
enhancement of the euro region’s bailout fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility, in a parliamentary vote Oct. 11,
said Jozef Kollar, head of SaS’s parliamentary caucus. “If the
solutions we have put forward aren’t accepted then we will not
vote for the EFSF,” Kollar said in a debate on state Slovak
Radio today.  Slovakia and Malta are the only countries that haven’t yet
ratified the key element in the European Union’s plan to prevent
the region’s debt crisis from spreading. The Slovak row risks
sinking the EU plan, which needs the unanimous consent of all 17
euro members to come into force.  SaS is calling for the creation of an inter-party committee
that would have a right to veto individual EFSF disbursements.
It is also demanding that Slovakia doesn’t participate in the
European Stability Mechanism, a permanent rescue vehicle set to
come into force in 2013. SaS will negotiate “until the last
minute” with its coalition partners, according to a statement
posted on the party’s web site today.  Smer, the largest opposition party, has said it won’t
support the EFSF overhaul unless the government steps down.  The enhanced powers of the 440 billion-euro ($590 billion)
EFSF were approved at a July 21 meeting of European leaders in
Brussels. The measures would allow the fund to buy the debt of
stressed euro-area nations, aid troubled banks in the region and
offer credit lines to governments. The EFSF’s current role is to
sell bonds to finance rescue loans.  To contact the reporter on for this story:
Radoslav Tomek at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  