-- 
South Africa Says ‘No Decision Made’ on Building Nuclear Plants

-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-10-08T12:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/south-africa-says-no-decision-made-on-building-new-nuclear-power-plants.html
South Africa’s  Department of Energy 
said reports of a tender process being under way for six new
nuclear power plants “are factually incorrect.”  “At no point has the government committed to build six new
nuclear reactors,” the department said in an e-mailed statement
today. The government "hasn’t selected any design, vendor nor
suppliers of the nuclear power plants. No decision has been made
on the actual number.’’  South Africa plans to diversify energy sources away from
coal, which makes up more than 90 percent of its generation
capacity of about 40,000 megawatts. It also aims to prevent a
repeat of power outages in 2008 that temporarily shut most of
the nation’s mines and smelters, its biggest source of foreign
exchange.  Energy Minister Dipuo Peters has proposed a strategy for
the roll-out of new nuclear  power plants  to the Cabinet, the
ministry said. The government approved plans to boost its
nuclear energy capacity by 9.6 electrical gigawatt, it said.  Safety concerns following the meltdown of nuclear reactors
in Fukushima,  Japan , prompted Peters to postpone the opening of
the bids until next year, she said on Sept. 15.  ‘Factually Incorrect’  The energy department’s statement said it “noted” an
article published by the Mail & Guardian on Oct. 6. The
newspaper listed potential bidders for a 1 trillion rand ($126
billion) tender to build six nuclear plants by 2030 as Areva SA,
 EDF SA (EDF) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric Corp. unit, China
Guangdong Nuclear Power Holding Corp.,  Korea Electric Power
Corp. (KEP)  and Rosatom Corp.  The  report , which cited unidentified people in government
and industry, is “full of statements that are not true and
factually incorrect,” the Department of Energy said in its
statement.  The country has one nuclear power plant, the 1,800 megawatt
Koeberg plant near  Cape Town , built by Areva and operated by the
South African power utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. The nation
also has an atomic research station, Pelindaba near Pretoria,
and is a former nuclear power that destroyed its weapons toward
the end of the apartheid era in 1994.  Given the “complexity and magnitude” of the project, the
government will be careful to follow proper procedures during
the tendering and building process to “instill confidence in
and protect the credibility of the process”, the energy
ministry said. “Attempts by interested parties to compromise
these processes will not be taken lightly,” it said.  “Areva is hoping to be part of the nuclear bid program in
 South Africa ,” an external company spokesman said yesterday in
an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Harrison at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  