-- 
U.K. Pound, Gilts Decline as Bank of England Boosts Stimulus

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-08T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/u-k-pound-gilts-decline-as-bank-of-england-boosts-stimulus.html
The pound fell against most of its
major counterparts this week as the  Bank of England  reactivated
its bond-purchase program, fueling concern that rising inflation
will erode the value of the currency.  Sterling declined against the euro for the first time in
three weeks as Britain’s monetary policy makers on Oct. 6
decided to boost the central bank’s quantitative-easing program
by 75 billion pounds ($115 billion) to 275 billion pounds. The
 European Central Bank  kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 1.50
percent and opted to support regional banks with one-year loans.
Gilts declined on speculation the new round of stimulus will
support growth.  “I would look for the pound to come under some renewed
pressure,” said  Derek Halpenny , head of European currency
research at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “In
the next few months, we are probably going to be in a position
where the second round of quantitative easing coincides with
annual-inflation rates drifting over 5 percent. That, to me, is
quite a nasty mix.”  The pound weakened 0.6 percent from last week to 86.40
pence per euro as of 5:07 p.m. yesterday in London. It declined
0.1 percent to 119.98 yen and gained 0.2 percent to $1.5620. It
fell the most against the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso.  The central bank, which expects to complete the new round
of purchases in four months, said in a statement that slowing
global growth and the turmoil in  Europe  “threaten the U.K.
recovery.” It also said it is now “more likely” that
inflation will undershoot its 2 percent goal in the medium term.  Growth Outlook  The Bank of England has faced pressure to embark on further
quantitative easing to help revive an economy grappling with the
steepest government spending cuts since World War II and the
worsening euro-area debt crisis.  The U.K economy grew less than economists forecast in the
second quarter, expanding 0.1 percent from the previous three
months, the  Office for National Statistics  said yesterday. That
was lower than the 0.2 percent previously published and missed
the 0.2 percent expansion forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank last announced an increase in its bond
program in November 2009 and the purchases ended in early 2010.  U.K. government bonds declined for a second week, with the
10-year gilt yield rising four basis points to 2.47 percent. The
two-year note yield climbed five basis points to 0.62 percent.  Gilts have returned 12.2 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, surpassing 7.3 percent for German
bonds.  The pound has declined 1.2 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which measure a basket of 10 developed-market currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  