-- 
France Defeats England to Set Up Rugby World Cup Semifinal Against Wales

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-08T13:31:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/wales-beats-ireland-22-10-to-reach-first-world-cup-semifinal-since-1987.html
France  rebounded from back-to-back
losses to defeat England 19-12 and reach its fifth straight
Rugby  World Cup  semifinal, where it will face Wales.  Tries from Vincent Clerc and Maxime Medard helped France
score 16 unanswered first-half points at Auckland’s  Eden Park 
and Les Blues held on for their first win over England in four
knockout games at the four-yearly championship.  France, the runner-up in 1987 and 1999, advanced to an
Oct. 15 meeting with Wales, which beat Ireland 22-10 in
Wellington yesterday to reach the final four for the first time
in 24 years. England had reached the past two finals, beating
France in the semifinals on both occasions.  “In the past French teams have transcended themselves when
they were faced with stronger opposition and sometimes failed
after that,” France coach Marc Lievremont said in a news
conference. “We’ll see whether this particular team wants to do
the same as past generations or write its own history.”  Defending champion  South Africa  faces fellow two-time
winner Australia in today’s third quarterfinal in Wellington
before tournament favorite  New Zealand  hosts Argentina at Eden
Park, where it only lost once in the past 25 years. The stadium
will host both semifinals and the Oct. 23 final.  France had limped into the final eight after losing to New
Zealand and Tonga in what was one of the biggest upsets in World
Cup history. No team has ever lifted the Webb Ellis Cup after
losing a pool game. Of the six nations left, only the All Blacks
and Springboks had perfect records in the group phase.  ‘Brutal’  England was the bookmakers’ favorite for last night’s match
after winning all its group games, coming from behind to beat
Argentina and  Scotland . Team Manager  Martin Johnson  said his
players never recovered from conceding the first 16 points.  “We left ourselves with far too much to do, which is
brutal,” Johnson said in a news conference. “That’s what World
Cups are about. One team goes home with a smile and it ends in
tears for everyone else.”  Dimitri Yachvili kicked two penalties before winger Clerc
and full-back Medard touched down in the same corner. England’s
second-half rally came from tries by  Ben Foden  and Mark Cueto
and a Jonny Wilkinson conversion, while Francois Trinh-Duc added
a drop goal for France.  The French benefited from 10 missed tackles and five
handling errors by England to build their 16-point buffer. Clerc
pirouetted past two tacklers on a darting run and Medard crashed
over after Alexis Palisson slipped the ball back inside to him
before being bundled into touch.  England  took until the 55th minute to get on the scoreboard
when Foden burst through a gap and Wilkinson made it 16-7.  TMO Try  Trinh-Duc’s 73rd-minute drop goal put France 12 points
ahead before Cueto scored with three minutes remaining following
a review of his grounding of the ball by the television match
official.  Toby Flood ’s conversion attempt went wide. France’s
Morgan Parra had a chance to make it 21-12 with the last kick of
the game, though his effort struck a post.  “Losing against Tonga was pretty useful,” Parra told
reporters. “That match was a reality check. It pushed us to
react. Our World Cup has started tonight.”  Wales  reached the semifinals for the first time since the
inaugural tournament and rebounded from missing the knockout
stages four years ago.  Winger Shane Williams, scrum-half  Mike Phillips  and outside
center  Jonathan Davies  scored tries with fly-half Rhys
Priestland kicking two conversions and Leigh Halfpenny booting a
penalty for Wales. Ireland’s points came from a Keith Earls try
and a conversion and penalty from  Ronan O’Gara .  ‘Massive Achievement’  “It’s a massive achievement for us, we’ve worked so
hard,” Wales captain Sam Warburton said in a televised
interview. “The team in ‘87 did it. They managed to get the
third place. All the boys are absolutely thrilled.”  Ireland, which lost all four of its tune-up games before
the tournament, upset  Australia  15-6 on Sept. 16 on its way to
topping their pool. The win over the Wallabies split the four
quarterfinals into matchups between teams from the same
hemisphere, ensuring that the final will feature one team each
from the north and south.  In a meeting of the teams ranked Nos. 5 and 6 by the
International Rugby Board, Wales led 10-3 at halftime on winger
Williams’s converted third-minute try and Halfpenny’s penalty.  Ireland, which had more possession and territorial
advantage playing with the wind, turned down three kickable
shots at goal to try to score a try, though each time was denied
by a Welsh defense that made a 130 successful tackles to
Ireland’s 79. O’Gara kicked Ireland’s only first-half points.  Winger Earls dived over for a try five minutes after the
break that O’Gara converted to make it 10-10.  ‘Suck it Up’  Scrum-half Phillips added Wales’s second try in the 50th
minute after breaking down the short side to touch down in the
corner. Davies extended the lead after cutting inside two Irish
defenders 13 minutes later and Priestland added the conversion
for a 22-10 lead. Wales held onto deny the Irish their first
semifinal berth.  “We were off the pace and we go home as a result of
that,” said Ireland captain  Brian O’Driscoll . “We have to suck
it up. When you haven’t performed on the big stage, that really
sucks. Life goes on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  