-- 
Wall Street Protesters Are Angry About Jobs, Pelosi Says

-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 
2011-10-09T15:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/wall-street-protesters-are-angry-about-unemployment-pelosi-says.html
“Occupy Wall Street” protesters are
angry over the lack of employment prospects and government
actions that are “not relevant to their lives,” House Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said.  “I think they are angry that they don’t have jobs,”
Pelosi told ABC News’ “This Week” program. “There’s nothing
that makes you angrier than not being able to provide for your
family or understand what your prospects are for the future.”  Americans’ pessimism about the economy helped send
President Barack Obama’s approval rating to 38 percent last
week, the lowest of his presidency. The nation’s jobless rate,
which has been at 9 percent or higher since April, remained at
9.1 percent last month.  The stagnant labor market has limited  consumer spending ,
which grew at 0.7 percent last month, the smallest increase
since the last three months of 2009. The European debt crisis
threatens to trigger another recession.  The protesters’ message to the “establishment,” including
 Wall Street  and politicians, is that “change has to happen,”
Pelosi said on ABC. The U.S. government’s bailout of banks
hasn’t made capital available to average citizens as expected,
the California Democrat said.  Pelosi said the discontent makes it more important for
Americans to understand the opportunities presented by Obama’s
jobs bill. Obama announced a $447 billion jobs plan Sept. 8
aimed at lowering unemployment with benefits for small
businesses, measures to keep teachers employed and putting
construction crews on the job rebuilding roads, bridges and
schools. It would also include a cut in the  payroll tax .  ‘Kitchen-Table Concerns’  “It’s really important that President Obama get out there
very strongly, very clearly about what this jobs bill does and
what it means to kitchen-table concerns of the American
people,” Pelosi said.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
has called the Wall Street protesters “growing mobs” that are
dividing the country. Obama, a Democrat, has expressed empathy
with the demonstrators while stopping short of endorsing their
movement.  “Occupy Wall Street” began three weeks ago in Lower
Manhattan and has spread to cities such as  Washington  and  San
Francisco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  