-- 
Warner Music Owner Blavatnik Said to Consider Ending EMI Offer

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/warner-music-owner-blavatnik-said-to-consider-ending-emi-bid-1-.html
Warner Music Group’s owner,  Len Blavatnik , is considering dropping his bid for EMI Group Ltd.
because  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is taking too long to choose a buyer, a
person with knowledge of the bidding process said.  Blavatnik has told people involved in the auction that he
may drop his offer in several days, said the person, who
requested anonymity because the negotiations are private.  The billionaire investor wants Citigroup to decide whether
to sell London-based EMI, the record label of Coldplay and Katy Perry, as a whole or in pieces, said the person. Blavatnik is
also concerned about EMI pension liabilities and tax issues, the
person said.  Alejandro Moreno, general counsel for Blavatnik’s New York-
based  Access Industries , declined to comment, as did  Dylan Jones , a New York-based spokesman for EMI. Mark Costiglio, a
spokesman for Citigroup, also declined to comment.  Warner Music and billionaire Ron Perelman are each vying
for all of London-based EMI, and may bid for the recorded music
operations if the company’s parts are sold separately, people
with knowledge of the situation said this week. Billionaire  Ron Burkle  has a partner and was also preparing an offer, they said.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group is interested in EMI’s
recorded-music business, the people said.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and KKR &
Co.-controlled BMG Rights Management GmbH are separately
interested in EMI’s publishing, said two people.  Market Conditions  Some of the bidders were lowering their offers after
Citigroup disclosed additional liabilities for pensions and
leases the company signed for U.K. music stores that were later
shuttered, the two people said.  A pension that covers 21,000 U.K. employees may have a
liability of at least 400 million pounds ($622 million), said
one bidder. Citigroup has pegged the cost closer to 150 million
pounds, people said. EMI is also liable for leases of several
closed HMV Group Plc retail locations in the U.K., they said.  Market conditions have complicated efforts to raise
financing. Leveraged-loan issuance in the U.S. dropped 58
percent in the third quarter with losses mounting amid a
faltering economy.  Citigroup seized control of EMI in February after the
label’s owner Terra Firma  Capital Partners  failed to meet debt
terms. The bank began the sale process in June when borrowing
costs for private-equity funds and some corporate borrowers were
lower.  Over the summer, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. estimated EMI
may be valued at about $4 billion in a takeover. That price was
higher than the $2 billion to $2.8 billion value Fitch Ratings
estimated in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  