-- 
Yemen’s Saleh Says He’ll Stay Until Elections; Libyans Battle Around Sirte

-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 
2011-10-08T21:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-08/yemen-s-saleh-says-he-ll-stay-until-elections-libyans-battle-around-sirte.html
Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh
plans to remain in power until after elections, his information
minister said, even after Saleh announced on state television
that he’d leave the post in coming days,  Al Jazeera  television
reported yesterday.  Saleh will only resign under the framework of a Gulf
Cooperation Council initiative, Abdu al-Janadi, deputy
information minister, told Al Jazeera, saying he was clarifying
the statements made on state television.  The Yemeni people are skeptical that Saleh will resign,
Nobel Peace Prize winner Tawakkul Karman told Al Jazeera. Some
in the country plan to bring charges against Saleh in an
international criminal court. They’ve gathered information on
Saleh’s alleged crimes and will send it to the court, she said.  “We will chase him and will track his assets,” said
Karman, whose prize was announced Oct. 7. “Our battle is
against Saleh and his sons.”  In  Libya , forces from Misrata gained control of some
buildings surrounding the Ouagadougou Hall, the complex in Sirte
that supporters of  Muammar Qaddafi  have been using as a base.  The fighting wounded at least 80 soldiers, the Misrata
Military Council said in a statement yesterday. The forces are
attacking houses being used by snipers and have completed a
sweep of 700 homes, according to the statement.  Arrest in  Tunisia   Tunisia has arrested a former Libyan intelligence service
colonel, who was hiding in a rented house near Douz in the
central part of the country, said Al Jazeera, citing Tunisian’s
official TAP news agency. The colonel, who wasn’t identified,
had crossed into Tunisia more than a month ago after the fall of
Qaddafi, using false identification papers, TAP said.  Syrian security forces killed 14 protesters across the
country yesterday including at least six attending the funeral
of Syrian Kurdish opposition figure Mishaal al-Tammo, who was
killed Oct. 7, Al Jazeera reported, citing activists.  Security forces opened fire on the funeral, where at least
50,000 mourners participated, the Observatory for Human Rights
in  Syria  said. Of the remaining 14 dead, three others were
killed in a Damascus suburb, three more in Hama and another two
in Homs, according to Al Jazeera.  Assassination of Kurd  Al-Tammo’s son, Fares, said the assassination of his father
was done in an attempt to break the will of the Kurdish people,
according to Iraqi Alsumaria News. Fares was participating in a
demonstration held by Kurdish Syrians in the Iraqi province of
Erbil, where he said Syrian president Bashar al-Assad would soon
be out of power. Demonstrators there demanded Iraqi authorities
shut down the Syrian embassy in  Baghdad .  “The Syrian Kurds can be assured that the end of Assad’s
regime is very close,” Faris said.  Armed groups in Syria also killed eight army soldiers in
Hama, Homs and Idlib and the Damascus suburb Dhmer, the Syrian
News Agency reported.  In Bahrain, police fired tear gas, sound grenades and
rubber bullets at mourners attending an Oct. 7 funeral march
honoring a 16-year old Shia boy, according to Al Jazeera. Ahmed
Jaber al-Qattan died Oct. 6 after being hit by bird shot fired
by security forces during a demonstration night outside the
capital of Manama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net ;  Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  