-- A Fateful Fight That Boosted Military-Industrial Complex
-- B y   T i m   H e f f e r n a n
-- 2012-06-07T18:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/a-fateful-fight-that-boosted-military-industrial-complex.html
You don’t hear much about the battle
of the Machine Tool Reserve anymore, and that’s a shame. Fought
inside the Beltway in the mid-1950s, it was a defining tussle
over the nature of postwar national defense.  On one side were  Harry Truman  and Charles E. “Electric
Charlie” Wilson, the ex-head of General Electric. On the other
were Dwight Eisenhower and Charles E. “Engine Charlie” Wilson,
the ex-head of General Motors. The former wanted to stockpile
industrial equipment and raw materials that could be used to
jumpstart arms production in the event of war. The latter wanted
to stockpile the arms themselves, continuously replacing and
upgrading them even in times of peace.  Ultimately, Eisenhower and Engine Charlie won, and their
model for defense production is the one followed by the Pentagon
to this day. They got no laurels, but it’s arguable that no
single debate did more to shape the modern military.  It’s certainly true that no other conflict involved a fight
over the fate of 10 million pounds of government-owned goose
down.  M-Day  The story begins immediately after World War II, as
military planners sought to prepare for the battle everyone was
sure was coming -- the one with the  Soviet Union . (It even had a
name: M-Day. “M” for mobilization.)  One of the first vulnerabilities identified was in the
supply of  machine tools  -- things like hydraulic forges, lathes
and drill presses -- that were needed to make tanks, artillery
and airplanes. The Great Depression had sapped the country’s
machine-tool stock, leaving its arms-production capacity weak at
the outset of World War II. Planners feared that the enormous
drop-off in arms production after the war would lead to a
similar shortage. As early as October 1945, Congress was hearing
proposals for a government-owned machine tool reserve. The
initial target was 65,000 units.  The sudden onset of the  Korean War  in 1950 pushed
politicians and planners to take action more quickly than
expected: Production of vital war materiel was delayed by as
much as 18 months by a shortage of machine tools. Truman felt
compelled to mention the emergency in his  State of the Union 
address. Electric Charlie Wilson, chief of the all-powerful
Office of Defense Mobilization -- a man whose direct control of
the U.S. wartime economy earned him the nickname “the co-
president” -- desperately commandeered raw materials and ordered
price controls to bring tool production rapidly up to speed.  It felt like the opening years of World War II all over
again, even as war with the Soviets appeared ever closer. An
arms shortage then could prove fatal to Western democracy.  And so throughout 1952, Truman and Electric Charlie pressed
the Pentagon to make the stockpiling of arms-making tools its
official policy. They succeeded in the final days of the
administration.  Incoming president Eisenhower and his choice for secretary
of Defense, Engine Charlie, opposed the move. Nevertheless, in
July 1953 Congress passed a $500 million appropriation bill for
initial funding of the tool stockpile. Although it was
essentially a piece of Truman legislation, Eisenhower signed it
into law. The stockpilers had won the opening round.  More Weapons  Engine Charlie, however, still had options as secretary of
Defense. The  Air Force  promptly “discovered” that its tooling
inventory was sufficient for the moment. The money sat unused.
And when the appropriation bill came up for renewal in 1954, it
was cut to $100 million. Meanwhile, funds flowed freely into
weapons purchases and research. The shift to the Engine Charlie
model of defense preparedness -- the constant replacement of
materiel with newer, more advanced models -- had begun.  Still, inertia worked in the stockpilers’ favor for a
while. In the latter half of the 1950s, under various defense
programs, the government built up vast reserves of “strategic”
material: metals (including basics like aluminum and titanium,
but also exotics like platinum and niobium); minerals (including
asbestos and diamonds); rubber and various plastics; and
10,220,000 pounds of goose down (in the event of a winter war
with the Soviets). By the time Eisenhower left office, the value
of these stocks was estimated at nearly $9 billion.  With the advent of ICBMs, nuclear submarines, and
increasingly fast and deadly aircraft, however, the old demand
for sheer weight of weaponry was being rendered obsolete, and
the stockpiling faction was clearly in decline. War no longer
hinged on the quantity, but rather on the quality, of weapons.  Moreover, the military-industrial complex Eisenhower warned
about in his famous final address had emerged. Defense
contractors weren’t interested in stockpiling; they embraced a
world in which constant spending on new weaponry would keep
industry rolling. Innovation, not stability, was their goal.  Although it now seems quaint, stockpiling had been seen as
a way of keeping up the traditional wall between  government
spending  and private industry. Only in a public emergency would
the government’s materials be called upon. By contrast, uniting
public and private interests in a “permanent armaments industry”
-- the phrase is Eisenhower’s -- was a revolutionary departure.
(And Eisenhower, who oversaw that revolution, worried at its
reach. “We must never let the weight of this combination
endanger our liberties or democratic processes,” he warned.)  When  John F. Kennedy  took office in January 1961, one of
his first orders was a review of the government stockpile. It
was found to be bloated, expensive and full of increasingly
obsolete stuff. The dismantling began. Most of the raw materials
found buyers, but the machine tools were actually a hard sell.
The equipment was now hopelessly outdated for defense
production.  What it was good for was vocational training. Over the next
three decades, a sort of military-educational complex formed
around the remaining machine tools, which found their way,
through various Defense, Labor and Education Department
programs, into technical and engineering schools. From more than
200,000 pieces of machinery in 1965, the stockpile had been
reduced to about 30,000 by 1994, when the last warehouses were
closed, a final disbursement conducted and the machine-tool
reserve came, almost unremarked, to its end.  (Tim Heffernan writes about heavy industry for the Atlantic
and Popular Mechanics. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Tim Heffernan at  twheffernan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 