-- The Key to a Stronger Recovery: A Bolder Fed
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-07T20:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/a-stalling-u-s-recovery-demands-a-bolder-fed-and-more-qe.html
In  testimony  to Congress on Thursday,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  was careful not to
commit himself to further monetary stimulus. We’re thinking
about it, he said, presenting a minutely evenhanded review of
the arguments for and against.  The Fed ought to get off the fence. At the next meeting of
its policy-making committee on June 19-20, Bernanke and his
colleagues should decide on a new program of monetary easing.  Things are rarely certain in central banking, but we think
the case is stacked pretty strongly in favor of more
quantitative easing -- the Fed’s unorthodox (and controversial)
method for driving long-term  interest rates  lower by buying
government debt. According to the Fed’s analysis, the economy is
now growing too slowly to make significant inroads on
 unemployment . Jobs figures released last week were especially
disappointing, suggesting another pause in what was already a
painfully slow recovery. Revised figures marked down first-
quarter growth in output.  What about inflation? It’s falling. Lower energy prices are
helping. Long-term inflation expectations matter more -- they’re
low and stable, and “the substantial resource slack in U.S.
labor and product markets should continue to restrain
inflationary pressures,” Bernanke said.  It’s crucial to note that risks in the outlook are tilted
to the downside.  Europe ’s economic difficulties threaten to run
out of control at any moment. U.S. fiscal policy is another
danger. If the economy falls over the so-called fiscal cliff at
year’s end, count on a second recession. If Congress heads that
off, fiscal policy is likely to subtract demand from the economy
next year. If Congress doesn’t head it off, that wouldn’t
prevent the Fed from doing yet another round of QE.  Other Risks  If progress in reducing unemployment slows, temporary
joblessness might harden into the structural, permanent kind.
And if low inflation turned into outright deflation, this would
worsen the debt burden that’s holding the economy back and make
the Fed’s task vastly more difficult.  To sum up: Demand is growing more slowly than the Fed
believed, inflation is falling below target, progress on
unemployment is glacial, and the risks are loaded on the
negative side. What’s the Fed waiting for?  Some of the central bank’s policy makers want more evidence
that the new jobs slowdown isn’t just a blip. Views differ on
how much labor-market slack exists, and if there is scope for
expanding demand without pushing up prices. Most important, some
Federal Open Market Committee members worry that unwinding the
QE already undertaken won’t be easy, and they have a point. QE
on this scale is uncharted territory, even before a third round
begins.  In a speech on Wednesday, Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
reviewed these issues and, within the limits of central-banking
propriety, made a strong case for further action. She stressed
the unbalanced nature of the risks and explained that Fed
research confirmed the effectiveness of QE in lowering long-term
interest rates.  As for the idea that the exit from QE will be
destabilizing, she said, “I disagree with this view: The FOMC
has tested a variety of tools to ensure that we will be able to
raise short-term interest rates when needed while gradually
returning the portfolio to a more normal size and composition.”  If Bernanke urges a new round of QE at the committee’s next
meeting, as we hope, he will probably have an ally in Yellen. He
will need all the backing he can get, and not just on the Fed’s
committee.  Expect pushback from Republicans in Congress if QE3 goes
forward. Regardless, the time for further action has come. An
avoidably slow recovery would be bad enough. A recovery that
tails off into stagnation or worse is unacceptable. The Fed must
spare no effort to prevent it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 