-- ABM, Bank Mandiri, Mitra Adiperkasa: Indonesian Equity Preview
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-06-07T02:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/abm-bank-mandiri-mitra-adiperkasa-indonesian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have  unusual  moves in  Indonesian trading . Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and share prices are as of the previous close.  The  Jakarta Composite index  rose 3.3 percent to 3,841.33.  PT ABM Investama (ABMM)  : The company’s unit PT Reswara
Minergi Hartama obtained a contract to supply 500,000 tons of
coal to Huaneng Trading Co.,  Bisnis Indonesia  reported, citing
Harry Asmar, President Director at Reswara Minergi. ABM
Investama, a coal mining and services company, was unchanged at
3,400 rupiah.  PT Bank Mandiri (BMRI)  : The company’s brokerage unit, PT
Mandiri Sekuritas, obtained approval from the Monetary Authority
of  Singapore  to open a new branch in Singapore that is expected
to start operating in the second half of this year, Bisnis
Indonesia reported, citing Febriati Nadira, Executive Vice
President Corporate Communications at Mandiri Sekuritas. Bank
Mandiri, Indonesia’s largest lender by assets, rose 3.8 percent
to 6,900 rupiah.  PT Bakrie Telecom (BTEL)  : The mobile-phone operator
plans to repay 650 billion rupiah ($69 million) of bonds in
early July or August, Kontan reported, citing President Director
Anindya Bakrie. The debt is due in September, the report said.
The company may seek about 500 billion rupiah of loans to help
refinance the debt and to raise working capital, the report
said. Bakrie Telecom was unchanged at 240 rupiah.  PT Mitra Adiperkasa (MAPI)  : The retailer, which runs
Starbucks Corp. outlets and Sogo department stores, may sell at
least 300 billion rupiah of bonds in November to refinance debt,
Investor Daily Indonesia reported, citing Corporate Secretary
Fetty Kwartati. The company plans to spend 600 billion rupiah on
 capital expenditures  to add 300 stores this year, the report
said. Mitra advanced 3.7 percent to 7,000 rupiah.  PT Supra Boga Lestari  (RANC IJ): The food retailer will
start trading today after raising 156.45 billion rupiah in an
initial public offering to fund store expansion, repay debt and
to raise working capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  