-- Labor’s Loss in Wisconsin Seen Tempting Other Governors
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-06-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/labor-s-loss-in-wisconsin-seen-tempting-other-governors.html
The failure of a labor-backed effort
to recall Wisconsin’s governor -- in which 28 percent of members
defied their unions’ endorsement -- demonstrates a loss of
political clout that may tempt other cash-strapped states to
target public-worker benefits.  Republican Governor  Scott Walker , whose successful efforts
last year to restrict collective bargaining by public employees
resulted in protesters occupying the statehouse, easily turned
aside the June 5 challenge with 53 percent of the vote. At the
same time, voters in  California ’s second- and third- most
populous cities approved measures to curb public employee
pension costs that unions had opposed.  “The unions are dinosaurs and a meteor just hit the
Earth,” said Mordecai Lee, a government affairs professor at
the  University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee . “The dinosaurs will
slowly die out.”  With union membership rates falling to record lows, and a
series of setbacks at the ballot box, the election results are
sure to embolden opponents, Lee said. Unions failed to get their
preferred candidate on the Wisconsin ballot in last month’s
primary. In the general election, the labor-backed candidate,
Democratic Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, was outspent by a margin
of nine-to-one.  Labor leaders pointed at a bright spot: the possible recall
of a  Wisconsin state  senator that would return the chamber to
Democratic control if a slim election-night margin holds up.  AFL-CIO Reaction  Richard Trumka , the president of the  AFL-CIO , the nation’s
largest labor federation, said the labor effort was hampered by
voters who are simply turned off by the recall process.  “Recalls are pretty tough to win in a new era,” Trumka
told reporters yesterday. “This election wasn’t about
collective bargaining over the past month. I wish it had been.”  Organized labor in other states may be targeted next, as
governors seek to cut workers’ benefits to balance budgets and
take advantage of a flood of anti-union funding that could flow
to their aid, Lee said.  Michigan could be the next battleground as workers push a
ballot proposal to guarantee the collective-bargaining rights
and stave off any Wisconsin-like legislation. Bills related to
union membership have been introduced in 21 states during the
2012 legislative session, according to the  National Conference
of State Legislatures .  “Legislators and governors who lived in fear of them will
no longer live in such fear,” said Henry Olsen, vice president
of the  American Enterprise Institute  and director of its
National Research Initiative.  Other States  Other states have sought to strip workers’ rights. Indiana
in February adopted a proposal that allows workers to avoid
paying union dues, while  Ohio  last year passed legislation to
limit collective bargaining. Unions fought back, winning a
referendum that repealed the Ohio law.  Public-sector unions are one of the few growth areas for
 labor , as autoworkers and steelmakers have been replaced by
service providers. Government employees became a majority of
U.S. union members in 2009 and are an important source of votes
and donations for Democrats.  Walker, 44, elected in 2010, pushed legislation last year
that required annual recertification votes by a majority of all
members for public-employee union representation and made
payment of membership dues voluntary.  Union Membership  Union membership in  Wisconsin  had fallen to 13.3 percent of
the workforce last year. That was above the national average of
11.8 percent, though down from 14.2 percent in the state a year
earlier, according to the U.S. Labor Department.  Democrats and union workers responded to Walker’s efforts
by turning Madison, the state’s capital, into a flurry of
protests, with a tent city and street-theater rallies against
Walker. Unions led the effort to collect 900,000 signatures to
force the recall vote, setting up a rematch of the 2010 race
between Walker and Barrett.  The unions initially backed former Dane County Executive
Kathleen Falk, who lost by 24 points to Walker in last month’s
primary. In the four-week general election tens of millions of
dollars poured into the state, largely for Walker. Exit polls by
 CNN  showed that 28 percent of union members, and 37 percent of
voters living in households with a union member, backed Walker.  Obama Efforts  President  Barack Obama  stayed out of Wisconsin during the
general election and posted a single item of support on Twitter
this week. With union workers already supporting him, Obama may
have worried about alienating the few undecided votes in the
tight race he faces in November, Olsen said  Obama was favored over Romney, 51 percent to 44 percent,
among those who voted in Wisconsin, according to the CNN exit
poll. Obama won the state by 14 percentage points in 2008.  “If I were  David Axelrod , I would have told Obama to do as
little as possible here,” Olsen said of Obama’s chief campaign
strategist. “Why insert yourself into a fight if you can’t
change minds anyway?”  Trumka said Obama’s efforts in Wisconsin left some union
workers with mixed feelings.  Organized labor has less money than it used to and fewer
options for whom to support, Lee said. The AFL-CIO has already
endorsed Obama’s re-election over  Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee.  “Labor unions are no longer a vital contributor to the
 Democratic Party ,” Lee said. “Right now the pendulum is
swinging farther to the right.”  The first U.S. governor to successfully fend off a recall,
Walker, will probably emerge stronger as a champion of limited
government and scourge of public-employee unions, Lee said. He
is also becoming more a national figure while also gathering
more political capital with the win.  “You aim to kill the king, you better not miss,” Lee
said. “Here they tried to kill the king and they lost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  