-- Activists Scrap Ship at Brandenburg Gate to Protest Overfishing
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-06-07T09:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/activists-scrap-ship-at-brandenburg-gate-to-protest-overfishing.html
Torsten Knorr sinks a buzz saw into
the rusty propeller of what looks like an 80-foot-long fishing
trawler stranded in front of the  Brandenburg Gate  in Berlin.  The trawler is a caoutchouc-made dummy installed today by
Greenpeace ahead of  World Oceans Day  tomorrow. Knorr and his
fellow Greenpeace activists plan to scrap it to protest
overfishing in the European Union. They’re calling on German
Agriculture Minister  Ilse Aigner  to work to reduce  Europe ’s
fleet of fishing vessels ahead of a meeting of the Agriculture
and Fisheries Council next week in Luxembourg.  “The trawler fleet in the EU is three times too big to
fish sustainably,” Thilo Maack, a marine biologist at
Greenpeace, said in an interview. “Our oceans and fish stock
are in a historic crisis. German ships are fishing in waters as
far as West Africa. Ms. Aigner needs to act.”  Maria Damanaki, the European Union’s maritime and fisheries
commissioner, has proposed a  reform  of EU fishing policy that
aims to tackle overfishing with measures including banning
discards, the practice of throwing unwanted fish overboard. The
Commission says 82 percent of Mediterranean stocks and 63
percent of Atlantic stocks are overfished.  Germany  seeks “an ambitious reform” of the EU’s fishing
policies, said Holger Eichele, a spokesman for Aigner’s
 Agriculture Ministry . Aigner and her 26 fellow EU ministers are
to discuss the proposals at next week’s council meeting.  “We need a modern fishery management system that avoids
unwanted bycatch as much as possible and outlaws discards,”
Eichele said today by e-mail. The reform should apply “the same
stringent rules” to European vessels outside EU waters, for
example in West Africa, he said.  The European maritime industry, taking into account energy
and resource exploitation, tourism, shipping and fishing, has a
production value of about 450 billion euros ($565 billion),
Damanaki said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  