-- AdaptiveMobile Drops Iran Contracts on Gear for Text Monitoring
-- B y   B e n   E l g i n   a n d   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2012-06-07T20:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/adaptivemobile-drops-iran-contracts-on-gear-for-text-monitoring.html
AdaptiveMobile Security Ltd.  ended
its contracts with an Iranian phone company following the
disclosure that the closely held firm supplied and serviced
technology for monitoring and storing  text messages .  AdaptiveMobile, based in Dublin, stopped doing business
with MTN Irancell, Iran’s second-largest mobile provider, as of
May 24, according to United Against Nuclear Iran, a  New York- 
based advocacy organization that pressures companies to cut
business ties to Iran. The group cited an e-mail from
AdaptiveMobile.  Iranian authorities use surveillance technologies to round
up and interrogate political activists, according to accounts
provided by victims and human rights groups. AdaptiveMobile sold
technology for monitoring and storing text messages to Irancell
in 2008, Bloomberg News reported last October. The company was
still servicing the commercial gear. Police have access to the
system, two former MTN Irancell managers said.  “We applaud AdaptiveMobile for ending its business in
 Iran ,” said Kristen Silverberg, president of United Against
Nuclear Iran, in a statement. “AdaptiveMobile has made the
responsible decision, and we encourage other telecommunications
companies to follow suit.”  Three AdaptiveMobile executives didn’t immediately respond
to e-mailed or telephoned requests for comment. They are Brian
Collins, chief executive officer; Gareth Maclachlan, chief
operating officer; and Hannah Summers, who sent the e-mail to
the advocacy group.  “AdaptiveMobile formally terminated all contracts with MTN
Iran, and no longer has any business in the country,” Summers
said in the e-mail to United Against Nuclear Iran.  2008 Transaction  The company said last year that its technologies were for
fighting spam, viruses and “inappropriate content” and weren’t
designed or sold for  law enforcement . The company planned to
cease doing business in Iran when the contract was up in late
2012, it said, because continuing the arrangement could damage
its reputation.  Johannesburg-based MTN Group owns 49 percent of Irancell
and operates the network.  Other authoritarian countries across the Mideast and North
Africa also employ Western surveillance tools for political
repression, Bloomberg reported last year.  An AdaptiveMobile document detailed the system requirements
for the equipment sold in 2008 to Irancell. The technology would
be used to analyze all messages in English, Persian or Arabic
for keywords or phrases, store them and flag those caught by
filters for review.  Syria Sale  While AdaptiveMobile executives confirmed the Irancell deal
and an upgrade to the system to handle more messages, they said
last year that it was intended only for commercial purposes.
They denied any involvement with Iran security or police.  The Irish company told Irancell that “under no
circumstances was our technology to be used for law enforcement
purposes,” CEO Collins said last year in an interview.  Collins said he believed that one of Bloomberg’s sources
was a former employee with an axe to grind, and that at least
one of the documents in Bloomberg’s possession had been
doctored, without being more specific.  AdaptiveMobile also supplied message-filtering technology
to MTN  Syria , the country’s second-largest mobile operator,
which is 75 percent owned by MTN Group, according to four people
familiar with the system, Bloomberg reported earlier this year.
Amid a bloody crackdown, the Syrian government ordered blocks on
text messages containing politically sensitive terms such as
“revolution” or “demonstration,” according to two people
familiar with the filtering systems.  At the time, Collins told Bloomberg the information was
incorrect but didn’t respond to questions. Following publication
of the article, AdaptiveMobile said in a statement that it
hadn’t provided upgrades or new releases to Syria since 2008 and
that its support agreement ended in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Silver in  Rome  at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  