-- Adelson Wins Favored Terms for Casino Loans: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-06-07T04:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/adelson-wins-favored-terms-for-casino-loans-corporate-finance.html
Junk-rated  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the
casino operator controlled by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , is
getting investment-grade treatment from banks as cash flow from
its properties in  Asia  outpaces those in the U.S.  Lenders participating in a S$4.6 billion ($3.6 billion)
credit facility dropped demands that the Las Vegas based company
use any excess cash at the end of its financial year to reduce
the loan’s outstanding balance, two people familiar with the
matter said on June 4. Typically, only high-grade borrowers are
awarded such terms.  The perception of Las Vegas Sands’s credit quality is
improving as its Asian casinos benefit from economies in the
region that are expanding faster than the rest of the world. The
company said its first-quarter casino revenue in  Singapore ,
where it runs the 2,561-room Marina Bay Sands, increased 51
percent to $701.3 million, almost 4.5 times the $158.7 million
of revenue from its casinos in Las Vegas.  “Marina Bay Sands has been an incredible success for the
company, the property has done much better than anyone
expected,” Aaron Fischer, the Hong Kong-based head of consumer
and gaming research at CLSA Ltd., said in a telephone interview.  Marina Bay Sands, home to an ArtScience Museum showcasing
the works of  Andy Warhol , restaurants from celebrity chefs  Mario Batali  and  Daniel Boulud , and a hotel that averages 98 percent
occupancy at $341 a night, has bolstered growth in Singapore.  Narrower Margin  The loan for Marina Bay Sands Pte,  Las Vegas  Sands’s
Singapore unit, will pay interest at a rate of 185 basis points
more than the Singapore dollar swap offered rate. The margin is
40 basis points narrower than what the company paid to borrow
$3.2 billion in November, and 65 basis points less than its cost
for $1.4 billion in 2010, according to compiled by Bloomberg.  The 2010 loan was quoted at 96.9 cents on the dollar
yesterday to yield 3.73 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Proceeds will be used to refinance debt and the loan may be
split into a S$4.1 billion term facility that matures in six
years and a S$500 million revolving credit facility due in 5.5
years, the data show. Marina Bay hired DBS Bank Ltd., Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp., Malayan Banking Bhd. and United Overseas
Bank Ltd. as global coordinators for the financing in March,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The facility has since attracted four banks to share the
underwriting risk in marketing -- Bank of  China  Ltd., Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp., Standard Chartered Plc and CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. -- as well as about 10 others in wider
syndication.  19th-Richest Person  Val Chua, a spokeswoman for Marina Bay, didn’t respond to
e-mails seeking comment on the terms of the financing. Bob
Harayda, Marina Bay’s chief financial officer, didn’t return two
telephone messages and an e-mail seeking comment.  Adelson, 78, is the world’s 19th-richest person with a
fortune of $20.7 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. His first jobs included paperboy, ad salesman and
court reporter before he made his first fortune in trade shows.  He parlayed that windfall into the Las Vegas Sands casino
business, which includes the Venetian Macau in China and
Singapore’s Marina Bay. His wealth has risen 7.7 percent this
year, or $1.5 billion.  Macau, the only place in China where casino gambling is
legal, overtook the Las Vegas strip as the world’s biggest
casino market in 2007. The number of Chinese visitors to the
former Portuguese colony rose 22 percent to 16 million last
year, helping to increase gambling revenue 42 percent to 268
billion patacas ($33.5 billion), according to Macau’s Gaming
Inspection and Coordination Bureau.  Luring Tourists  Marina Bay’s popularity among gamblers in Asia helped
Singapore, Asia’s second-smallest country after the Maldives,
attract a record 13.2 million visitors in 2011. The island’s
other integrated resort,  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) , has also lured
tourists.  Las Vegas Sands’s sales may reach $12.4 billion this year
and $14.9 billion in 2013, CLSA forecasts. The company’s  revenue 
last year was $9.4 billion, a 37 percent increase from 2010, and
net income was $1.56 billion, up from $599.4 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  KDP Investment Advisors Inc. analysts led by Barbara Cappaert estimate Las Vegas Sands’s 2012 total debt to Ebitda
ratio will be 2.2 times as of Dec. 31. That compares with an
industry median of 5.5 times, according to an April 26 report.  For Las Vegas Sands, “Asia remains the star,” said
Cappaert, who forecasts free cash flow of $962.1 million in
2012. “Free  cash flow  should remain strong, even after new
investment spending.”  ‘Top Pick’  Las Vegas Sands stock rose 2.4 percent yesterday to $46.10.
That’s a gain of 7.9 percent this year and below the April 12
high of $61.05.  The company “is our top pick among our U.S.-listed gaming
coverage given the strong free cash flow generation in Macau and
Singapore and an estimated free cash flow yield of 8 percent for
2013,” CLSA’s Fischer said.  Moody’s Investors Service  rates  Las Vegas Sands Ba2, the
second-highest non-investment grade. Its senior secured debt is
also rated Ba2, having been raised from Ba3 in November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Three years ago, the
debt was rated B3.  The request that lenders remove the so-called cash sweep
mechanism clause has meant banks have had to again seek approval
to lend to the facility from their internal credit committees,
the people familiar with the matter said on June 4, asking not
to be identified because the details are private. Most banks
have agreed to its removal, the people said.  Interest Margin  “On a leveraged facility it’s standard for banks to seek
to bring down the loan quicker than the scheduled amortization
by requiring the borrower, at the end of its financial year,
pre-pay any excess cash over and above its requirements and
therefore bring down the overall maturity profile of the bank
debt,” said David  Irvine , a Hong Kong-based partner at
Linklaters LLP who specializes in structured lending. “The
closer a borrower gets to being an  investment-grade  corporate
with stable cashflows, the less need there is for such a clause
and it can fall away.”  The starting interest margin of 185 basis points that
Marina Bay will pay on the loan is based on its consolidated
debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of more than 3.5 times, according to a documents
obtained by Bloomberg News and confirmed by a person familiar
with the matter.  The interest falls to 165 basis points once the ratio drops
to between 2.5 and 3.5 times, and declines to 145 once the ratio
ranges from 1.9 and 2.5 times. It becomes 115 once the ratio is
less than or equal to 1 time, according to the document.  ‘Decision Process’  Wynn Macau Ltd. (WYNN) , the Hong Kong-listed unit of billionaire
 Steve Wynn ’s Las Vegas-based Wynn Resorts Ltd., is offering to
pay a starting margin of 250 basis points more than Libor for a
loan of $1.5 billion it’s currently seeking from banks in Asia,
a person familiar with the matter said on May 24.  The margin will be 250 basis points for leverage of 4.5
times or more, 225 for 4 to 4.5 times, 200 for 3 to 4 times and
175 for less than 3 times, the person said. Banks pledging $200
million will be paid an upfront fee of 200 basis points and
there is a so-called early bird fee of 12.5 basis points for
banks joining by tomorrow, the person said.  Wynn Resorts is  rated Ba2  by Moody’s, the same as Las Vegas
Sands. Its Macau unit plans to spend $4 billion on a new resort
in the former Portuguese colony financed by loans, debt and
cash, Wynn told reporters on June 5 after Wynn Macau’s annual
shareholder meeting.  Caesars Entertainment Corp., the most leveraged big U.S.
casino operator and the only one without a presence in Asian
gaming markets, is paying a margin of 525 basis points for bank
loans signed in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Las Vegas Sands is an aggressive, large-scale global
developer, so the question is how much cash the company wants to
retain for potential future projects, to distribute to
shareholders, or to pay down debt,” Michael Paladino, a senior
gaming analyst at  Fitch Ratings  in  New York , said on June 5.
“That’s a nice decision process to have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  