-- Adviser Hearing, OppenheimerFunds, Risk Council: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-07T12:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/adviser-hearing-sec-oppenheimerfunds-risk-council-compliance.html
Investment advisers opposed to a U.S.
House measure that would subject them to oversight by a self-
regulatory organization say the outfit they presume will get the
assignment isn’t up to the task.  They made their case yesterday at a hearing of the  House
Financial Services Committee .  The presumed self-regulatory organization, or SRO, is the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which has come under
fire recently for fee increases on the brokers it currently
oversees and for the compensation paid to its top executives.
Investment advisers’ industry groups used that criticism to
discredit the organization.  David Tittsworth, the executive director of the Investment
Adviser Association, who testified at the hearing, said Finra
has an “excessive cost structure and a questionable track
record.” He argued that giving Finra more power would not
improve efficiency or enhance oversight.  The legislation, introduced in April, doesn’t mention Finra
and the bill’s sponsor, Alabama Republican  Spencer Bachus , said
he hasn’t decided who should get the power.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  China Plans to Start New Bank Capital Rules Next Year  The China  Banking Regulatory Commission  plans to start new
capital management rules for commercial banks from 2013,
according to a statement on the central government’s website
yesterday related to a State Council meeting presided over by
Premier  Wen Jiabao  yesterday.  Systemically-important banks must have a capital adequacy
ratio of 11.5% while other banks must maintain a ratio of 10.5%.
Risk weightings for bank loans to small-sized companies will be
lowered.  Banks will be given a “reasonable” period to meet the
adequacy standards. Excessive loan-loss provisions can be
counted toward capital, according to the statement.  EU Parliament Postpones Vote on Credit-Rating Rules  The  European Parliament  postponed a vote on rules for
credit-rating companies that was scheduled for today.  The vote was delayed to allow more time for discussions on
the dossier, John Schranz, a spokesman for the assembly’s
economic and monetary affairs committee, said in a phone
interview. The vote by the committee will be postponed until
June 19 at the earliest, he said.  Compliance Action  OppenheimerFunds Agrees to Pay $35 Million Over SEC Claims  OppenheimerFunds Inc. will pay $35 million to resolve U.S.
regulatory claims it misled mutual-fund investors about exposure
to commercial mortgage-backed securities amid credit-market
turmoil in late 2008.  Investment management and sales units at OppenheimerFunds,
a unit of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co., inadequately
disclosed two funds’ use of leverage that increased risk and
made misleading statements about losses as markets froze, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in an administrative
order yesterday. The company agreed to settle the claims without
admitting or denying wrongdoing.  OppenheimerFunds used derivatives called total return swaps
to gain exposure to commercial mortgages without buying actual
bonds, the SEC said. By mid-September 2008, declines in the
commercial mortgage market drove down the net asset values of
the funds, forcing them to sell in an increasingly illiquid
market to meet payments on the derivatives, according to the
order.  “We continue to further enhance our fund disclosure, risk
management and compliance controls and procedures to ensure
those functions are best in class,” OppenheimerFunds Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Bill Glavin said in a statement.
“We attach the utmost importance to our regulatory obligations
and our fiduciary duties to our advisory clients, and we will
continue working every day to create value for our investors
while helping them to effectively manage risk.”  Philips Gets EU Antitrust Complaint Over Cathode-Ray Tube Sales  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  received an antitrust
complaint from European Union regulators as part of a probe into
the cathode-ray tube industry.  Joost Akkermans, a Philips spokesman in Amsterdam, said the
company “received a supplementary statement of objections”
from the European Commission. He declined to comment further.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  also received a formal complaint from
the EU, according to two people familiar with the matter. The
region’s antitrust regulator made the complaints against LG and
Philips to hold them responsible for the behavior of LG.Philips
Displays, a now-defunct joint venture that made the tubes for
televisions and computer monitors, said the people, who declined
to be named because the matter isn’t public.  The commission confirmed sending supplementary statements
of objections last week and declined to name the companies
involved.  The Brussels-based commission can fine companies accused of
operating a cartel as much as 10 percent of their annual sales.  “LG Electronics is aware that the European Commission has
issued the supplemental statement of objections,” Ken Hong, a
spokesman for the company in Seoul, said in an e-mail.  “We’ve been in close contact with the relevant authorities
throughout the investigation and will continue to cooperate
until the conclusion of this case,” Hong said, adding that the
company isn’t “100 percent clear” on what regulators’
intentions are.  Danish Stress Tests Show Biggest Banks Can Withstand Losses  Denmark’s biggest banks are “robust” and can withstand
losses after reducing their reliance on short-term funding in
recent years, the central bank’s stress tests showed.  “The large financial institutions’ use of short debt
issuance has been reduced considerably in the past years,” the
Copenhagen-based central bank said in a report yesterday. “In
an unstable market situation it’s important that large
institutions with access to international  capital markets  make
use of periods during which terms are easier and refinance their
debt.”  Denmark’s regional banking crisis, which has claimed five
lenders since last year, is forcing the industry to consolidate.
That trend is “likely to continue” as the number of banks in
the Nordic country is reduced, Governor Nils Bernstein said in a
statement. The country’s banking turmoil was exacerbated by the
2010 passage of a bail-in bill, requiring senior creditors to
share losses and pushing funding costs higher.  Danish banks continued to have “very limited exposure to
the vulnerable southern European nations,” the central bank
also said.  Courts  Ex-Deutsche Bank Worker Claims Sex Bias Over Lower Bonuses  Latifa Bouabdillah, a former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  vice
president and director, sued the German lender for sexual
discrimination in London.  Bouabdillah, who worked in the bank’s equity-structuring
group, did “the same work as people who were being promoted
around her” between 2008 and 2010, her lawyer Michael Duggan
said yesterday at an initial hearing ahead of a trial to be held
later this year. Those colleagues “were paid bonuses double or
triple that of the claimant,” he said.  The damages Bouabdillah is seeking weren’t revealed because
the evidence won’t be heard in full until the trial. There is no
limit on damages that can be awarded in discrimination claims in
the U.K.  Bruce Carr, a lawyer representing Deutsche Bank, said some
of the bankers Bouabdillah was comparing herself with had
different job titles and more responsibility.  The Frankfurt-based bank’s effort to stop Bouabdillah, who
now works at Commerzbank AG, from using those employees’
compensation figures in the suit was rejected.  “We believe the claim is without merit,” Libby Young, a
Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.  TenneT, Amprion, E.ON Win Ruling Over Power Grid Fee Regulation  TenneT Holding BV, Amprion GmbH,  E.ON Hanse Netz GmbH (EOAN)  and
other power grid operators won a ruling against Germany’s
Federal Network Agency from the Dusseldorf Higher Regional
Court.  The judges struck down the agency’s order on what costs the
companies may include when calculating fees they charge, court
spokesman Ulrich Egger said in an interview. The ruling,
covering 19 suits, is the first in a row of about 300 cases
filed against the regulator.  Yesterday’s cases are OLG Dusseldorf, VI-3 Kart 245/07 et
al.  Hontex Fails to Stop Hong Kong Regulator’s Compensation Bid  Hontex International Holdings Co. failed to stop Hong
Kong’s securities regulator from seeking a court order to return
HK$1 billion ($129 million) to investors in its 2009 initial
public offering.  High Court Judge Jonathan Harris today rejected the Chinese
fabric maker’s claim that the Securities and Futures Commission
was trying to avoid proving its fraud claims beyond a reasonable
doubt, ruling that criminal penalties on the company aren’t
being sought.  The regulator, which has fought to establish its right to
seek civil remedies from suspected rule breakers, alleges that
investors were misled by inflated sales figures in Hontex’s
prospectus in December 2009. Share sale arranger Mega Capital
(Asia) Co. was fined a record HK$42 million in April and
stripped of its corporate finance license.  Hontex lawyer Charles Manzoni asked for the trial to be
halted while the company appeals today’s ruling. Harris rejected
the request.  Hontex was suspended from trading in March 2010, leaving
nearly 8,000 individual investors in the lurch, Simon Westbrook,
a lawyer for the SFC, told the court on June 5. Westbrook will
make opening statements for the SFC’s case tomorrow and present
evidence from 25 witnesses.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and  Hontex
International Holdings Co. (946) , HCMP630/2010 in the Hong Kong Court
of First Instance.  Nasdaq Approves $40 Millin Accommodations Fund for Facebook IPO  Nasdaq  said yesterday it is seeking review by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission of a one-time $40 million
accommodation program for the  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra, will
evaluate claims submitted by firms. About $13.7 million in cash
is to be paid to member firms with the balance credited to
members to reduce training costs, Nasdaq said.  All funds are expected to be paid out within six months.  Members of the exchange will qualify for the program if
they were “directly disadvantaged” due to Nasdaq technical
problems before 11:30 a.m. on May 18. In addition, they will
qualify if they had uncertainty regarding the IPO cross
position; accommodations to cover three kinds of orders; sells
priced at $42 or less that didn’t execute; sells priced $42 or
less that executed at a worse price; buys priced at $42 that
were executed in cross and not immediately confirmed.  IBM is to review system processes, Nasdaq said.  Interviews/Hearings  HSBC’s Flint Says Europe Is Facing ‘Immense’ Challenges  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman Douglas Flint talks about the
challenges arising from the European sovereign-debt crisis and
the threats to global growth.  Flint, who is also chairman of the  Institute of
International Finance , speaks at the IIF’s Spring Membership
Meeting in Copenhagen.  For the video, click here.  JPMorgan Faced Failure in Risk Controls, Regulators Say  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s trading loss of more than $2 billion
points to failures in the bank’s risk-management practices, U.S.
regulators told lawmakers yesterday.  Thomas J. Curry, the Comptroller of the Currency, said the
losses raise “questions about the adequacy and rigor” of the
bank’s risk operation, particularly of the unit which
experienced the losses, the chief investment office.  Curry told the panel that the agency is looking to see if
“similar gaps exist in any other area of JPMorgan’s risk
management architecture.”  The hearing before the Senate Banking Committee was the
first public airing of the roles played by the OCC, the  Federal
Reserve , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Treasury
Department before May 10, when JPMorgan Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  disclosed the trading losses tied
to  credit derivatives .  “We are looking at whether there were gaps within our
assessment of the risks and the risk controls in place in the
CIO office,” Curry told lawmakers.  Dimon, who is scheduled to testify to the Senate panel on
June 13 and to the House Financial Services Committee on June
19, is under pressure from lawmakers and regulators to explain
the losses, which he has called “flawed, complex, poorly
reviewed, poorly executed and poorly monitored.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined
to comment on the remarks of regulators.  For more, click here, and click here.  Comings and Goings  Japan Watchdog May Increase Headcount as Insider Probes Deepen  Japanese Financial Services  Minister Tadahiro Matsushita
said his banking watchdog needs more staff to bolster
investigations into wrongdoing ranging from  insider trading  to
accounting fraud.  Matsushita, 73, told a group of reporters in Tokyo today
that he would like to increase the number of staff at the
Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission. The agency also
needs to hire more people with special knowledge of asset
managers and custodians in order to “improve the quality of
inspections,” he said.  After his appointment this week, Matsushita pledged to
expand the SESC’s insider-trading probes to rebuild confidence
in Japan’s markets. The commission this year uncovered
information leaks ahead of share sales.  The SESC, the investigative arm of the Financial Services
Agency, more than doubled staff including regional inspectors
over the past decade to about 710 as of March 31 from 265 in
March 2002, according to its website. By comparison, the  U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  employs about 3,500.  Former FDIC Chairwoman Bair to Lead Systemic Risk Council  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairwoman Sheila
Bair will lead the Systemic Risk Council, which convenes this
month to monitor regulatory reform of U.S. capital markets
focused on systemic risk.  The independent, non-partisan council was formed by the  CFA
Institute , the group said yesterday in a statement.  The
council’s other members include  Paul Volcker , former chairman of
the Federal Reserve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  