-- Aflac Adds BlackRock’s Stevens as Head of Global Trading
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-07T15:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/aflac-adds-blackrock-s-stevens-as-head-of-global-trading.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the world’s biggest
seller of supplemental health insurance, hired Timothy “Chip” Stevens for the newly created post of global head of trading as
the insurer increases its Wall Street presence.  Stevens joins from  BlackRock (BLK)  Inc.’s investment management
unit, where he was head of fixed-income trading for the
Americas, the Columbus, Georgia-based insurer said today in a
statement. Stevens, 42, will report to Chief Investment Officer
Eric Kirsch and be responsible for building Aflac’s trading 
systems and infrastructure, the firm said.  Kirsch is expanding Aflac’s investment-management unit
beyond Georgia and Tokyo after joining the insurer from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. last year. Kirsch this week hired Bradley E. Dyslin, who once worked with him at Deutsche Bank AG, to be
global head of credit at Aflac’s recently opened investments
office in  New York . Stevens, who was based in San Francisco for
BlackRock, will join the Wall Street office on June 12.  “Chip has extensive global experience with sell-side and
buy-side institutions,” Kirsch said in the statement. “He has
also been both the architect and manager of large, complex
trading platforms.”  Before joining BlackRock, the world’s biggest money
manager, Stevens was head of U.S. fixed-income trading for
Barclays Global Investors and was a trader at Deutsche Bank,
according to the statement. At Aflac, Stevens will lead the
firm’s global trading operations, including fixed-income,
currency and other assets, the company said.  Stevens has a bachelor’s degree in economics from  Cornell
University  in Ithaca, New York, and a MBA from  Duke University 
in Durham, North Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  