-- Airwaves for Bombs May Be Shared by Verizon in Obama Plan
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-06-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/airwaves-for-bombs-may-be-shared-by-verizon-in-obama-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  has been urged
by an advisory board to let mobile phone providers use airwaves
now reserved by U.S. agencies to guide munitions and spy on
criminals.  The call for wireless companies led by  Verizon Wireless  and
 AT&T Inc. (T)  to share federal spectrum is intended to help meet
soaring demand for connections to  Facebook (FB)  links, videos on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube and other data applications for
smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Networks may become overwhelmed if more spectrum can’t be
freed up, leading to slower downloads and dropped calls, Federal
Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  has
warned. Defense Department officials and wireless executives are
wary of the proposal, which would upset decades of established
spectrum use.  “Government spectrum managers are very protective of their
turf,” Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based analyst for Medley
Global Advisors LLC, said in an interview. “It’s going to be
very difficult, and it’s going to require sustained political
will regardless of who’s occupying the White House.”  Genachowski in a May 8 speech said the FCC is exploring
sharing as it becomes harder to find free blocks of spectrum.
The  National Telecommunications and Information Administration ,
which manages federal spectrum use, said in March that sharing
could help meet surging demand.  In the latest move in that direction, the  President’s
Council of Advisors on Science and Technology  on May 25 voted to
have Obama endorse a call for spectrum sharing. Rick Weiss, a
White House spokesman, declined to comment because the report
hasn’t been released.  Wireless, Defense  The emerging policy confronts mobile carriers that prefer
exclusive access to airwaves and Pentagon officials concerned
about preventing interference between defense systems and
smartphone networks.  “There’s potential to cause interference pretty much
anywhere in the country,” Stuart Timerman, director of the
Defense Spectrum Organization, part of the Defense Information
Systems Agency, said in an interview.  Users can share frequencies by transmitting at different
times or in different parts of the country. Devices also can
detect other users and switch operations to different airwaves
to avoid conflicts.  Sharing could help avert costs of moving air combat
training systems from their current airwaves assignment,
Timerman said. Moving training systems would cost $4.5 billion
and take at least five years, the Defense Department told the
National Telecommunications and Information Administration.
Costs include revamping ground stations at bases around the U.S.
and modifying aircraft electronics.  3,100 Assignments  “We have to be able to figure out a method to share, or
we’re looking at the $4.5 billion to vacate. Then again, it
comes down to, where do we move to?” Timerman said. “This is
one area that’s obviously going to receive a lot of attention.”  Air-combat systems are among 3,100 frequency assignments,
including munitions control and video surveillance, conducted by
more than 20 agencies in one airwaves band examined by the
information administration. The agency is leading negotiations
on how to share frequencies.  Removing all federal users from the airwaves band would
cost $18 billion and take 10 years, the agency said in a March
report.  Obama in 2010 pledged to almost double the airwaves
available for wireless devices such as smartphones and tablets
by making another 500 megahertz available over 10 years. Since
then, attempts to clear airwaves have a mixed record.  Television Auction  LightSquared Inc.’s proposal to build a high-speed mobile
data service foundered after U.S. officials concluded it would
interfere with navigation gear. Auctions of unused television
airwaves anticipated to produce 120 megahertz are being planned,
with predictions they’ll yield less than that.  “It’s now time to accelerate the movement toward the use
of sharing,” Mark Gorenberg, managing director of San
Francisco-based software investors Hummer Winblad Venture
Partners, told the presidential advisory council on May 25. The
body made up of independent experts advises Obama and has  John Holdren , the president’s science adviser, as a co-leader.  The council voted to recommend that Obama declare a goal of
having U.S. agencies share 1,000 megahertz of spectrum with
commercial users. U.S. mobile providers are assigned 409.5
megahertz for commercial use,  according to  CTIA-the Wireless
Association, a trade group.  Sharing may expand spectrum’s capacity by 1,000 times or
more, according to a  presentation  to the council.  Gorenberg didn’t return a telephone call.  Airwaves Control  There are ways to satisfy commercial and federal users
alike, said Gregory Rosston, deputy director of the Stanford
Institute for Economic Policy Research in Stanford,  California .  “For example, they may have a military exercise once a
month in an area. The other 29 days a month someone else could
use it,” Rosston, who advises the Commerce Department on
spectrum policy, said in an interview.  Carriers prefer to have portions of airwaves they control,
according to a blog posting by CTIA-the Wireless Association.
The Washington-based trade group’s members include Verizon,
second-largest U.S. wireless carrier AT&T, third-largest  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  and No. 4 T-Mobile USA Inc., the Bellevue,
Washington-based U.S. unit of Bonn-based  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   “The end goal of the ‘search for 500 MHz’ that the
administration and the FCC have rightly targeted should be fully
cleared spectrum,” said the May 4  posting  by Christopher Guttman-McCabe, vice president for regulatory affairs.  Limited Sharing  “Some sharing, on a limited basis, may be necessary,”
Guttman-McCabe wrote. “Ideally, remaining federal systems will
be limited in number and scope, and confined to a defined number
of geographic locations.”  It’s difficult to control quality on a shared network, AT&T
Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  said at a June 1
conference.  “In the short run I don’t see that as a fix,” he
said.  Obama’s administration last year rejected Dallas-based
AT&T’s bid to buy T-Mobile, a transaction designed to gain
access to more airwaves. Stephenson has called the spectrum
shortage the leading issue for his industry.  “Full ownership of the spectrum has proven over time to be
the best model,” Stephenson said.  Verizon, which calls itself the largest provider of
communications services to the federal government, has
designated $5 million to work with the Defense Department on
sharing.  “Government and industry must work together to find ways
to use spectrum more efficiently,” Verizon Chief Executive
Officer Lowell McAdam said in a May 9 address to military
contractors and officers in Tampa,  Florida .  Verizon Wireless, based in  Basking Ridge ,  New Jersey , is 55
percent-owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and 45 percent-
owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , based in Newbury,  England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  