-- Taiwan Dollar Gains a Third Day on Stimulus Plans; Bonds Steady
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-06-07T08:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/taiwan-dollar-gains-a-third-day-bonds-fall-on-stimulus-outlook.html
Taiwan’s dollar strengthened for a
third day, the longest run of gains in more than five weeks, as
governments worldwide consider stimulus measures to shield their
economies from Europe’s debt crisis. Bonds were steady.  Official data showed today exports dropped 6.3 percent in
May from a year earlier, a third month of contraction, the worst
performance since 2009. Taiwan should raise the limit on
 government borrowing  should Europe’s woes worsen, the Economic
Daily News reported, citing Kuan Chung-ming, minister without
portfolio.  China  has delayed plans to tighten bank capital
rules, while  India  is considering increasing development
spending to boost growth.  “Governments are rolling out measures to save their
economies,” said Tobby Lin, a fixed-income trader at Yuanta
Securities Co. in Taipei. “Raising the debt ceiling will
require a lot of work, so the  bond market  isn’t reacting on that
information.”  Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.1 percent to NT$29.906 against its
U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It touched
NT$30.070 on June 5, the weakest level since Jan. 17. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings traders
use to price options, fell 44 basis points, or 0.44 percentage
point, to a two-week low of 5.25 percent.  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday
that further monetary stimulus may be warranted as the  U.S.
economy  “remains vulnerable to setbacks.”  The yield on the government’s 1 percent bonds due January
2017 was little changed at 0.93 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. It reached 0.91 percent on June 4, the lowest
level for benchmark five-year rates since October 2010.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed at
0.51 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  