-- How Japan Can Avert Nuclear Disaster
-- B y   T a k e o   H o s h i   a n d   A n i l   K   K a s h y a p
-- 2012-06-07T23:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/making-japan-s-nuclear-plants-safer.html
On May 5, the Tomari nuclear plant in
Hokkaido shut down for routine maintenance, leaving Japan with
no operating nuclear-power plants. There is a confused debate
over what to do next.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has called for restarting the
reactors at Ohi plant in Fukui, insisting that bringing them
online is imperative for the economy. Although the government
may prevail, many Japanese remain skeptical about nuclear
safety.  The public, and the local politicians who control the
decisions to restart, are demanding that the government
guarantee the safety of each plant. The government says new
safety standards and a revamped regulatory regime will address
these concerns. For example,  reactors  are now expected to
withstand more severe earthquakes than originally assumed and
backup power generators are supposed to be located on higher
ground. In addition, a new commission that centralizes all the
regulations for nuclear-power plants will be created.  Yet this basic approach is the same as the one in place
before the Fukushima disaster last year. The idea is to avoid
accidents through various mechanisms that can be effective even
after an incident. Strengthening those mechanisms is important,
yet the lesson of Fukushima is that this safety strategy is
fundamentally misguided.  Failed Prevention  Any safety standard can only be judged relative to the
maximum severity of the disaster that is assumed. When there is
an incident that is substantially bigger than assumed, an
accident will follow. Last year, the ineffective responses of
Tokyo Electric Power Co. and the government exacerbated the
unexpectedly large shock of the accident and made the aftermath
worse. Still, even with a perfect response, the Fukushima quake
was so huge that it was going to have disastrous consequences.
Because we can never know the maximum size of disasters that can
befall a nuclear plant, this prevention approach is destined to
fail eventually.  The only fail-safe strategy is prohibitively expensive, so
it is time for a new approach. An analogy to banking regulation
is helpful here. The current conception of safety for nuclear-power plants is similar to a financial-stability policy that
seeks only to prevent  bank failures . Such a banking policy was
pursued by the Japanese government for most of the postwar
period until it failed in the late 1990s. The lack of a
mechanism to close down failing banks intensified the banking
crisis of 1997-1998. Similarly, during the global financial
meltdown of 2007-2009, the lack of a mechanism to close down
large failing financial institutions such as Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. greatly exacerbated that crisis.  Financial regulators in the post-Lehman world have been
attempting to improve resolution mechanisms for large financial
institutions. In many countries, this effort has included
requiring systemically important banks to prepare living wills
that can help the process of winding down their operations in
ways that would minimize the damage to the rest of the system.
Regulators report that the very action of beginning to prepare
the wills has already increased safety by leading some companies
to address longstanding weaknesses.  Post-Fukushima safety standards should include a similar
mechanism to deal with a large nuclear accident. For example,
the owner of a plant could be required to work with the
regulator to come up with a credible evacuation plan for the
residents within an 80-kilometer (50-mile) radius of the
installation. This would cut across prefectural boundaries,
overcoming some of the poor coordination that characterized the
response to the Fukushima disaster.  Evacuation Plan  The plan should aim for a complete evacuation within 24
hours; if this cannot be achieved, the barriers to its
implementation should be identified and a strategy for
addressing them announced. The Fukushima experience suggests
many other ingredients that belong in these plans. For instance,
evacuation plans should pay careful attention to assistance for
patients in hospitals and the elderly in nursing homes. It
should include provisions for evacuating pets and farm animals.
And it should recognize that evacuees may need to stay in
temporary shelters for an extended period.  U.S. regulations require each nuclear-plant owner to design
an evacuation plan. But these blueprints haven’t been updated
and most are out of date. Periodic reviews are a necessity. Even
better, evacuation plans should be tested every few years
through practice drills.  It is also important to specify who pays for an evacuation
because that knowledge can influence the behavior of people who
can affect the probability of accidents. Since power-plant
operators have the largest influence on the probability of an
accident, those companies should be required to bear this cost.
This would give them additional incentive to avoid such events.
The company would probably try to insure the costs, and the
insurers would bring further pressure to improve safety.  In the meantime,  Japan  shouldn’t wait for the new safety
standard to be in place before it restarts its nuclear-power
plants. With just two plants operating this summer, the economy
is going to suffer. The relevant tradeoff is the cost imposed on
the economy by forgoing nuclear power -- which supplied 30
percent of the country’s energy before the accident -- compared
with the cost of operating some plants with a less-than-perfect
safety standard. The combination of the new safety standard
along with some better planning for accident mitigation would
make it clear that operating more than just two plants is the
right decision.  (Takeo Hoshi is a professor at the School of International
Relations and Pacific Studies at  University of California ,  San
Diego . Anil K Kashyap, a professor of economics and finance at
the University of Chicago Booth School of Business and director
of the Booth Initiative on Global Markets, is a contributor to
 Business Class . The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on how  Bahrain can model Mideast
reform  and why  Ben Bernanke should ease more ;  Jonathan Alter  on
 a new Obama campaign mantra ; Stephen L. Carter on  the failures
of capitalism ; A. Gary Shilling on  why the strong yen won’t
last ; Robert and Edward Skidelsky on  markets versus the good
life ;  Dmitri Trenin  on the risk that  Russia and China ally
against the U.S.   To contact the writers of this article:
Takeo Hoshi at  thoshi@ucsd.edu ;
Anil K Kashyap at  Anil.Kashyap@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  