-- Malawi’s Banda Reverses Policy Mistakes to Lure Donors
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2012-06-08T14:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/malawi-s-banda-reverses-policy-mistakes-to-lure-donors.html
Malawian President Joyce Banda is
dismantling the policies of her predecessor that stopped aid to
one of  Africa ’s poorest nations and plunged the country into a
political and fiscal crisis.  It’s working. The  International Monetary Fund  on June 6
agreed to lend Africa’s second-biggest tea producer $157 million
and the U.K., Malawi’s largest donor, has restored relations
with the country. Just two months after succeeding Bingu wa Mutharika, who died in office, Banda has devalued the currency,
promised to cut spending and scrap anti-gay laws condemned by
human rights groups and leaders such as U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  and South African President  Jacob Zuma .  “We brought this on ourselves because of carelessness and
arrogance,” Banda, the continent’s second female president
after Liberia’s Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, said in an interview on
April 27 in  Pretoria , South Africa’s capital. “The last thing I
want is to see poor Malawians suffering because of these
mistakes we made.”  A May 7 devaluation of the kwacha by a third to 250 against
the dollar may enable the government to restart its largest-ever
bond sale, which was canceled in December,  Razia Khan , head of
Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London ,
said in an interview on May 3. The government had planned to
sell $182 million of two-, three-, four- and five-year debt. The
bonds were to offer coupons of 8 percent to 10 percent.  ‘Easing Constraints’  “Once you have got the building blocks in place, then you
think about the bigger bond issuance and easing up some of the
finance constraints of government,” Khan said.  The nation’s total budget revenue, including grants, will
increase 20 percent to 394 billion kwacha ($1.46 billion) in the
fiscal year through June 2013, Finance Minister Ken Lipenga said
in a budget speech today in Lilongwe, the capital.  Mutharika, who died of a heart attack on April 5, refused
IMF advice on the currency and last year expelled the U.K.’s
envoy, who criticized the president for his autocratic behavior.
A police crackdown against protesters in June last year that led
to the death of 19 people prompted the U.S. to stop aid to the
country.  Swiftly, Boldly  Banda has promised to mend relations with donors and help
cut poverty in a nation where about 74 percent of the population
of 16 million people live on less than $1.25 a day, according to
World Bank estimates. Donor aid accounts for more than 40
percent of the budget in  Malawi , a landlocked country between
Zambia, Mozambique and  Tanzania .  The president “has moved swiftly and boldly to change the
policy environment,” Tsidi Tsikata, the Washington-based IMF’s
head of mission to Malawi, said on a conference call on June 6.
“The feedback we are getting from the private sector has been
overwhelmingly positive.”  The kwacha has weakened another 7.4 percent since it was
devalued, boosting potential earnings for tobacco and tea
producers. The central bank has also eased restrictions on
exporters, allowing tobacco producers to deposit dollars
directly with commercial banks to ease a foreign-currency
shortage. The currency was trading at 269.8950 against the
dollar at 4 p.m. in Lilongwe.  “We carried out the devaluation and removed all the
controls that were a problem in the past,” Lipenga, the finance
minister, said in comments broadcast on Lilongwe-based MBC Radio
on June 6. “That was the most important step to take.”  Inflation Hardships  Tobacco accounts for about 60 percent of foreign-exchange
revenue. Malawi is the world’s largest producer of burley
tobacco, a low grade of the crop used as a filler in cigarettes.
Limbe Leaf Tobacco Co., a unit of  Universal Corp. (UVV) , Alliance One
Inc., Africa Leaf Malawi Ltd., RWJ Wallace Ltd. and  Japan
Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are among buyers of tobacco in Malawi.  The policy changes won’t come without hardships, Banda
said. A weaker currency may boost prices of food, fuel and other
imports, threatening to stoke inflation that’s already at 12.4
percent, the highest level in almost six years. Banda forecast
inflation will average 15 percent this year.  “The policy environment has changed quite dramatically,”
the IMF’s Tsikata said. “This is not to say that they have
solved all the problems overnight.”  AU Summit  The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  by 3
percentage points to 16 percent last month. The Malawi Energy
Regulatory Authority on May 11 boosted fuel and electricity
prices an average 30 percent and 63 percent respectively.  The U.K. pledged to support Banda’s changes. Her first
speech to Parliament “did not hide concerns that donors” have,
Kirk Hollingsworth, Britain’s deputy high commissioner in
Malawi, said in an interview on May 17. “It will be rough at
the beginning but the recovery will be done,” he said.  Banda’s courting of Western donors may put her at odds with
other African leaders. The  African Union  will no longer hold its
annual summit in Malawi, scheduled for next month, because the
country is refusing to allow Umar al-Bashir, the president of
 Sudan  who is wanted by the  International Criminal Court  for  war
crimes , to attend, The  Associated Press  reported.  Mutharika, a former World Bank economist who became
president in 2004, was initially praised by the IMF for ending
food shortages and boosting economic growth. He was re-elected
in 2009 with 66 percent voters’ support, though his relationship
with donors soon soured. The ruling  Democratic Progressive Party 
expelled Banda in 2010, accusing her of sowing divisions. She
remained the nation’s vice president in line with Malawi’s
constitution.  “The president has clearly taken a decision to evaluate
and repair the relationship with the IMF and donor
organizations,” Francois Strydom, managing director of Senwes
Ltd.,  South Africa ’s largest grain trader, said in an interview
on May 21. The steps she has taken “directly impact on
boardroom decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  