-- Malaysia Plans Steps to Counter Indonesia Palm Oil Tax Cut
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-06-07T09:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/malaysia-plans-steps-to-counter-indonesia-palm-oil-tax-cut-1-.html
Malaysia, the world’s second-largest
 palm oil  producer, will take steps to help local refiners stay
competitive after  Indonesia  cut export taxes to boost shipments.  Minister of Plantation Industries & Commodities Bernard Dompok will soon present a plan to the government that will
include changes in tax structure on palm oil, he told a press
conference in Mumbai today, without elaborating.  Indonesia, the world’s largest producer, reduced taxes in
October to boost exports of processed oil, increasing
competition for refiners in Malaysia. Shipments of refined palm
oil may rise this year to benefit from the lower taxes, Sahat Sinaga, second deputy chairman of the Indonesian Palm Oil Board,
said May 28.  “This is certainly a big challenge for refiners in
 Malaysia  and  India ,” Dompok said. “We are trying to see a
balance between growers and refiners” and make Malaysia
competitive in the world market, he said.  Indonesia cut maximum export duties on refined, bleached
and deodorized palm oil to 10 percent from 23 percent. The rate
for RBD palm olein was reduced to 13 percent from 25 percent,
while the highest tax for crude palm-oil exports was set at 22.5
percent. Companies are increasing refining capacity in Indonesia
to benefit from lower taxes, Adrian Foulger, head of food &
beverage research at  Standard Chartered  Plc, said May 8.  Malaysia and Indonesia account for about 89 percent of the
oil’s global shipments.  ‘Mimic Indonesians’  “The only way forward is to mimic the Indonesians to some
extent, it doesn’t have to be exactly the same,” Ivy Ng, an
analyst with  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , said by phone from  Kuala
Lumpur  today. “The Malaysian refiners should get a cost
advantage of feedstock similar to that currently being enjoyed
by the Indonesian refiners so that they can compete on the same
level playing field.”  Malaysia may consider cutting the export tax on crude palm
oil and abolish a quota for tax-free exports of as much as 3.5
million tons annually, said Ng. The export duty for crude palm
oil is about 21 to 22 percent, according to the Palm Oil
Refiners Association of Malaysia.  India, the world’s biggest palm oil buyer, may raise the
benchmark import price of refined palm oil, unchanged since
2006, to protect refiners from a surge in imports, a government
official said May 28. Refined oils are taxed at 7.5 percent,
while there’s no tax on crude oils.  Prices Fall  The August-delivery contract on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange fell as much as 1.7 percent to 2,952 ringgit ($933) a
ton and was at 2,961 ringgit at 2:33 p.m. in Mumbai.  Malaysia needs to focus on improving palm oil productivity
and technology as there was limited land for plantations, said
Dompok. The country is “approaching the limits” of arable land
for oil palms,  Abah Ofon , a Singapore-based agriculture analyst
at Standard Chartered, said May 8.  Production may total 19 million tons this year as harvest
is poised to rebound in the second half, Choo Yuen May,
director-general of Malaysian Palm Oil Board, said in an
interview. Output typically peaks between July and October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  