-- Alibaba Open to Temasek, CIC Investment to Buy Back Yahoo
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r   a n d   B r u c e   E i n h o r n
-- 2012-06-08T08:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/alibaba-open-to-temasek-cic-investment-to-buy-back-yahoo-stake.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. founder
Jack Ma said  China ’s biggest e-commerce provider is prepared to
sell a stake to sovereign wealth firms to fund its buyback of
shares from  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   Alibaba is open to investments from firms such as China
Investment Corp. and Temasek Holdings Pte as long as the
ownership structure isn’t dominated by one or two large
shareholders, Ma, 47, said in an interview in Beijing yesterday.
Temasek is already an investor in Alibaba, which last month
agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in itself from Yahoo for $7.1
billion ahead of an initial public offering.  “You need to have some guy with deep pockets,” Ma said.
“I want to make sure it has healthy corporate governance. I
don’t want another big guy coming here. Five years later, 10
years later, the next generation of leadership cannot stand the
pressure from shareholders.”  Alibaba, which is also taking a Hong Kong-listed unit
private, may sell shares in an IPO within five years, Ma said,
adding the company hasn’t decided where to offer it. Alibaba is
restructuring as competition increases in China’s e-commerce
market with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest  Internet
company , planning to invest $1 billion on its Web-trading unit.  Ma said he wants to ensure a “healthy shareholder
structure” that will allow the management sufficient freedom to
run the company.  Yahoo, Softbank  Alibaba.com shares, scheduled to end Hong Kong trading
today, rose 0.2 percent to HK$13.44.  Under the Yahoo buyback deal, Yahoo and Softbank Inc.
agreed to reduce their  voting rights  to 49.9 percent while their
combined ownership still exceeded half the company.  Alibaba had been trying to buy back the stake from Yahoo
for more than a year and stepped up efforts in September because
of improving prospects for growth and expansion beyond China.
Yahoo acquired about 40 percent of Hangzhou, China-based Alibaba
in 2005 in exchange for $1 billion and ownership of Yahoo’s
Chinese operations.  In September, DST Global and Temasek were among investors
that agreed to buy shares of Alibaba in a transaction valuing
the Chinese company at $32 billion, people familiar with the
deal said at the time.  Silver Lake (SLR)  and Ma’s Yunfeng Capital were
also part of the group that bought as much as $1.6 billion in
stock from Alibaba employees, said the people.  Tokyo-based Softbank owned about 30 percent of Alibaba
Group, operator of the Taobao online marketplace for consumers,
and the Tmall Internet shopping site.  English Teacher  A phone call to CIC’s Beijing-based press office after
normal working hours yesterday went unanswered. Temasek declined
to comment on hypothetical situations, said  Stephen Forshaw , a
spokesman for the company.  A former English teacher, Ma owns about 7.4 percent of
Alibaba Group, according to a Hong Kong stock exchange filing in
April, putting the value of his stake at $2.6 billion. The
company is taking  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  private after winning
approval from the Hong Kong-listed unit’s shareholders for a
$2.5 billion buyout.  Alibaba hasn’t decided on a location for the IPO, said Ma.  “Today it’s too early to discuss,” he said. “In China
our size now might be too big. I don’t know if the USA will
welcome us. It depends on what happens five years later. It’s
not like we need to raise money, because this company is very
profitable.”  Before Deadline  Dundas Deng, a Shenzhen-based analyst with  Guotai Junan
International Ltd. (1788) , said Alibaba has an incentive to list sooner
to take advantage of a provision that requires Yahoo to sell an
additional 10 percent stake in the company if an IPO occurs
before December 2015.  “I think they will definitely try to do it before that
deadline,” said Deng. “If that deadline passes it would be
very hard for them to negotiate with Yahoo for the rest of the
shares.”  Revenue rose to $2.3 billion in the year ended Sept. 30
from $1.3 billion a year earlier, according to Yahoo’s annual
report in February. The Chinese company posted a profit of $268
million, compared with a loss of $10.7 million a year earlier,
according to the document.  Ma said he is “pretty confident” Alibaba can withstand
new challenges. Most Chinese e-competitors “are copycats of the
U.S.,” he said. “Copycats never survive,” he said.  Ali-loans  Alibaba wants to differentiate itself from competition and
as part of its diversification strategy, it’s partnering with
China’s  Haier Group (1169)  to offer a new smartphone using an operating
system developed by Alibaba, the company said in an e-mailed
statement on June 6. The phone will have a selling price of 999
 yuan  ($157) and go on sale in mid-June, Alibaba said.  Ma said Alibaba is also trying to help small Chinese
businesses that have difficulty getting loans from China’s
banks, which focus mostly on large, state-owned enterprises.  Over the past two years, the group’s Ali-loan company has
made credit of 500,000 yuan or less available to 120,000 small
and midsized businesses, he said. The target is to help 1
million companies in three years, Ma said.  “Today people think of Alibaba as an e-commerce company,
an Internet empire. We want to build up a company in Chinese
history nobody has seen before,” said Ma. “It’s not an empire,
it’s an ecosystem.”  While Ma has no plan to step down from Alibaba, he said he
is already looking ahead.  “Someday Jack Ma is going to retire,” he said. “I don’t
want to be 80 years old and still running this company. When you
are over 50 or 60, you are too old for an Internet company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net ;
Bruce Einhorn in Hong Kong at 
 beinhorn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  