-- Americans Cling to Jobs as U.S. Workforce Dynamism Fades
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/americans-cling-to-jobs-as-u-s-workforce-dynamism-fades.html
After 4 1/2 months of meetings,
interviews and hand-holding, personnel recruiter  William Rowe 
thought he had sealed the deal.  The senior executive of a major corporation Rowe had been
courting finally agreed to take a top post at a venture capital-
backed technology firm in  California . Then four days after
giving notice, the executive, who is in his 40s, had second
thoughts about leaving the security of his company and returned
to his old job.  “He decided to go back to the mother ship” and not uproot
his family to take a chance on joining a new firm, said Rowe,
vice chairman of Pearson Partners International Inc., a search
firm in  Dallas .  The deepest economic slump since the Great Depression has
left its mark on both job seekers and job creators, making them
more wary about taking risks in a slowly recovering  labor
market .  Spooked by the severity of the recession and stuck with
underwater home mortgages, Americans are less inclined to leave
their jobs and less willing to strike out on their own to build
businesses, government data show. Even with swelling profits,
companies are holding back on hiring, complaining that they
can’t find skilled workers for positions they do have open.  As a result, the labor market is losing some of the
dynamism for which it’s long been known. And the trend predates
the recession: An aging population and the growth of two-income
households have reduced Americans’ mobility to about half of
what it once was, while technological gains and globalization
have led to a loss of middle-income jobs. The economic slump
only exacerbated the loss of vigor.  ‘Hollowing Out’  “The U.S. labor market is becoming more sclerotic,” said
Harvard University Professor Lawrence Katz, a former chief
economist at the U.S. Labor Department. “We’re seeing less
gross  job creation  and job destruction, and we have a major
hollowing out of jobs in the middle.”  The diminishing vibrancy matters because the less job
turnover there is, the harder it is for others, particularly
younger people, to find work. Unemployment among 16- to 24-year-
olds was 16.1 percent in May, about double the 8.2 percent rate
for the population as a whole. Also holding them back are older
workers staying on the job longer after seeing their savings
eroded by the housing market bust and financial crisis.  Americans who are thrown out of work in such an environment
also are finding it tougher to get jobs. The average  duration  of
 unemployment  was 39.7 weeks in May, more than double the 18.8-
week average since 1990 and not far below the record 40.9 level
set in November last year. American employers added 69,000
workers last month, the fewest in a year.  Like Europe  “We have certainly moved” in the direction of Europe,
with a less-dynamic labor market,  Steven Davis , professor at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business, said in an
email. He ticked off the similarities: “higher unemployment
rates, longer unemployment spells, steep falls in the employment
rate in the working-age population, a slower pace of worker
flows, and a slower pace of job creation and destruction.”  David Bouchey was among those caught in the middle.
Bouchey, of Aurora,  Colorado , who lost his position as a
financial analyst in 2007, said he thought he’d find work
because of his experience and three post-graduate degrees.  “I’m overqualified for almost every job I apply for,”
said Bouchey, 54. He, his wife and two sons live on about $1,000
a month in public assistance. “I never thought the economy
would be this bad.”  Bouncing Back  Still, the economy has improved from where it was just a
few years ago, when joblessness hit a 29-year high of 10 percent
in October 2009. Private business  payrolls  are back to levels
that prevailed when President Barack Obama took office in
January 2009. Job openings rose in March to their highest point
in almost four years, though they are still more than 20 percent
below levels seen in early 2007, prior to the economic decline.  Many industries -- from leisure and hospitality to
professional and business  services  -- have increased their
payrolls since the recession ended in June 2009, according to
Labor Department figures. Three of the areas most affected by
the slump -- construction, financial services and government --
still lag behind.  Manufacturing has added almost a half-million jobs since
the start of 2010 after shedding more than six million in the
two decades before. Lower energy costs in the U.S. -- courtesy
of a surge in natural gas production -- and rising wages
overseas, particularly in China, are contributing to what  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist in  Minneapolis  at Wells
Capital Management, calls a “manufacturing renaissance.”  Health Care  Huntsman Corp. (HUN) , the world’s biggest maker of textile dyes,
plans to increase production of ethylene and related chemicals
in Texas and is evaluating additional expansion projects to take
advantage of cheaper natural gas, Chief Executive Officer Peter Huntsman said in a May 1 interview.  The biggest job gains have come in health care as the aging
population drives up demand for workers from nursing aides to
surgeons. While the economy lost 7.5 million positions during
the recession, health care expanded staff and continues to do so
in the recovery. Together with social assistance, it will add
about 5.6 million employees to become the largest job gainer by
2020, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Yet many of those positions, including personal care and
home health aides, won’t require a high school education and so
are unlikely to pay much.  “The first baby boomer just turned 65 last year, so when
it comes to health-care jobs in America, we haven’t seen nothing
yet,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York .  In Middle  Americans at the top and bottom of the income scale have
benefited the most from the improvement in the labor market.
Those in the middle have stayed behind. Employees making above-
average wages, including doctors and energy-industry workers,
and those at the other extreme, including home-health aides and
restaurant staff, have seen outsized gains in hiring since the
jobs upturn began in 2010, according to economists at  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  That continues a decades-long trend that picked up speed
during the recession. Academic economists Nir Jaimovich and
Henry Siu found that 95 percent of the jobs lost during the
slump were among workers who carried out routine assignments
that could be easily automated. These jobs, which include office
and administrative roles, bank tellers and machine operators,
disappeared during the contraction and show “no recovery to
date,” Jaimovich, a professor at  Duke University  in Durham,
 North Carolina , and Siu of the University of British Columbia in
Vancouver, said in a  paper  published on March 31.  More With Less  “Companies have been driving, and continue to drive, for
increased productivity, to do more with less, and the tool to do
that is technology improvement,” said  Jonas Prising , president
of the Americas for Milwaukee-based ManpowerGroup, the world’s
second-largest provider of temporary workers. “What are getting
squeezed are the well-paying jobs with lower skill levels that
used to give a middle-class income.”  Technological change has been a boon for those with the
skills to exploit it. Job  openings  in the computer and
mathematical fields outnumbered job seekers by almost four to
one in April, according to the New York-based Conference Board.  Tyler Stalder, 24, found work in San Francisco’s technology
industry shortly after he finished a one-year web-development
fellowship with a nonprofit. The computer programmer started
working for Singly, a startup company, on March 2 after less
than two months of job interviews. And he’s still being
contacted by prospective employers trying to recruit him.  Uneven Recovery  The jobs recovery also has been uneven geographically. Only
four states -- Alaska, North Dakota, Texas and Louisiana, all
beneficiaries of the energy boom -- have reached or surpassed
their previous peaks in employment, according to an analysis by
economist Steven Frable of consultants IHS Global Insight in
Lexington, Massachusetts. Some others, including New York and
West Virginia, are close.  Sixteen states still have fewer than 95 percent of their
prerecession job levels, Frable said in a report on May 21.
Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Michigan, Rhode Island, and Nevada
are behind previous peaks by 7 percent or more.  Unemployment rates also vary widely -- from 11.7 percent in
Nevada, one of the regions most hurt by the real estate bust, to
3 percent in North Dakota, the center of the shale gas expansion
and the state whose economic health improved the most last year,
according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. Hiring
has been so frantic in the Great Plains state that the
McDonald’s Corp. restaurant in Dickinson at one point was
offering $300 signing bonuses.  Staying Put  In the past, such geographic disparities would have been
ironed out as Americans flocked to where the jobs were. Labor
mobility has long been a major source of strength for the U.S.
jobs market when compared with  Europe .  That is less the case today. About one in 10 Americans
currently move each year, according to James Manyika, director
of the McKinsey Global Institute, the research unit of
consultants McKinsey & Co. That’s well below the roughly one in
five average that prevailed from 1945 through about 1990, he
said.  The percentage of Americans who changed residences between
2010 and 2011 fell to a record low of 11.6 percent, from 12.5
percent the previous year, according to Census Bureau  figures .
That compares with 17 percent in the recession of 1990-91.  The image “of the highly mobile American worker is not as
true as it used to be,” Manyika said.  Dual-Incomes  The rise of the dual-income family is one reason, he said:
When both partners are working it’s harder to coordinate a move.
More recently, the collapse in  house prices  has played a role in
damping mobility, he added, although Davis said that research
suggests the impact of that is small. More than 11 million
households owed more on their mortgages than their homes were
worth in the fourth quarter of last year, according to data
provider CoreLogic, and would face losses if they opted to sell
to move elsewhere for work.  While Americans are more willing to leave their jobs for
other opportunities than they were at the depth of the
recession, they still have a way to go before they regain the
confidence they exhibited prior to the downturn.  The so-called  quit  ratio -- which measures the number of
people voluntarily leaving their jobs as a proportion of total
employment -- stood at 1.6 percent in March. That’s up from a
low of 1.2 percent almost three years ago, yet still well below
the 2.3 percent peak seen in late 2006.  Not Changing  “We just haven’t had people changing jobs enough,” said
 Betsey Stevenson , an assistant professor at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School in Philadelphia and a former chief
economist at the Labor Department. “We need to see people have
the confidence to quit their job and find a better one and
create an opening for someone else.”  The jobs recovery hasn’t been strong enough to convince
many Americans to re-enter the  labor force  and start looking for
work again. The labor participation rate -- the share of
working-age people holding a job or seeking one -- stood at 63.8
percent in May, just above a three-decade low of 63.6 percent
the previous month.  A portion of those who have dropped out of the labor force
have gone on disability. The number of workers receiving Social
Security Disability Insurance from the government jumped more
than 20 percent to 8.7 million in May from 7.1 million in
December 2007, Social Security data show.  Fewer Startups  The dwindling dynamism of the U.S. labor market also shows
up in the willingness of Americans to strike out on their own.
The nation’s business start-up rate -- the number of new firms
as a proportion of all companies -- fell to a record low of
around 8 percent in 2010, according to the latest data available
from the Census Bureau. That’s down from about 11 percent in
2006, before the economic slump, and a high of 13 percent in the
1980s.  The longer-run decline is partly due to the aging of the
population, according to the University of Chicago’s Davis. More
recently, tighter credit in the aftermath of the financial
crisis also may be discouraging start-ups, he said.  That’s got big implications for the labor market. Research
by University of Maryland Professor  John Haltiwanger  found that
start-ups and young firms account for a disproportionate share
of job creation, exhibiting what he calls an “up or out”
dynamic -- they either grow fast or they fail.  It’s that kind of vibrancy that has helped make the  U.S.
economy  great, said Stevenson.  “What makes the U.S. different is that we are mobile,”
she said. “We find where we are going to be the most productive
and we get there.” Signs that such dynamism is on the wane are
“very concerning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net  