-- Americans ‘Disgusted’ With Too-Big TSA, Agency Chief Told
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-06-07T17:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/americans-disgusted-with-overstaffed-tsa-house-chairman-says.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  is moving too slowly to make airport screening
more friendly and is losing the confidence of travelers, a House
committee chairman said.  Travelers talk often about TSA’s invasive searches and a
sense that the agency is overstaffed and unfriendly,
Representative Mike Rogers, chairman of the House  Homeland
Security  Transportation Security Subcommittee, said at a hearing
today.  “It’s palpable,” said Rogers, an Alabama Republican.
“The American people are just really disgusted and outraged
with the department, which they see as bloated and
inefficient.”  The TSA has come under increasing criticism from Congress
after reports of pat-downs of senior citizens and young children
that spread on social media, a public frisking of Nobel Prize
winner  Henry Kissinger  and the arrests of screeners accused of
taking bribes from drug runners.  Rogers said he was flooded with complaints from travelers
at town-hall meetings and at a visit to Chicago O’Hare
International Airport on June 4. TSA may have 30 percent to 40
percent too many people, he said.  “TSA is too far behind the curve to see what’s coming
next,” Rogers told TSA Administrator  John Pistole . “You are
too bogged down in managing an oversized workforce to mitigate
the next potential threat.”  Bomb Plot  An underwear-bomb plot thwarted by Saudi Arabian
intelligence officials last month serves as a reminder that U.S.
aviation remains a terrorist target, Pistole said.  TSA is making changes, such as expanding its PreCheck
program that allows certain frequent fliers to speed through
security if they provide personal information in advance for a
background check, Pistole said.  He said he disagreed with Rogers’s assertion that the TSA
is 30 percent to 40 percent overstaffed. He declined to provide
a number when Rogers asked how many people TSA could cut without
compromising security.  “Change doesn’t happen overnight, but we are making
changes that are addressing Congress’s concerns,” Pistole told
Rogers.  Traveler Confrontations  The 52,000-employee agency, created after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, has been the subject of recent congressional
hearings into its equipment purchases, hiring practices and
confrontations with travelers at checkpoints.  The vast majority of the 1.8 million travelers screened
each day are satisfied with the experience, Pistole said. The
agency has to weigh how to make changes without compromising its
mission of protecting flights from terrorist attacks, he said.  “We’ve been so criticized over the years for putting out
technology before we got it right and protocols before we got
them right,” Pistole said. “If it implicates security in a
negative way, that’s the worst outcome.”  Pistole has done a difficult job well, Senate Homeland
Security Committee Chairman  Joseph Lieberman  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Government today. He’s committed to
homeland security and has made improvements to the agency,
Lieberman said.  “He’s continued to reexamine the way they’ve done business
and tried to change it,” Lieberman, a Connecticut independent,
said. “I hope people don’t beat up on him unfairly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  