-- Analysts Boost Developed Stocks Most Since 2009
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-06-07T17:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/analysts-boost-developed-stocks-most-since-2009-reversing-calls.html
Analysts are favoring stocks in
developed countries over their emerging market rivals by the
most since 2009, betting their global reach will provide a
cushion during a weakening recovery.  Securities firms have boosted average rankings in the 24-
country  MSCI World Index (MXWD)  of advanced nations during the second
quarter after cutting recommendations worldwide for seven
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from more than
62,000 ratings. They lowered  developing countries  during the
period, in which $6.3 trillion was erased from global equities.  Preferences are shifting to countries less reliant on
mining and energy production, according to  Keith Wirtz , who
oversees $15 billion as chief investment officer for Fifth Third
Asset Management.  Equities in emerging nations , whose markets
derive about  25 percent  of their value from commodity producers,
slumped three times as much in 2011 as their  developed
counterparts , which get a third less value from metal, fuel and
chemical suppliers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “When there’s a tone of risk avoidance, the developed
markets represent quality and less risk than the  emerging
markets ,” Wirtz said in a telephone interview yesterday. “You
have established companies, they’re large, multinational.
They’re not pure plays on the regions that are slowing down.”  Average Rating  The average rating for stocks in advanced economies has
risen this quarter to 3.68 from 3.64, using a scale in which 5
is the strongest buy and 1 the strongest sell, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. For emerging markets, the mean recommendation
slipped to 3.74 from 3.78.  Because they comprise thousands of analyst recommendations,
changes in the levels take years. The average for advanced
countries has stayed between 3.843 and 3.635 since 2010 for
advanced countries and 3.731 to 3.868 for emerging, data show.  Definitions of buy, sell and hold vary by country, making
the direction of revisions a better indicator of sentiment than
the absolute level, said Eric Teal, chief investment officer at
First Citizens Bancshares, which manages $4.5 billion in
Raleigh,  North Carolina .  “The initial shifts and changes in sentiment are the most
important thing,” Teal said. “Especially since so many have
been bullish on emerging markets in the past.”  Debt Crisis  Concern Europe’s debt crisis will spur another global
recession sent the MSCI All-Country World Index down 9.3 percent
in May, the most since it fell  9.7 percent in September .
Developed nations in the index lost 9 percent that month and 9.8
percent this quarter, while emerging markets decreased 12
percent and 13 percent, respectively.  Global equities slipped last week, driving the MSCI All-
Country World Index to the lowest level since December, as costs
to protect Spanish government debt with default swaps reached a
record and U.S. employers added the fewest jobs in a year. The
gauge of stocks in 45 countries erased its gain for the year
after it rose as much as 13 percent through March 19.  Concern the global recovery is slowing has pushed equities
in Brazil, Russia and  Italy (FTSEMIB)  into bear markets, defined as a
decline of 20 percent or more from a recent high.  Spain ’s IBEX
Index has lost 42 percent since peaking in February 2011, while
Greece’s  Athens Stock Exchange General Index (ASE)  has plunged 91
percent since October 2007, Bloomberg data show.  Stock Rally  The MSCI All-Country index gained 0.9 percent as of 1:01
p.m. in  New York  today after China cut  interest rates  for the
first time since 2008.  The biggest improvements in developed equity ratings this
quarter were in Italy, Finland and Sweden, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Stock recommendations last climbed this much in
developed relative to emerging markets in the fourth quarter of
2009. Developed countries outperformed emerging markets by 8.6
percentage points in the two years following that quarter.  Average ratings for developed markets had slipped for five
straight quarters during the financial crisis of 2008.  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , Europe’s largest cigarette
maker, had its average rating raised 0.23 point since March to
3.88. Analysts increased recommendations on technology services
company CGI Group Inc. in Montreal to 4.44 by the end of May
from 4.2 two months earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Both are beating their country benchmarks so far this quarter.  Equipment Rental  Analysts boosted Helsinki-based  Ramirent Oyj (RMR1V) , which rents
out equipment including scissor lifts and tower cranes, almost a
full point to 4.08. The  company  boosted profit margins at its
Norwegian unit more than sevenfold during the first quarter.  The upgrades are partly a reflection of analysts growing
too bearish earlier in the year, according to Tim Hoyle, the
director of research at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford
Trust Co., which manages $6 billion. The average rating for
companies in developed countries slipped 0.21 point in the
previous two quarters, the biggest drop since the  bull market 
started in March 2009, Bloomberg data show.  After rising 8.2 percent to start 2011 and reaching an
almost three-year high of 357.72 on May 2, the MSCI All-Country
Index fell almost 24 percent to 272.08 on Oct. 4 after S&P
stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating, Congress and the
administration of President  Barack Obama  struggled over deficit
cuts and Europe was forced to bail out Greece.  “Expectations for developed markets have been low for some
time,” Hoyle said on May 30. That ratings are falling in
developing countries “seems to me to be the realization that
‘de-coupling’ is a fantasy word,” he said.  Analyst Reversal  The reversal in analyst predictions hasn’t spared equity
investors losses.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , a refiner based in  San Antonio , Texas, and
Richardson, Texas-based  Fossil (FOSL)  Inc., a seller of watches and
accessories, are down at least 9 percentage points more than the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since the end of March. The losses
came even as analysts boosted ratings by more than 0.3 point for
each, data compiled through May 31 by Bloomberg show.  The price declines mean Tesoro’s price-earnings ratio is 53
percent cheaper than the  S&P 500  and Fossil is trading at 15.7
times earnings, 20 percent below the three-year average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We are more of a global economy so the correlations have
certainly become much more than they were a generation ago,”
Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.5 billion as senior investment
officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co., based in Elmira, New York,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “It doesn’t mean that the
local issues that could hamper Spain versus Germany, for
instance, are nonexistent, but we are far greater correlated,
and that’s to be expected to continue.”  Falling Valuations  Valuations have fallen around the world since the start of
the quarter. Developed nations’ equities trade for 13.7 times
earnings, 24 percent below the average multiple since the  bull
market  began in March 2009. For emerging markets, the multiple
is 10.8.  Egypt (EGX30) , Indonesia and Turkey are among the emerging nations
where analyst bearishness has increased the most.  Orascom Construction Industries, Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded builder, had its average rating cut to 4.26 by the end of
May from 4.37 in April and from the 2012 high of 4.43 in
February, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock is down 5
percent since March after rallying 29 percent in the first three
months of the year, even with earnings falling 25 percent in the
fourth quarter.  Cutting Recommendations  Securities firms lowered recommendations on  Federal Grid
Co. (FEES) , in Moscow, by 0.52 points to 4.3. The stock has tumbled 40
percent this quarter after a 23 percent loss in 2011. Before
that, Russia’s monopoly for high-voltage power transmission
lines had tripled in the two years following the 2008 financial
crisis. The board last month recommended against paying
dividends for 2011 and  earnings  are forecast for their first
decline this year since 2009.  Optimism about the rate of global economic expansion is
declining as economists lowered their median estimate to 2.6
percent for 2012, down from 3.4 percent in July, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Emerging economies with greater exposure to
the world’s health are less enticing for investors because
they’re still fearful of contagion after the financial crisis in
2008, Teal says.  “In a risk-off environment, emerging markets fare worse,”
he said. “Investors are starting to look more confidently at
the U.S. market, where there’s less exposure to the Europe
financial crisis and where the economy seems to be chugging
along and staying out of recession territory on its own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  