-- Ancestry Topping Facebook Cash Yield Lures LBO: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-06-08T14:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/ancestry-topping-facebook-cash-yield-lures-lbo-real-m-a.html
For  private-equity  firms scouring the
Internet for a deal,  Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM)  is generating more free
cash per share by researching families than Facebook Inc. does
connecting friends.  Ancestry, which helps users trace their roots online, is
considering a sale and working with  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst
Partners LLC to find buyers, a person familiar with the
situation said this week. After the shares surged 11 percent on
the news, the company is generating more free cash for each
dollar of equity than 96 percent of the U.S. Internet and e-
commerce industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
is also almost four times higher than the yield of Facebook.  While Ancestry lost almost a third of its market value amid
concern the cancellation of a television show featuring its
genealogy research will damp subscriber growth, Piper Jaffray
Cos. says the $1.1 billion company still may attract suitors as
analysts project record sales this year and next. With Provo,
Utah-based Ancestry trading at a  price-earnings ratio  that’s
less than half the industry median, Valuentum Securities Inc.
and shareholder Hodges Capital Management Inc. said leveraged
buyout firms could be lured by its valuation and lack of debt.  “Given the high free cash flow yield, it does seem like a
private-equity firm would potentially be a logical acquirer,”
Aaron Garcia, a  fund manager  at Milwaukee-based Broadview
Advisors LLC, said in a telephone interview. “Any time there’s
uncertainty in the name, the valuation gets compressed. But I
don’t really feel like the loss of the TV show is that
meaningful. There are a lot of ways for these guys to continue
to grow.”  NBC Show  Garcia co-manages the $546 million  FMI Focus Fund (FMIOX) , which
owns Ancestry shares and has outperformed 97 percent of rival
funds over the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Heather Erickson, a spokeswoman for Ancestry, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked whether it is
weighing a sale or has been approached by buyers.  Founded in 1983 as a publisher of genealogical books and
magazines, Ancestry  evolved  into an online family-history
research and data website. The company, which has posted a
profit every year since at least 2007, said it had 1.87 million
paying subscribers as of March 31.  Ancestry’s stock, which reached a high for the year of
$33.09 on Feb. 3, fell more than 30 percent over the next  four
months  as a TV show it had sponsored since 2010 faced
cancellation on Comcast Corp.’s NBC network. The show  “Who Do
You Think You Are?”  generated interest in Ancestry and
attracted new subscribers, the company said, by tracking
celebrities such as  Martin Sheen  and  Marisa Tomei  as they
explored their roots with the help of its research. The show
ultimately wasn’t renewed and the final episode aired on May 18.  Private Equity  As Ancestry considers a sale, it will probably attract
interest from private-equity firms, a person with knowledge of
the situation, who declined to be identified because the process
is private, said this week. While the news sparked an 11 percent
gain in the stock on June 6, the shares were still down 32
percent in the last  12 months  through yesterday.  That left Ancestry trading at 17.5 times  profit , compared
with a median price-earnings ratio of about 43 for U.S. Internet
and e-commerce companies with market values greater than $500
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The dip in Ancestry’s stock price creates an opportunity
for potential buyers willing to bet the website will keep adding
subscribers, said  Gene Munster , a Minneapolis-based analyst for
Piper Jaffray.  ‘Grossly Undervalued’  “It’s grossly undervalued,” he said in a phone interview.
Concern that the show’s cancellation will hurt sales “is
misplaced. Our bet is that it’s going to continue to grow.”  Today, Ancestry’s shares gained 1.9 percent to $25.54 at
10:26 a.m. in New York.  Analysts are projecting Ancestry’s  revenue  will climb to a
record $528 million in 2013, an increase of 32 percent from last
year, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Net income  may also
rise to an all-time high of $85.6 million next year, the
estimates show.  Ancestry’s 11 percent  free cash flow  yield in the last 12
months is higher than 23 out of 24 similar-sized U.S. Internet
and e-commerce companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
also tops  Facebook (FB) ’s yield of 2.8 percent and Netflix Inc.’s 5.3
percent. Only Expedia Inc.’s free cash flow yield is higher at
12 percent, the data show.  Facebook, the world’s biggest social-networking company,
may be interested in acquiring Ancestry to capture its
subscription-based revenue and cash flow, according to  Michael Mahoney , senior managing director at Falcon Point Capital LLC in
 San Francisco , who said he subscribes to Ancestry’s site. His
firm oversees $300 million, including Ancestry shares.  Intellectual Property  Shares of Facebook have dropped 31 percent since its
initial public offering on May 17 amid concern the company won’t
be able to sell enough advertising in the future to justify its
valuation.  Ancestry’s intellectual property of more than 8 billion
historical records may appeal to Facebook, said Trey Hays, a
research analyst at Dallas-based Hodges Capital, which manages
$700 million and also owns the stock.  Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for  Menlo Park , California-
based Facebook, declined to comment on whether it’s considering
a bid for the company. Dave Goldberg, husband of Facebook Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , and Mike Schroepfer,
Facebook’s vice president of engineering, are members of
Ancestry’s  board .  A private-equity firm would still be the more likely
suitor, said Brian Nelson, president of equity research at
Valuentum Securities in Woodstock,  Illinois .  Cash Generator  “Cash generation is still king for private equity,”
Nelson said in a phone interview. A financial buyer could
“throw a mountain of debt on the company. Because it generates
a lot of recurring cash flow, they can use it to pay off the
debt service costs.”  Going private may also help Ancestry focus on expanding its
business without scrutiny from public shareholders, especially
as short sellers target the stock, Hodges’ Hays said.  “It might makes sense for them to go at it as a private
firm and flourish that way,” Hays said in a phone interview.  About 15 percent of Ancestry’s 42.6 million outstanding
shares were  sold short  as of June 5, more than the industry’s
average short interest ratio of 8 percent, according to data
compiled by New York-based research firm  Data Explorers . In a
short sale, traders sell borrowed stock on the assumption the
price will drop, enabling them to profit by buying it back at a
lower price.  Fair Price  One challenge will be agreeing on a takeover price because
management may not be eager to sell at the shares’ current
depressed valuation, Broadview’s Garcia said. A buyer would have
to pay a premium of more than 82 percent just to match the
stock’s all-time high of $45.70 in April 2011.  According to Garcia, $35 a share would be a fair price for
Ancestry, while Valuentum’s Nelson said the stock is worth $47 a
share based on his discounted cash flow analysis.  Ancestry “is significantly undervalued,” Nelson said.
“This is a move by management to sidestep the market’s
perception of the firm and really go after the best way for
shareholders to extract the most value. It makes a lot of sense
that they hired a shop to market them around to potential
suitors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 