-- Manchester United Prepares $34 Million Bid for Modric: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-07T06:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/manchester-united-prepares-34-million-bid-for-modric-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Modric Move       Manchester United  is ready to offer Tottenham 22 million
pounds ($34 million) for midfielder Luka Modric, who is valued
at 30 million pounds by his club, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Spurs will hold out for more money and United will have to
increase its initial offer, the Mirror said. The Red Devils are
also targeting Everton left-back Leighton Baines, though aren’t
prepared to pay more than 15 million pounds for the 27-year-old,
the newspaper added.  Mancini’s Choice  Roberto Mancini  may face a choice between the  Italy  job and
signing a new contract at  Manchester City  after emerging as the
top candidate to succeed Cesare Prandelli if he leaves his post
after the European Championship, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  While negotiations over a new long-term contract at City
are expected to be a formality, the prospect of coaching Italy
at the 2014  World Cup  in Brazil may tempt Mancini should
Prandelli’s tenure end following Euro 2012, the Telegraph said.  Chelsea Job   Chelsea told Roberto Di Matteo it would like him to remain
as manager after owner  Roman Abramovich  tried and failed to
persuade former Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola to cut short his
sabbatical, the  Daily Mail reported .  Nothing has been agreed yet and the length of contract
being offered to  Di Matteo , who guided the Blues to the
Champions League and F.A. Cup titles last month, is unclear, the
Mail added.  Midfield Enforcer  Chelsea is looking at a 20 million-pound bid for Everton’s
Marouane Fellaini, who tops the club’s list of potential
midfield enforcers, the  Mirror reported .  Clarke Contract  West Bromwich Albion will name Steve Clarke as manager in
the next 24 hours after the former Liverpool, Newcastle, West
Ham and Chelsea assistant coach agreed on a three-year contract
worth 1 million pounds a season, the  Sun reported .  QPR’s Giroud Bid  Queens Park Rangers have made a bid to sign France striker
Olivier Giroud, who’s rated at 50 million pounds by his club
Montpellier, the  Mail reported .  Giroud, who scored 21 goals last season to help Montpellier
win the Ligue 1 title, is said to have a 12.8 million-pound
release clause in his contract, the paper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  