-- Apple, Merck, Syms, Haka, Nortel: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-07T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/apple-merck-syms-haka-nortel-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed an enforcement action
at the U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington,
seeking an emergency order that would block imports of  HTC
Corp.’s (2498)  newest phones and tablet computers.  HTC had been ordered by the commission to remove a function
patented by Apple for data-detection technology if it wanted to
continue selling its mobile phones in the U.S. Apple contends
HTC products continue to infringe its patent even after an
exclusion order was issued in December.  HTC, Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker, is counting on
its One series of phones to improve its share of a market that
reached $312 billion last year, according to Bloomberg
Industries data.  Some HTC products were stopped at the U.S. border last
month, delaying plans by  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  to sell the HTC EVO
4G. U.S. Customs and  Border Protection  allowed the products,
made in Taiwan, to enter the U.S. after assurances by HTC that
the devices weren’t infringing the Apple patent.  “HTC has completed the review process with U.S. Customs
and HTC devices have been released, as they are in compliance
with the ITC’s ruling,” the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Apple wants the commission to have all HTC products that
run on Google Inc.’s Android operating service blocked from the
U.S. until the enforcement case is resolved. It also asks the
agency to force HTC to remove any products from store shelves
that it imported in violation of the exclusion order.  Cupertino, California-based Apple said that if such an
order isn’t imposed, HTC otherwise should be required to post a
bond equal to the value of each imported product, or at least
$290 for each device, Apple said in the filing dated June 4.  Apple filed its initial complaint against HTC in March
2010, the first salvo in the iPhone maker’s legal battle against
devices that run on Android. It has since become embroiled in
litigation with Samsung and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
which became a Google unit last month, over their Android
products.  The newest case is In the Matter of Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, Complaint
No. 2900. The earlier case is In the Matter of Certain Personal
Data and Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software,
337-710. Both were filed at the U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  Merck KGaA to Cooperate With Dr. Reddy’s on Biosimilar Drugs  Merck KGaA (MRK)  agreed to develop lower-cost copies of
biotechnology cancer treatments with Indian partner  Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD)  as the German drugmaker seeks to add a product
line to propel growth.  The companies will share research and development costs,
with Darmstadt-based Merck marketing the drugs outside the U.S.
and paying Dr. Reddy’s a royalty, they said in a joint statement
yesterday. The drugmakers will share marketing rights in the
U.S., and Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy’s will have them in certain
 emerging markets . Other terms weren’t disclosed.  Biosimilars are lower-cost versions of complex drugs made
from living organisms. About $80 billion worth of branded
biologic drugs will lose patent protection by 2013 and face
competition from biosimilars that may earn $5.6 billion
worldwide, according to a 2009 report from Research & Markets, a
market data company in Dublin. Competitors to the Merck and Dr.
Reddy’s project will include  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit.  Merck is reorganizing after setbacks in developing
medicines for cancer and multiple sclerosis. The company said in
April that it plans to close the Geneva headquarters of its
Serono drug unit. It ended seven drug development programs last
year and hired a new finance chief and head of pharmaceuticals.  “Our experience in developing, manufacturing and
commercializing biopharmaceuticals gives us a clear advantage in
the biosimilars field,” Stefan Oschmann, the head of Serono,
said in the statement. “Dr Reddy’s will bring their first-in-
market experience in biosimilars, as well as their expertise in
generics and emerging markets to the table.”  Serono set up a biosimilars division in the Swiss canton of
Vaud earlier this year, it said yesterday  Microsoft Case Against Motorola Mobility Headed to Trial  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
are headed to a trial in a dispute over royalty rates on the
Xbox gaming system and Windows products, after a judge refused
to end the case in Microsoft’s favor.  The dispute revolves around patents owned by Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility that are used in standards that
all electronics, including the Microsoft products, follow for
WiFi and video coding technology.  U.S. District Judge James Robart in Seattle declined
yesterday to find that Motorola Mobility breached obligations to
license those patents to Microsoft on fair terms, saying the
issue must be resolved at a November trial. Microsoft is also
seeking to prevent Motorola Mobility from winning a ban on sales
or U.S. imports of the Xbox.  “While the court will not at this time set forth a legal
standard with respect to Motorola’s duty to offer its patents in
good faith, it is likely that any analysis of Motorola’s duty
will involve, at least in part, an examination of the intent
behind Motorola’s offers,” the judge ruled.  Robart rejected the handset maker’s claim that Microsoft
lost the right to complain by filing suit instead of responding
to early royalty demands. At this stage in the case, he said,
Microsoft hasn’t proven Motorola Mobility acted dishonestly in
making its demands.  Motorola Mobility sent letters to Microsoft with what it
said was a standard demand for a 2.25 percent royalty on the end
price of products that use the inventions, including the Xbox
and Windows products. Microsoft contends that would add as much
as $4 billion in annual royalties, a figure Motorola Mobility
disputes.  “Motorola Mobility has acted in good faith and we will
prove that at trial,” spokeswoman  Jennifer Erickson  said in an
e-mail. “We are pleased that the court is holding Microsoft to
its word -- to license our essential patents just as the vast
majority of the industry has done.”  Microsoft’s entertainment unit that includes Xbox sales
generated $8.9 billion in revenue last year, and the Windows
unit garnered $19 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  The Redmond, Washington-based company is trying to prevent
the U.S. International Trade Commission from blocking imports of
the Xbox from Asia, where it is built.  An ITC judge in April said the Xbox infringed four Motorola
Mobility patents, including three related to industry standards.
The commission is scheduled to announce June 25 whether it will
review the infringement finding, and any exclusion order would
be announced in August.  “This case is about Motorola breaking its promise to make
its standard essential patents available on reasonable terms and
putting the price and availability of consumer technology in
jeopardy,” Microsoft Deputy General Counsel  David Howard  said
in a statement. “Today’s decision underscores that Motorola
made a promise to the industry which it now must keep, and we
look forward to the November trial to determine the appropriate
licensing royalty.”  Motorola Mobility, which became a Google unit last month,
said that Microsoft refuses to pay royalties on the standard
patents. Motorola Mobility has sued the software maker in the
U.S. and Europe.  Robart has prevented Motorola Mobility from taking action
to ban sales of Microsoft products in Germany. Motorola Mobility
officials had no immediate comment on today’s decision.  The European Union is investigating complaints by Microsoft
and Apple that Motorola Mobility is unfairly using standard-
essential patents to block competition.  The U.S. case is Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Inc., 10-cv-
1823, U.S. District Court for the District of Washington
(Seattle). The ITC case is In the Matter of Gaming and
Entertainment Consoles, 337-752, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Filene’s Basement’ Mark May Be Withheld From  Syms Corp. (SYMSQ)  Auction  At today’s scheduled auction of Syms Corp.’s intellectual
property assets, the “Filene’s Basement” trademark won’t be
included, the Boston Herald  reported .  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the Cincinnati-based owner of the Basement
mark, had licensed it to Syms, according to the newspaper, and
contended it could be assigned only to an entity that acquired
the Basement’s assets and kept the business intact.  Jack Hazan, executive vice president of auction company
 Hilco Streambank , told the Herald the Basement trademark “has
several issues” that hadn’t been resolved.  He said the “Running of the Brides” mark may also not be
put up for sale “because it’s so connected to Filene’s
Basement,” according to the Herald.  Michigan Attorney General Says Trademark for Road Invalid  Michigan’s attorney general issued an opinion that roadways
in the state can’t be registered as a trademark, Interlochen
Public Radio reported.  M-22, a company based in Traverse City, Michigan, holds
several federal trademarks for M-22, a highway name, and has
warned that it will sue potential infringers, according to IPR.  Enrico Schaefer, the lawyer who represented M-22, told
Interlochen Public Radio that the attorney general’s opinion is
trumped by federal trademark law.  He said that although other companies have wanted to “copy
and ride the coat tails” of his client because of its success,
only M-22 actually gets to use it as a brand, IPR reported.  Maori Tribe Told Haka Phrases Can’t Be Registered as Trademark,  The  Ngati Toa  Maori tribe from  New Zealand ’s North Island
 failed in its attempt  to register four phrases from its most-
famous haka war dance, the Brisbane Times  reported .  New Zealand’s trademarks commissioner said that although
the tribe owned the haka, it didn’t have a monopoly over its
commonly used words, according to the newspaper.  ProKiwi, a souvenir company in Christchurch, New Zealand,
had opposed the registration attempts after the tribe tried to
halt the company’s production of a tea towel using the phrases
from the  haka , the newspaper reported.  Taku Parai, chairman of the tribe’s governing body, told
the Times he was disappointed registration was denied because
“there has been no other mechanism that we could use to protect
this work.”  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Secret Memo Warns of Canada Cyber Threat After Nortel Attack  Cyber attacks pose a greater risk to Canada’s economic
prosperity than the government previously believed and the
country lacks the tools to fight hackers, officials warn in
internal documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  “All new knowledge obtained indicates the problem is more
widespread than previously thought,” said a “secret”-stamped
memo to Public Safety Minister Vic Toews from his deputy
minister, obtained under Canada’s freedom-of-information law.  Canada is trying to bolster its defenses as countries
deploy increasingly advanced technology to disrupt their
enemies’ networks and gain access to trade secrets. Some of
Canada’s biggest companies, such as  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan
Inc. and  Nortel (NRTLQ)  Networks Corp., have been targeted.  A software virus discovered last month called Flame,
which targeted Iran’s energy sector, is more complex and
resourceful than “all other cyber menaces known to date,”
according to Moscow-based security company Kaspersky Lab.
Flame’s discovery comes after Iran’s nuclear facilities were
attacked by the Stuxnet virus, which was created by the Israeli
and the U.S. governments, the  New York  Times reported June 1.  Nortel, once North America’s largest phone-equipment maker,
was under steady attack by Chinese hackers from about 2000 until
2009, according to Brian Shields, who advised the Mississauga,
Ontario-based company on cyber security for almost 20 years.  When Shields reported the attacks to the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police in 2004, they didn’t take it seriously, he said.  It was not until January 2009 that the Canadian Security
Intelligence Service, Canada’s spy agency, got involved -- the
same month Nortel filed for bankruptcy, Shields said.  The RCMP didn’t immediately respond to a request for a
comment on the Nortel allegations.  More recent attacks in Canada have been linked to
commodities like potash, a natural fertilizer sought after in
Asia to help improve crop yields. China-based hackers looking to
derail  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion bid in 2010 to acquire
Potash Corp. zeroed in on the Canadian law firms connected with
the transaction.  The Public Safety department established the  Canadian Cyber
Incident Response Centre  to coordinate the federal response to
“cyber security incidents” outside government networks, with a
focus on guarding key infrastructure such as energy pipelines
and  power plants .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 