-- Apple Said to Add Baidu as IPhone Search Engine in China
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-06-07T20:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/apple-said-to-add-baidu-as-iphone-search-engine-in-china.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  plans to add  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ’s
search engine on iPhones in  China , part of a push to broaden its
services and user base in the world’s most-populous nation,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The agreement to add Baidu, China’s largest search engine,
to the lineup of Web tools on the iPhone could be announced as
early as next week, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private. Apple is holding its
annual  developers conference  in San Francisco starting June 11.  A deal with Baidu, which handles about 80 percent of
China’s Internet search queries, fits with a plan by Apple Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  to gain a bigger toehold in the
largest mobile-phone market. It also gives users an alternative
to Google Inc., which competes with Apple in mobile software and
advertising.  “This is definitely going to help Baidu,” said Joshua Maa, chief executive officer at  Madhouse Inc. , an advertising
company in Shanghai that specializes in marketing on mobile
devices. The deal will boost Baidu’s wireless  advertising
business , he said.  Baidu  rose 8.9 percent  to $123 at the close in Singapore
trading, the biggest percentage increase Dec. 2. The company’s
American depositary receipts climbed 2.8 percent to $122.46 at
the close in  New York . Apple increased 0.1 percent to $571.72.  The Chinese company is working to add users who access the
Internet on smartphones such as the iPhone, after dominating the
search-engine market for personal computers in China.  ‘Lot More Opportunity’  Baidu accounted for 78.5 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the first quarter, compared with 16.6
percent for  Google (GOOG) , according to research company Analysys
International.  China’s growing middle class has more income to spend on
smartphones and is becoming a more alluring audience for
advertisers. China accounted for 20 percent of Apple’s sales
last quarter and Cook has said there’s “a lot more
opportunity” there as the company rolls out new  products  and
adds new distributors of the iPhone.  While customers will have the option to select Baidu as
their main vehicle for searching the Web, Google’s product will
probably remain the default choice, one person said. At present,
users of iPhones and iPads in China can access Baidu search by
downloading it separately as an application.  Google Products  Even so, adding Baidu is the latest example of Apple
diminishing its dependence on Google’s products. Apple plans to
unveil a mapping application next week that will come pre-
installed on its iPhones and iPad tablets, replacing  Google
Maps , said a person with knowledge of the matter who isn’t
authorized to speak publicly about it.  Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment. Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman for Beijing-
based Baidu, also declined to comment. Taj Meadows, a Google
spokesman in  Tokyo , couldn’t immediately comment on the future
use of  Google search  by Apple customers in China.  Baidu, under billionaire Chief Executive Officer Robin Li,
has benefited from Google’s decision in 2010 to no longer comply
with Chinese regulations to self-censor Web content. Google’s
market-share dropped after it shut its Google.cn service and
began redirecting Chinese users to its site in  Hong Kong .  Apple tripled revenue in China last quarter, making the
Asian country its biggest market outside the U.S. In February,
Apple added support for Baidu’s search-engine in its latest
upgrade for the Mac operating system, along with other new
features aimed at users in China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  