-- Apple, Motorola Mobility Patent Jury Trial Scrapped by Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-07T23:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/apple-motorola-mobility-patent-trial-scrapped-by-u-s-judge.html
Apple Inc.’s patent-infringement
lawsuit against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit was
tentatively dismissed by a federal judge four days before it was
scheduled to go to trial.  U.S. Judge Richard A. Posner in  Chicago  today rejected each
side’s damages claims at what was to be the last hearing before
a June 11 trial. Posner later said he wouldn’t hold a hearing on
Apple’s request for an order blocking alleged Motorola Mobility
infringement.  “I have tentatively decided that the case should be
dismissed with prejudice because neither party can establish a
right to relief,” Posner said in a two-page written order,
adding that he would delay entering final judgment until he
writes a lengthier decision. “I may change my mind.”  Apple’s iPhones are the world’s most popular smartphones
with a 20-percent market share, according to Framingham,
Massachusetts-based International Data Corp., while 60 percent
of smartphones use Google’s Android operating system, making it
the world’s most widely-used platform.  Google Acquisition  Posner’s ruling shelves what would have been the first
patent trial between them since  Mountain View , California-based
Google completed its $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. last month.  Apple’s lawyer, Matthew Powers, declined to immediately
comment on the judge’s ruling after the hearing, as did Motorola
Mobility’s attorney, Stephen Swedlow.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on the judge’s ruling. Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Google, said he couldn’t immediately
comment.  Apple had accused Motorola Mobility of infringing four of
its computer-related patents, some of which appear in Motorola’s
Droid-branded mobile phones and in its Xoom tablet.  Motorola Mobility was pursuing a single claim against Apple
concerning its cellular communications technology.  The trial judge serves as an evidentiary gatekeeper for the
jury, said David B. Sunshine, a  New York  patent attorney who has
been following the case. Posner’s rejection of each sides’
damages theories shows he didn’t believe the parties’ expert
methodology was reasonable, and that jurors shouldn’t hear it.  Damages Expert  “Most of the time courts let the jury decide, especially
on a damages expert,” said Sunshine, a partner in Philadelphia-
based Cozen O’Connor. “You just don’t see that thing kind of
often, but he must have really had a problem.”  Sunshine, who is not involved in the case, said the court’s
rejection of the damages estimate wasn’t indicative of an error
by either side.  “These experts gave their opinion and the judge didn’t buy
it,” he said. “I’m sure there’s going to be a lot of second-
guessing.”  While Posner initially told the parties today he wouldn’t
consider a request for an order to restrain one side from
infringing another’s patent, he changed his mind after hearing
arguments from Powers.  “The act of infringement is itself injury,” Powers told
the judge.  Motorola Mobility’s Swedlow disagreed, saying that absent a
showing of injury there was no remedy and no entitlement to
injunctive relief.  ‘No Case’  “There is no case or controversy,” Swedlow said. Motorola
Mobility had itself sought about $347 million in damages, its
attorney said today.  Ultimately, the judge decided against an injunction
hearing.  The costs of such an order would be disproportionate to the
patent holders’ harm, the alleged infringer’s benefit and
“would be contrary to the public interest,” Posner, a circuit
court judge presiding over the district court case, said in his
order.  “I’m sorry that it seems to be petering out like this,”
he told the lawyers in court at the hearing’s end.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Motorola Inc., 11-cv-8540, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  