-- Apple Seeks to Block Sales of Samsung’s New Galaxy Phone
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-07T06:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/apple-seeks-to-block-sales-of-samsung-s-new-galaxy-phone.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sought to block sales of
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s latest Galaxy smartphones in the U.S.,
deepening their worldwide patent dispute and raising pressure on
the maker of the biggest iPhone competitor.  Apple asked a federal judge in San Jose,  California , to
include the Galaxy S III in its request to block sales of
Samsung products in the U.S., according to a June 5 filing by
the Cupertino, California-based company. The Samsung phone will
go on sale in the U.S. this month after the U.K. release in May,
Apple said.  The filing reflects the failure of court-ordered talks
between Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  and his Samsung
counterpart Choi Gee Sung last month. The world’s two biggest
makers of high-end phones have accused each other of copying
designs and technology for mobile devices and are fighting
patent battles in four continents to retain their dominance in
the $219 billion global smartphone market.  “I don’t think Apple will succeed,”  James Song , a Seoul-
based analyst at Daewoo Securities Co., said by phone.
“Smartphones aren’t uniquely Apple’s products any more. It
won’t be easy to find convincing reasons to block sales.”  Samsung  shares  rose 5.2 percent, the most in more than six
months, to 1,265,000 won at the close of trading in  Seoul  today.
The benchmark Kospi index gained 2.6 percent. The stock has
climbed 20 percent this year compared with Apple’s 41 percent
jump in  New York  trading.  Without Merit  Apple’s request is without merit and Samsung will start
selling the Galaxy S III in the U.S as planned, the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said in a statement today. Samsung was set
to release the model in the U.S. through five carriers, Chris
Chung, a Seoul-based spokesman for the company said by phone,
declining to say when sales were scheduled to begin.  Samsung released the Galaxy S III in the U.K. on May 29 and
U.S. carriers have announced they will start selling the
smartphone in the U.S. on June 21, Apple said in the filing,
saying it obtained the product in the U.K.  Apple “determined that this device clearly infringes at
least two of the Apple patents at issue” for “the exact same
reasons” it infringes earlier versions of the smartphone, the
iPhone maker said.  Samsung last month began marketing the Galaxy S III in
 London , with such features as voice-command options and an eye
sensor that prevents the screen from dimming.  The Galaxy products helped Samsung regain the lead in the
global smartphone market from Apple in the first quarter.
Samsung has sold 24 million units of the first Galaxy S model
since its debut in June 2010 and 28 million Galaxy S II phones
in 13 months, Samsung said this month.  More Than 30 Cases  The June 5 filing was made in a companion suit related to
Apple’s first patent infringement case filed against Samsung in
federal court in  San Jose . In the primary case, Judge Lucy Koh
last week denied Apple’s renewed request for a ban on U.S. sales
of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer while the case is still
before a federal court of appeals.  Samsung and Apple have been involved in more than 30 cases
on four continents since the iPhone maker accused Samsung of
“slavishly” copying its products in April last year to expand
its patent battle against rival phone makers. Even as they fight
in court, Apple remains the biggest buyer of Samsung’s chips and
displays.  This week, Apple also filed an enforcement action at the
U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington , seeking an
emergency order that would block imports of  HTC Corp.’s (2498)  newest
phones and tablet computers.  Apple has been able to force Samsung to delay the release
or alter its Galaxy products in some countries, including
 Australia  and the Netherlands, while elsewhere, it hasn’t been
as successful.  The case involving the June 5 filing is Apple Inc. v.
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.,12-cv-00630, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose). The first case is
Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 11-01846, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net 
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  