-- Marcus Says South Africa Will Act Without Fear on Rate
-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-06-07T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/marcus-says-south-africa-will-act-without-fear-on-rate.html
South African Reserve Bank Governor
 Gill Marcus  said policy makers will act without “fear or
favor” on  interest rates  as it comes under pressure to reduce
borrowing costs to boost economic growth.  Monetary  policy  is limited in what it can do to stimulate
the economy and low interest rates alone aren’t enough to spur
growth, Marcus said in a speech yesterday to labor union
officials in the eastern coastal city of Durban.  “The South African Reserve Bank will vigorously defend our
independence, our ability to act without fear or favor, and to
take decisions that are in the interests of all South
Africans,” the governor told members of the National Union of
Metalworkers of South Africa.  The central bank has kept its  repurchase rate  at 5.5
percent, the lowest level in more than 30 years, for more than a
year to help offset the impact of the  European debt crisis . The
 Reserve Bank  last month cut its forecast for economic growth
this year to 2.9 percent from 3 percent. The economy expanded
3.1 percent in 2011.  While Marcus said on May 8 that there is no room to further
stimulate the economy because of inflation pressures, traders
are increasing bets that the bank may cut rates this year.  The yield on forward-rate agreements due in December
dropped 33 basis points in the past month, the most since
September. As recently as March, the contract for December
implied a rate increase of 50 basis points.  ‘Dismal Performance’  Mining  output  has had a “dismal performance” and has been
a drag on the economy, Marcus said. Production dropped 10.6
percent in April from a year ago, Statistics  South Africa  said
yesterday.  While manufacturing data yesterday showed an improvement in
April, it was “off a low base,” Marcus said. Factory output,
which accounts for 15 percent of the economy, expanded 1.2
percent in April after contracting 2.9 percent in March, the
statistics agency said.  Inflation has remained above or near the top of the central
bank’s target range of 3 percent to 6 percent since November,
limiting room for the bank to follow policy makers in  Brazil ,
 India  and  Australia  in lowering interest rates. The inflation
rate rose to 6.1 percent in April from 6 percent in the previous
month.  The rand’s depreciation is the biggest risk to the
inflation outlook, Marcus said. The currency has slumped 8
percent to 8.3198 against the dollar since the beginning of
April.  “ Monetary policy  will face a challenging period ahead, in
trying to deal with these risks to inflation against the
backdrop of a volatile and uncertain global environment and the
implications for the domestic economy,” Marcus said in the
speech, according to a copy posted on the central bank’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Niki Moore in Johannesburg at 
 nmoore19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  