-- Ares, Teachers’ Said to Explore National Bedding Sale
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-06-07T23:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/ares-teachers-said-to-explore-national-bedding-sale.html
Serta mattress maker National Bedding
Co. is exploring a sale by its private equity owners, Ares
Management LLC and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board,
said people familiar with the transaction.  Barclays Plc is providing advice on a possible transaction,
said the people, who declined to be identified as deliberations
are private. The process is in early stages and no information
is out yet for potential bidders, the people said.  Ares and Teachers’ are seeking as much as $3 billion for
National Bedding, and probably will try to sell the mattress
maker to buyout firms, said one of these people. Their buyout
divisions took over National Bedding, then the largest maker of
Serta brand mattresses in  North America , in 2005 for an
undisclosed sum.  Less than five years later, the firms added the Simmons
brand to their mattress holdings, acquiring Simmons Bedding Co.
out of bankruptcy from then-parent Thomas H. Lee Partners LP for
about $760 million.  Fellow mattress company  Tempur-Pedic International Inc. (TPX) ,
based in Lexington,  Kentucky , reduced  forecasts  yesterday for
profit and revenue as competition intensifies. Last year, the
company was the largest publicly traded mattress maker by
revenue, based on its $1.42 billion in sales.  Sealy Corp. (ZZ)  was
No. 2 with sales of $1.23 billion.  Tempur-Pedic Shares  Tempur-Pedic shares have slumped 73 percent over seven
weeks -- including a record 49 percent decline yesterday --
wiping almost $3.9 billion off the company’s market value.  Manufacturers have introduced specialty lines in the past
year to compete with Tempur-Pedic and capitalize on the demand
for products linked to healthier sleep, according to Jessica Schoen, an analyst at Barclays in  New York . The specialty
segment, consisting of mattresses that don’t have the
traditional inner-spring construction, is the fastest-growing in
the industry, she said in an interview.  U.S. shipments of non-inner-spring mattresses, which
includes memory-foam products, jumped 24 percent to 2.7 million
units last year over 2010, according to the International Sleep
Products Association, based in Alexandria, Virginia. Inner-
spring mattress shipments slipped 1.9 percent to 16.8 million
units.  Spokesmen for Barclays and Ares declined to comment, as did
a Teachers’ spokeswoman.  Ares Management, based in  Los Angeles , manages about $6
billion in committed capital through its private equity funds,
according to its website. Its investments range from stakes in
Marietta Corp., the maker of travel hygiene kits, to  GNC
Holdings Inc. (GNC) , the nutrition supplement retailer also co-owned
by Teachers’. Canada’s third-largest retirement fund manager
also holds stakes in companies such as Internet security
software maker Blue Coat Systems Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  