-- Argentine Bonds Slump as Lawmaker Seeks Peso-Only Contracts
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-07T22:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/argentine-bonds-slump-as-lawmaker-to-present-pesification-bill.html
Argentine bonds plunged after a
legislator from President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
coalition said he’d propose legislation that would force people
to carry out business transactions in pesos instead of dollars.  Yields on Argentine law dollar bonds due in 2015, known as
Bodens, rose 107 basis points, or 1.07 percentage points, to
17.77 percent at 5:39 p.m. Buenos Aires time. The price fell
2.14 cents to 75.21 cents on the dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The selloff snapped a three-day rebound
in the bonds that had driven yields down from a two-year high.  Congressman Edgardo Depetri unveiled the legislation
proposal a day after Fernandez said at a rally that she will
convert her dollar savings into pesos and urged Argentines to do
the same in a bid to shore up the currency. The president has
tightened controls in the foreign exchange market since being
re-elected in October as she tries to stem record capital
outflows that are draining the country’s foreign reserves.  Interior Commerce Minister Guillermo Moreno told currency
dealers last week to reduce the  exchange rate  for dollars in the
illegal local market to 5.10 pesos per dollar from 5.95. In the
official market, the peso climbed 0.2 percent today to 4.4840
per dollar.  Depetri said in an e-mailed statement today that he plans
to propose a bill that would require contracts, including real
estate sales and some rental contracts, be carried out in pesos.
Argentine property is normally listed and sold in U.S. dollars.  “All those accords or contracts aimed to change the
ownership of goods will only be valid if they are done in the
legal national currency,” Depetri said in the statement. “What
we want is to recover the culture of our own currency as a unit
of value to pay obligations within our country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Benson in  New York  at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  