-- Lance Armstrong Brings Earlier, Longer Ironman Coverage on NBC
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/armstrong-brings-earlier-and-longer-coverage-to-ironman-on-nbc.html
This year’s Ironman World
Championship triathlon will be televised about six weeks earlier
than originally planned and probably will feature an increased
focus on cycling champion  Lance Armstrong .  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC network and Erik Vervloet, Ironman’s
chief marketing officer, confirmed the programming changes
yesterday. NBC has broadcast the championship since 1990.  The network is currently scheduled to air two hours of the
Oct. 13 race in  Hawaii  on Oct. 27 as Armstrong, the seven-time
Tour de France winner, seeks to challenge the world’s best
triathletes in the sport’s premier race.  In previous years, the event’s broadcast had been limited
to 90 minutes and shown on tape delay in December.  Armstrong, 40, has helped bring more attention to triathlon
since he returned to the sport on Feb. 12 in  Panama , where he
finished second in his first half Ironman 70.3-mile (113-
kilometer) race. He has won his last two half Ironman events,
which feature a 1.2-mile swim, 56-mile bike ride and 13.1-mile
run. Armstrong competed as a professional triathlete at 18
before focusing on cycling.  Because the race’s top finishers can take as long as eight
hours to complete the 140.6-mile Ironman course in Kailua-Kona,
NBC said it won’t be able to air the race live. Instead, it will
be produced on an “accelerated schedule” with special emphasis
placed on coverage of Armstrong, should he qualify, and other
top professionals from start to finish, the network and Vervloet
said.  In February, Andrew Messick, chief executive officer of
World Triathlon Corp., said he was going to be “much more
aggressive” in trying to get television coverage for its
marquee race because of Armstrong.  Armstrong’s First  While the program changes will result in more coverage of
top pros and elite age-group racers, NBC will continue to
feature select human-interest stories throughout the broadcast
as it has in previous years.  Armstrong will race his first professional full Ironman
event June 24 in Nice,  France . To qualify for the Hawaii
championship, all athletes must first complete a full Ironman
race. Armstrong currently ranks 59th with 2,305 points earned
through his half Ironman events. The top 40 ranked professionals
by July 29 will qualify to go to Hawaii.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  