-- Artists Battle Amid Red Riot at Royal Academy Exhibit
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-06-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/artists-battle-amid-red-riot-at-royal-academy-exhibit-review.html
Red is always the most important
color in the Royal Academy’s  Summer Exhibition  in  London .  That’s the hue of the spots that traditionally indicate
sales, which run riot this year for example around a framed
print by Tracey Emin, “Small and Beautiful,” so sweetly
affordable at 275 pounds ($427), in an edition of 300, that the
dots almost upstage the actual image of a little bird. Red is
also the color of conflict, and that’s at the heart of the
Summer Exhibition.  This year’s edition, the 244th, is no exception. In a way,
it’s just like all the 243 other Summer Exhibitions: a visual
jumble, a cacophony in which every single work simultaneously
tries to shout, “Look at me!” You could say that this is the
equivalent in art-world terms of a totally unregulated market.  Except that in recent decades there have been attempts to
impose some order on this Georgian chaos. Tess Jaray, a Royal
Academician and the coordinator for 2012, has made bold efforts
to stamp curatorial authority on it all. Her first move was to
paint the first gallery a strong pillar-box red.  This naturally fights with many of the pictures on its
walls. The idea is, she writes, partly intended as a homage to
Matisse’s “The Red Studio,” partly a bow to John Singer Sargent who once proclaimed that red was the only proper color
to hang pictures on. Actually, his late Edwardian portraits
would look good on red, though a mellower one than this.  Red Tide  In practice, the landscapes hung in tribute to the late
Adrian Berg RA thrive on these pillar-box walls because they are
mainly a complimentary blue/green (not for sale). But the
memorials to John Hoyland, another RA who died last year,
struggle against the red tide surrounding them.  Another counterintuitive move is to take a lot of the
smallest works in the exhibition, and put them in the biggest
room, while putting just one video work in the usual place for
the littlest pictures, the Small Weston Room. The latter is out
of place in the Summer Exhibition for the simple reason that it
lasts 25 minutes, and there are 1,473 other items on view.  Meanwhile, it’s definitely survival of the fittest in Room
III, where more than 400 little paintings are hung in a wave
formation that oscillates around the gallery. A few items caught
my eye: an abstract by Virginia Verran seemed to pop out despite
or perhaps because it’s largely a soft gray (3,750 pounds). The
competition to be noticed is ferocious.  Scully Abstract  In general, there are more small pictures this year, and
fewer big items and star names. What heavy hitters there are
make a mark. An abstract by Sean Scully not only dominates Room
IV, framed in a series of doorways, it commands the whole view
down Burlington House.  Several paintings of romantically misty rearing horses by
the new president of the RA, Christopher le Brun (33,600 pounds
to 96,000 pounds), make an impression, as do abstracts by Ian
McKeever (gouaches at 9,400 pounds) and the team of Matthew
Collings and Emma Biggs (18,000 pounds).  Since 1768 the Summer Exhibition has been a battle for
attention. Famously, Constable once hung a large painting of his
next to a small, gray Turner. When he came back later, he found
Turner had put a single circle of strong color on his canvas,
effectively pulling the eye away from Constable’s.  It was a small red dot.  The Royal Academy’s Summer Exhibition runs through Aug. 12
at Burlington House, London. Information:
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk/summerexhibition/ .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Lewis Lapham 
on history and  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 