-- Most Stocks Fall as Early Rally Fades; Treasuries Advance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-07T20:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/asian-stocks-extend-rally-on-stimulus-optimism-oil-gains.html
Most U.S. stocks fell as a late-day
slump in banks and technology shares wiped out an early rally
triggered by China’s first interest-rate cut since 2008. Oil
slid, while Treasuries rose and the dollar was little changed.  About  three  stocks dropped for every two that gained on
U.S. exchanges and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  erased  a
rally of as much as 1.1 percent to close down less than 0.1
percent at 4 p.m. in  New York .  Bank of America Corp.  and Oracle
Corp. paced losses in lenders and computer companies. Oil, which
surged as much as 2.4 percent this morning, slipped 0.2 percent
to $84.82 a barrel in the regular session and extended declines
to as much as 1.9 percent in after-hours trading. The 10-year
U.S. note yield lost two basis points to 1.64 percent.  Equities began paring gains at 10 a.m. New York time, while
Treasuries turned higher and commodities slid, as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank will need
to assess conditions before deciding if more measures are needed
to stoke an economy threatened by Europe’s debt crisis and U.S.
budget cuts. The  S&P 500  lost its entire gain by the final 15
minutes of trading as the  Associated Press  reported that a
municipal strike threatens to derail a June 17 Greek election
that could determine the nation’s future in the euro.  “It’s disappointing that the markets were not able to
sustain the momentum established by the Chinese action,” said
 Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.8 billion at
Oakbrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois. “Bernanke’s comments
weren’t indicative of a Fed that will take aggressive action in
the near future. They didn’t match to expectations. There’s also
concern about the upcoming Greek election. We’ll have to wait
and see how all that plays out.”  Early Rally  Stocks rallied earlier as the People’s Bank of China said
it will lower its benchmark lending and deposit rates effective
tomorrow.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  retreated after staging its biggest advance of
the year yesterday, a 2.3 percent surge triggered by speculation
global policy makers will act to spur growth. The index has
rebounded almost 3 percent from a five-month low on June 1,
recouping its losses from a report last week showing U.S. jobs
growth in May was the weakest in a year.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Hewlett-Packard Co. dropped at
least 1.3 percent for the biggest  declines  in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , which trimmed a rally of as much as 140
points to 46 points by the close. Newmont Mining Corp. slumped 2
percent as gold tumbled the most in two months after Bernanke
reduced speculation of more quantitative easing.  ‘Christmas Gifts’  “Sometimes investors look for their Christmas gifts in
June,” said Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than $20
billion as chief investment strategist at the private-banking
unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland. “ China ’s action helps to calm
some of the investors’ fears. Yet Bernanke is throwing some cold
water on expectations for QE3. Maybe the Fed will deliver that
ahead of December, but I think we’d need to see a lot more
deterioration in the economy before that happens.”  Bernanke on June 19-20 will lead the  Federal Open Market
Committee  in a policy-setting meeting confronting the slowest
employment growth in a year and a worsening debt crisis in
Europe. The U.S. added 69,000 jobs last month, the fewest in a
year, even as the Fed maintained record stimulus. Bernanke today
also warned lawmakers that “a severe tightening of fiscal
policy at the beginning of next year that is built into current
law -- the so-called fiscal cliff -- would, if allowed to occur,
pose a significant threat to the recovery.”  Fed Watch  In his prepared comments, Fed chairman didn’t call for
consideration of additional stimulus, a contrast with speeches
yesterday in which Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the economy
“remains vulnerable to setbacks” and may warrant more
accommodation.  First-time claims for jobless benefits fell by 12,000 to
377,000 in the week ended June 2 from a revised 389,000 the
prior week that was higher than initially estimated, the Labor
Department said today. The median estimate of 49 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for 378,000 claims.  Shares of smaller U.S. companies foreshadowed this week’s
gains in stocks as they did when the worst  bear market  since the
Great Depression ended, according to  Andrew Wilkinson , a Miller
Tabak & Co. strategist.  Dividend Yields  The  Russell 2000 Index (RTY) ’s dividend yield, based on
companies’ payouts during the past 12 months, was 30 basis
points higher than the rate on 10-year Treasury notes at the end
of last week. The gap was the widest since March 9, 2009, the
day that the gauge bottomed out after a 59 percent plunge in 17
months.  Four shares rose for every one that declined in the Stoxx
600. Sweden’s OMX Index jumped 3.2 percent, the most since
November, as the market reopened after a public holiday. A
 European gauge of banks  rose 2 percent.  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  climbed 4.9 percent after the maker of
a third of all autocatalysts reported a 74 percent jump in full-
year profit and said that it will pay a  special dividend . Tullow
Oil Plc added 2.1 percent after saying it discovered crude at
its offshore Ivory Coast well.  The Spanish 10-year bond yield slid 19 basis points to 6.09
percent after the nation sold 2.07 billion euros ($2.6 billion)
of bonds, more than its maximum target of 2 billion euros. The
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-default swaps
on 15 governments decreased four basis points.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds declined 23 basis points
to 471 basis points, or 4.71 percentage points. The 10-year
Italian yield rose four basis points to 5.71 percent, while the
similar-maturity Swedish yield jumped 31 basis points to 1.45
percent.  Spain Ratings  After European markets closed,  Fitch Ratings  lowered
Spain’s debt to BBB from A, leaving it two notches from junk
with a negative outlook. The ratings firm cited the cost of
recapitalization the nation’s banks and a lengthening recession.  France’s 10-year bond yield rose 16 basis points to 2.57
percent even as borrowing costs fell at an auction. The country
issued 3.48 billion euros of the benchmark bond at an average
yield of 2.46 percent, lower than the 2.96 percent at the last
sale on May 3.  The euro was stronger versus eight of 16 major peers and
swung between gains and losses below $1.26 against the dollar.  Emerging Markets  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities lost 0.2 percent,
erasing a rally of as much as 1.6 percent after Bernanke’s
remarks. Cotton, soybeans and nickel rallied at least 3 percent
for the biggest gains, while natural gas and silver fell more
than 3 percent. Gold for August delivery fell 2.8 percent to
settle at $1,588 an ounce in New York, the biggest decline for a
most-active contract since April 4.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 1.2 percent and rose
3.5 percent in three days, its biggest rally since February.
India’s Sensex Index jumped 1.2 percent after Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  pledged yesterday to revive growth through
infrastructure spending. South Korea’s Kospi index rallied 2.6
percent as the market re-opened after a holiday yesterday.
Benchmark gauges in Russia, the  Czech Republic  and the
 Philippines  gained more than 1 percent.  Analysts are favoring stocks in developed countries over
their emerging market rivals by the most since 2009, betting
their global reach will provide a cushion during a weakening
recovery.  Securities firms have boosted average rankings in the 24-
country MSCI World Index of advanced nations during the second
quarter after cutting recommendations worldwide for seven
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from more than
62,000 ratings. They lowered developing countries during the
period, in which $6.3 trillion was erased from global equities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  