-- Asian Currencies Rise, Led by Won, on Global Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-06-07T08:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/asian-currencies-rise-led-by-won-on-global-stimulus-optimism.html
Asian currencies rose, led by  South
Korea ’s won and the Indian rupee, on speculation global policy
makers will announce stimulus measures to spur economic growth
and tackle Europe’s debt crisis.  China delayed plans to tighten bank capital rules, freeing
up funds for lending, and Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
pledged infrastructure spending to revive expansion. The
 European Central Bank  stands “ready to act” should the debt
crisis damp the euro-area economy further, President  Mario
Draghi  said yesterday. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet
Yellen  said there is scope for “further policy accommodation.”  “The  risk aversion  and the flight to safety may have eased
given the U.S. is likely to consider a move to add further
liquidity,” said Yeah Kim Leng, chief economist at RAM Holdings
Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “In the short term, if the ECB acts, it
will ease market concerns and we will see Asian currencies
either stabilizing or regaining some lost ground.”  The won climbed 0.7 percent from its June 5 close to
1,171.45 per dollar, according to data compiled Bloomberg. South
Korea’s financial markets were shut yesterday for a holiday.
The rupee rose 0.6 percent to 55.0587 and Malaysia’s ringgit
advanced 0.5 percent to 3.1640. Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.1
percent to NT$29.906 and Thailand’s baht weakened 0.1 percent to
31.51.  Concerns Remain  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, reached
114.70, the highest level in more than a week. The gauge
declined in each of the last five weeks, its longest losing
streak since 2008, as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened and Chinese
data pointed to a deepening slowdown in Asia’s biggest economy.  “Governments are rolling out measures to save their
economies,” said Tobby Lin, a bond trader at Yuanta Securities
Co. in Taipei. “It’s boosting risk appetite a bit, but concerns
over Europe’s crisis still exist for sure.”  The Group of Seven nations agreed this week to coordinate
their response to Europe’s turmoil, which has tipped at least
eight of the 17 euro-area economies into recession and is
threatening the global economy.  The  yuan  was unchanged at 6.3635 per dollar in Shanghai.
China said it will introduce new capital-adequacy requirements
for lenders at the beginning of next year, having announced in
August they would start being applied from Jan. 1, 2012. The
People’s Bank of  China  raised the reference rate 0.14 percent,
the most since May 21, to 6.3170.  “China is showing its determination to support growth as
it ensures there’s bank capital to support lending demand,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB. That’s positive for the yuan, he said.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso rose 0.1 percent to 43.158
per dollar. Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 1 percent to 9,398 and
the Vietnamese dong held at 21,001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  