-- Last.fm, EHarmony Say Passwords Stolen Following LinkedIn
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-06-07T19:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/last-fm-eharmony-say-passwords-stolen-following-linkedin.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Last.fm music site and
the  EHarmony  dating service said some user passwords were
stolen, a day after another online company,  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ,
confirmed a security breach.  “We are currently investigating the leak of some Last.fm
user passwords,” the London-based company, which recommends
music to listeners, said today on its  website . “As a
precautionary measure, we’re asking all our users to change
their passwords immediately.”  Closely held EHarmony, based in Santa Monica, California,
said it reset the passwords of affected members, after
investigating reports some were compromised.  “We have found that a small fraction of our user base has
been affected,” EHarmony said on its website. “We are
continuing to investigate.”  Last.fm, with almost 40 million users, will update
customers on the status of the breach through its Twitter
account, Luke Fredberg, director of international corporate
communications for CBS in  London , said in an interview. He
declined to comment beyond the statement, which didn’t specify
how many accounts were affected.  LinkedIn, owner of the world’s biggest professional-
networking site, confirmed yesterday that some of its 160
million users’ accounts were affected by a security breach. The
Mountain View, California-based company apologized to customers
in a blog post and said members will know if their accounts were
affected because their passwords will no longer be valid.  CBS, the New York-based broadcaster controlled by Chairman
Sumner Redstone, added 0.6 percent to $32.13 at 2:42 p.m. in  New
York  trading. The shares gained 18 percent this year before
today. LinkedIn gained 1.5 percent to $94.50 and was up 48
percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  