-- Audi Unprecedented Plant Expansion Tests Quality Standards: Cars
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-06-07T22:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/audi-unprecedented-plant-expansion-tests-quality-standards-cars.html
Even as rivals Mercedes-Benz and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  spent more than a decade expanding
production overseas, Audi has clung steadfastly to its flagship
factories in Germany. That’s about to change.  The  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  unit is planning to add new plants at an
unprecedented pace to chase luxury auto leader BMW. Until three
years ago Audi produced 75 percent of its vehicles in the German
cities of Ingolstadt and Neckarsulm, focusing largely on
increasing quality and expanding its model lineup.  By 2017, the share of the German plants is projected to
fall to 45 percent as annual production doubles to 1.9 million
vehicles, much of it at new plants in  China  and  Mexico  and an
expanded facility in  Hungary .  “We’ve reached the limits of our capacity,” Frank Dreves,
Audi’s production chief, said during a four-hour tour of the
Ingolstadt factory, where he likes to pop in unannounced to chat
with line workers. “We need to expand.”  The plan will test Audi’s ability to integrate new
personnel and suppliers while maintaining standards. After
largely closing the gap with BMW in terms of quality and
reputation, a slipup could endanger its target of boosting sales
54 percent to 2 million vehicles by 2020.  “Audi doesn’t have any more low-hanging fruit,” said
Christoph Stuermer, an analyst with IHS Automotive in  Frankfurt .
“The complexity of the production system is increasing quite a
lot. They need to keep that under control. Their growth path is
at stake.”  Executive Changes  Audi plays a key role in Volkswagen’s goal of overtaking
 General Motors Co. (GM)  as the world’s largest automaker because its
margins generate cash to fuel investment. The unit accounted for
44 percent of VW’s first-quarter operating profit even though it
delivered just 15 percent of the group’s vehicles.  The brand received special attention in a management
reorganization unveiled last week.  Wolfgang Duerheimer , head of
the ultra-luxury Bentley nameplate and a former Porsche
engineer, will transfer to Audi to oversee development. Luca de Meo, until now VW’s marketing chief, was appointed to lead
sales. IHS’s Stuermer described the two executives as “stars.”  Audi has grown over the past few years by adding new models
such as the A1 subcompact, the A7 four-door luxury coupe and the
Q5 sport-utility vehicle to compete with BMW and Mercedes. That
growth was supported by using spare capacity at a former VW
facility in  Belgium  and a factory owned by Spanish unit SEAT.  Hungary, China  While Audi’s lineup is now competitive with rivals, BMW and
 Daimler AG (DAI) 's Mercedes long ago added factories in  South Africa ,
the U.S. and China, giving them a bigger global footprint.  A 900 million-euro expansion of Audi’s plant in Gyor,
Hungary, will boost capacity to 125,000 cars from 2013, triple
last year’s output. Next year will also mark the start of
production of a variant of the A3 compact at a new factory in
Foshan, China, part of VW’s joint venture with China FAW Group
Corp. The plant, Audi’s second in China, will boost Audi’s
annual capacity there by 40 percent to 700,000 vehicles.  Audi’s most ambitious project is an all-new facility in
Mexico to produce about 150,000 Q5 SUVs a year. The project, due
to start production in 2016, underscores Audi’s bid to catch up
in the U.S., where sales are about half the level of BMW and
Mercedes.  “The risk potential of a green-field factory is bigger
because it’s all in your hands,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director
of the Center of Automotive Management at the University of
Applied Sciences in  Bergisch Gladbach ,  Germany . “Audi’s
shifting from the hunter phase and has to consolidate what they
have without losing sight of growth.”  Ingolstadt ‘Cave’  Audi reckons it can handle the task. In a virtual reality
“cave” in Ingolstadt, engineers simulate the entire assembly
of a new model months before production starts in order to fine
tune the process.  For the next-generation A3, which starts deliveries this
summer, Audi identified a welding point that could have collided
with a bracket used for mounting the front end. The discovery
resulted in a redesign before production started, saving  costs 
and improving quality. Such tools will help Audi as it expands,
said Dreves.  “The biggest challenge is to handle the growing complexity
that our customers demand while increasing volumes and
maintaining quality,” said Dreves.  He doesn’t ignore details in his bid to improve Audi’s
operations. To reduce time spent cleaning up scuff marks from
transport carts, Dreves ordered white wheels. And to avoid
smears from fingers and shoes, doors were covered with metal
sheets.  “We train our workers to think of every car they assemble
as their own,” said Dreves. “There’s nothing more important
than quality. Short term success is nice, but I’d rather be part
of a long-term success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 