-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Rally as China Rate Cut Boosts Risk
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-07T21:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/aussie-n-z-dollars-rally-as-china-rate-cut-boosts-risk.html
The Australian dollar rose above
parity with the U.S. currency for the first time in three weeks
after China cut its key interest rates, fueling appetite for
riskier assets.  The Aussie erased gains versus the greenback after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  refrained from signaling
additional steps the central bank might take to spur growth. The
 New Zealand dollar  strengthened against the yen for a fourth
straight day as stocks and commodities advanced.  “The market has been so short over the last couple of
weeks that it was pretty ripe for a snapback,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington at Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage. “The less bullish
than expected comments from Bernanke prompted a little bit of
the steam to come out of that rally.” A short position is a bet
that an asset will decline in value.  Australia’s dollar fell 0.3 percent to 98.94 U.S. cents at
5 p.m. in New York yesterday, after earlier rising 0.8 percent
to $1.0003. The currency traded 0.2 percent stronger versus the
yen at 78.79 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar declined 0.5 percent to 76.72 U.S.
cents. It rose 0.1 percent to 61.09 yen.  China’s benchmark one-year deposit rate will drop by 0.25
percentage point effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of China
said on its website. The one-year lending rate will also be cut
by 0.25 percentage point, it said.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares advanced 1.3 percent,
bolstering investor appetite for riskier assets.  The Aussie was also buoyed after the nation’s  payrolls 
jumped by 38,900 in May, the statistics bureau said yesterday,
while economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast no change.  The data followed an official report on June 5 that showed
the nation’s gross domestic product expanded 1.3 percent in the
first three months of this year from the fourth quarter, twice
the pace economists estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 