-- Australia Lifts Myanmar Sanctions to Bolster Democratic Opening
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-06-07T11:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/australia-lifts-myanmar-sanctions-to-bolster-democratic-opening.html
Australia  will lift sanctions against
Myanmar, which is emerging from decades of economic and
political isolation, Foreign Minister Bob Carr said.  “This is a time of great opportunity for the people of
Myanmar, and countries like Australia should be doing what we
can to add momentum to the process of democratization,” Carr,
who is on a three-day visit to the Asian nation, said in an
emailed statement today. “By lifting our remaining travel and
financial sanctions, Australia is lending further support to the
reforms under way.” An arms embargo will remain, Carr said.  Myanmar is enhancing economic, military and political ties
with Western nations after years of isolation that left its 64
million people among  Asia ’s poorest. The country’s transition to
democracy in recent months after about five decades of military
rule has prompted the U.S. and European Union to ease sanctions.  Opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi, among the leaders Carr
met in Myanmar, was last week allowed to visit  Thailand , her
first trip outside Myanmar since 1988, and is due to travel to
France, Switzerland,  Norway  and the U.K. later this month.  Myanmar is open to changing its constitution to reduce the
military’s role at an appropriate time, Defense Minister Hla Min
said at a June 3 conference in  Singapore . The nation’s charter
allocates 25 percent of parliamentary seats to soldiers.  Speaking at the same conference, U.S. Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  said he would discuss a security relationship with
Myanmar officials as engagement between the nations improves.  Australian aid to Myanmar will more than double to A$100
million a year by 2015, Carr said in a separate statement, much
of it to be directed to education and health projects.  “Myanmar has made great strides over the past year, though
there is more to be done,” Carr said. “Promoting and, where
necessary, having robust discussions about human rights and
democracy in Myanmar will remain a central element of our
engagement.” The sanctions will be lifted over the coming
weeks, he said, and can be reimposed if required.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  