-- Australian Employers Add 38,900 Jobs as Currency Jumps
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-06-07T04:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/australian-employers-add-38-900-jobs-as-currency-jumps.html
Australia   unexpectedly  added workers
last month, capping the best January-to-May period of hiring in
five years and prompting traders to pare bets on interest-rate
cuts as the local dollar stages its strongest rally this year.  The number of people employed rose by 38,900 in May, after
a revised 7,000 gain in April that was lower than previously
reported, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The median
estimate was for no change in employment in a Bloomberg News
survey of 23 economists. The  jobless rate  rose to 5.1 percent
from a revised 5 percent in April as participation increased.  The local currency jumped 2.5 percent this week as the jobs
data and a gross domestic product report showing the economy
expanded 1.3 percent last quarter, more than twice the level
forecast, underscore the nation’s resource-fueled growth.
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut  interest rates  by 75
basis points in the past two meetings, to 3.5 percent, to shore
up the economy as the outlook in Europe and China deteriorates.  “Despite the moderate uptick in unemployment, this is a
stellar jobs report and paints a very healthy picture of the
labor market,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney. “Coupled with strong first quarter GDP
growth, the RBA will likely sit on their hands and keep rates
steady for the next couple of months.”  Traders are pricing in a 23 percent chance the central bank
will keep rates unchanged next month, up from none before
today’s jobs data, according to swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg. Prior to yesterday’s GDP report they saw a 50 percent
chance of a half-point reduction.  Dollar Rallies  The Australian dollar bought 99.51 U.S. cents at 2:07 p.m.
in Sydney compared with 98.92 cents before the data, while the
S&P/ASX 200 Index of stocks was 1.4 percent higher.  The number of full-time jobs advanced by 46,100 last month,
the biggest increase in almost a year, and  part-time  employment
fell by 7,200, today’s report showed. Australia’s participation
rate, a measure of the working-age population, gained to 65.5
percent in May from 65.2 percent a month earlier, it showed.
That was the highest since November.  The nation’s economy is being powered by an estimated A$500
billion pipeline of resource projects that is spurring hiring by
companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to meet Chinese demand.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  South Korea  said its economy grew 0.9
percent in the first quarter from the previous three-month
period, unchanged from an April estimate.  Japan, Taiwan  Japan’s Cabinet Office may say today its leading economic
indicator fell in April, while  Taiwan ’s exports are forecast to
have dropped for a third month in May, according to Bloomberg
surveys.  Asian stocks  advanced for a third day as oil and copper
climbed on speculation policy makers around the world will take
steps to revive the slowing economy. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
was 1.5 percent higher at 1:02 p.m. in  Tokyo .  The  Bank of England  will probably keep its benchmark rate
at a record-low 0.5 percent and maintain its asset purchase
target at 325 billion pounds ($503 billion), Bloomberg surveys
showed. A U.K. purchasing managers’ index probably showed the
services industry grew the least in six months in May, according
to a separate survey.  Greece  will also release its  unemployment
rate  for March today.  The U.S. Labor Department may say initial jobless claims
fell to 378,000 in the week ended June 2 from 383,000 in the
previous period, economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted. The
 Federal Reserve  may report U.S. consumer borrowing rose at a
slower pace in April compared with March.  Mining Jobs  In Australia, Rio Tinto Group said in April that it has
begun a four-month recruitment drive to hire 6,000 workers for
A$22 billion of projects in  Western Australia  state, the
 Northern Territory , Queensland and New South Wales.  Yesterday’s GDP report showed that compared with a year
earlier, the economy expanded 4.3 percent in the first quarter,
the fastest annual pace since the third quarter of 2007.  Australia has added 123,300 jobs in the first five months
of this year, the biggest gain since 132,700 were added from
January through May of 2007, according to government statistics
compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s report showed New South Wales, the nation’s most
populous state, added 30,300 jobs and Victoria, the center of
the nation’s struggling manufacturing industry, 13,500
positions. The unemployment rate in Western Australia, the heart
of the mining investment boom, was 3.8 percent last month.  With GDP that’s about one-tenth the size of the U.S.,
Australia last month added more than half the number of jobs
that the world’s largest economy did. Australia’s unemployment
rate is less than half the 11 percent level in the euro area.  Chalk, Cheese  “Comparing the job market in Australia with markets in
 Europe  or the U.S. is like comparing chalk and cheese,” said
 Craig James , a senior economist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender. “Australia’s job market
remains healthy, supporting growth in the broader economy.”  The local dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency,
has gained about 40 percent against the  U.S. dollar  since the
start of 2009 and reached $1.1081 on July 27, the highest level
since it was floated in 1983.  It retreated in recent weeks as signs mount that Europe’s
debt crisis will sap global growth. The currency dropped 6.7
percent last month, when the central bank unexpectedly cut its
benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point and as data
from  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner, indicated a
slowing economy. The RBA cut rates by another quarter point this
week.  Yesterday’s GDP report showed household spending rose 1.6
percent in the first quarter, adding 0.9 percentage point to
growth. Non-dwelling construction soared 12.6 percent, adding 1
point to growth, it showed. Exports dropped 1.3 percent, shaving
0.2 point from the expansion.  The GDP report showed new engineering construction soared
19.7 percent in the first quarter from the final three months of
last year, and 53 percent from a year earlier as the mining
bonanza intensifies. In contrast, housing construction dropped
2.1 percent from the fourth quarter as the industry struggles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  