-- Tax Revenue Grew in States in First Quarter, Report Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-06-07T15:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/tax-revenue-grew-in-states-in-first-quarter-report-says.html
U.S. states’ tax collections rose 4.1
percent during the first three months of 2012, a faster pace
than during the previous three months, as economic growth helped
ease financial pressure in the nation’s capitals.  The increase is the ninth straight quarterly gain for
states following more than a yearlong slide after the 2007
recession, according to the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of
Government in  Albany , New York. The pace was faster than the 3.6
percent rise during the last three months of 2011.  Even with the gains, the state revenue growth has slowed
since jumping as much as 11 percent a year ago. Other economic
indicators are showing growth may be slowing. U.S. employers
last month added the fewest workers in a year and the
 unemployment rate  rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent. Reports
released last month showed the economy grew less than initially
estimated during the first quarter.  “Overall, state tax revenues are showing improvement,
though the pace of growth continues to slow from its peak in the
second quarter of 2011,” the  Rockefeller Institute  said in its
report.  The revenue gains are reducing the size of budget deficits
that have forced state officials to cut jobs and reduce spending
on schools, welfare and public works, which exerted a drag on
the economy. States faced deficits of $54 billion for the coming
budget year, half what they were the year before, according to
the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a Washington-based
research group.  Sales Taxes  The first quarter growth was led by sales taxes, which rose
5 percent, while personal income taxes climbed 3.2 percent,
according to the data, which is based on 47 states.  Among the states with the biggest growth were  Illinois ,
where taxes rose 24 percent,  Connecticut , where they increased
13.8 percent, and  Texas , which advanced 16.6 percent, according
to the report. California and New York were among the six states
where collections declined, falling 3.6 percent and 1.8 percent,
respectively.  The improvement lessened concerns of bondholders. U.S.
state bonds returned 11 percent in 2011, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes, and 2.7 percent so far this year.  “The trend is good,”  Daniel Loughran, a portfolio
manager with OppenheimerFunds Inc., said today at the State &
Municipal Finance Conference hosted by Bloomberg Link in
 Chicago .  The combination of increasing tax revenue and spending
reductions “are really the things we bondholders want to see,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  