-- Bangladesh to Tax Mobile-Phone Bills to Help Cap Budget Deficit
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2012-06-07T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/bangladesh-to-tax-mobile-phone-bills-to-help-cap-budget-deficit.html
Bangladesh  plans to tax mobile-phone
bills to help fund a subsidy program spanning fuel to food as it
strives to prevent the nation’s fiscal deficit from widening
past a four-year high.  The government estimates the fiscal shortfall will be 5
percent of gross domestic product in the year through June 30,
2013, the same level as in 2011-2012, Finance Minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith said in his budget speech to parliament in Dhaka
yesterday. The South Asian nation, one of the poorest in the
world, intends to levy a 2 percent tax on mobile phone bills,
budget documents showed.  Muhith projected 7.2 percent economic expansion next year
even as a backdrop of feuding between the government and
opposition over the disappearances of activists underscores the
threat of political instability. Such risks, and the toll on
Bangladesh’s pivotal garment exports from  Europe ’s debt crisis,
may erode investor confidence in the nation’s economic outlook.  “It would be a serious mistake if the budget doesn’t
address the macroeconomic imbalances in the economy,” Ahsan H.
Mansur, executive director of the Dhaka-based Policy Research
Institute, said before the speech. Fiscal and monetary policies
since December 2011 have sought to contain domestic demand to
curb imports, damp inflation and stabilize the nation’s currency,
and the budget needs to continue that process, he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  approved a $987 million
loan for Bangladesh in April after oil purchases and the impact
on exports of Europe’s turmoil depleted foreign reserves. The
European Union and the U.S. are the largest markets for the
country’s overseas sales.  Currency Slide  The taka has slumped 11.4 percent in the past year and was
little changed at 82.175 per dollar yesterday. The Dhaka Stock
Exchange’s General Index, which has  tumbled  almost 20 percent
over the same period, fell 0.5 percent.  The projected 2012-2013 deficit and the estimated shortfall
for the current year are the highest since the 5.4 percent
recorded in 2007-2008, figures from Bangladesh Bank show.  “The growing central government deficit and its
monetization and domestic financing are exerting pressure on
macroeconomic imbalances,” the World Bank said in a  report  in
May. Officials need to contain  government borrowing  to ensure
businesses can access sufficient credit, it said.  The IMF has said the conditions on its loan include a
restrained monetary policy, reduced trade barriers and moderate
fiscal consolidation.  Bangladesh Bank has raised its benchmark repurchase rate by
a total of 325 basis points to 7.75 percent since August 2010.
Inflation moderated to 9.15 percent in May from 9.93 percent in
April. Muhith said it may ease to 7.5 percent next fiscal year.  Mobile-Phone Tax  The tax on mobile-phone bills “will further punish the
mobile industry,” said Abu Saeed Khan, secretary general of the
Association of Mobile Telecom Operators of Bangladesh.  The nation had almost  91 million  mobile subscribers at the
end of April, according to the Bangladesh Telecommunication
Regulatory Authority. Providers include Grameenphone Ltd., a
unit of Telenor ASA. Grameenphone phone fell 0.1 percent to
206.9 taka yesterday.  Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed is seeking to lure
foreign investors to add  power plants , roads and ports.
Expansion may slow to 6.3 percent in the 12 months to June 30
2012 from 6.7 percent the previous year, according to
provisional data from  Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics .  Aside from garment exports, the $106 billion economy is
also dependent on money sent home by Bangladeshis working
overseas. Remittances rose 15 percent in May from a year earlier
to $1.15 billion.  A history of political instability and corruption are among
obstacles to the goal of faster development.  Thirteen people, mostly activists, have disappeared in the
five months through May, according to a report by  Odhikar , a
non-governmental organization that says it documents human
rights violations. Seventy-two journalists were injured in
attacks in the same period, it said.  Political volatility is detrimental to investor confidence,
Moody’s Investors Service said in April. More than 75 percent of
Bangladesh’s population still lives on less than $2 per day,
according to  World Bank  data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Mumbai at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  