-- Bank of Spain Veteran Linde Named to Head Central Bank
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-06-08T12:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/bank-of-spain-veteran-linde-named-to-supervise-lenders.html
Bank of  Spain  veteran Luis Maria Linde was named head of the central bank as Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy ’s government prepares to seek a bailout to clean
up its financial industry.  Linde will replace Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez, who
leaves a month early amid criticism of his banking supervision.
Spain may seek European aid as soon as tomorrow, said a German
government official and a European Union aide who declined to be
named, after Rajoy said he’s talking to his counterparts about
recapitalizing the country’s banks.  “Linde was in the Bank of Spain trenches directing
soldiers during the crisis of 1992,” which led to the peseta
being devalued, Jose Carlos Diez, chief economist at Madrid-
based brokerage Intermoney SA, said by telephone. “In the
current situation, it will help to have someone who has that
experience.”  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose 12 basis points today to
6.21 percent at 1:10 p.m. in  Madrid , compared with a euro-era
high of 6.78 percent on Nov. 17 and the 7 percent level that
triggered bailouts in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . The spread
with similar German maturities widened 21 basis points to 4.92
percentage points.  In Trenches  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told lawmakers in
parliament late yesterday as he announced Linde’s appointment
that he “is a person of recognized international prestige and
has extensive knowledge of the institution.”  Linde will return to the Bank of Spain, which he joined in
1983, four months after leaving it to retire at age 67. He
managed international affairs and the country-risk division
during his almost 30 years with the central bank, according to
the government’s website. He inherits banking supervision and a
seat on the  European Central Bank ’s rate-setting council.  The government has tightened rules in its second attempt in
three months, and Spain’s fourth in three years, to make
provision for 184 billion euros ($231 billion) of what the Bank
of Spain calls “troubled” real estate-linked assets.  Rajoy said yesterday that he’s spoken to his colleagues in
the European Union and that once he has estimates from
international consultants on banks’ capital needs, the
government will find “the formula for the financing of the
capitalization of the banking sector.” The premier will take
the decision that “best defends the interests of Spaniards,”
he told a news conference in Madrid.  Credit Rating  Fitch Ratings  cut Spain’s credit grade yesterday to BBB,
within two steps of junk, citing a deepening recession and a
bank recapitalization that could cost up to 100 billion euros
($125 billion).  Rajoy’s People’s Party government chose Linde for his
technical profile, said  Ricardo Santos , a European economist at
BNP Paribas SA in  London . “He is a technocrat and that is
positive to remove doubts regarding the Bank of Spain’s actions
due to political connections,” Santos said by telephone.  Ordonez, who had ties with the Socialists who named him to
the post in 2006, denounced a “campaign” to undermine the Bank
of Spain’s prestige on May 30. Even so, his resignation was
demanded last month by the institution’s own inspectors, who
accused the top management of undermining its credibility in a
letter to Rajoy.  Bank Independence  Deputy Trade Minister Jaime Garcia-Legaz said he held
Ordonez responsible for the events that led the government to
nationalize the Bankia group this month. Ordonez responded to
criticism today, saying the credibility and independence of
regulators is essential to confidence in the economy.  “The richest countries and those with the most solid
democracy in the world are those with competent and independent
regulators and supervisors that serve as a counterweight to the
possible temptations of government interference,” Ordonez said
in in a speech released on the Bank of Spain’s website today.  Trained at Madrid’s Complutense university, Linde started
out as a civil servant in the economy and trade ministries. He
is also a former  executive director  for Spain at the
Interamerican Development Bank.  Linde knows Bank of Spain inspectors well and it will help
them recover self-esteem after the Bankia crisis and the hiring
of foreign companies to audit banks, said Rafael Pampillon, head
of economic analysis at the Instituto Empresa business school in
Madrid.  “The Bank of Spain is the economy’s most vital organ,” he
said by phone. “Whoever is in charge of the heart should know
the body well.”  Linde’s age means the ruling  People’s Party  will be able to
name another governor in three years, as Bank of Spain rules
impose retirement at the age of 70, Pampillon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  