-- Barnes & Noble Opposes U.S., Publishers E-Book Settlement
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-07T16:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/barnes-noble-opposes-e-book-publishers-antitrust-settlement.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the largest U.S.
bookstore chain, objected to the proposed U.S. antitrust
settlement with electronic-book publishers, saying the
government made a mistake that will favor  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s
industry dominance.  The book retailer said the proposal would injure bookstores
and writers, according to a federal court filing provided today
by New York-based Barnes & Noble. The document, filed under a
provision that allows public comment on antitrust settlements,
couldn’t immediately be confirmed with court records.  The U.S. sued  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and five publishers April 11,
claiming they colluded to fix prices for e-books.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
Simon & Schuster, Lagardere SCA’s Hachette Book Group and  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins settled their suits, while Apple Inc.,
 Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin and Macmillan, a unit of Verlagsgruppe
Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, vowed to fight the lawsuit.  “We think the Justice Department has made a gross error
and gotten this wrong,” Gene De Felice, Barnes & Noble’s
general counsel, said in a telephone interview. “Their attack
on publishers, small business and free commercial relationships
is really unprecedented.”  Before the pricing agreements, Seattle-based Amazon had
dominated the digital books market by offering titles at $9.99
each. Through the agreements, the publishers set prices for
best-selling books at $12.99 and $14.99, giving Apple a 30
percent cut.  Cancel Contracts  Under the settlements, the three publishers agreed to
cancel contracts with Amazon, Google Inc. and other electronic
booksellers that allowed publishers to set prices. That pricing
practice, known as the so-called agency model, replaced a
wholesale model under which Amazon bought e-books and set its
own prices.  The  Justice Department  appears “to be supporting a
monopoly by Amazon,” De Felice said. “Free expression will be
controlled by Amazon from a server in Washington.”  U.S. antitrust officials have stepped up enforcement
against anticompetitive price-fixing agreements in industries
including health care and auto parts.  Regulators have also increased scrutiny of Cupertino,
California-based Apple’s digital publishing, mobile computing
and music retail businesses to make sure the iPad-maker hasn’t
thwarted competition on its way to becoming the world’s most
valuable company.  The case is U.S. v. Apple, 12-cv-2826, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). 