-- Barrick to Resume Gold Focus After CEO Ouster: Corporate Canada
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-06-07T20:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/barrick-to-resume-gold-focus-after-ceo-ouster-corporate-canada.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  is poised to
resume its focus on gold after firing Chief Executive Officer
Aaron Regent, who failed to boost the share price by expanding
into copper with the acquisition of Equinox Minerals Ltd.  Barrick, the world’s largest gold producer, said yesterday
Chief Financial Officer Jamie Sokalsky, 55, will succeed Regent.
Toronto-based Barrick has been “disappointed” by its share-
price performance and is “fully committed to maximizing
 shareholder value ,” said company founder and Chairman  Peter Munk , 84.  Regent, 46, spent three years as CEO, during which time he
ended Barrick’s multibillion-dollar hedging program, spun off
its African mines and bought  Australia ’s Equinox Minerals for
C$7.3 billion ($7.1 billion). Barrick may fail to meet its five-
year gold-production target while having to write down some of
the $4.3 billion of copper-related goodwill on its balance
sheet. said  Anita Soni , an analyst in Toronto at Credit Suisse
Group AG.  “We thought you were doing gold, and now you’re doing
copper -- this is completely different from what we were
thinking,” said Pawel Rajszel, a Toronto-based analyst at
Veritas Investment Research Corp., referring to the July
acquisition of Equinox. “If you’re going to change the
strategy, you’ve got to let us know.”  Barrick dropped 4.1 percent to C$39.79 at the close in
Toronto. The shares fell 5.1 percent yesterday to close 0.9
higher than where they were on Jan. 16, 2009, Regent’s first day
in charge. Gold for immediate delivery in  London  rose 92 percent
in the same period.  Trumping Minmetals  The Equinox deal was Barrick’s largest since its $10.2
billion purchase of Placer Dome Inc. in 2006. Barrick trumped an
unsolicited bid from  China ’s Minmetals Resources Ltd. to acquire
a  copper mine  in Zambia and a development project in  Saudi
Arabia .  “The purpose of a gold company is to have leverage to
gold, and if a gold company buys a 100 percent copper asset it
doesn’t make sense,”  John Goldsmith , a Toronto-based  fund
manager  at Montrusco Bolton Investment with about C$5 billion of
investments, said in a telephone interview. Goldsmith said he
sold his Barrick shares within a week of the deal.  Copper accounted for 44 percent the $9.63 billion in
goodwill Barrick had in its  balance sheet  as of March 31.
Goodwill is the amount exceeding fair value paid by the
acquirer. Copper futures have dropped 23 percent in London since
the Equinox deal was completed, while gold prices rose to a
record in September.  Diversification Charge  Barrick  produced  7.68 million ounces of gold in 2011 and is
targeting annual output of 9 million ounces by 2016. Copper
production was 451 million pounds last yea. Copper accounted for
about 12 percent of revenue in 2011.  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, declined to comment on the
possibility of a writedown. He said Munk and Sokalsky weren’t
available for comment.  “The perception is that Aaron Regent was leading the
charge for diversification and now he’s not there so you don’t
have to worry about a further shift away from gold,” Adam Graf,
an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. in  New York , said by telephone
yesterday. Sokalsky is “well respected and unlikely to do
anything that would surprise the market.”  Sokalsky is a chartered accountant who spent a decade at
Canadian food processor and distributor George Weston Ltd. He
joined Barrick as treasurer in 1993 and became CFO in 1999.  African Spinoff  Regent was formerly CEO of nickel miner Falconbridge Inc.
and a senior managing partner at investment firm Brookfield
Asset Management Inc. While his elimination of Barrick’s gold
hedges led to a $5.7 billion charge in the third quarter of
2009, it enabled the company to capture the full value of rising
gold prices.  By March 2010, Regent had completed the spinoff of the
company’s African operations with the initial public offering in
London of  African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG)  African Barrick has dropped
30 percent since then. Barrick retains a stake of about 74
percent, according to an African Barrick filing on Feb. 16.  “You can always fault him on the timing, but conceptually
these were good ideas,” said  Jorge Beristain , a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based mining analyst at Deutsche Bank AG said by
telephone yesterday. “I do not believe this can be effectively
just laid at the feet of the single decision to get into
Equinox.”  Rising Costs  Barrick isn’t the only gold producer to face escalating
production costs, as the price of labor rises. Nor is it the
only miner to lag behind the price of gold. The  NYSE Arca Gold
BUGS Index (HUI)  of 16 gold companies has climbed 26 percent in the
past five years, while gold has more than doubled.  Investors have put more money into exchange-traded funds
backed by gold, which track the price of the metal without the
operational risks that holding mining equities can bring.  The underperformance of gold miners may have weighed on
Munk, who established Barrick in 1983.  “I don’t want Barrick to disappear,” he said in May last
year at the Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit in Toronto.
“Barrick is going to be one of the major Canadian companies in
this world.”  The Budapest-born entrepreneur, who fled Nazi-occupied
Hungary as a teenager, founded Clairtone, a stereo and
television manufacturer, and ran hotel and commercial real-
estate businesses before founding Barrick in 1983.  Adding Mines  He added mines in  North America  before stepping down as CEO
in 1999. The purchase of Placer Dome made Barrick the world’s
largest gold producer. Munk has a 0.2 percent stake in Barrick
worth about $68 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Barrick said yesterday that  John Thornton , a director of
the company and a former co-president of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., will serve as co-chairman.  Munk is “frustrated because he has a lot of his personal
wealth tied up in the stock,”  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $15
billion as chief investment officer at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview.  “It looks like he’s preparing for a future without his
involvement and he wants to feel good about the management
team.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  