-- Baseball Is Adding All-Star Bans and More Tests to Drug Rules
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-07T20:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/baseball-is-adding-all-star-bans-and-more-tests-to-drug-rules.html
Major League Baseball  and its players
agreed to ban drug violators from the All-Star Game and add
random doping tests.  The two sides said in a joint news release that they also
agreed to study expanding human growth hormone testing to the
regular season. The labor contract adopted in November for the
first time added HGH testing at the sport’s top level during
spring training and the offseason.  “These modifications to expand upon the comprehensive
nature of our program are consistent with our efforts to ensure
we are running the highest quality drug testing in professional
sports,”  Rob Manfred , baseball’s executive vice president for
economics and league affairs, said in a statement.  In addition, they said they would create a panel to advise
drug program administrators on when medications intended to
treat attention deficit disorder and attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder should be allowed. The misuse of such
drugs is a growing concern in the sport, according to the two
sides.  The revisions reflect changes to the original agreement,
the results of a 2011 year-end review and other modifications
made following an arbitration panel’s ruling that overturned a
50-game ban for reigning National League Most Valuable Player
 Ryan Braun .  Braun, who tested positive for a banned substance last year,
was the first player to win such an appeal. Procedures for when
specimens must be delivered to couriers -- the basis of Braun’s
appeal -- have been modified.  Players who violate baseball’s drug rules during the
offseason, spring training or prior to the All-Star break will
be ineligible for the July All-Star Game. The new rules also
will allow baseball to reveal exactly which drug caused a
player’s positive test.  “Today’s announcement reflects one of the greatest
strengths of the program -- its ability to be improved through
the collective bargaining process,”  Michael Weiner , executive
director of the  Major League Baseball Players Association , said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 