-- Bernanke Sees Risks to Economy From Europe to U.S. Budget
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-06-07T14:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/bernanke-sees-risks-to-economy-from-europe-to-u-s-budget.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy is at risk from Europe’s debt crisis
and the prospect of fiscal tightening in the U.S., while
refraining from discussing steps the central bank might take to
protect the expansion.  “The situation in Europe poses significant risks to the
U.S. financial system and economy and must be monitored
closely,” Bernanke said today in testimony to the Joint
Economic Committee in Washington. “As always, the Federal
Reserve remains prepared to take action as needed to protect the
U.S. financial system and economy in the event that financial
stresses escalate.”  Bernanke also warned lawmakers that “a severe tightening
of fiscal policy at the beginning of next year that is built
into current law -- the so-called fiscal cliff -- would, if
allowed to occur, pose a significant threat to the recovery.”  Bernanke on June 19-20 will lead the  Federal Open Market
Committee  in a policy-setting meeting confronting the slowest
employment growth in a year and a worsening debt crisis in
Europe. The U.S. added 69,000 jobs last month, the fewest in a
year, even as the Fed maintained record stimulus.  In his prepared comments, the 58-year-old Fed chairman
didn’t call for consideration of additional stimulus, a contrast
with speeches yesterday in which Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said
the economy “remains vulnerable to setbacks” and may warrant
more accommodation. Two regional Fed bank presidents who vote on
policy this year, San Francisco’s John Williams and Atlanta’s
 Dennis Lockhart , said the Fed should be prepared to take action
if the economy deteriorates further.  Stocks Pare Gains  U.S. stocks pared gains after Bernanke’s statement. The
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  was up 0.3 percent to 1,318.43 at
10:53 a.m. after earlier rising as much as 1.1 percent. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note declined to 1.64 percent from
1.66 percent late yesterday.  Responding to a question, Bernanke outlined the course of
discussion he foresees at the next meeting of the FOMC.  “The main question we have to address has to do with the
likely strength of the economy going forward,” Bernanke said.
“Will there be enough growth going forward to make material
progress on the  unemployment rate ?”  “If we decide that further action is required, then of
course we have to decide what action is appropriate or what
communications are appropriate,” Bernanke said. “We do have
options that we can consider,” he said, without naming them.  Yellen Outlines Steps  Yellen, in her speech yesterday, outlined steps the Fed
could take. She said the central bank could try to spur growth
by altering its pledge to keep  interest rates  “exceptionally
low” at least through late 2014. The Fed adopted the 2014 time
horizon in January, extending an earlier date of mid-2013.  The Fed could also undertake another round of asset
purchases or continue its Operation Twist program, set to expire
this month, to lengthen the maturities of bonds on its balance
sheet, Yellen said. The Fed purchased $2.3 trillion of bonds in
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing.  Bernanke’s prepared comments echoed language from recent
Fed statements, saying that the central bank “reviews the size
and composition of its securities holdings regularly and is
prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate to promote a
stronger economic recovery in a context of  price stability .”  Fisher, Bullard  More easing isn’t necessary, Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said in
separate speeches on June 5. Additional stimulus would be
“pushing on a string,” Fisher said, while Bullard said there’s
time to assess the economy and no need to change policy now. The
two regional bank chiefs don’t vote on policy this year.  The central bank said yesterday in its  Beige Book  business
survey that the  U.S. economy  maintained a moderate pace of
growth from early April to late May as factory output rose and
the real-estate market improved.  “Economic growth appears poised to continue at a moderate
pace over coming quarters, supported in part by accommodative
monetary policy,” Bernanke said today. “In particular,
increases in household spending have been relatively well
sustained.”  The outlook for inflation is “subdued,” and price
increases will probably remain at or slightly below the 2
percent level that’s in line with the FOMC’s goal to meet its
dual mandate of stable prices and maximum employment, Bernanke
said. Higher unemployment and retreating oil and gas prices
“should continue to restrain inflationary pressures,” he said.  Urges ‘Sustainable Path’  Bernanke used his appearance before lawmakers to urge them
to put fiscal policy on a “sustainable path” while avoiding a
“severe tightening” in spending just now that could hamper the
economic recovery.  A smoother transition in  government spending  would help
promote full employment, which would be supportive of fiscal
accounts, he said, while a credible long-term budget plan
“could help keep longer-term interest rates low and improve
household and business confidence.”  Bernanke also elaborated on his views about the crisis in
 Europe , saying it was “acting as a drag on our exports,
weighing on business and  consumer confidence , and pressuring
U.S. financial markets and institutions.”  European policy makers will likely need to take additional
steps to stabilize their banks, calm their markets, and create a
“workable” fiscal framework, Bernanke said.  ECB Rates  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that ECB policy makers discussed cutting interest rates to a
record low, fueling expectations they’ll act as soon as next
month as the intensifying debt crisis curbs growth.  “We monitor all developments closely and we stand ready to
act,” Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt after the ECB left its
benchmark rate at 1 percent. Risks to the economic outlook have
increased and “a few” of the ECB’s Governing Council members
called for rate cut at yesterday’s meeting, he said.  Minutes of the FOMC meeting on April 24-25 showed policy
makers said a loss of momentum in growth or increased risks to
their economic outlook could warrant additional action to
preserve the recovery. Members “indicated that additional
monetary policy accommodation could be necessary if the economic
recovery lost momentum or the downside risks to the forecast
became great enough,”  the minutes  showed.  Less Than Half  The 69,000 jobs added in May was less than half the number
forecast by economists and the April total was revised down to
77,000 from 115,000, Labor Department figures showed June 1. The
unemployment rate unexpectedly rose to  8.2 percent  from 8.1
percent for the first increase since June 2011.  “I am convinced that scope remains for the FOMC to provide
further policy accommodation,” Yellen said yesterday. “It may
well be appropriate to insure against adverse shocks that could
push the economy into territory where a self-reinforcing
downward spiral of economic weakness would be difficult to
arrest.”  Atlanta’s Lockhart said extending Operation Twist is an
“option on the table” and that policy makers can do more,
while  San Francisco ’s Williams said the Fed should be ready to
step up stimulus in case economic growth slows and threatens to
delay improvement in the job market.  AT&T Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  said
on June 1 that smaller companies have reduced hiring as business
conditions get “tighter and tighter,” reducing demand for the
largest U.S. phone company’s services.  ‘Best Case’  Dallas-based AT&T expects the economy to expand by 1
percent in the second half of 2012 in “our best case”
scenario, Stephenson said at a conference.  “New business starts down at the bottom end are still in
negative territory, and until we see that begin to tick up,
we’re not forecasting for ourselves any kind of change in
trajectory of the current economic environment,” Stephenson
said. We are “seeing no hiring, basically, that would drive our
type of business.”  Concern the global economy is slowing drove down the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 6.3 percent in May for the biggest
monthly loss since September. The index rose yesterday by 2.3
percent to 1,315.13 on signs central bankers are prepared to
support growth.  Investors seeking safety in U.S. government this month debt
have pushed yields on 30-year and 10-year debt to record lows of
 2.5089 percent  and  1.4387 percent , respectively.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley say Fed policy
makers are more likely to buy additional government-backed
mortgage securities after the pace of U.S. job creation slowed.  Mortgage Rates  Mortgage rates for 30-year U.S. loans have fallen to record
lows for five straight weeks as concern about Europe’s financial
crisis attracts investors to U.S. government bonds that guide
borrowing costs. The average rate for a 30-year mortgage dropped
to 3.75 percent in the week ended May 31 from 3.78 percent,
 Freddie Mac  said. It was the lowest in the mortgage-finance
company’s records since 1971.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities dropped  2.6 percent  from a year earlier following a 3.5
percent decline in February, the group reported May 29.  The number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously
owned houses fell in April by the most in a year, the National
Association of Realtors said May 30. Pending home resales
dropped 5.5 percent from March. They rose 15 percent from a year
earlier.  -- With assistance from Craig Torres in  Washington . Editors:
James Tyson, Christopher Wellisz  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  