-- Blankfein Says Gupta Not Authorized to Disclose Results
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/blankfein-says-gupta-not-authorized-to-disclose-results.html
Lloyd Blankfein , chief executive
officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , told jurors that  Rajat Gupta  wasn’t authorized while he was a board member to disclose
the bank’s  earnings  to outsiders before the public announcement.  Blankfein, 57, returned to the witness stand yesterday at
Gupta’s insider-trading trial in  Manhattan  federal court.
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  asked him whether Gupta had
permission to tell outsiders what he learned at a meeting of the
board’s audit committee on March 12, 2007, and other days,
before the firm disclosed  quarterly  results. Prosecutors accuse
Gupta of leaking the data.  “Did you authorize Mr. Gupta to disclose on March 12,
2007, any information that was learned at the audit committee
meeting to any outsider?” Brodsky asked.  “No,” Blankfein said.  Gupta, 63, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is
accused of leaking inside tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam. Gupta pleaded not guilty to one count of
conspiracy and five counts of  securities fraud , which carries a
maximum term of 20 years in prison.  Inform Court  While Blankfein began his testimony on June 4, the trial
was recessed the next day, and he attended his daughter’s high
school graduation on June 6.  Gary Naftalis , a defense attorney,
told U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff that his cross-
examination of Blankfein, which is under way, will continue
today.  Prosecutors will probably rest their case today, after
Blankfein’s questioning concludes, Brodsky told Rakoff at the
end of yesterday’s session. The judge told Naftalis that he will
have to inform the court at that point if Gupta intends to take
the stand in his own defense.  Gupta was a member of a Goldman Sachs board panel called
the  audit committee , which reviewed the firm’s financial health
and routinely received briefings in advance of the full board of
directors and earnings announcements, Blankfein said.  Under questioning from the prosecutor when he resumed his
testimony yesterday, Blankfein said the bank’s audit committee
is routinely briefed on the firm’s profits, expenses, taxes,
capital and dividend before the public release of the data.  ‘Lot of Speculation’  “Was the information heard at audit committee meetings
confidential?” Brodsky asked.  “It was confidential in terms of organizational and
management guidelines but ostensibly because the information was
very important and market-moving to the stock,” Blankfein said.
“There’s a lot of speculation about what results of the quarter
would be. This resolves the speculation.”  Blankfein also repeated testimony he gave previously that
he briefs board members frequently, with an emphasis on profits
and losses, and was especially keen on doing so after he began
his job in 2006.  “I think it’s Good Governance 101 to keep the board
constantly informed,” he said.  One of Gupta’s alleged leaks involves a tip on Oct. 23,
2008, that Goldman Sachs would lose almost $2 a share, worse
than  Wall Street  expected.  Heard Wiretap  Earlier in the trial, jurors heard an Oct. 24, 2008,
wiretap made by agents with the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
of Rajaratnam telling  Ian Horowitz , a Galleon trader, “I heard
yesterday from somebody that was on the board of Goldman Sachs
that they were going to lose $2 a share.”  Brodsky yesterday showed jurors an internal Goldman Sachs
weekly profit and loss report and asked Blankfein to describe
what information he provided board members during briefings.  Brodsky asked Blankfein if during a call with directors on
Oct. 23, 2008, he used that report, which shows, as of Oct. 17,
Goldman Sachs was losing $1.96 per share.  Blankfein said the quarterly net revenue to date of the
report was a loss of $171 million, the first time that the firm
had ever reported a loss.  “In this particular number we have negative revenue before
we even factored in the costs of running our business,” he told
jurors. “That’s very, very unusual and unprecedented.”  Naftalis asked Blankfein about Gupta’s decision in
September 2008 to resign from the board and work as an adviser
for KKR & Co., the buyout firm co-founded by  Henry Kravis  and
 George Roberts .  News Release  Blankfein said a news release announcing Gupta’s departure
was drafted and then revoked in the wake of the financial
crisis. He testified that he and other Goldman Sachs officials
decided to ask Gupta to remain on the board because his
departure, “might be perceived as a crisis was going on at
Goldman Sachs.”  While Gupta didn’t resign, Goldman Sachs gave Gupta a pair
of cufflinks for his service, Blankfein said.  “A draft news release was drafted, honoring his service,
which was long and good?” Naftalis asked.  “It wasn’t long, but it was good, we were honoring his
service,” Blankfein said as the courtroom audience members
laughed.  Naftalis turned to question Blankfein about Rajaratnam’s
firm.  “I want to ask you about a company named Galleon, you’ve
heard of Galleon?” Naftalis asked.  “Yes,” Blankfein answered with a bit of exasperation.  “So have we,” Naftalis said with a grimace and laughing.  Trading Data  Among other witnesses yesterday, an agent with the FBI
testified about Galleon trading data and records of calls
between phones associated with Gupta and Rajaratnam.  The agent, James Barnacle, provided details on calls and
trades involving eight sets of Galleon transactions.  He was asked to review phone records of phones used by
Rajaratnam and Gupta during the time period in which the FBI had
a court-authorized wiretap of Rajaratnam between March and
December 2008. Barnacle testified he found 150 different calls
between the telephones both men used.  Only one call between Gupta and Rajaratnam was captured on
wiretap, a July 29, 2008, conversation, prosecutors said.  According to Barnacle, someone using a phone line
associated with Gupta’s assistant called Rajaratnam’s line at
Galleon at 4:50 p.m. on Oct. 23, 2008, just 23 seconds after a
call with Goldman Sachs on the same line ended.  Sold Stock  When the stock market opened the next morning, Galleon
traders sold 150,000 Goldman Sachs  shares  ahead of news that the
bank would sustain losses in the quarter, the agent said. They
saved $3.8 million by selling when they did, he said.  “By selling the stock on Oct. 24, the traders avoided
losses in the stock because of the resulting price decline,”
Barnacle told jurors.  Another tip involved  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was
also on the board. Galleon earned more than $10 million on
trades that prosecutors say were based on inside information,
Barnacle said.  A defense attorney,  David Frankel , used his cross-
examination of Barnacle to try to show that the information in
his charts was misleading, omits important trading data and
there is no indication who was actually speaking on the calls.  Barnacle and Blankfein also testified at the insider-
trading trial of Rajaratnam, who was convicted and sentenced to
11 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 