-- BOE Keeps QE on Hold as Inflation Risks Override Recession
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-07T12:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/boe-keeps-qe-on-hold-as-inflation-risk-overrides-slump-concerns.html
The  Bank of England  left its stimulus
plan on hold as the threat from above-target inflation overrode
policy makers’ concerns about the risk to the U.K. from Europe’s
debt crisis.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King ,
held its ceiling for  bond purchases  at 325 billion pounds ($503
billion) today, a move forecast by 37 out of 42 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Officials also kept their  benchmark
interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Services unexpectedly maintained their pace of expansion in
May, a report today showed, signaling some strength in the
economy after a manufacturing index slumped last week. Still,
the turmoil in the euro area remains a threat to global growth
and China’s central bank cut  interest rates  for the first time
since 2008 today.  “There’s a good chance they’ll have to come back and do
more quantitative easing,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in London and a former Bank of England official.
“The  euro zone  tends to keep coming back to bite everybody so
there’s a reasonable chance it will do so again.”  The People’s Bank of China said its benchmark one-year
deposit rate will drop by 0.25 percentage points effective
tomorrow, while the one-year lending rate will also decline by
0.25 percentage points.  Stocks Gain  Stocks jumped after the PBOC announcement, which fanned
optimism that policy makers around the world will do more to
bolster growth. The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  rose 1.4 percent as of
12:53 p.m. in London and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 1.5
percent. The pound erased its loss against the dollar and traded
at $1.5575, up 0.5 percent from yesterday.  The U.K. services purchasing managers index, published by
 Markit Economics , unexpectedly held at 53.3 in May, while
economists forecast a drop to 52.4. The report also showed that
input-price inflation eased. Markit’s factory gauge on June 1
fell to 45.9, the lowest since May 2009.  Today’s Bank of England decision signals price-growth
worries are still paramount even as the U.K. struggles with
government budget cuts, high unemployment and threats from
Europe’s turmoil. While  consumer-price gains  eased to 3 percent
in April from 3.5 percent in March, that’s still above the
central bank’s 2 percent target.  BOE Minutes  “We suspect further policy stimulus will be forthcoming,”
said  James Knightley , an economist at ING Group in  London ,
citing a “weak” consumer backdrop, government budget cuts and
companies’ reluctance to invest. “That said, what the U.K.
economy really needs is action on the euro-zone sovereign debt
crisis.”  Britain’s economy shrank 0.3 percent in the first quarter
after contracting by the same amount in the last three months of
2011. The  International Monetary Fund  said on May 22 that the
U.K. may require further stimulus “via further QE and possibly
cutting the policy rate.”  Minutes of the Bank of England’s meeting will be published
June 20 and may reveal a split on the MPC. While David Miles was
the only member to vote for more QE last month, officials
including Charles Bean have said the central bank can resume
bond purchases if needed. Meanwhile,  Spencer Dale  said last week
the MPC needs to get inflation back to target and its current
policy stance looks “broadly right.”  The  European Central Bank  is also split on its response to
the euro turmoil. While it kept its key rate on hold yesterday,
President  Mario Draghi  said “a few” Governing Council members
pushed for a reduction.  Euro Risks  In the euro area, which King has said is the biggest threat
to the U.K., Spain is struggling to contain speculation it will
need a bailout, while a second election in Greece on June 17 has
fueled concerns the country may exit the euro.  ECB President Draghi said yesterday that officials stand
ready to act as the growth outlook worsens in the euro area,
Britain’s biggest trading partner.  The euro crisis is dominating central bank discussions
around the globe. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its  key
interest rate  to the lowest since 2009 on June 5, citing
“heightened political uncertainty and concerns about fiscal
sustainability” in Europe. The  Bank of Canada  said the same day
that “some of the risks around the European crisis are
materializing” as it left its benchmark unchanged.  The Group of Seven nations agreed this week to coordinate
their response to euro-area turmoil, which has tipped at least
eight of the region’s economies into recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  