-- BofA, SocGen Case Over MBIA Split Goes to New York Judge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-07T20:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/bofa-socgen-case-over-mbia-split-goes-to-new-york-judge.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s effort with
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  to reverse  New York ’s approval of  MBIA
Inc. (MBI) ’s 2009 restructuring is being considered by a judge after
the conclusion of a four-week trial over the transaction.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick heard
final arguments from the banks today in  Manhattan , capping a
hearing that began last month over the decision by former New
York Insurance Department Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  to approve
the bond insurer’s restructuring.  Kapnick said it’s going to “take a while” to review the
evidence and make a ruling.  “There’s a lot of stuff to go through,” Kapnick said.  A win for MBIA would bolster the Armonk, New York-based
company as it grapples with litigation stemming from the
restructuring approved more than three years ago. Bank of
America and  Societe Generale  are the only plaintiffs remaining
after more than a dozen financial institutions sued the insurer
and the insurance department. A separate lawsuit filed against
MBIA in state court is pending.  Kapnick is considering claims by the banks that the state’s
approval was based on inaccurate and incomplete information and
should be annulled under state insurance laws. Lawyers for banks
argued during the trial that the approval was done in secret and
based on a rushed, flawed analysis.  New Division  The banks claim the restructuring exposed them to losses as
policyholders by transferring $5 billion in assets out of an
MBIA unit that issued financial guaranty insurance policies into
a new division that guaranteed municipal bonds.  Kapnick heard arguments over a four-week period from the
banks, MBIA and New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s
office, which represents the state. There was no jury, and
witnesses weren’t called.  Marc Kasowitz , a lawyer with Kasowitz Benson Torres &
Friedman LLP who represents MBIA, said the approval was based on
a yearlong state investigation that included weeks of on-site
review at the company’s headquarters.  The banks rely on “distortions and misrepresentations”
about the process and haven’t met their burden of showing that
that Dinallo’s approval was arbitrary and capricious, Kasowitz
said. The decision was rational and within the scope of the
department’s authority, he argued.  Analyzed Investments  “What we have here is a decision by a responsible state
official, Superintendent Dinallo, making a decision that was
critical to the interest of the state,” Kasowitz told Kapnick
in his final argument.  David Holgado, a lawyer with the attorney general’s office,
argued during the trial that the review was based on a thorough
investigation by the insurance department, which analyzed
investments insured by MBIA and conducted interviews with
company employees.  Dinallo approved the restructuring after finding that it
protected all policyholders, including the banks, and
determining it would help to boost MBIA’s credit ratings and
spur investment in municipal projects to help bring the U.S. out
of recession, Holgado said.  “The amount of diligence was extraordinary,” Holgado
said.  Robert Giuffra, a lawyer with Sullivan & Cromwell LLP who
represents the banks, told the judge during his closing argument
today that the case is important to all current and future
holders of insurance policies in the state of New York, whether
they are banks, homeowners or owners of  student loans  that have
been securitized into bonds.  “This time it’s the banks,” Giuffra said. “Next time it
will be hurricane victims or victims of a toxic drug.”  The case is ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 