-- BOJ May Be Pushed to Twist Bond Purchases as Growth Slows
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-06-08T00:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/boj-may-be-pushed-to-twist-bond-purchases-as-japan-growth-slows.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  may debate
overhauling its asset-buying program next week after its
campaign to end deflation was undercut by government
bondholders’ reluctance to sell as financial turmoil deepens.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board gather June 14-15,
days before a Greek election that may determine whether the
nation leaves the euro, triggering deeper European trauma. The
euro crisis has already sparked a surge in demand for bonds that
left the BOJ unable to meet targets for purchases twice in May.  The disruptions to the central bank’s program coincide with
increasing pressure by Japanese lawmakers for Shirakawa to step
up efforts to support the economy, which is forecast to slow
after it strengthened last quarter. BOJ board members may extend
the maturity of the debt they buy or increase purchases of
riskier assets, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “Given failures in bond operations, the BOJ may extend the
maturity of bonds as soon as this month,” said  Masayuki Kichikawa , Tokyo-based chief economist for the bank. “If not
this time, they will have to do it this year at least.”  The board in April extended the maturity of bonds it buys
to three years from two years, an echo of the U.S. Federal
Reserve program known as Operation Twist which replaced
purchases of short-term debt with longer-maturity Treasuries in
an effort to pull down long-run borrowing costs.  Purchases Fail  Even with the shift, the BOJ wasn’t able to find enough of
the one- and two-year notes it sought to buy on May 16, the
first failure since setting up its asset-purchase program in
October 2010. Two days later, it didn’t attract enough offers
for a regular bond-buying operation known as a Rinban, which
hasn’t happened since 2006.  The disruptions reflected a flight from riskier assets such
as stocks amid concern the euro-region’s crisis will worsen and
hobble global growth. In  Japan , yields on 10-year securities
touched 0.79 percent this week, the lowest since 2003, while the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average has tumbled almost 10 percent in the
past three months.  Policy makers round the world are stepping up efforts in
response to a souring outlook, with  China  yesterday lowering
 interest rates  for the first time since 2008, following a
reduction by  Brazil  last week. Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
said two days ago the  U.S. economy  may warrant more stimulus.  Growth to Slow  In Japan, economic growth may slow by more than half from
the first quarter, when gross domestic product rose 4.7 percent
from the previous three months at an annualized pace. Bloomberg
News surveys of economists indicate GDP gains of 2 percent this
quarter and 1.6 percent in the final three months of 2012.  Foreign-exchange appreciation, driven by haven demand for
the yen, has threatened to undermine export growth, while last
quarter’s bump from post-earthquake reconstruction is projected
to fade through the year. The yen traded at 79.71 as of 9:12 a.m.
in Tokyo, up 5.6 percent from the year’s low of 84.18 in March.  With fiscal stimulus limited by Japan’s public debt, the
world’s largest, lawmakers have turned to the central bank to
support expansion and end deflation that erodes corporate
profits.  A group of ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan members last
week released a proposal to change the law overseeing the BOJ,
empowering the government to dismiss BOJ board members if
consumer prices rise significantly less than the central bank’s
target. While the BOJ has set 1 percent as its goal for
inflation, its most recent economic projections show that won’t
be reached at least through the fiscal year ending in March 2014.  BOJ Law  “Their framework to beat deflation is terrible,” DPJ
lawmaker Sumio Mabuchi, head of a group that has called on the
BOJ to set an inflation target of 2 percent, said on May 23 in
parliament. “We need to create a new structure.”  Seiji Maehara, the DPJ’s policy chief, yesterday said that
while he agreed on the need for close cooperation between the
BOJ and the government in dealing with challenges such as the
yen’s rise, an independent central bank is important and he
doesn’t favor amending the law.  Policy makers may opt to raise the limit for purchases of
exchange-traded funds and Japanese Real Estate Investment Trusts,
Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in a note this week. While the
bank predicts officials will boost their 40 trillion yen ($503
billion) asset-purchase program by 5 trillion yen in July, the
risk of a move this month is increasing.  ‘Frontloading’ Policy  “Chances are now rising for the frontloading of the timing
into the June monetary-policy meeting,” Morgan Stanley
economists led by  Robert Feldman  in  Tokyo  wrote in a June 6
report. “Foreign economic turmoil has weakened Japan’s recovery
prospects.”  The central bank has sought to play down expectations of
continued expansion in their asset purchases, which are the main
policy tool as the benchmark interest rate is near zero. Minutes
of the April 27 meeting released last week showed that “members
made note of some misunderstanding that the bank would continue
to increase the size of its program in an automatic manner.”  Business leaders have for their part called for greater
policy response. Hiromasa Yonekura, chairman of Keidanren, the
nation’s largest business lobby, said June 4 the yen is too
strong for companies to cope with and urged both the BOJ and
government be flexible in considering measures to address it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  