-- Borg Says Spain Needs EU Bank Bailout Not Fiscal Overhaul
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-06-07T10:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/borg-says-spain-needs-eu-bank-bailout-not-fiscal-overhaul.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said  Spain  needs help recapitalizing its banks and not a broad-
based overhaul as its budget outlook improves.  “This is not a fiscal basket case, it’s a country with a
problem in its banking sector, so let’s try and help them out on
that issue,” Borg told reporters today at an Institute of
International Finance conference in Copenhagen. Spain doesn’t
need a broad rescue package like those received by Greece,
Portugal and Ireland, which were predicated on extensive
budgetary and economic changes, he said.  Spain is on track to narrow its deficit next year as it
reins in its debt and makes structural economic reforms, he
said. The 17-nation euro zone needs to figure out the most
practical way to stabilize Spain’s bank industry, he said.  The country is struggling to avoid a bailout as it buckles
under an undercapitalized banking system, rising borrowing costs
and a shrinking economy. Officials inside the currency union
remain divided on how to support Spain as it risks destabilizing
the area already under threat from a potential Greek exit.  Norwegian Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen today also
urged policy makers to build “a stronger defense” around  the
lenders.  Norway’s Perspective  “From  Norway ’s perspective it is important that they
manage to build stronger solidity and increased market
confidence because Norway is affected via funding costs for
Norwegian banks when uncertainty increases,” he said in an
interview at the same conference in Copenhagen. Norway isn’t a
member of the European Union, while Sweden has opted out of the
euro.  Spain today sold 2.07 billion euros ($2.6 billion) of
bonds, meeting its maximum target. The sale came two days
after Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said the “door of
the markets isn’t open to Spain” as he called for European
institutions to help the nation shore up its lenders.  Borg reiterated his view that the European Stability
Mechanism, the euro area’s 500 billion-euro permanent rescue
fund, ought to be able to lend directly to banks when it comes
online this summer. Other mechanisms for aiding Spain might come
through some other kind of EU aid program or via the
 International Monetary Fund , he said.  ‘Nasty Haircut’  Spain’s banks need to be independently assessed with a
“tough” view toward how to absorb losses and shore up capital,
Borg said. During the panel discussion, he said equity holders
and other bank owners may need to take a “nasty haircut” as
part of restoring banks to health.  Bondholder losses should be viewed with much more caution,
he said. Imposing losses on investors who lend to banks could
further damage banking sector liquidity, which has been “very,
very fragile,” he said.  A debt restructuring like the “private sector
involvement” for Greek bond holders should not be copied for
other countries, Borg said.  Efforts to move toward “banking union,” as proposed in
recent days by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and
other policy makers, probably will need to be contained to the
euro area, Borg said. Sweden might back broader proposals that
included all 27 EU nations, an initiative that is theoretical
for now because of U.K. opposition, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  