-- BP Shouldn’t Get White House E-Mails in Spill Case, U.S. Says
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/bp-shouldn-t-get-white-house-e-mails-in-spill-case-u-s-says.html
BP Plc (BP/)  isn’t entitled access to e-
mail communications between the White House and other top U.S.
officials during the  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill of 2010, a
government lawyer told a federal judge.  “Disclosure of these documents would chill the open and
candid discussion of internal opinions, ideas, and strategies”
among federal policy makers, including the Executive Office of
the President, during a future incident like the Deepwater
Horizon oil spill, Gregory H. Woods, general counsel for the
 Department of Energy , said in a court filing yesterday.  Woods said the energy department already has produced more
than 169,000 documents requested by BP defendants in the civil
case being litigated in New Orleans. The department maintains
that 28 e-mails are privileged communications and therefore off-
limits. BP wants a federal judge to examine 21 government e-
mails to determine if the company can use them to defend itself
against litigation brought by the U.S.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who presides over the
litigation, last month set a Jan. 14 trial date to determine
fault for the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and
resulting undersea leak.  Woods categorized the e-mails at issue as policy
“deliberations” among top federal officials in three areas:
the release of information to the public; the issuance of
guidance and directives to BP; and the starting or stopping of
“specific response actions during the spill.”  Scott Dean , a spokesman for London-based BP, had no
immediate comment on the government’s court filing.  ‘Flow Rates’  One e-mail, “Re: Flow Rates,” contains discussions
between White House officials, Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar, National Incident Commander Thad Allen, with copies to
Energy Secretary Steven Chu, “concerning how and when to
address information in future press communications” about the
worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.  “The resulting harm to the Government’s internal
deliberation process would outweigh any potential benefit to the
public or litigant from disclosure of the documents because
their release could reasonably be expected to chill the free and
open communication among policy makers,” Woods told U.S.
Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan in yesterday’s filing.  In a May 29 letter, BP lawyer Robert Gasaway asked the
judge to review the high-level government e-mails and decide
whether the company’s needs to defend itself in court “outweigh
any purported interests in keeping secret what looks to be 21
highly significant documents.” The company said the judge
should also decide what facts in the e-mails should be disclosed
–- or possibly redacted.  Blowout, Explosion  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon killed
11 workers. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against
BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and
operator of the rig; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided
cementing services.  The U.S. government sued BP, Transocean and BP’s partners
in the well, Mitsui & Co.’s MOEX Offshore 2007 and The
Woodlands, Texas-based  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , alleging
violations of federal pollution laws.  Louisiana  and Alabama sued
as well. MOEX has settled the federal pollution claims.  BP in March agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill and cleanup-related injuries.  The plaintiffs’ and government claims against BP’s
contractors on the doomed Macondo well remain after the
settlement reached in March.  A trial would cover these lawsuits, federal and state
government pollution claims against BP, and cross-claims among
BP and its partner companies involved in the Macondo site and
rig.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  