-- Brevan Howard Buying CMBS Sees 60% Gains for Teachers: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-06-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/brevan-howard-buying-cmbs-sees-60-gains-for-teachers-mortgages.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP is
seeking returns of as much as 60 percent within two years by
buying some of the riskiest commercial mortgage backed
securities as  Europe ’s debt crisis pushes down prices.  The $36 billion investment firm is purchasing bonds created
during the real-estate boom leading up to 2007, according to
people with knowledge of the strategy, who declined to be
identified because it’s private. Brevan Howard created a CMBS
fund that may be as large as $1 billion, probably lasting
through 2014, and will return 20 percent to 60 percent, the
Pennsylvania Public School Employees’ Retirement System said in
an April memorandum on its website, recommending a $200 million
investment with the hedge-fund manager.  Brevan Howard, whose main fund hasn’t had a down year since
it was started in 2003, is wagering on debt that’s plunged about
23 percent since May 2011, after  Greece ’s sovereign fiscal
crisis spread to  Spain  and roiled credit markets globally.
Values of securities linked to skyscrapers and shopping malls
have tumbled even as U.S. commercial-property prices rose 4.3
percent in the first quarter from the same period last year,
according to Washington-based research firm  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP)   “Given the broad-based market selloff, prices have
returned back to levels where projected yields in the mid teens
are once again possible, attracting the attention of  hedge
funds ,” said Harris Trifon, head of commercial-mortgage bond
research at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in  New York .  Never Down  The Brevan Howard Master Fund has gained every year since
former Credit Suisse Group AG trader  Alan Howard  started it in
2003. The fund returned 12 percent in 2011 after it made a
bullish bet on U.S. Treasuries and U.K. gilts, wagering that
increasing market risk would cause investors to flock to the
safest assets. By contrast, hedge funds fell 5.8 percent on
average in 2011, posting their second-worst year ever, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brevan Howard spokesman Anthony Payne declined to comment.  The pension system, which had about $48 billion in assets
at the end of 2011, first allocated to the investment firm in
May 2010 with $350 million, Evelyn Tatkovski, a spokeswoman for
the Pennsylvania teachers’ retirement plan, said in an e-mail.
This is its first CMBS-only manager, she said, declining to
comment beyond the publicly available  memorandum  from James Grossman, deputy chief investment officer, to board members.  Fallen Angels  The CMBS fund will mostly buy so-called AJ commercial
mortgage bonds, many of which have been cut to junk after being
assigned AAA grades at issuance, said the people. While it will
invest in securities created from 2005 to 2007, when
underwriting standards slipped and issuance soared, it can buy
from other years, one of the people said.  The investment firm is wagering prices of the securities
are factoring in too high a level of economic malaise, the
person said. Moderate improvements in the economy or additional
central bank intervention in bond markets would lift the prices
closer to par, he said. The fund has the option of closing
before the end of 2014 or extending by an extra year, according
to Grossman’s memo.  A benchmark gauge of AJ prices has declined to 57.1 cents
on the dollar from 73.8 cents in May 2011, according to Markit
Group Ltd. data. It dropped to 54 cents last month, the lowest
level this year, as investor concern grew about potential losses
in the Spanish banking system.  CMBS deals from 2005 to 2007 helped inflate property values
by channeling cheap financing to landlords until sales dried up
after losses from U.S. home loans froze credit markets. That
year, banks sold a record $232 billion of CMBS, financing deals
including Tishman Speyer Properties LP and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s $5.4
billion acquisition of Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village.  Delinquencies Rise  Commercial property prices have dropped more than 34
percent from the 2007 peak, CoStar said last month. The
delinquency rate on U.S. commercial mortgages packaged and sold
as bonds rose to 11.9 percent in May as borrowers struggled to
pay off maturing loans from the boom era, according to a Morgan
Stanley report last month. The surge marks “the third sizable
consecutive month-over-month increase,” analysts led by Richard Parkus in New York said.  The rate of increase had shown signs of slowing prior to
the recent jump, said Nick Levidy, an analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service.  “We are at or close to the bottom” in the commercial real
estate market, Levidy said last month. There are risks though to
buying lower-rated bonds, which absorb losses first as defaults
climb. They can be damaged if a single building loses a tenant
and can’t cover the rent, said Levidy.  Higher Returns  Hedge funds, money managers and insurers, including
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , have been investing this year
in the $553 billion CMBS market to gain higher returns as the
U.S. central bank holds  interest rates  near zero through at
least 2014.  Brevan Howard was among investors that bought property debt
held by the New York Federal Reserve in April, according to a
statement from BH Credit Catalysts Ltd., a publicly-traded
company that feeds money it raises from investors into a fund
run by the investment firm.  The New York Fed acquired the bonds as part of the 2008
bailout of AIG, with the securities parceled inside
collateralized debt obligations. Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank
paid an estimated 67 cents on the dollar,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
analysts said in an April report. The banks broke apart the CDOs
and sold underlying bonds to investors.  The Catalyst fund “successfully participated in the first
Maiden Lane III CDO of CMBS liquidation, purchasing underlying
CMBS bonds at prices lower than the levels at which CMBS had
been trading earlier in the year,” it said in a statement.  “If you’ve got the right commercial real estate skill set,
it’s a great way to pick up yield,” said Lisa Pendergast, a
debt strategist at Jefferies Group Inc. in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “It’s extremely important you pick the right bond.
You can get 100 percent of your money back on the right bond, or
you can lose all your money. Your potential 60 percent return
could evaporate pretty quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 