-- HTC Falls to 2-Year Low After Sales Forecast Cut: Taipei Mover
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-06-07T03:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/htc-falls-to-2-year-low-after-sales-forecast-cut-taipei-mover.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  slumped to the lowest level
in almost two years in Taipei trading after the company cut its
second-quarter revenue forecast and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed a new
action seeking to block HTC’s latest handsets in the U.S.  HTC plunged 6.9 percent to NT$378 as of 10:22 a.m., the
lowest price since June 2010, extending its loss to 24 percent
this year. Taiwan’s benchmark Taiex index gained 0.6 percent in
morning trading.  Weaker-than-expected demand in  Europe  and a delay at U.S.
customs prompted the maker of One and Sensation handsets to cut
its second-quarter sales forecast by 13 percent. A new filing by
Apple could impact revenue even further after the iPhone maker
sought an emergency order blocking imports of HTC’s latest
phones a week after customs cleared its devices.  “Competition is definitely heating up going into the
second half, so I am not expecting much revenue growth,” Roxy Wong, who rates the stock reduce at Mirae Asset Securities Co.
in  Hong Kong , said after the announcement.  Second-quarter revenue will be NT$91 billion ($3 billion),
less than its April 24 forecast of NT$105 billion, HTC said in a
 statement  yesterday. It also cut its expected operating margin
and took a one-time charge of NT$2.6 billion to help clear
inventory from last year, it said.  Competition is intensifying in Europe, Chief Financial
Officer Chang Chialin said in a conference call yesterday
without elaborating. Sales in  Asia  are in line with
expectations, while China revenue is better than expected, he
said.  HTC may post revenue of NT$91.7 billion this quarter and
NT$98.1 billion next quarter, according to the average of eight
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the past 28 days.  HTC is being shut out of the introduction of  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s next Windows software, people with knowledge of the
matter said, cutting off another source of revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  