-- CA Says It Has Begun Succession Planning for CEO McCracken
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-06-08T20:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/ca-says-it-has-begun-succession-planning-for-ceo-mccracken-2-.html
CA Inc. (CA) , a maker of software for
managing  information technology , said it has begun succession
planning for Chief Executive Officer Bill McCracken, who turns
70 this year.  “Internal and external candidates will be reviewed,” Dan Kaferle, a spokesman for the Islandia, New York-based company,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We expect to engage a
firm to assist in that process. We are pleased with our strategy
and progress as a company and are committed to ensuring the
smoothest possible transition when the time comes.”  McCracken, who had served as CA’s chairman, stepped in as
CEO after John Swainson retired at the end of 2009. Swainson was
hired by Dell Inc. as president of its software group earlier
this year. He worked as a senior adviser to private-equity firm
 Silver Lake  after leaving CA.  McCracken, at 69, was never seen as a CEO for the long
haul, said Matthew Hedberg, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
 Minneapolis . “Now they’re just looking for a longer-term
solution,” he said.  The company, formerly known as Computer Associates
International Inc., has seen sales and profit growth rebound in
the past year, fueled by demand for corporate-computing
services. Net income increased 12 percent to $211 million, or 45
cents a share, last quarter. Excluding some items, profit was 56
cents a share, compared with the 52-cent  average of estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dividend Increase  CA also raised its dividend and buyback plan in January
after being urged by investor Taconic Capital Advisors LP to
boost shareholder returns. Taconic, co-founded by Kenneth Brody
and Frank Brosens, acquired a 5.1 percent stake in CA and said
in January the company could pay out more cash to shareholders,
implement a more efficient  capital structure  and increase
profitability in its enterprise solutions division.  McCracken worked at  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
for 36 years before joining CA. His contract expires in March
2013 and is reviewed annually, Kaferle said. McCracken has no
specific retirement date.  “They’re not in any rush to get this done tomorrow,”
Hedberg said. “Bill’s accomplished a lot in the two years he’s
been there. He’s increased the dividend, he’s increased the
buyback, and he’s bought more transparency to the business.”  CA shares were little changed in today’s trading, closing
at $25.47. The stock has gained 26 percent this year.  The Wall Street Journal  previously reported  on the
succession planning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  