-- California Madoff Investor Suit Is Illegal, Picard Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-07T15:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/california-madoff-investor-suit-is-illegal-picard-says.html
California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  is breaking the law by suing to recoup illegal profits
from  Bernard Madoff ’s fraud in competition with the Madoff
trustee, according to a court filing.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , is trying to block Harris’s
$270 million state enforcement action against investment adviser
 Stanley Chais ’s estate, saying that under U.S. bankruptcy law
the trustee alone can take money stolen from Madoff customers.
Harris has said her suit is an exception to the rule, because
she is exercising her policing power under state law.  Recent court rulings disprove that, Picard said in a filing
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. While her suit couldn’t
be stopped if she was acting to preserve public safety or
welfare, she is actually suing for money, and her suit is
subject to bankruptcy rules, he said.  “When the focus of the third party action is not to
prevent acts that threaten public safety and welfare but instead
to obtain a pecuniary benefit for a private party, the automatic
stay applies,” he said, referring to the bankruptcy judge’s
power to stop lawsuits that interfere with the running of a
case.  Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on Picard’s filing.  ‘Investment Wizard’  Harris, a Democrat, wants to press a 2009 complaint in
state court in  Los Angeles  that alleges Chais passed himself off
as an “investment wizard” and earned $270 million in fees from
1995 to 2008 for “doing nothing more than funneling all of his
investors’ capital into an epic  Ponzi scheme ” without their
knowledge or authorization. She is seeking to recover illegal
profits and other penalties.  Picard sued Harris Jan. 4 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan, alleging her lawsuit interferes with the collection
of assets needed to help compensate Madoff victims.  The clash between federal and state powers in Picard’s suit
against Harris might eventually go to the U.S. Supreme Court and
make new law, said Michael Clark, a former federal prosecutor
who has handled financial fraud cases.  U.S. law, which includes the  bankruptcy code , is supreme,
although it gives the federal government only limited authority,
he said.  Legal Action  Answering Picard’s lawsuit against her, Harris said her
legal action against Chais’s estate makes no attempt to recover
money belonging to the Madoff brokerage trustee.  “While the trustee’s desire to maximize the amount of
money available to the victims of Bernard Madoff is laudable,
his attempt to interfere with the people’s action in order to
achieve that goal finds no support in the Bankruptcy Code, and
thus, must be rejected,” she said.  Picard sued Chais and related entities in 2009, demanding
return of $1 billion allegedly withdrawn fraudulently from the
Ponzi scheme. The  money manager  died in 2010.  Madoff, 72, is serving 150 years in prison after pleading
guilty to orchestrating the fraud that destroyed his New York-
based firm, which collapsed in December 2008. Picard and his  law
firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged about $273 million for
liquidating the estate.  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Hall, 12-01001,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  