-- Can an Island of Strife Lead Mideast Reform?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/can-an-island-of-strife-lead-mideast-reform-.html
Bahrain is tiny -- an island kingdom
off the Saudi coast with a half-million citizens and as many
expatriate workers.  It’s also a strategic spot that hosts the  U.S. 5th Fleet .
And the  turmoil there  says a great deal about the sectarian
forces at work in the Mideast and how conflagrations could be
avoided with judicious leadership.  This week, Bahrain’s government announced measures to ban a
Shiite opposition party that has played a major role in anti-
monarchy protests, apparently for minor technical violations.
The move was an illustration of the twin sins that bedevil so
much of Mideast governance: elites who hoard rights and power
and who oppress sects different from themselves. In this case, a
Sunni royal family rules supreme over the country and in
particular  holds down  the country’s Shiites, who make up as much
as 70 percent of the citizenry.  Inspired by the rebellion that deposed Egyptian President
 Hosni Mubarak  in February 2011,  popular unrest  in Bahrain has
grown  increasingly sectarian . The risk is that the Sunni-Shiite
division will become irreparable and spread, notably to
neighboring Saudi Arabia.  The government has made vague promises to redress Shiite
complaints but has fallen short on particulars. Left to his own
devices, King Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa, a progressive by Gulf
standards, would do more. However, Bahrain lives under the
shadow of ultraconservative Saudi Arabia, to which it is
beholden for oil revenue.  The Saudi royals reject serious democratic change in
Bahrain for fear of establishing a precedent. Their rule is more
absolute than the Bahraini royals, and they worry about feeding
disquiet among minority Shiites in  Saudi Arabia ’s eastern
province, center of the country’s oil installations. It was a
Saudi-led force that, by invitation, quashed demonstrations in
Bahrain in March 2011.  For its part, the Obama administration has done little but
protest mildly as the democratic aspirations of Bahrainis have
been crushed. This contrasts starkly with lively U.S. diplomacy
on behalf of rebellions in  Egypt  and  Syria  and even military
action in  Libya . The reason is understandable: The U.S. is loath
to alienate Saudi Arabia, the one country able to tamp down  oil
prices .  This policy, however, reinforces a sense that the U.S.,
with its determination to corner Shiite Iran and its ally Syria
(run by an Alawite regime), is becoming the sponsor of the Sunni
cause in the Mideast. Bahrain is a second opportunity, after
 Iraq , for the U.S. to show it supports the rights of Shiites. It
also presents real potential for a peaceful transition. Bahrain
has a reform-minded king and an opposition open to concessions
short of regime change.  What might those changes look like? Well, it would be nice
to imagine more Shiites in the 23-member cabinet (four Shiite
ministers resigned when the protests began) and in the senior
levels of the security forces, where only a few hold significant
positions. Electoral districts could also be redrawn to correct
the gerrymandering that has curtailed the Shiite share of seats
(currently eight of 40) in the elected chamber of the National
Assembly.  Monarchic reforms are not out of the question, either. The
king currently selects all 40 members of the National Assembly’s
appointed chamber. He picks the prime minister, who names all
cabinet members, more than half of whom are typically royals.
Drawing on pledges already made by the kings of Morocco and
 Jordan,  Bahrain could move toward becoming a constitutional
monarchy, one where a fully elected National Assembly appoints a
prime minister who then appoints a cabinet.  None of this will happen without Saudi Arabia’s
acquiescence, and for the Saudis to budge, the U.S. will have to
exercise some leverage. In response to the crackdown on Bahraini
protestors, the U.S. cut Bahrain’s  $15 million in military aid 
by $5 million. That was a penalty applied to the wrong kingdom.
The U.S. gives no significant aid to the Saudis, but does
authorize  many billions in sales  of military equipment, which by
law is intended solely for self-defense. We don’t think
suppressing civilian protests in a neighboring country
qualifies.  U.S. officials should strive to convince the Saudi royals
that a fairer deal for Bahrain’s Shiites, not to mention Saudi
Arabia’s, would strengthen their position and lessen the odds of
meddling by Shiite-majority  Iran . It’s true that the Saudi
rulers, unlike their relatively strapped Bahraini counterparts,
can forestall rebellion by offering the population new
allowances, housing loans and other benefits. But as they should
know from looking west to Egypt, south to Yemen and east to
Syria, lately letting autocracy alone hasn’t proved a winning
strategy.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on why  Ben Bernanke should ease
more ;  Jonathan Alter  on  a new Obama campaign mantra ; Stephen L.
Carter on  the failures of capitalism ; A. Gary Shilling on  why
the strong yen won’t last ; Takeo Hoshi and Anil Kashyap on
 Japan’s nuclear safety ; Robert and Edward Skidelsky on  markets
versus the good life ; Dmitri Trenin on the risk that  Russia and
China ally against the U.S.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 