-- Capital Flight Leaves Banks in Germany Awash in Deposits
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h ,   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-06-08T08:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/capital-flight-leaves-banks-in-germany-awash-in-cheap-deposits.html
As Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
escalates,  Germany  is becoming a magnet for depositors keen to
stow their savings in the euro area’s safest market.  Deposits in Germany rose 4.4 percent to 2.17 trillion euros
($2.73 trillion) as of April 30 from a year earlier, according
to European Central Bank figures. Deposits in Spain,  Greece  and
Ireland shrank 6.5 percent to 1.2 trillion euros in the same
period, including a 16 percent drop for Greece, the data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  As banks in Europe’s periphery fret over lost deposits,
German lenders are awash in liquidity that comes on top of more
than  1 trillion euros  the ECB has made available in three-year
loans to banks since December to ease the flow of credit. The
prospect of Greece leaving the 17-nation euro region is fueling
the capital flight as parties opposed to the terms of the
country’s second bailout prepare for a new ballot on June 17
after winning most of the votes in elections last month.  “The longer the debt crisis lasts, the more funds will
flow to Germany,” said Dieter Hein, a banking analyst with
Fairesearch GmbH in  Frankfurt  suburb Kronberg. “People think of
Germany as the euro area’s safest country.”  The funds are a boon for domestic lenders, contributing an
extra 5 billion euros in customer deposits at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
from September to March. Frankfurt-based  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  added
about 7 billion euros in deposits in the first three months of
2012, helping to erase its need to tap bond markets for
refinancing this year, according to a May 9 presentation.  Makes Sense  “German banks are benefiting from a flight to quality,”
Raimund Roeseler, head of banking supervision at Germany’s
financial regulator Bafin, said at a June 5 press conference in
Bonn. “That’s why they’re experiencing liquidity inflows and
have less problems refinancing than their European peers.”  Banks outside Germany are also seeing an opportunity to tap
the growing liquidity, prompting a surge in deposits at German
branches of foreign lenders to 82.9 billion euros as of April 30
from 60.4 billion euros a year earlier, according to  Bundesbank 
data.  “It makes a lot of sense actually from the banks’ point of
view,” said Mark Macrae, an analyst covering emerging market
banks at Prague-based brokerage Wood & Co. “Relative to what
they have to pay back home, I guess that it’s an efficient way
of getting liquidity.”  AAA Rating  Savers are following bond investors, who pushed German 10-
year borrowing costs to the lowest on record June 1 on
increasing demand for the debt of the only euro-area country
with a stable outlook on its AAA rating. The euro tumbled to an
almost two-year low against the dollar last week as  Europe ’s
leaders wrangled over how to support indebted states in the
currency bloc.  European Union rules guarantee as much as 100,000 euros per
depositor should an institution fail. That doesn’t help savers
if the country where they hold an account exits the euro and
wipes out their investments by devaluing the currency.  The European Parliament and  member states  have spent two
years discussing a proposal to increase protection for savers by
reducing to a week the time deposit insurers have to repay
depositors, while requiring a depositor’s home country to
arrange remuneration rather than the failed bank’s home country.  Outside Support  There’s at least a one-in-three chance of Greece leaving
the common currency within months of the June 17 election that
could halt its international bailout, according to a report this
week by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services.  An exit “could be brought about by Greece rejecting the
reforms demanded” by European policy makers and the
 International Monetary Fund  “and a consequent suspension of
external financial support,” S&P said in a statement.  Spain  this week called for outside support for the first
time to battle the financial crisis as Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said European institutions should help shore up the
nation’s lenders. The Bankia group, the lender Spain
nationalized last month, is seeking 19 billion euros of state
funds to shore up its balance sheet.  European banks tumbled today, pushing the Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index as much as 2.7 percent lower,
led by Italy’s Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA and Lisbon-
based Banco Espirito Santo SA.  The yield on the 10-year  Spanish bond  reached 6.66 percent
on May 30, the highest since November, on concern bailouts for
banks and regional governments will hamper Spain’s ability to
service its debt. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Spanish rather than German 10-year bonds increased to as much as
5.48 percentage points on June 1, the most in the euro era.  Retail Deposits  Bank deposits are a main source of funding independent of
the interbank and wholesale markets. Deposits by retail clients
in particular are less likely to be withdrawn quickly in times
of stress because the funds are secured by state-backed deposit
insurance programs.  New liquidity rules proposed by the  Basel Committee  on
Banking Supervision stipulate that retail and small-business
deposits are a source of funding that’s almost as stable as
equity in crisis situations.  A loss of deposits leaves banks in Greece and Spain even
more dependent on the ECB for funding.  Face Challenge  Moody’s Investors Service, which downgraded Commerzbank and
six other lenders in Germany this week, said the credit rating
cuts would have been deeper if not for the banks’ diversified
funding. German banks “have reduced their market funding
reliance in recent years,” the rating company said in the June
6 report. “This partly reflects rising domestic deposits amidst
positive economic growth.”  German lenders still face the challenge of earning money
with the funds to justify the cost of taking deposits amid
record low yields on German sovereign bonds, Andreas Schmitz,
the president of the BdB Association of German Banks, told
reporters in Frankfurt on May 23.  “There’s a trade-off to be made between net interest
income and a strong and resilient funding structure,” Carola
Schuler, an analyst at Moody’s, said on June 6 by phone.  Money that flows in can also flow out.  “If those funds are volatile and unlike the sticky German
cash that you know you’ll have for more than three months, the
banks have to invest them in short-term at low  interest rates ,”
said  Philipp Haessler , a banking analyst with Equinet Bank AG in
Frankfurt.  ‘Food for Thought’  Non-German banks are trying to attract customers by
offering higher interest rates than German peers. New clients
with 10,000 euros of available cash would get annual interest
rates of 2.4 percent for deposits without maturity at Paris-
based  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s Cortal Consors unit, and 2.55 percent at
MoneYou, a unit of Amsterdam-based ABN Amro Bank NV, according
to financial consultant FMH Finanzberatung. That compares with
0.25 percent at Deutsche Bank and 0.3 percent at most German
saving banks.  Much of the cash deposited in Germany is flowing abroad via
the subsidiaries of non-German banks, Georg Fahrenschon,
president of the DSGV association of German savings banks said
in a June 6  statement .  “German savers should have food for thought if banks have
to try to lure them with offers because they enjoy comparatively
low trust in their home countries,” he said.  Outside EU  Banks from outside the EU, such as Turkish and Russian
lenders, are also targeting German savers. OAO Bank VTB,
 Russia ’s second-largest lender, which saw its loan book grow by
50 percent to 4.6 trillion rubles ($140 billion) last year, is
among banks offering some of the highest rates in Germany,
according to consumer watchdog  Stiftung Warentest . So is  Turkiye
Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS, whose loan book expanded by 41 percent to 101.1
billion liras ($55.4 billion).  VTB and  Turkey ’s  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  are using their Austrian
subsidiaries to lure German customers, while Akbank TAS and
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  are going through their Dutch arms
and Isbank has a German bank unit. They rely on the deposit
insurance systems of those countries to reassure German savers
their money is secure.  German banks face a “luxury problem” as they have to find
places to invest the deposits, and consumers may end up losing
out with lower interest rates on their savings, said Haessler.  “In the end it is a question of supply and demand,”
Haessler said. “The more money flows to Germany, the lower the
interest on deposits should be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  