-- Centrica, Siemens Receive $660 Million for U.K. Wind Project
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-07T15:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/centrica-siemens-dong-receive-660-million-for-u-k-wind-park.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , Dong Energy A/S and
 Siemens AG (SIE)  completed a 425 million-pound ($660 million) funding
agreement for a wind farm off the U.K., the first deal of its
kind in the country.  Ten banks provided finance for the 270-megawatt Lincs wind
park near Skegness in northeast  England , Centrica said today in
a statement. They include BNP Paribas SA,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Lloyds TSB Bank Plc and Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., it said.  The funding agreement for the 1 billion-pound venture marks
the first time banks have provided project finance to a U.K.
offshore wind farm that’s still under construction, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance research. Britain is among European
nations promoting sea-based turbines to cut emissions and secure
 energy supply , even as the economy stagnates amid mounting debt.  “The commercial appetite for offshore wind is growing
despite the ongoing sovereign-debt crisis,” Fraser Johnston, an
analyst at London-based New Energy Finance, said in an e-mail.  The Lincs wind project is due to be fully operational in
the first half of 2013. It will generate enough power for
200,000 homes, according to Centrica, which owns a 50 percent
stake. Dong, the Fredericia-based Danish utility, and Siemens
Project Ventures GmbH each own 25 percent.  Deep Market  “We see a well-functioning and deep project-financing
market for offshore wind projects as one of the important
funding sources for the development of the sector,” Morten
Hultberg Buchgreitz, acting deputy chief executive officer at
Dong’s wind-power division, said in a separate statement.  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, DNB Bank ASA, KfW IPEX
Bank GmbH and Abbey National Treasury Services Plc, trading as
Santander Global Banking & Markets, also provided finance for
the project, according to Centrica.  The 15-year agreement includes debt facilities, letter of
credit lines and hedging commitments, according to an e-mailed
statement from Lloyds Bank Wholesale Banking & Markets.  About 75 percent of the 1 billion-pound cost for Lincs is
the cost of the wind farm itself, while the remainder will pay
for a link to bring the power to shore. Centrica, Dong and
Siemens are contributing 575 million pounds along with the
financing from the banks.  Non-Recourse Funds  The lenders will provide so-called non-recourse project
finance, meaning they recoup their investment from its cash
flows without the right to recoup it from the developers.  “Despite the challenging market environment, well-
structured projects that are backed by strong relationship
sponsors continue to receive the finance required,” Richard Simon-Lewis, senior director for Lloyds Bank’s project-finance
renewable-energy team, said in the statement.  Centrica plans to take 75 percent of the venture’s
electricity and 50 percent of its Renewable Obligation
Certificates, or ROCs, according to Lloyds. The ROC system is
the U.K.’s main support for large renewable-energy projects.  Dong will take 25 percent of the power and 25 percent of
the ROCs. The remaining certificates will be sold to the energy
market by the Lincs project company, Lincs Wind Farm Ltd.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  