-- McGraw-Hill Said to Be a Final Bidder for Wood Mackenzie
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-08T20:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/mcgraw-hill-said-among-the-final-bidders-for-wood-mackenzie-1-.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  has emerged as one
of the final bidders for oil and gas researcher  Wood Mackenzie ,
with an offer that may value the firm at about 1.1 billion
pounds ($1.7 billion), said people familiar with the matter.  European private equity firm Charterhouse Capital Partners
LLP began exploring a sale of the business in March, said these
people, who declined to be named because the process is private.
Media and information companies such as Bloomberg LP,  IHS Inc. (IHS) 
and  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  also looked at buying the company, one
of these people said.  McGraw-Hill sees Wood Mackenzie as a fit for its Platts
business, which provides news and data about the  energy
industry , the person said. First-round indicative offers were
made in recent weeks and McGraw-Hill is likely to be the only
remaining party as final bids come in, the person said. No deal
has been completed and a transaction may still fall through, the
person said.  Charterhouse acquired Wood Mackenzie in 2009 for 520
million pounds, according to the firm’s website. Edinburgh-based
Wood Mackenzie has more than 600 employees in over 20 offices
across Europe,  North America , South America and Asia, providing
research and consulting services in the energy, metals and
mining industries, the website shows.  McGraw-Hill declined to comment, according to Patti Rockenwagner, a spokeswoman for the New York-based company.
Charterhouse and IHS didn’t return calls seeking comment, while
a spokesman for  Thomson Reuters  declined to comment.  Two Businesses  A spokesman for Bloomberg declined to comment. Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with Thomson Reuters
and McGraw-Hill in providing financial news and information.  McGraw-Hill dropped 0.6 percent to $43.52 at the close in
New York. The shares have declined 3.2 percent this year.  McGraw-Hill said in September that it plans to divide
itself into two businesses by year-end, with one company focused
on financial information and the other on educational
publishing.  The company said last month it’s in the final phase in its
search for a chief executive officer for McGraw-Hill Education.
Robert Bahash, president of the education unit, is retiring.
McGraw-Hill Financial will include the Standard & Poor’s ratings
service, S&P Indices, Platts and J.D. Power & Associates.  The company began a strategic review of its businesses in
2010. In August 2011, Jana Partners LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund and investor in the company, proposed a plan to break up
McGraw-Hill after a slump in education revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  