-- Chavez Losing Grip on ‘Benjamin’ as U.S. Dollars Sought
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-06-07T20:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/chavez-losing-out-to-benjamin-as-venezuela-seek-dollar.html
Venezuela ’s bolivar is tumbling to a
record low in the unregulated street markets of Caracas as
individuals and companies seek to buy a shrinking number of
dollars, adding to the region’s highest inflation rate.  The local currency has weakened 6.4 percent this year to
9.23 per dollar, after falling to a record low 9.27 on June 5,
according to the blog  Lechuga Verde , or Green Lettuce, which
cites traders. Individuals seeking to buy U.S. currency consult
websites and Twitter accounts that call money Fresh Avocado or
Your Benjamin, a reference to  Benjamin Franklin , whose face
appears on the $100 bill. The government prohibits local
newspapers and broadcasters from mentioning the black-market
exchange rate.  The bolivar, pegged at 4.3 per dollar for “priority”
imports, is sinking the most this year since President  Hugo Chavez  shut a government-endorsed unregulated market in May
2010, citing the potential for  money laundering . With inflation
topping 20 percent a year and oil, the source for 95 percent of
export revenue, falling, the government has reduced sales of
dollar bonds used to access foreign currency. The move is
spurring speculation that the next government will devalue the
bolivar, regardless of who wins October presidential elections.  “The government is dead-set against giving dollars for
capital flight,”  Boris Segura , a strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said by phone from New York. “If they don’t get their act
together in terms of irrigating more dollars in the currency
market, this is bound to weaken more.”  ‘Priority’ Imports  As part of controls to keep dollars in the country, Chavez,
who is battling cancer as he seeks re-election in October, pegs
the bolivar at 4.3 per dollar for “priority” imports such as
food staples, medicine and machinery. The government sets a rate
of 5.3 per dollar for goods it deems non-essential. Authorized
buyers at the 5.3 rate obtain the U.S. currency through a
central bank-run market that provides dollars through the
trading of bonds.  Venezuelans who can’t get government approval to purchase
dollars at those rates turn to the black market. Higher-end
retail items that aren’t regulated such as whiskey, clothing and
cars are priced at that rate, helping fuel inflation.  The outlook for government revenue is worsening as oil
prices drop. Crude has fallen about 22 percent in New York since
reaching a peak this year of $109.77 a barrel on Feb. 24.  The bolivar has weakened in the unregulated market more
than any official  exchange rate  in  Latin America  this year,
except  Brazil ’s real, which is down 8.2 percent against the
dollar.  Argentina ’s peso has dropped 23 percent in the country’s
so-called blue-chip market used to skirt currency controls.  No Bonds  Venezuela has sold no dollar bonds this year after issuing
a record $7.2 billion of the securities last year to meet
foreign-currency demand and finance government spending.  A Finance Ministry official declined to comment. The
central bank’s press department didn’t return an e-mail seeking
comment.  Individual investors seeking to purchase the dollar
securities are increasingly being squeezed out of the primary
market. During the October sale of $3 billion of bonds,
individuals and companies putting in the minimum order of $3,000
were only allocated $1,500 each.  Local investors were also left out of a dollar bond sale by
Petroleos de Venezuela SA last month, when the state  oil company 
decided to raise money in a private placement with the central
bank and public banks.  Cancer Recurrence  When permitted, locals buy dollar bonds from the government
and PDVSA, as the oil company is known, at face value in
bolivars at the official rate of 4.3 per dollar and sell them to
investors abroad in dollars at a discount. The bonds due in 2026
that were sold in October began trading at 75 cents on the
dollar when they debuted in secondary markets. The 11.75 percent
securities traded at 89.78 cents today at 3:50 p.m. in Caracas,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chavez, whose presidency began in 1999, has cut back on his
public appearances since a cancer recurrence in February. His
illness has caused delays in economic planning, an example of
government “disorganization,” according to  Francisco Rodriguez , an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New
York .  Venezuelan dollar bonds yield an average 12.43 percent, the
third-highest among  emerging markets  tracked by JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index, behind Belize and Argentina. Investors
demand an extra 1,095 basis points, or 10.95 percentage points,
in yield above U.S. Treasuries partly because the government is
dependent on oil for access to dollars and after  foreign-
currency reserves  fell 39 percent since the beginning of 2009 to
$25.77 billion.  ‘Large Devaluation’  Investor expectations of a devaluation following the
October elections are also increasing dollar demand and
weakening the bolivar in the unregulated market, Juan Pablo Fuentes, an economist at Moody’s Economy.com in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said in a report.  “Tight  capital controls , falling international reserves,
and expectations of a large devaluation soon after October’s
presidential elections have pushed the currency measurably lower
in recent weeks,” Fuentes wrote. “After October, expect the
government to implement a large devaluation, as hard currency
becomes more scarce.”  Inflation running over 20 percent a year is eroding the
value of the government’s dollar revenue, leading to growing
budget deficits and creating pressure on Chavez to devalue,
according to Asdrubal Oliveros, an economist at Caracas-based
research and consulting firm Ecoanalitica.  “Devaluations in Venezuela are primarily driven by fiscal
needs,” Oliveros said.  Legal Concerns  Chavez, who installed currency controls in 2003 and
maintained a peg of 2.15 bolivars per dollar from 2005 until
2010, has devalued the currency twice in two years. The
government may devalue about 28 percent to 6 per dollar later
this year, according to Fuentes.  Corporations, which were using the market to repatriate
dividends, no longer participate in the black market out of
concern over legal ramifications, according to Ecoanalitica.  Since the closing of the so-called parallel market in May
2010, unregulated trading has dropped about 80 percent to
between $18 million and $25 million a day, Ecoanalitica
economists Oliveros and Jose Luis Saboin wrote in a February
report. The bolivar traded at about 8.3 per dollar when Chavez
shut down the parallel market in 2010.  ‘Under Control’  Central bank President Nelson Merentes, who set up the
government-run  currency market  known as Sitme in June 2010, told
Chavez the black market rate is “under control” when asked
about the rate on Aug. 17 last year during a national broadcast.
In the Sitme market, buyers get the 5.3 per dollar rate.  Venezuelans buy dollars on the black market either by
exchanging cash or sending a transfer to banks outside the
country. While this is illegal and can lead to imprisonment,
people find ways to sidestep the controls, Segura said.  Individuals can also exchange bolivars for Colombian pesos
in the border city of  Cucuta  and then convert pesos into
dollars. That implicit rate is closer to 9.60, according to
Lechuga Verde.  “Where there’s a will, there’s a way,” Segura said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  