-- Chesapeake Developed Shopping Centers as Gas Prices Fell
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-06-07T00:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/chesapeake-developed-shopping-centers-as-gas-prices-fell.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , under fire
from investor  Carl Icahn  for focusing on “non-core assets,”
has amassed more than $300 million of real estate in its home-
town Oklahoma City area, including shopping centers.  The exact size of Chesapeake Land Development Co.’s
holdings, valued according to county tax records, is unclear
from public filings. The empire, which has built at least two
retail developments from scratch, has also included a church,
houses and a grocery store.  The real estate subsidiary is “absolutely” an example of
costs that Chesapeake will have to rein in, said  Fadel Gheit , an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.  Chesapeake’s home-town development projects illustrate how
it can be difficult to distinguish between the personal
interests of Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon , who once
said he might have been a developer in another life, and those
of the company he leads. According to county real estate
records, Chesapeake is the landlord for the upscale restaurant
Deep Fork Grill, of which McClendon owns 49.7 percent.  “I’m really kind of surprised,” said  Brian Gibbons , an
analyst at Creditsights Inc. in  New York  who rates Chesapeake
bonds a buy. “They should not be involved in real estate
development.”  Chesapeake, the U.S. energy explorer battered by collapsing
natural-gas prices and growing investor mistrust, will report to
shareholders at its annual meeting tomorrow about plans to
replace almost half its board under pressure from its biggest
investors. Icahn, whose newly acquired 7.6 percent stake makes
him the second-largest shareholder, is urging “cost savings
initiatives” and a more conservative approach to spending,
according to a June 4 federal filing.  Selling Assets  Southeastern Asset Management Inc., the largest shareholder
with 13.6 percent of shares, also urged Chesapeake in a May 7
letter to focus more on its oil and gas business and sell assets
outside that core. Facing a cash shortage, Chesapeake is in
advanced talks to sell virtually all of its pipeline assets in
transactions that may raise more than $4 billion, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The real estate unit is putting “the same creativity and
innovation” into its industry as the parent company has used in
energy, according to the land segment’s Web site.  Michael Kehs, a spokesman for Chesapeake, declined to
comment on Chesapeake’s real estate holdings.  ’Bread and Butter’  Almost every energy company will have excess land it needs
to sell over time and may even develop some of it, Gheit, the
Oppenheimer analyst, said. Still, Chesapeake should be paying
more attention to its “bread and butter” oil and gas business,
he said.  “I guess we totally missed this one,” Gheit said of
Chesapeake’s real estate subsidiary. “We knew about their fancy
campus.”  For years the company has been buying land around its
corporate headquarters campus in northern  Oklahoma City . It has
also added numerous amenities to the campus itself, including a
soccer field, jogging track and several restaurants.  The real estate purchases have stretched far beyond the
campus to include several office buildings more than a mile
away. Closer to the campus, the company has built two retail
developments and bought a third existing shopping center, adding
up to an estimated 100,000 to 200,000 square feet of retail
space, said  Roy Williams , chief executive officer for the
Greater Oklahoma City Chamber of Commerce.  The real estate moves have improved the neighborhood around
the headquarters campus from an area with run-down buildings and
“class B” office space, Williams said.  Reshaping Town  “I think they’ve totally reshaped that whole area of
town,” he said. “Now, it’s a destination.”  Other large  oil companies , including  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  and
 SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) , are also making an impact on the Oklahoma
City economy with real estate purchases.  In October, Whole Foods Co. began a 20-year lease with
Chesapeake for a store across the street from the headquarters
campus on land that was formerly home to one of the city’s
oldest funeral homes.  McClendon, who uses Arcadia Farm LLC as one of his personal
investment companies, told Forbes last year that if it weren’t
for the oil and gas industry, he would have been an accountant
“or a real estate developer, which is something I have found
quite enjoyable and useful in oil and gas development, and it
has been helpful in leading the development of our large
corporate campus in Oklahoma City.”  Unclear Distinctions  Arcadia Farm and related entities own real estate valued
for tax purposes by the Oklahoma County appraiser at more than
$24 million.  Chesapeake Land Development Co. and other Chesapeake-named
subsidiaries own land and buildings valued at more than $300
million, according to the county assessor’s office. That
includes the headquarters campus office buildings.  The distinction between the publicly traded company and
McClendon’s Arcadia is not always clear. In 2002, for example,
McClendon and his wife owned real estate that shared the same
post office box as Chesapeake Energy and an entity known as Deep
Fork Farm LLC, which later changed its named to Arcadia Farm,
according to deeds.  Chesapeake also owns properties north of its campus that
are within a mile of a personal real estate project of
McClendon’s that was planned to house his personal wine
collection, at one point considered one of the country’s
largest. Construction on the $3 million, 31,000-square-foot
warehouse stopped around the time McClendon faced financial
difficulties in 2008.  Deep Fork  In four federal filings between April 29, 2008, and May 4,
2009, Chesapeake said it used the catering services of Deep Fork
Grill and that McClendon was a 49.7 percent owner in the
restaurant. It did not note that it owned Deep Fork Acquisition
LLC, the entity listed on the county assessor’s tax rolls now as
the owner of the restaurant property. A Sept. 20, 2011, filing
with the Oklahoma County Clerk’s office describes Chesapeake as
the owner of Deep Fork through a series of mergers between 2006
and 2008.  While Williams, of the Chamber of Commerce, has not worked
with McClendon personally on any real estate projects, the two
have worked together on behalf of several non-profit groups.  “Aubrey really likes things that are different; he likes
things that are ’first,’ ’best’ or ’only,’” Williams said. “He
doesn’t like to have another something that everybody else
has.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  