-- Chilean Peso Rallies as China’s Interest-Rate Cut Supports Risk
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-07T19:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/chilean-peso-rallies-as-china-s-interest-rate-cut-supports-risk.html
Chile’s peso rose, heading for its
biggest weekly gain since October, after  China  cut  interest
rates  for the first time since 2008, encouraging demand for
riskier assets in  emerging markets .  The peso appreciated 1.2 percent, the most since February,
to 500.49 per dollar. The currency has gained 3.6 percent since
June 1, which would be the biggest weekly increase since the
five days ended Oct. 28.  “China to the rescue,” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a
Latin America strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 Stamford , Connecticut. “It’s a very strong pro-growth signal
and policy from China, which mitigates the European situation
for the time being. Latin American currencies had reached
attractive levels after last month, which provides opportunities
for investors.”  The reduction in borrowing costs by China came after
 Australia  lowered interest rates and comments from European and
U.S. central bank officials supported speculation over more
monetary stimulus.  Chile’s five-year credit-default swaps fell one basis point
to 120 basis points. The highest-rated Latin American country
has seen the rate drop from 136 basis points on June 4.  The 10-year inflation-linked swap rate rose five basis
points to 2.18 percent while the yield on a two-year inflation-
linked swap was unchanged at 1.92 percent.  International investors in the peso forwards market had a
$10.1 billion net short position in the Chilean currency as of
June 5, little changed from a day earlier and close to the
record $10.2 billion short on May 24. Local investors had a
$17.5 billion long peso position, according to central bank data
published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  