-- China Money Rate Rises as Shipbuilding Bond Sale Drains Capital
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-07T03:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/china-money-rate-rises-as-shipbuilding-bond-sale-drains-capital.html
China ’s money-market rate climbed to
a two-week high on speculation cash supply will decline after a
debt sale by China Shipbuilding Industry Co. drained funds.  The state-backed  supplier  of submarines, missile destroyers
and merchant vessels sold 8.1 billion yuan ($1.3 billion) of
six-year convertible bonds on June 4. The sale locked up capital
amounting to some 214 billion yuan from individual and
institutional investors, according to the company’s statement
yesterday. The cash will be returned to bidders tomorrow,
according to a statement on May 31.  “Cash supply will remain week before the money used to
subscribe for China Shipbuilding bonds is returned,” said Wang
Huane, a senior bond trader at Qilu Bank Co. in Jinan, capital
of the eastern Shandong province. “Only some big banks are
willing to lend out money in market today.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, gained nine basis points to 2.68 percent
as of 10:42 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average
rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That is
the highest level since May 22.  The central bank sold 20 billion  yuan  of 91-day repurchase
contracts today, according to a statement on its website.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.57 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.51 percent government bond due February
2022 rose one basis point to 3.38 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  