-- China’s Stocks Fall Most in Asia on IPO, Economic Slowdown Risks
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-07T08:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-bank-rules-delay-policy-outlook.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down by the most among Asian indexes, on concern
the nation’s economic slowdown is deepening and a possible jump
in initial public offerings will drain capital.  Jiangxi Copper  Co. and China Shenhua Energy Co. led
declines for copper and coal producers after a state economist
said the slowdown isn’t over yet as loan demand falls. SAIC
Motor Corp., China’s largest carmaker, dropped to the lowest in
two months after the biggest auto-dealer association said the
worsening glut of vehicles in dealerships is unsustainable.
Seven “large” initial public offerings in the second half of
the year are expected to absorb market capital, China Finance
Information reported today.  “I’ve heard about the IPO speculation,” said Wei Wei, an
analyst at West China Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “It’s not
just listings, but the fact that they are big IPOs. This
definitely dragged stocks down today.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 16.4 points, or 0.7
percent, to 2,293.13 at the close, adding to a 3.4 percent loss
this week. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 0.6 percent to 2,542.18. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, rose 2.7 percent at the close.  The Shanghai Composite has gained 4.3 percent on
speculation the government will cut interest rates and increase
infrastructure spending to bolster growth. Stocks in the measure
are valued at 9.9 times estimated earnings, compared with a
record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to  weekly data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Data  Fixed-asset investment probably expanded at the slowest
pace in a decade in May, inflation matched a two-year low and
industrial output grew less than 10 percent for a second month,
Bloomberg economist surveys are expected to show this weekend.  China’s economic slowdown is not over yet as demand for
medium- and long-term loans is decreasing,  Fan Jianping , chief
economist at the government-run State Information Center, said
at a conference in Hangzhou today. The economy grew 8.1 percent
in the first quarter, the least since the three months ending
June 30, 2009.  Jiangxi Copper retreated 1.2 percent to 24.71  yuan . Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co. dropped 1.4 percent to 21.16 yuan. China Shenhua
fell 0.8 percent to 24.83 yuan.  The seven large IPOs may drain about 77.1 billion yuan of
capital from the A-share market, China Finance Information
reported today, citing its own calculations. Approved fund
raising plans may drain about 56.3 billion yuan from the market,
it said.  Sinohydro Group Ltd. fell 1.3 percent to 4.45 yuan. The
shares of the largest builder of hydroelectric dams have dropped
1.1 percent they started trading last October.  IPO Outlook  China National Nuclear Power Co. on June 5 won the
environment ministry’s permission to sell shares to fund 174
billion yuan of projects in the nation’s first IPO by a
developer of atomic energy. The company may need to raise about
50 billion yuan from the share sale, Macquarie Group Ltd. said.
 China  Postal Express & Logistics Co., the nation’s biggest
courier company, won IPO approval in May.  SAIC led declines for automakers, losing 1.8 percent to
14.55 yuan. Average inventory carried at Chinese dealerships
bloated to a level exceeding two months of sales by the end of
May, compared with more than 45 days at the end of April, Luo
Lei, deputy secretary general of the state-backed China
Automobile Dealers Association, said in an interview yesterday.
That’s forcing dealers to deepen discounts and sell cars at a
loss to meet mandatory sales targets set by automakers, he said.  Low Confidence  “Confidence is quite low as there are worries about the
economy, liquidity is too low to push stocks up for long and
company earnings remain weak,”  Zhang Qi , an analyst at Haitong
Securities Co., said in a telephone interview in Shanghai. “Now
we are just waiting for an interest-rate cut. The central bank
may do so in the next two months at the earliest.”  China last reduced borrowing costs in 2008. The central
bank cut lenders’ reserve requirments three times since
November.  Bank stocks fell even after the government delayed the
start of tighter capital rules. New draft rules from the China
Banking Regulatory Commission aim to set “reasonable”
schedules for banks to meet capital targets in a way that helps
“maintain appropriate credit growth,” the government said on
its website yesterday. The rules, announced in August, had been
set to go into effect on Jan. 1, 2012.  Bank of Communications Co. decreased 0.9 percent to 4.56
yuan. Industrial Bank Co. retreated 0.8 percent to 13.06 yuan.  China cutting  interest rates  would be a “wrong move” as
it would cause banks to lose deposits that could be used to
support economic growth as well as lower their net interest
margins, 21st Century Business Herald said today in an
editorial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  