-- China Reduces Interest Rates for First Time Since 2008
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-08T03:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/china-cuts-interest-rates-for-first-time-since-2008.html
China  cut borrowing costs for the
first time since 2008 and loosened controls on banks’ lending
and deposit rates, stepping up efforts to combat a deepening
slowdown as Europe’s debt crisis threatens global growth.  The one-year lending rate declines by a quarter percentage
point today to 6.31 percent, the People’s Bank of China said in
a  statement  yesterday. The one-year deposit rate drops the same
amount, to 3.25 percent. The extra leeway banks will get to
determine rates at variance from the official setting was called
a “milestone” by UBS AG.  The move, before China reports inflation, investment and
output figures tomorrow, may signal that the economy is weaker
than the government anticipated. Policy makers across the globe
are also girding for a deeper impact from Europe’s woes, with
Australia and  Brazil  also lowering rates in the past eight days.
In South Korea, a pause in raising the  benchmark  has lasted a
year, with the central bank staying on hold today.  “This will be the beginning of a rate cut cycle and there
will be at least one more reduction this year,” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist with Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. who has worked for the  European Central Bank . “The
data to be released over the weekend must be very weak and
inflation must have eased sharply.”  Asian stocks fell, paring their biggest weekly gain since
February, after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the Fed will need to assess conditions before deciding if
more measures are needed to support growth. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index lost 1.3 percent at 11:31 a.m. in Tokyo.  ‘Unprecedented’ Change  Banks can offer a 20 percent discount to the key lending
rate, up from a previous 10 percent, China’s central bank said
yesterday. Lenders will, for the first time, be able to offer
savers deposit rates that are up to 10 percent higher than the
benchmark.  The deposit-ceiling move is “unprecedented” and a
“milestone for interest-rate liberalization,” said  Wang Tao ,
chief China economist at UBS in  Hong Kong , who previously worked
at the  International Monetary Fund .  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has pressed
China on the limit, calling as recently as April 26 for an
increase to give savers higher returns and stoke  consumer
spending . The practice of keeping the deposit rate below the
pace of inflation had forced households to “save excessively,”
he said in a speech in San Francisco.  Japan’s Expansion  Elsewhere in Asia-Pacific, Japan reported its economy
expanded more than the government initially estimated last
quarter. Australia’s trade deficit narrowed more than forecast
in April, while home-loan approvals rose in the same month for a
second straight time. Pakistan’s central bank is forecast to
announce today it will keep  interest rates  unchanged, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  In  Europe , economists predict France will report its trade
deficit narrowed in April, while Germany may say exports fell
that same month from March, according to Bloomberg surveys.
Italy will release industrial production data for April, which
is forecast to decline month-on-month and year-on-year, a
separate survey showed.  The U.S. Commerce Department may report today the country’s
trade deficit narrowed in April to $49.5 billion from $51.8
billion in March, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. A separate report may show inventories at U.S.
wholesalers rose at a faster pace in April, economists predict.  Weaker Lending  In China, the rate move signals policy makers’ concern at
weakness in demand for loans. Three bank officials told
Bloomberg News last month that the nation’s biggest lenders may
fall short of loan targets for the first time in at least seven
years as demand for credit wanes.  The central bank last reduced interest rates in late 2008,
when the government unveiled a 4 trillion  yuan  ($586 billion at
the time) stimulus package. Now, Chinese officials are
monitoring the threat to exports from Europe’s crisis as Greece
prepares for an election on June 17 that may determine whether
it remains in the euro region. A crackdown on property
speculation is also cooling the world’s second-biggest economy.  The yuan is down about 1 percent against the dollar this
year, closing at 6.3635 yesterday.  In Wenzhou, an eastern Chinese city known as a center of
entrepreneurship, “smaller businesses are in a much more dire
situation now than during the financial crisis,”  Zhou Dewen ,
head of the small and medium enterprise association, said in an
interview in his office this week.  Pace of Change  Loosening restrictions on interest rates shows that the
economic slowdown and the turbulence of Bo Xilai’s ouster from
the Communist Party leadership aren’t derailing policymaking or
efforts to reshape the financial system. The central bank has
widened the yuan’s trading band, while Premier Wen Jiabao has
called for the “monopoly” of big lenders to be broken.  The government may be “getting ready to step up its pace
of financial reforms,” HSBC Holdings Plc said in a note. Policy
makers regret “that the 2008 financial crisis was not used to
introduce more reforms, so this time they want to take advantage
of the window,” said Chen Zhiwu, a finance professor at the New
Haven, Connecticut-based Yale School of Management.  Australia ’s central bank cut interest rates this week,
citing Europe’s crisis and moderating growth in China. The
European Central Bank held its key rate at a record low, with
President  Mario Draghi  saying that officials stand ready to act.
The  Bank of England  kept its benchmark at a record low, while
refraining from expanding a stimulus program.  Bernanke’s View  In the U.S., Bernanke said policy makers are ready to act,
without specifying any possible steps. Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said that the  U.S. economy  “remains vulnerable to
setbacks” and may warrant additional monetary stimulus.  Dennis Lockhart , president of the Fed’s Atlanta bank, said extending
Operation Twist, a policy of buying longer-term bonds, is an
“option on the table.”  Industrial output  in China, the world’s biggest producer of
steel and cement, probably rose 9.8 percent last month from a
year earlier, close to the slowest pace in three years,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
27 economists ahead of a report due June 9.  Fixed-asset investment may have grown at a slower pace in
the first five months, with  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
largest maker of construction and mining equipment, among
companies reporting a slowdown.  Weaker Inflation  Inflation may have moderated to 3.2 percent in May from a
year earlier after a 3.4 percent rate in April, a separate
survey showed, the fourth month consumer prices have climbed by
less than the government’s 2012 target of 4 percent.  China’s manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in six
months in May, a government report showed on June 1. A separate
purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics pointed to a seventh straight contraction, the longest
stretch since the global financial crisis.  The PBOC cut banks’ reserve  requirements  in November for
the first time in three years, and again in February and May, to
spur lending.  Wen and the State Council pledged last month to place
greater emphasis on stabilizing growth after April industrial
production, new loans and exports were less than economists
forecast. Measures so far have included speedier project
approvals and incentives for home-appliance purchases.  Cutting Forecasts  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and Bank of
America Corp. have cut economic-growth estimates for China.
Expansion may drop to 7 percent or “slightly below” this
quarter from a year earlier, Tao Dong, a Hong Kong-based
economist with Credit Suisse Group AG said last month. Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Citigroup Inc., forecast
7.5 percent. That follows an 8.1 percent expansion in the first
three months of the year, the fifth quarterly deceleration.  Tao said the government may respond with a stimulus of as
much as 2 trillion yuan, half the size of a package announced in
late 2008 to cushion the economy from the impact of the global
financial crisis.  Even so, the official Xinhua News Agency said in a May 29
article that the government has no intention of rolling out
another “massive” stimulus, damping speculation of more
aggressive policies to support growth.  --Zhou Xin and Zheng Lifei, with assistance from Kevin Hamlin in
Beijing, Jun Luo in Shanghai and Shamim Adam in Singapore.
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  