-- China to Reform Gas Prices Gradually to Boost Use, Zhou Says
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2012-06-07T09:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/china-to-reform-gas-prices-gradually-to-boost-use-zhou-says-1-.html
China will reform its natural-gas
pricing mechanism gradually to ensure the fuel, which pollutes
less than coal, remains affordable as the government encourages
its use, the country’s biggest energy company said.  “Promoting the use of gas is a national strategy, which
requires appropriate pricing of the resource,” said Zhou Jiping, president of state-owned  PetroChina Co. (857) , the world’s
third-largest company by market value. The government is
studying the possibility of extending the trial of a new pricing
method to cities beyond those in two southern provinces, he told
reporters at the World Gas Conference in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  Beijing-based PetroChina is losing money on sales of gas
imported from  Turkmenistan  via the nation’s only cross-border
gas pipeline, as the government caps domestic prices of the fuel
to curb inflation. An oil-linked pricing mechanism was
introduced in Guangdong and Guangxi provinces from December on a
trial basis.  China’s gas consumption will rise 8 percent annually to 350
billion cubic meters by 2020 and to 550 billion cubic meters by
2030, Zhou said in a speech at the conference.  China  National
Petroleum Corp., PetroChina’s parent, expects to produce 120
billion cubic meters of gas domestically in 2015 and 150 billion
cubic meters in 2020, he said.  The country is also planning two new gas pipelines to
transport the fuel from its resource-rich provinces in the west
to commercial centers in the east, according to Zhou, who is
also the president of the parent company.  Shale Reserves  China, estimated to hold the world’s biggest shale-gas
resource, has 25.1 trillion cubic meters of recoverable
reserves, Zhou said. PetroChina recently drilled shale-gas wells
in Sichuan, which showed good prospects, he said.  The country also holds 32 trillion cubic meters of
conventional gas and 12 trillion cubic meters of tight gas,
according to the PetroChina official.  China’s shale-gas reserves have “great potential along
with great challenges,” Zhou said. The nation’s deposits of gas
trapped in sedimentary rocks are geologically more complex than
those in the U.S., and techniques used in  North America  can’t be
copied directly, he said.  China is seeking to emulate the U.S., where a shale boom
made it the world’s biggest gas producer and upended global
energy markets. The U.S. pumped 96 billion cubic meters in 2009,
overtaking  Russia  as the largest gas provider. Output surged to
142 billion cubic meters in 2010, causing prices to slump.  “We need to develop our own applicable technology and
approach,” Zhou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Kuala Lumpur at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  