-- China Solar Companies Gain on Europe Pain in Shift East
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-06-08T15:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/china-solar-companies-gain-on-europe-pain-in-shift-east.html
The world’s largest solar-panel
makers are boosting production this year on expectations that
demand in China will double, a surprise shift as the $36 billion
market migrates from  Europe  to  Asia .  The five biggest producers of polysilicon solar modules,
led by China’s  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  and Yingli Green
Energy Holdings Co., will increase shipments 27 percent to 37
percent from 2011 levels, according to the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Chinese demand will partially offset
declines in Europe that are driving the industry toward its
first global sales decline since at least 1999.  China’s efforts to stimulate its photovoltaic industry at
home and a 48 percent  drop  in panel prices in 2011 are boosting
sales. The nation, which trails only  Germany  and  Italy  for new
installations, will dominate growth this year and become the top
solar market in 2013, after European nations cut subsidies for
new projects, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Europe is going down and Asia is going up,” said Matt Feinstein, an analyst at Lux Research Inc. in  New York .  While the global demand shift eastward helps soak up excess
factory output that is depressing worldwide prices, it may leave
Western manufacturers with little hope to improve their profit
outlooks and share prices this year.  The Chinese boom “will drive big shipment numbers from
Chinese manufacturers, which are the only ones selling there,”
said Sean McLoughlin, vice president for clean technology
analysis at HSBC Bank Plc in  London .  Share, Margin Losses  Germany’s  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  has dropped 75 percent this year,
leading the  Bloomberg Large Solar index ’s 30 percent decline,
followed by Tempe, Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , which has
slumped 62 percent.  The 17 members on the benchmark on average lost money at
the operating level last year equal to 7.6 percent of revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Chinese companies are in a better position, due to
their cost competitiveness, so they might gain market share,”
said Martin Simonek, a solar analyst at New Energy Finance.
“Weaker players will leave and stronger ones will stay.”  Suntech CEO Shi Zhengrong expects solar sales in China to
exceed 4 gigawatts this year, and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  CEO Gao Jifan
expects 5 gigawatts of installations. China’s market totaled
2.57 gigawatts in 2011, almost 9 percent of what was sold
worldwide, according to New Energy Finance.  China’s Surge  China may install as much as 5.5 gigawatts this year and
the same amount in 2013 while Germany may slide to 2.5 gigawatts
next year, the London research group estimates. A gigawatt of
capacity is enough to power about 800,000 U.S. homes.  The Chinese market may be even larger if the government
creates new incentives to spur domestic demand and offset
declining sales in Europe, according to Hari Chandra Polavarapu,
an analyst at Auriga USA LLC in New York.  “Five gigawatts won’t cut it,” he said in an interview.
“China could install 5 gigawatts to 8.5 gigawatts.”  The five top companies by shipments of silicon panels last
year were Suntech, Yingli, Trina,  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , and
 Hanwha SolarOne Co. (HSOL)  They expect combined sales of solar modules
this year to range from 9.3 gigawatts to 10.1 gigawatts compared
with 7.4 gigawatts in 2011, according projections made in
company statements and compiled by Bloomberg. The ranking
excludes First Solar, which makes thin-film cells and expects a
decline in shipments this year.  As panel prices fall, PV developments are becoming more
economical. That’s increasing the chance that installation rates
this year will be surprisingly strong, said Stefan Heck, a
director at McKinsey & Co.’s clean tech practice.  “Good news will come on the deployment and demand side,”
Heck said in a phone interview from his office in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Many places will exceed targets. We’ll see more
installs than expected.”  Zombies Versus ’Dead Bodies’  He said he’s still pessimistic about the profit outlook for
panel makers, since lower prices have slimmed margins for the
biggest manufacturers. At least 10 companies worldwide including
U.S. Treasury-backed Solyndra LLC have gone bankrupt in the past
year, and Heck expects more insolvencies to follow.  “Some of the zombies will turn into dead bodies,” said
Heck. “The winners half a decade from now are the players with
big balance sheets or who have a big brother.”  China  isn’t the only market headed for a boom.  Japan , the
sixth-largest market in 2011, starts a new solar incentive
program in July and may install more than 4.6 gigawatts of solar
panels next year, second after China, according to New Energy
Finance.  Saudi Arabia  is seeking investors for a $109 billion
plan to create its own solar industry.  These programs may not be reflected in forecasts for global
demand, said Daniel Guttmann, head of renewable strategy at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, a consulting company. “In almost
every year you look, forecasters’ cost-reduction assumptions and
demand forecasts are too conservative.”  Trina Estimate  “China could be a 5- to 6-gigawatt market this year, maybe
even larger,” said Terry Wang, Trina’s chief financial officer.
“We could scale quickly,” he said, adding that analysts,
“might be underestimating our abilities.”  Not all solar companies are projecting a surge in 2012.
JinkoSolar, which ranked eighth in silicon-panel shipments last
year, expects sales between 800 megawatts and 1 gigawatt, which
is about the same as 2011’s level of 950.5 megawatts. Its CEO
Chen Kangping still said he expects China to be a “very, very
important market in 2012.”  Suntech, the world’s largest panel maker, has the most
conservative growth forecast of the top five. It expects
shipments of 2.1 gigawatts to 2.5 gigawatts, compared with 2.1
gigawatts last year.  Suntech Chief Commercial Director Andrew Beebe said he
thinks analyst forecasts for demand are “almost always” too
conservative.  Protection From Creditors  Other PV manufacturers are failing. Germany’s Q-Cells, once
the world’s biggest solar-cell maker, filed for protection from
creditors on April 3, the fourth casualty in the country since
December.  Solon SE (SOO1) ,  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  and  Solarhybrid AG (SHL)  have
all filed for insolvency as Germany cut incentives and China’s
suppliers reduced prices.  Yingli Chairman Miao Liansheng said on May 30 that while
first quarter shipments to China were “soft,” they will
“gradually pick up” in the second and third quarter and
account for 30 percent of revenue this year. Germany and the
U.S. currently make about 80 percent of Yingli revenue.  “Solar always surprises, usually on the upside,” said
Aaron Chew, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York. “It’s
the usual ballad of optimism versus pessimism in the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  