-- China’s Shipyards Fail to Win Orders as Greek Owners Shun Loans
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-06-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/china-s-ship-yards-fail-to-win-orders-as-greek-owners-shun-loans.html
Chinese shipyards are failing to
find new work 20 months after Premier  Wen Jiabao  sought to
encourage ordering by pledging $5 billion of loans to Greek
vessel owners, who control the world’s biggest merchant fleet.  The move by state-run banks was announced by Wen in October
2010 and they have distributed about $1 billion since then,
according to XRTC Business Consultants, the Athens-based adviser
to  China  Development Bank Corp., which is coordinating the
lending.  Danaos Corp. (DAC) ,  Greece ’s largest container-shipping line,
was one of the companies to take a loan, said the company’s
president, John Coustas.  “It was a time-consuming and painful exercise,” Coustas
said in an interview in  Athens . The project “was a political
statement that was not really matched by the will of the banking
system over there to proceed with the actual money,” he said.  Almost 90 percent of China’s  shipyards  received no orders
this year and about 28 percent have secured none since the end
of 2009,  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker, said May
16. Shares of  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group (1101) , China’s
largest non-state builder, fell 55 percent in the past year,
valuing the company at HK$13.6 billion ($1.8 billion).  Owners are refraining from new orders after rates plunged
and the combined capacity of  oil tankers , container ships and
commodity carriers reached a record. Earnings from the industry
averaged the lowest since 1999 so far this year, according to
the ClarkSea Index, a measure of freight rates for different
vessel types published by Clarkson.  European Lenders Retreat  European banks, which provide about 80 percent of the
shipping industry’s financing, are retreating because of a lack
of dollar funding and stricter EU capital requirements,
according to Frankfurt-based  DVB Bank SE (DVB) , which in March had 450
such loans. Thirteen of the world’s 19 largest shipping banks
stopped new lending to the industry, Dagfinn Lunde, a member of
DVB’s board of managing directors, said at a March 9
presentation in  London .  Banks in China may have another $3 billion to $5 billion to
lend and are streamlining the credit procedures improving loan
handling and documentation, George Xiradakis, the managing
director of Piraeus, Greece-based based XRTC, said in a phone
interview June 1. Greek owners have orders for new vessels worth
$31 billion, the most by value of any country and about 10
percent of the total, Clarkson data show.  Safe Bulkers Inc. (SB) , the Athens-based operator of 20
commodity carriers, didn’t seek Chinese funding because of the
costs, said its President Loukas Barmparis. Chinese banks
proposed loans at 3.5 percentage points above the London
interbank offered rate, about 1 percentage point more than other
lenders, he said. Libor is the rate at which banks say they can
borrow in dollars from each other.  Smaller Owners  “It’s the smaller owners that do not have alternatives
that would be the ideal candidates to absorb these funds,”
Barmparis said in an interview in Athens on May 28.  Greek companies controlled 16 percent of the merchant fleet
by capacity at the start of 2011, making it the largest ship-
owning nation, according to the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development. Japanese owners controlled almost 16
percent. Ten Greek owners have borrowed from China, according to
a May 31 presentation from XRTC.  China Shipbuilding Industry Co. (601989) , whose shares slumped 27
percent in the past year, became the first yard to sell
convertible bonds in the country. The state-backed supplier of
submarines, missile destroyers and merchant vessels sold 8.1
billion  yuan  ($1.3 billion) of six-year notes with a 0.5 percent
initial coupon that convert into equity, according to a stock
exchange statement yesterday.  More Lending  Chinese policy makers are encouraging banks to lend more
after earlier seeking to restrict credit. The amount of cash
banks must set aside as reserves was reduced for the third time
in six months, the central bank said May 12.  New orders for Chinese vessels would add to a glut of
capacity and driving down rates, said Nikolas Tsakos, the chief
executive officer of  Tsakos Energy Navigation Ltd. (TNP)  The Athens-
based company, which operates tankers hauling crude and refined
oil products, hasn’t sought financing from them.  “I was always against this,” Tsakos said in an interview
in Athens on May 28. “This is for owners who can’t get Western
funds. It was so bureaucratic it has not worked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  