-- China-U.S. Trade Tensions Rise as Renewable Energy Sags
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-06-07T23:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/china-u-s-trade-tensions-rise-as-renewable-energy-sags.html
When solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC
collapsed in September after winning a $535 million U.S. loan
guarantee, President  Barack Obama ’s administration blamed
China’s even bigger aid for its renewable-energy industry.  The China Development Bank Corp. in 2010 provided
Solyndra’s Chinese competitors more than $30 billion in credit,
dwarfing U.S. support for solar manufacturers as the price of
polysilicon, the main material in solar cells,  plummeted ,
 Jonathan Silver , the Energy Department’s loan-guarantee chief at
the time,  told  a House committee.  China and the U.S. combined have supported their solar- and
wind-manufacturing sectors with about $50 billion during the
past two years. That government support is heightening trade
tensions as both nations seek to protect manufacturing amid
sluggish demand and falling prices.  The Obama administration last month imposed  import duties 
on solar- and wind-energy products from  China , while the Chinese
responded with a  World Trade Organization  complaint and accused
the U.S. of “abuse of trade remedy.” Solar cells accounted for
about 0.7 percent of the $399.3 billion in U.S. imports from
China last year, according to the Commerce Department.  Renewable energy is “far more subsidized than your average
technology industry” or other forms of energy including fossil
fuels, Aaron Chew, an analyst with Maxim Group LLC in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “So it’s naturally going to rank
the highest among the sectors that could become trade-war types
of issues.”  Campaign Rhetoric  The rhetoric in the U.S. has intensified as elections loom
in November.  “We’ve brought trade cases against China at nearly twice
the rate of the previous administration,” Obama said May 30,
echoing comments from his  State of the Union  address. During the
January speech before Congress, he also announced the creation
of a Trade Enforcement Unit to investigate “unfair trading
practices in countries like China.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has called
China’s leaders “cheaters,” and he has pledged to label the
country a “currency manipulator” on his first day in office,
if elected.  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on June
14 will hold a  hearing  on “China and Clean Energy” to explore
ways to promote U.S. competitiveness.  Trade Deficit  The U.S. ran a $295.5 billion trade deficit with China in
2011, 46 percent higher than in 2005, according to the Commerce
Department.  Past trade disputes between the world’s two largest
economies have centered around steel, aluminum and tires, often
with accusations that the goods are being sold at below-market
rates with government help. The skirmishes over wind towers and
solar panels are the first involving renewable energy.  The Obama administration has guaranteed $34.7 billion in
funding for 33 nuclear, renewable and automotive projects --
including conditional approvals -- since 2009. About $14.9
billion was devoted to solar and wind initiatives, primarily
generation as opposed to manufacturing, through the Energy
Department’s loan-guarantee program. Republicans have questioned
the government’s support, particularly after Solyndra’s
bankruptcy.  The  China Development Bank  since 2010 has made available
$47.3 billion to support the country’s wind and solar
manufacturers, though this  credit line  has not been fully
tapped, according to a Bloomberg New Energy Finance study in
October. Clean energy at the end of 2010 accounted for about 42
percent of the state-owned bank’s $77.6 billion in loans for
environmental protection, energy savings and emissions
reductions, it said.  ‘Piker’ Solyndra  “Looking at how much access Chinese solar manufacturers
have, it makes Solyndra look like a piker,”  Pavel Molchanov , an
energy analyst with Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston
said in a phone interview.  The Chinese “are prepared to pour resources into a
sector,”  William Reinsch , president of the  National Foreign
Trade Council , a Washington-based business group, said in a
phone interview. “We historically have had big arguments about
that.”  China’s solar firms are facing losses as European nations
cut energy subsidies and the U.S. levies tariffs on imports.
Prices for polysilicon have also plummeted, dropping 58 percent
within the last year and 94 percent since 2008.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. of Jiangsu, China, the world’s
largest solar-panel producer, hasn’t been profitable in more
than a year.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  of Changzhou hasn’t been
profitable since mid-2011.  Duties Imposed  The U.S. Commerce Department, in preliminary findings
announced May 17, said the companies must pay anti-dumping
duties of 31 percent, on top of 4.73 percent tariffs previously
imposed, when selling their products in the U.S. market. Other
unnamed Chinese producers were hit with duties of 250 percent
after the U.S. unit of  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  filed a complaint in
October.  “The Commerce Department made a decision that they want to
support the manufacturing side of the value chain, but the
consequence of its action is that solar will be more expensive
for the end-user,” Molchanov said. “It’s a political judgment
on what side of the value chain the U.S. government wants to
support.”  WTO Complaint  China, in its May 25 complaint with the World Trade
Organization, said U.S. anti-subsidy measures in 22 categories,
including solar panels, undercut $7.3 billion worth of Chinese
goods. It also alleges that renewable-energy subsidies in
California,  Massachusetts ,  New Jersey ,  Ohio  and Washington state
violate global trade rules.  The U.S. “has continued to follow the wrong path in the
recent investigations against solar cells from China,” the
Ministry of Commerce said in its May 29 statement.  The Chinese “always retaliate, and they’ve been blunt
about that,” said Reinsch. The Obama administration is “very
much in the mode of, ‘We need to enforce our rights, we need to
enforce our trade law,’” he said.  On May 30, the Commerce Department set anti-subsidy duties
of 13.74 percent to 26 percent on imports of Chinese-
manufactured wind towers, affirming a December complaint filed
with the Obama administration by a group of U.S. competitors
including  Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)  of Naperville,  Illinois .  Difficult Years  “Two difficult years lie ahead for the global wind
industry” due to policy changes and uncertainty about economic
growth, according to a May 23 study by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. Sluggish demand worldwide may stunt orders and
installations in both the U.S. and China, it said. In the U.S.,
wind-energy manufacturers also may lose access to a  production
tax credit  that expires at the end of the year.  The renewable-duties announced by the Commerce Department
“cut against the announced policies of encouraging renewable
energy,” Gary Clyde Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics, said in a phone
interview. Duties levied on Chinese imports of both wind- and
solar-energy products raise costs for downstream industries,
and, ultimately, for consumers, he said.  The impact on consumers may be minimal. Suntech won’t have
to pay anti-dumping tariffs because because it has a global
network and can make solar-panels with products from other
nations, Shi Zhengrong, the company’s chief executive officer
said May 23.  “There are violations of trade law in every industry,
every market, every day,” said Chew, the analyst with Maxim
Group. “It’s just a question of whether it’s big enough to be
worth pursuing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Will Wade at   wwade4@bloomberg.net  