-- Chinese Estates Says Macau May Revoke Land Concession
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-06-07T10:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/chinese-estates-says-it-can-appeal-any-move-to-revoke-land-deal.html
Chinese Estates Holdings Ltd. (127) ,
controlled by Hong Kong billionaire Joseph Lau, said the Macau
government may take back a land concession amid a corruption
probe, affecting home sales of HK$3.8 billion ($490 million).  The developer has the right to lodge an appeal, Chinese
Estates said in a Hong Kong exchange filing yesterday. The
company has collected HK$384 million of deposits on sales made
for the La Scala project being built on the site, it said. The
shares dropped, set for the lowest in more than three years.  Lau, an avid art collector, was named in April in the
corruption trial of Ao Man-long, Macau’s former secretary of
transportation and public works, in relation to land being
developed by Chinese Estates in the only Chinese city where
casinos are legal. Ties between  Hong Kong  tycoons and government
officials have come under scrutiny since the arrest in March of
the co-chairmen of developer Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.  “Cases like these further reveal the flaws in the system
governing the interaction between developers and governments,”
said Eric Cheung, a law professor at the University of Hong Kong.
“They increase public concerns over the lack of transparency
and insufficient monitoring of the governments in both Hong Kong
and Macau.”  The company’s stock, suspended yesterday, was unchanged at
HK$9 at the 4 p.m. close after falling as much as 3.3 percent.
The shares have  dropped  28 percent this year, compared with the
1.3 percent increase in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   Final Confirmation  “The Macau government would wait for final confirmation of
the relevant judgment of the court early next week and then
follow up,” Chinese Estates said in the statement.  Lau, who controls almost 75 percent of the HK$17.2 billion
Hong Kong-based developer, has denied allegations that emerged
in Macau court proceedings that he or his company may have given
bribes to Ao, according to an April 17 statement by Chinese
Estates.  Macau’s public works department “clearly indicated” it
was aware of the investigation when it revised the land
concession in March 2011, Chinese Estates said yesterday. The
company signed contracts to sell apartments at La Scala because
the revision had been granted, it said.  Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  last week apologized
for “disappointing” the public and said the government will
impose rules to require officials to disclose conflicts of
interests, after having been criticized by lawmakers for
accepting private jet and yacht trips offered by tycoon friends.  The city should make it a criminal offense for the chief
executive to receive any advantage, including transportation and
hotel accommodation, without approval, the Independent Review
Committee for the Prevention and Handling of Potential Conflicts
of Interests said in a report released last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  