-- Christie Says He’ll Reject Bill to Lift N.J. Minimum Wage
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/christie-says-he-ll-reject-bill-to-lift-n-j-minimum-wage.html
Governor Chris Christie said he won’t
sign a measure to boost  New Jersey ’s minimum wage, citing
concern over a provision requiring annual adjustments for
inflation.  The measure, pushed by Democrats, would raise the hourly
wage floor to $8.50 from $7.25. It passed the Assembly in May
and is pending in the Senate. Democrats run both chambers.  “We’re telling small business owners that not only are we
going to raise their costs by a buck and a quarter, but we’re
also going to raise it with these cost-of-living adjustments,”
Christie, a 49-year-old Republican, said during a town-hall
style meeting in Lyndhurst. “Here’s what’s going to happen --
they’re going to have to lay people off.”  Christie has cited the “Jersey Comeback” in his push to
increase state spending and cut income taxes by 10 percent
across the board. He said a  minimum-wage  increase, and automatic
raises each year tied to the U.S. consumer price index, would
jeopardize that economic turnaround.  The governor also said that Assembly Democrats are “skunks
in the garden” by opposing his efforts with Senate President
Stephen Sweeney, a West Deptford Democrat, to cut taxes. He said
an agreement is near on such a proposal.  Sweeney didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking
comment on Christie’s remarks.  Legislative opponents of Christie’s plan to roll back
income taxes have countered with plans to rebate some property
levies and raise rates paid by higher-income residents. State
revenue has missed budget targets in recent months.  Christie’s administration has said revenue through June
2013 will be $706 million under budget. The Legislature’s policy
analysis office has projected a gap of as much as $1.4 billion.  The federal  Bureau of Economic Analysis  said in a June 5
report that the state’s economic  output  fell 0.5 percent last
year, placing it among the lowest one-fifth of U.S. states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 