-- Clothing Chains to Spend $35 Billion in U.S. Growth Bet: Retail
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-06-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/clothing-chains-to-spend-35-billion-in-u-s-growth-bet-retail.html
For all the concern that the  U.S.
economy  may be slowing, retailers from  Express Inc. (EXPR)  to  Finish
Line Inc. (FINL)  are poised to spend the most on capital improvements
since the recession.  Having focused on growing online and internationally in
recent years, U.S. retailers are accentuating the shopping
experience in an effort to boost sales amid increasing online
competition. With consumer spending on the rise, the industry
will boost  capital spending  to $35 billion this year, compared
with $29 billion in 2009, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “We think the consumer is getting more confidence, and
with that, the stores are getting more confident to expand,”
said Laura Pomerantz, founder of commercial real estate advisory
firm PBS Real Estate LLC in New York. “Stores have to be
entertainment, they have to be service-oriented, which has
clearly become very, very important to the consumer.”  Now that they are opening fewer stores in the U.S.,
retailers are trying to extract more dollars from each one.
Store designers are striking a balance: making stores more
Weblike, with mobile check-outs and kiosks, while turning them
into hangouts, where shoppers can experience a retailer’s brand
in ways they can’t online. They are also finding ways to add
merchandise without making stores seem cluttered.  The splurge on stores is lifting design and architecture
firms, as well as the suppliers of lighting fixtures, flooring
and signage, which lost business after the worst recession since
the Great Depression stifled  consumer spending . Retailers  spent 
at least $13.4 billion on interiors last year, according to the
non-profit Association for Retail Environments.  Consumer Confidence  While U.S. stocks  suffered  the worst decline since
September and last month’s gauges of  consumer confidence  showed
mixed results, the more than 20 chains tracked by researcher
Retail Metrics LLC have reported average same-store sales
increases every month starting in September 2009. And though
Express shares slid 6.4 percent this year, the Columbus, Ohio-
based chain is refurbishing 100 of its more than 600 shops in
the next three years.  Before the recession, retailers typically asked for
“tweaks” to their store prototype, and now they’re asking for
advice on how to create the “store of the future,” said Lee
Peterson, executive vice president of creative services for WD
Partners in Columbus, Ohio, a design and architecture company
that has worked with the likes of New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc.
and  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)   “There’s definitely more capital in the marketplace,” he
said. “I think everybody is fairly cautious, but less cautious
so far this year than last year, and I’m knocking on wood, a
hell of a lot more aggressive than two years ago.”  Wonderwall Design  Express, hired Wonderwall, the Japanese design firm that
planned the interior of Fast Retailing Co.’s Uniqlo flagship in
 Manhattan , to create a new prototype last year. Wonderwall
understood how to add more merchandise to the floor without
crowding the space and the need to organize by style, adding
sophisticated lighting and attractive shelving, said Michael Weiss, chief executive officer of the apparel company.  “We really believe it gives the consumer a more elegant
shopping experience, a more upscale shopping experience, much
more aspirational,” he said in an interview at the company’s
 New York  office last month. By organizing the merchandise by
lifestyle -- wear-to-work, going out, jeans-wear and casual --
customers often buy whole outfits versus a single item, driving
a measurable increase in sales, he said.  Customer Experience  Opening new stores and renovating existing locations will
help drive a jump in  capital expenditures  to as much as $108
million this year from $77.2 million in the similar period ended
Jan. 28, the company said in its May  earnings call.    “People are understanding that you’ve got to entice the
customer with the experience, and the experience is a whole lot
of things,” Weiss said.  Athletic-wear retailer Finish Line is testing a prototype
that boosts collaboration with such brands as Adidas and Nike,
and plans to have mobile registers in all its stores this year.  The Indianapolis, Indiana-based  retailer  may boost capital
expenditures to $85 million from $29 million in its most recent
fiscal year, as it refreshes and remodels stores, opens 25 new
stores, tests its new store prototype and adds point-of-sale
technology, according to a March 30 earnings call.  Complete Message  “We have received more requests recently to participate in
projects where we are not only redesigning a retail space, but
rebranding or redefining the brand image itself to create a more
complete message for the consumer,” Masamichi Katayama,
principal of  Japan ’s Wonderwall said in an e-mail.  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , the New York-based teen retailer, is in
the early stages of redesigning its more than 1,000 stores.  “Our key focus is designing a store that is innovative,
fun and inviting, while providing an environment that the kids
want to hang out in and stay a while,”  Kenneth Ohashi, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  With higher expectations and capital expenditures still
measured compared to before the recession, retailers want more
statistical evidence on what works and what doesn’t in terms of
prototypes, said Irwin Miller, a Los Angeles-based director at
design and architecture firm Gensler.  They’re also better informed about what their consumer
wants based on sharing across social networks like Pinterest,
Facebook and Instagram, he said.  “What really good retailers around the world are now
looking at is how do they create a unique experience in the
physical store that gets people come in and want to participate
in that,” said  Wendy Liebmann , chief executive officer of WSL
Strategic Retail in New York. “There are so many reasons for
people not to come or not to come as often. It becomes really
important to create more compelling and easier to shop
environments that people feel is theirs, their store.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  