-- McNamee’s Wife Says She Told Him to ‘Go After’ Clemens
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-07T23:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/mcnamee-s-wife-says-she-told-him-to-go-after-clemens.html
The wife of Brian McNamee, who claims
he gave Roger Clemens steroids and human growth hormone,
admitted she told her husband to “go after” the former star
pitcher when he disclosed their son’s medical condition during a
news conference in 2008.  Eileen McNamee, 42, under cross-examination by U.S.
prosecutors in Clemens’s perjury trial today in Washington,
bolstered the government’s contention that her husband wasn’t
motivated by fame or money when he turned over physical evidence
of drug injections to federal investigators.  Clemens and his lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , called the 2008 news
conference to rebut allegations in a congressional report that
he used performance-enhancing drugs. During the event, they
played a secretly recorded call from McNamee in an effort to
show that McNamee, Clemens’s chief accuser in an investigation
into drug use in Major League Baseball, was a desperate liar.  In the call, McNamee sought to get back into Clemens’s good
graces and bid for his sympathy, telling his former employer
that his 10-year-old son was dying. Eileen McNamee told jurors
the public airing of the phone call infuriated her.  “I heard it and my son heard it,” she said. “Now my son
thinks he’s dying.”  Blood Tests  Eileen McNamee said that just before the call she had told
her husband about blood test results for their son, who has
juvenile diabetes. He was not dying, though his test results
“weren’t great,” she said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Courtney Saleski asked Eileen
McNamee about a phone message she left for her husband after the
press conference.  “You said you wanted him to go after Mr. Clemens?”
Saleski asked.  “Yes, I did,” Eileen McNamee said.  The McNamees are involved in a divorce proceeding in  New
York .  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner as the best
pitcher in his league, is charged with one count of obstructing
a congressional investigation into the use of performance-
enhancing drugs by professional athletes. He’s also charged with
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel. If
convicted, he faces as long as 21 months in prison.  Case Ending  Eileen McNamee was one of six witnesses for the defense
today, and Hardin said his side plans to rest its case tomorrow
as the eighth week of trial ends. Prosecutors suggested in court
papers that they plan to put on a rebuttal case.  Shortly before today’s proceedings finished, the jury heard
from Clemens’s wife, Debbie. She explained how she and Clemens
met at their Houston-area high school. She said they began
dating years later, shortly after he was signed by the  Boston
Red Sox  in 1984. They were married the same year.  She recounted their move to  Boston , where they lived for 13
years and the birth dates of the couple’s four children.  In her 15 minutes on the stand, Debbie Clemens also took a
swipe at the media, saying they made living in Boston “very
miserable.”  “It was absolutely hard living a hero and a villain every
day with what they were creating,” she said.  Growth Hormone  Hardin told U.S. District Judge Reggie Walton today that
Debbie Clemens will testify that she received one injection of
human growth hormone from Brian McNamee. This injection was
given to her in the couple’s home while Clemens was away, he
said.  Brian McNamee  told Congress and the jury that Clemens knew
about the injection, asked McNamee to obtain the drugs and was
present for it.  Walton advised Debbie Clemens before she took the stand
that admitting to criminal activity in court could put her in
legal jeopardy. After consulting with Hardin, who is also her
lawyer, she agreed to testify.  Eileen McNamee said that shortly after the press conference
and playing of the call, her husband returned to their home to
retrieve a FedEx box. He told her he was bringing it to his
lawyers, she said.  Brian McNamee testified earlier that he saved needles,
cotton and vials from one of the injections in 2001 and kept
some of the items in a Miller Lite beer can that he took from
the recycling bin in Clemens apartment. He said he stored the
material in a FedEx box before giving it to federal
investigators in 2008.  Only Eyewitness  McNamee, who was the Yankees’ assistant strength and
conditioning coach, is the prosecution’s only eyewitness to
Clemens alleged drug use. He told jurors that he injected the
ballplayer with steroids and HGH during the 1998, 2000 and 2001
baseball seasons while both men worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays 
and the Yankees.  Eileen McNamee, who was called to testify by the defense,
contradicted earlier testimony by her husband.  He had told jurors she knew of injections as early as 2001
and that he showed her the medical waste he brought home from
Clemens’s apartment. He said he saved the material because she
told him repeatedly he’d be the one to take the fall if
something went wrong.  Eileen McNamee, a first-grade teacher in New York, said the
first time her husband told her about injecting Clemens was a
couple of days before former U.S. Senator  George Mitchell 
released a report on steroids in  Major League Baseball  on Dec.
13, 2007. Mitchell named Clemens in the report as having used
drugs on 16 occasions between 1998 and 2001.  She said her husband never told her what he’d kept in the
FedEx box.  Juror’s Question  A juror, who submitted a question to Walton for Eileen
McNamee, asked what she expected her husband would do when she
told him to go after Clemens.  “I didn’t really care,” she said. “I just didn’t want
him getting away with the situation he put my son in.”  She said she also blamed her husband for the information
being disclosed. She said that when she left a message for him
with the blood test results, he didn’t call her back and called
Clemens instead.  “Was being a part of Mr. Clemens’s entourage far more
important than his family?” Saleski asked.  “Yes, it was,” she said.  Eileen McNamee said that in a meeting with Hardin before
she testified, Hardin apologized for playing the telephone call
and said it was a lawyer’s idea, not Clemens’s.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  