-- Colombia Not Weighing Interest Rate Cuts, Central Banker Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-06-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/colombia-not-weighing-interest-rate-cuts-says-central-banker-1-.html
Colombia ’s central bank isn’t
contemplating cuts to its benchmark lending rate, even as
 Europe ’s debt crisis casts a “grey cloud” over the Andean
economy, central bank board member Cesar Vallejo said.  The current  interest rate  of 5.25 percent is at a level
which neither cools nor stokes inflationary pressure, Vallejo
said in an interview in Cartagena yesterday.  “At this moment we´re not considering” cutting borrowing
costs, Vallejo said. “The output gap is zero and the interest
rate is likely at a neutral level. A confirmation of that is
that inflation is getting close to the mid-point of the
target.”  Colombia has bucked a global trend for lower borrowing
costs as consumer credit growth and record foreign investment in
energy and mining helped power the fastest growth since 2007
last year. Banco de la Republica has increased the key rate  nine
times  since February 2011, raising it from a record low 3
percent, even as other  emerging markets  such as  Brazil  cut  rates 
to protect themselves from European debt turmoil.  Consumer prices  in  Latin America ’s fourth-largest economy
rose 3.44 percent in the year through May, down from 3.73
percent at the start of the year. Colombia targets inflation of
3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  Credit, Growth  Colombia is unlikely to increase banks’ minimum reserve
requirements as a means of controlling consumer lending growth,
since lending is already slowing, Vallejo added.  Increasing reserve requirements “would only be taken in an
extreme case and the need has been disappearing,” Vallejo said.  Outstanding credit expanded 20 percent in March from a year
earlier, down from 22 percent growth in January. Policy makers
have repeatedly expressed concern about the pace of consumer
lending growth.  Colombia’s economy grew 5.9 percent last year, faster than
the Brazil and  Mexico , and trailing Chile and Peru. The central
bank forecasts growth of around 5 percent this year.  The Colombian peso has appreciated 9.5 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  this year, the most of 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
annual consumer price increase expectations, fell to 2.41
percentage points today, from 4.07 on Feb 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  