-- Commercial Paper Falls for First Time in Six Weeks, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-06-07T15:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/commercial-paper-falls-for-first-time-in-six-weeks-fed-says-1-.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through U.S.  commercial paper  contracted for the first time in
six weeks, led by a decline in issuance from financial
institutions, as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis intensified.  The seasonally adjusted amount of commercial paper fell
$14.7 billion to $1.014 trillion outstanding in the week ended
yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website. The
market tumbled from the highest level in eight months in the
biggest weekly drop since the period ended Feb. 22, according to
Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand from money-market funds, among the biggest investors
in the market, is constrained by concern that fiscal upheaval in
Europe will infect bank balance sheets and curb economic growth
across the world. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
today the economy is at risk from Europe’s debt turmoil and the
prospect of fiscal tightening in the U.S.  A decline in domestic financial entities’ issuance of
commercial paper dominated the market’s contraction this week,
 Howard Simons , strategist at Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago ,
wrote in an e-mail. That fall “came just before suggestions of
further extraordinary actions on behalf of European sovereign
debtors,  Spain  in particular,” he said.  They’d ‘Desist’  The prospect of cheaper funding from central banks would
reduce the incentive for banks to borrow in the short-term
lending markets. “If domestic financial issuers ‘sensed’ the
latest round of likely interventions, they would desist from
issuing new CP,” Simons said.  Commercial paper issued by U.S.-based banks  fell for the
first time in six weeks, plunging $15.9 billion to $286.4
billion outstanding in the steepest weekly fall since the period
ended Oct. 19.  The amount sold by non-U.S. financial
institutions  decreased $1.6 billion to $198.5 billion
outstanding, the first decline in five weeks, according to the
Fed.  Spain’s Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said on June 5
that the “door of the markets isn’t open to Spain” as he
called for European institutions to help the nation shore up its
lenders. Still, the country’s Treasury beat its 2 billion-euro
($2.5 billion) target at a bond sale today, easing concern about
financing the region’s third-biggest budget deficit.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  