-- Compromise Cybersecurity Bill Talks Started, Lieberman Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-06-07T20:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/compromise-cybersecurity-bill-being-negotiated-lieberman-says.html
A bipartisan group of senators is
working on a compromise around U.S. cybersecurity legislation
that’s been stalled over differences on whether government
should set protection standards, Senator  Joseph Lieberman  said.  Senators  Sheldon Whitehouse , a Rhode Island Democrat, and
 Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, are working on a proposal,
Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Government. South Carolina Republican  Lindsey Graham 
and Delaware Democrat Christopher Coons are also taking part in
the negotiations, Lieberman said today.  A bill sponsored by Lieberman and backed by President
 Barack Obama  would put the Homeland Security Department in
charge of setting cybersecurity requirements for critical
systems such as power grids and transportation networks while
encouraging companies to share cyber threat data.  “Some of my colleagues are making this into another
instance of what they see as government over-regulation of
business,” Lieberman said. “This is national security.”  Lieberman’s bill has been opposed by House and Senate
Republicans who favor voluntary industry measures to improve
cybersecurity.  Senators working on a compromise are considering incentives
for owners of critical infrastructure to improve cybersecurity,
or minimum standards that infrastructure operators must meet to
get protection from lawsuits, Lieberman said.  Senate Action  Lieberman, while saying he supports the effort to find
compromise, said he’s unwilling to accept those steps because
voluntary efforts aren’t enough to protect the U.S. from cyber
attacks.  U.S. lawmakers are seeking to deter cyber attacks capable
of disrupting vital infrastructure and stealing intellectual
property. Hackers and illicit programmers in China and  Russia 
are aggressively pursuing American technology and industrial
secrets, jeopardizing an estimated $398 billion in U.S. research
spending, the National Counterintelligence Executive, the agency
responsible for countering foreign spying on the U.S.
government, said in a November  report .  Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has pledged
to bring Lieberman’s bill to the Senate floor and hasn’t set a
date. Lieberman said he’s confident legislation will go to the
floor this month.  Timing of Bill  “We can pass a good bill but we’re not going to know until
Senator Reid says it’s coming to the floor next Monday, because
that will force these negotiations to a conclusion,” Lieberman
told reporters and editors at Bloomberg.  The bill won’t come to the floor this week or next, Adam
Jentleson, a spokesman for Reid, said in an e-mail. The Senate’s
current work period ends June 29.  “Senator Reid still hopes to move the bill this work
period but we have a packed schedule for June,” Jentleson said.  A group of former U.S. military and intelligence officials
urged Reid and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a
Kentucky Republican, to bring cybersecurity legislation to the
Senate floor that includes standards for vital assets such as
electricity systems, nuclear plants, and energy pipelines.  “Protection of our critical infrastructure is essential in
order to effectively protect our national and economic security
from the growing cyber threat,” the former officials wrote in a
 letter  yesterday.  Those signing the letter include former Homeland Security
Secretary  Michael Chertoff ; former Director of National
Intelligence Mike McConnell; and former Central Intelligence
Agency Director  Michael Hayden .  House Bill  The House passed a bill on April 26 that would encourage
the government and companies to share information on cyber
threats and give businesses legal immunity for such exchanges.  The measure, introduced by Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee, passed the House by a vote of 248 to 168 after a veto
threat from Obama’s administration, which said the measure fails
to protect the nation’s critical systems and would erode
consumer-privacy safeguards.  Eight Senate Republicans including  John McCain  of  Arizona 
and  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of  Texas  have also introduced a bill to
promote information sharing on cyber threats.  Civil liberties and other groups have said the Rogers,
McCain and Lieberman bills don’t provide adequate protections
for sensitive personal data that may be part of information-
sharing provisions.  The Lieberman bill is S. 2105. The Rogers bill is H.R.
3523. The McCain bill is S. 2151.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 