-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Rose in April for an Eighth Month
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-07T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-rose-in-april-for-an-eighth-month.html
Consumer credit  in the U.S. rose in
April for the eighth consecutive month, boosted by financing for
education and automobiles.  The $6.51 billion  increase  followed a $12.4 billion gain in
the previous month, the  Federal Reserve  said today in
 Washington . Non-revolving credit, which includes student loans
and automobile lending, climbed by the most in three months.  Consumer credit is likely to continue growing as households
rely on borrowing to buy large-ticket items like cars and to
maintain their  spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy. Demand for student loans may have also picked up
ahead of the looming rise in  interest rates  on such financing.  “People are taking advantage of cheap borrowing costs,”
Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said before the report. “It shows
some confidence in the economy, but more than that, it’s just
about higher demand.”  The  median  forecast of 36 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for an $11 billion increase in consumer credit.
Estimates ranged from gains of $5 billion to $18.9 billion.  Non-revolving debt, including educational loans and loans
for motor vehicles and mobile homes, rose by $10 billion in
April, today’s report showed.  Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
 student loans , climbed by $6.1 billion before adjusting for
seasonal variations.  Revolving Debt  Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, dropped by
$3.44 billion. The report doesn’t track debt secured by real
estate, such as home equity lines of credit and home mortgages.  Credit is improving and the economy maintained a moderate
pace of growth from early April to late May, the Fed said this
week in its survey based on reports from its 12 district banks.  “Overall economic activity expanded at a moderate pace”
the central bank said in its Beige Book report on June 6.
“Lenders in most Districts noted an improvement in loan demand
and credit conditions.”  The interest rate on the student loans is set to double on
July 1 unless Congress takes action. The rate increase would
affect about 7.4 million students, according to the White House,
adding an average of $1,000 a year in payments on college loans.  President  Barack Obama  is trying to keep pressure on
lawmakers to freeze the rate on federally subsidized student
loans, saying a higher education can’t be an unaffordable luxury
for middle-income Americans.  Employment Cooling  The job market is cooling. Payrolls grew by 69,000 workers
in May, less than half the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of economists and down from this year’s high of 275,000 in
January, the Labor Department reported on June 1. Unemployment
rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  Consumer spending  climbed 0.3 percent in April as incomes
rose 0.2 percent, according to Commerce Department data.  “We still see a consumer out there who is making some
tough choices,” Timothy A. Johnson, senior vice president of
finance at Columbus, Ohio-based retailer  Big Lots Inc. (BIG) , said in
an earnings call this week. “He is concerned about where the
economy currently sits.”  While  automobile sales  eased in May to a 13.7 million
annual rate from April’s 14.4 million pace, they were still up
17 percent from a year earlier, according to Ward’s Automotive
Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  