-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Rises for Fourth Consecutive Week
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-06-14T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-increases-for-third-consecutive-week.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
climbed for the fourth straight week as more Americans said
their personal finances were improving.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 36.4 in
the week ended June 10, the highest level since late April, from
minus 37.6 the prior period. Each of its three components -- the
economy, finances and buying plans -- advanced.  “It is likely a function of the steady drop in gasoline
prices,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg
LP in  New York . “Households feel a bit more comfortable about
their own financial situation.”  Record-low  mortgage rates  are spurring a surge in
refinancing, which combined with the lowest fuel prices in four
months and stabilization in stocks, may be easing constraints on
Americans’ financial resources. At the same time, it may be
difficult to achieve additional gains in confidence without a
pickup in the job market.  The comfort index last week was little changed from this
year’s average of minus 38.7.  More Americans than forecast applied for unemployment
insurance payments last week, the latest sign that the labor
market is struggling, figures from the Labor Department showed
today. Claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly climbed by 6,000
to 386,000 in the week ended June 9 from a revised 380,000 the
prior week that was more than first estimated.  Survey Results  Economists projected claims would fall to 375,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Another Labor Department report showed consumer prices fell
0.3 percent in May, more than projected and led by the biggest
drop in gasoline in more than three years.  The fuel’s cost has continued to decline this month. A
gallon of  regular gasoline  at the pump cost $3.53 on average
yesterday, the least since mid-February, according to AAA, the
biggest U.S. auto group.  “Gasoline prices may be helping,” said  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg. Nonetheless, “the index’s
historically low level highlights the deep impact of the
recession and its long way to recovery.”  Since its inception in December 1985, the gauge has
averaged minus 15.4.  Stocks were little changed today as the reports on
inflation and claims bolstered speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will act to spur growth, while investors awaited the results of
the election in  Greece  this weekend. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index was at 1,315.1 at 9:40 a.m. in New York, up less than 0.1
percent from yesterday’s close.  Shares Climbed  Last week, the  S&P 500 Index  rose 3.8 percent, the biggest
5-day gain of the year.  After increasing 16 points in the first three months of the
year, the overall measure of consumer sentiment gave back 12.2
points in the ensuing six weeks. The past four periods, the
index has gained 7.2 points.  Lower financing costs may also be contributing. The average
rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to 3.67 percent for the
week ended June 7, the lowest in data going back to 1972,
according to  Freddie Mac . The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s
 refinancing index  climbed last week to the highest level in
three years.  The Bloomberg measure of Americans’ views of their personal
finances rose to minus 2.0 from minus 3.1, and a measure of
whether consumers consider it a good time to buy improved to
minus 41.4 from minus 41.6.  The index on the current state of the economy climbed to
minus 65.7 from minus 68.1. “Poor” ratings of the economy, the
weakest readings, were at their lowest in 16 months.  Job Market  A slackening job market may be one reason Americans
economic outlook remains glum. Payrolls climbed by 69,000 in
May, less than the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
survey, after a revised 77,000 gain in April that was smaller
than initially estimated, figures showed June 1. The jobless
rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  “The current consumer environment is not for the faint of
heart,” requiring longer-term business plans, Denise Morrison,
chief executive officer of  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , said at a May 30
conference. “We believe, as consumers seek to rebound
emotionally and recover from recession fatigue, they want the
foods they eat to help them have fun and enjoy life.”  The comfort index has been higher among Democrats than
Republicans for 12 consecutive weeks, beating previous records
of six weeks in late 1996 and five weeks in mid-2011. The index
improved 0.4 point among Democrats last week and declined 1.7
points among Republicans.  Political Affiliations  Sentiment among independent voters improved to minus 34.8
last week from minus 37.6. The gain in confidence among swing
voters pushed Republicans down to the lowest of the three
affiliations surveyed for the first time since mid-April.  Last week also marked the 12th consecutive time that
Americans with household incomes of at least $100,000 registered
positive sentiment readings. The figure for that group was 10.3,
marking the first time since December 2010 that the index has
been 10 or higher in back-to-back weeks.  Sentiment among residents in the Northeast was minus 22.2 -
- an improvement of 3.7 points over the previous period, and
landing the figure at its highest since January 2008.  Other optimism measures have been mixed. A Conference Board
index showed confidence dropped to a four-month low in May, as
Americans were more pessimistic about jobs. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan gauge climbed in May to its
highest since October 2007. The group’s June preliminary number
will be released tomorrow.  Survey Details  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The index can range from 100, indicating every participant
in the survey had positive responses to all three components, to
minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The margin of
error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  