-- Copper Trade Most Bullish Since March After China Cuts
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-06-08T15:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/copper-trade-most-bullish-since-march-as-china-cuts-commodities.html
Copper traders are the most bullish
in three months as China, the biggest buyer, reduced  interest
rates  to bolster growth, increasing expectations that prices
will rebound from the longest slump in two years.  Sixteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect
prices to gain next week and seven were bearish. A further eight
were neutral, making the proportion of bulls the highest since
March 9. Stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the London Metal
Exchange, the world’s largest metals bourse, declined 38 percent
this year and Morgan Stanley is predicting at least another year
of supply shortages.  China, which accounts for 41 percent of global demand, cut
interest rates for the first time since 2008 yesterday after
growth slowed for five consecutive quarters. Copper slid to a
five month low today after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  declined to specify options for further easing and
German exports fell for the first time this year. Copper tripled
as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing ending in June 2011.  “Since  China  is the biggest user of copper that rate cut
should give a little boost,” said  Donald Selkin , the New York-
based chief market strategist at National Securities Corp.,
which manages about $3 billion of assets. “The potential for
some kind of stimulus package should result in copper finally
turning around.”  Consecutive Weeks  Copper rose as much as 2.4 percent to $7,585 a metric ton
on the LME after China’s announcement. It traded as low as
$7,233.25 today and was last at $7,317, taking this year’s drop
to 3.7 percent. The metal fell the previous five weeks, the
longest losing streak since May 2010. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities is little changed this year and the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities slid 9.5 percent. Treasuries
returned 1.7 percent, a Bank of America Corp.  index (MXWD)  shows.  China’s benchmark one-year lending rate will drop to 6.31
percent from 6.56 percent from today. The People’s Bank of China
delayed tightening bank capital rules to 2013 following three
cuts since November in the amount of cash that banks need to set
aside as reserves. The nation’s economy grew 8.1 percent in the
first quarter, the slowest pace in almost three years.  Policy makers are seeking to sustain growth which the
 International Monetary Fund  predicts will accelerate to 4.1
percent in 2013, from 3.5 percent in 2012. Bernanke said the Fed
will need to assess conditions before deciding if more measures
are required to stoke an economy threatened by  Europe ’s debt
crisis and U.S. budget cuts.  North America  consumes about 11
percent of the world’s copper.  Central Bank  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  indicated the
bank would act if the debt crisis worsens. Some of the ECB’s
Governing Council members wanted a rate cut at their June 6
meeting, when borrowing costs were held at a record-low 1
percent, he said. German exports dropped 1.7 percent in April,
the Federal Statistics Office said today. Europe accounts for
about 18 percent of global copper consumption, Barclays Plc
estimates.  While inventories monitored by the LME reached 215,350 tons
on May 16, the lowest since October 2008, the decline may not
just reflect demand. Some may be going to bonded warehouses in
China that are exempt from a value-added tax and import duties.
Stockpiles in warehouses across Shanghai stand at about 750,000
tons, according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Hedge funds  and other speculators were still betting on
lower prices in the week ended May 29, the latest data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. They had a net-short
position of 6,757 U.S. futures and options, from 2,808 contacts
a week earlier, the most bearish holding since November.  Monetary Union  Faster growth in China and the U.S. may be offset by an
extended slump in Europe. The euro-area economy stalled in the
first quarter after companies cut spending, the European Union’s
statistics office said June 6. The IMF is predicting that the
17-nation monetary union will contract 0.3 percent this year.
 Greece  holds a second election on June 17 after a vote on May 6
failed to produce a government, fanning concern the country may
be forced out of the euro.  Some technical indicators are signaling that copper may be
poised to rebound after slumping 17 percent from this year’s
high of $8,765 on Feb. 9. The metal’s 14-day relative-strength
index is at 31.2, with a level of 30 indicating a rebound to
some analysts who study trading charts. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
predicts prices will climb to $9,000 in three months.  Supply Disruptions  Disruptions to supply may also help prices rally. BHP
Billiton Ltd. and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s biggest and
third-largest mining companies by sales, said last month they
will ration  capital spending  because of costs. Codelco, which
mines more copper than any other company, produced 10 percent
less in the first quarter as ores yielded less metal.  Workers at Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg
mine in  Indonesia  threatened to strike gain after the dismissal
of union members, a union official said June 5. The company
halted production at the mine, which has the world’s largest
copper reserves, for more than two weeks in February and March.
Morgan Stanley anticipates a 130,000-ton shortage this year,
widening to 170,000 tons in 2013.  Twenty-four of 31 traders and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg said gold would climb next week. Futures on the Comex
exchange in  New York  rose 1.2 percent to $1,585.90 an ounce
since the start of January, extending an 11-year  bull market .
Prices reached a record $1,923.70 in September.  Sugar Prices  Nine of 12 people surveyed expect raw sugar to gain next
week. The sweetener slipped 15 percent to 19.79 cents a pound on
ICE Futures U.S. in New York this year. Prices rallied this week
as rains disrupted the harvest in  Brazil , the world’s biggest
producer.  Twenty of 25 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week, the largest proportion since October 2010. Twenty-two
of 25 said soybeans will gain, the most bullish response since
2004. Corn dropped 6.6 percent to $6.04 a bushel this year as
soybeans advanced 11 percent to $13.3525 a bushel in  Chicago .  “The market appears to be holding out that all the bad
news is going to result in policy makers all over the world
having to adopt some form of monetary stimulus,” said Carole Ferguson, an analyst at Fairfax IS in  London . “Nobody knows how
the European situation is going to pan out. There’s still going
to be volatility in commodities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  