-- Corn Prices Seen by USDA Economist Falling on Record Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-06-07T12:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/corn-prices-seen-by-usda-economist-falling-on-record-crop-1-.html
Potential record corn production in
the U.S. and steady demand from ethanol makers may pressure
prices of the grain, said Joseph Glauber, the chief economist
for the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  U.S. corn production at a record 14.79 billion bushels may
help ease global stockpiles that tightened in the previous crop
year, Glauber said today at the International Grains Council’s
annual conference in London. Consumption of ethanol, a corn-
based gasoline additive, may be “relatively flat” because high
prices have curbed fuel demand and last year the U.S. let a tax
credit for refiners expire, he said.  “Assuming normal crop yields in the U.S. and indeed if we
get record crop yields, we should be looking at record
production,” he said. “Assuming flat growth in ethanol, that
should mean some substantial rebuilding in corn stocks, which
certainly helps with volatility and brings down corn prices
significantly, although still high.”  About 5 billion bushels of the U.S. corn  crop  will be used
to make ethanol in the year beginning Sept. 1, unchanged from a
year earlier, the USDA said May 10.  The USDA is scheduled to update its U.S. and world supply
and demand forecasts on June 12. The agency may cut its estimate
for world corn stockpiles to 127.48 million metric tons,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 18 analysts. That
compares with a May forecast of 127.56 million and inventories a
year earlier at 124.43 million.  Corn futures have slipped about 8.7 percent this year on
the Chicago Board of Trade on the outlook for a larger harvest.
The price traded at $5.905 a bushel today at 1:15 p.m.  London 
time, after touching $5.9325, a two-week high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  