-- Curt Schilling’s Video-Game Company Files for Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/curt-schilling-s-video-game-company-files-for-bankruptcy.html
38 Studios LLC, the video-game maker
founded by former Boston Red Sox pitcher  Curt Schilling , filed
for bankruptcy after firing employees in Rhode Island, and
officials said the company is the subject of a federal probe.  38 Studios, which had been operating with help from $75
million in state government bonds, filed for liquidation
yesterday under Chapter 7 of the  bankruptcy code , saying it owes
creditors about $150.7 million. Its assets total $21.7 million,
according to the filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
 Delaware . Under Chapter 7, a court-appointed trustee liquidates
the assets and distributes the proceeds to creditors.  Last year, Schilling moved 38 Studios from  Massachusetts  to
Rhode Island after securing cash from the bonds through the
state’s economic-development agency. The company received about
$49.5 million, according to a fact sheet provided by the  Rhode
Island  Economic Development Corp. The company owes the agency
about $115.9 million, according to court papers.  “We’re going to do everything possible to maximize the
return of our investment,” Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee
said yesterday at a news conference. “And the taxpayers of
Rhode Island can have full confidence that if there’s a penny we
can get, or a nickel or a dime, we’ll get it.”  38 Studios, based in Providence, spent the $49 million it
received from the bonds, said Rosemary Booth Gallogly, the state
director of revenue. The remaining proceeds are in debt-service
reserve accounts, she said.  State Police  “The state police in Rhode Island, the Rhode Island
Attorney General and the U.S. Attorney in Rhode Island are
conducting an investigation into where the money went,” Colonel
Steven O’Donnell, the state police superintendent, said
yesterday in a phone interview.  Jim Martin, a spokesman for Rhode Island U.S. Attorney
Peter Neronha, said Neronha has been in contact with the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  and state attorney general’s office
regarding 38 Studios. Martin declined to confirm the existence
of an investigation.  To help repay the bonds, 38 Studios pledged its video-game
assets, patents, software and other property as collateral.  “After ongoing negotiations with the State of Rhode Island
and potential investors and other interested parties, the
company has been unable to find a solution to the current
stalemate,” 38 Studios said in a statement. Affiliates 38
Studios Baltimore, Mercury Project and Precision Jobs also
sought court protection.  Tax Exempt  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  insures the 38 Studios bonds, which
are federally taxable and exempt from state taxes. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the bonds A2, its sixth-highest grade.
The bonds maturing in November 2015 traded at an average yield
of about 4.8 percent May 23, up from 3 percent April 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  38 Studios made a $1.1 million payment to bondholders on
May 18, 17 days after it was due. The next payment of $2.6
million is due Nov. 1.  The  company  had hired best-selling fantasy writer R.A.
Salvatore and graphic novelist Todd McFarlane to help design
games. It released one role-playing game,  Kingdoms of Amalur:
Reckoning , through  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  and was working on
another product, called Copernicus.  Sales Decline  U.S. sales of game hardware and software dropped to $17
billion last year from $18.6 billion a year earlier, according
to NPD Group Inc., an industry researcher based in  Port
Washington ,  New York .  The bankruptcy filing came after Chafee ruled out further
direct financial aid for 38 Studios. Chafee, an independent who
took office in January 2011, inherited the deal with Schilling’s
company from former Governor Donald Carcieri, a Republican.  Chafee had been working to change eligibility requirements
for film-production tax credits, which are available to video-
game makers. 38 Studios is eligible for $2.1 million of the
credits and had applied for more. Chafee today referred all
questions about the federal investigation to state police.  The bankruptcy filing was “not a total surprise,”
Christine Hunsinger, a spokeswoman for Chafee, said in a phone
interview. “This is one of the options that had been discussed
with the governor’s office,” she said.  ‘Significant Value’  The appointment of a Chapter 7 trustee should “serve as a
comfort for any potential investors that may want to come in and
purchase all or some of the existing assets,” Jonathan Savage,
counsel to the Rhode Island Economic Development Corp., said
yesterday at a news conference. Talks with investors “indicate
that there could be significant value to the assets,” he said.  Schilling, 45, won three World Series championships during
a 23-year career. His bloodstained sock from the 2004 postseason
became a part of Boston history after he helped the  Red Sox  end
an 86-year title drought. Schilling wore the number 38 on his
jersey with the Red Sox.  A six-time All-Star, he retired in 2009 after missing the
previous season following surgery on his pitching shoulder. He
ended his career with a 216-146 record, a 3.46 earned run
average and 3,116 strikeouts, the 15th-most in Major League
Baseball history. Schilling also played for the  Arizona 
Diamondbacks,  Philadelphia Phillies ,  Houston Astros  and
 Baltimore Orioles .  The case is In re 38 Studios LLC, 12-11743, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  