-- De Gucht Presses China to Step Up Investment in European Union
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-06-07T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/de-gucht-presses-china-to-step-up-investment-in-european-union.html
China  should invest more in the
European Union as the bloc struggles with a spreading recession,
financial-market instability and political uncertainty about how
to battle the debt crisis, EU trade chief Karel De Gucht said.  “We need the money,” De Gucht said in a speech today in
Brussels. “On the one hand, as member-state governments
privatize in response to the crisis, they need investors to buy
what they are selling. On the other, new capital is the basis
for new growth.”  China, which became the world’s fifth-largest foreign
investor in 2010, will invest between 800 billion euros ($1
trillion) and 1.6 trillion euros abroad in the decade to 2020,
according to a Rhodium Group  study  published today. China
invested more than 7 billion euros in the 27-nation EU last
year, up from an annual average of 1 billion euros between 2003
and 2008.  Still, China represents only 3.5 percent of total foreign
direct investment in Europe, while the U.S. accounts for 21
percent, according to  De Gucht . Europe spends just 2 percent of
its FDI in China, compared with almost 30 percent in the U.S.,
he said.  “Obviously, this is below potential considering we are two
of the world’s largest economies,” the EU trade commissioner
said. “And that means there is work to be done: We have to
jointly clear the way for our investors so we can take full
advantage of the possibilities before us.”  Openness Needed  An ambitious investment agreement between China and the EU
is one answer, De Gucht said. The two governments agreed in
February to pursue negotiations toward an accord that he said
should consolidate existing bilateral investment protection
treaties into a single framework, address the question of a
level playing field and keep markets open.  “ Europe  is committed to openness in foreign investment
because we believe in its benefits for our economy,” De Gucht
said. “At the same time we need to make sure that other
countries, including China, increase their openness as well.”  The Chinese government, which the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development says has the most restrictive regime
for foreign investment in the Group of 20, impedes European
efforts to make new investments in China, De Gucht said.  “Obstacles range from the mandatory joint ventures that
apply to cars to the outright bans on foreign ownership in large
parts of the postal-services market,” he said. “In some cases,
the right to invest is conditional on forced technology
transfer. When all of these issues combine you get a perception
that the climate for foreign investment in China is getting
worse not better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 