-- Devils Beat Kings 3-1 to Avoid Sweep in NHL Stanley Cup Final
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-06-07T04:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/devils-beat-kings-3-1-to-avoid-sweep-in-nhl-stanley-cup-final.html
The  New Jersey Devils  beat the Los
Angeles Kings 3-1 to avoid the first sweep in the  National
Hockey League ’s Stanley Cup Final in 14 years.  Patrik Elias put the Devils ahead in the third period at
Staples Center in Los Angeles last night. Drew Doughty tied it
on a power play before Adam Henrique restored New Jersey’s lead
and Ilya Kovalchuk made sure of the win with an empty-net score.  “In the position that we’re in there’s no margin of error
for anyone,” Devils goaltender  Martin Brodeur  said in a
televised interview. “It’s a tough situation, but we live
another day.”  The Devils trail by three games to one in the best-of-seven
series, which continues with Game 5 at the Prudential Center in
Newark, New Jersey, on June 9. The only team to rally from an
0-3 deficit and win the  Stanley Cup  was the 1942  Toronto Maple
Leafs  against Detroit. The  Red Wings  were the last of 20 teams
to sweep the championship round, in 1997 and 1998.  The Kings are seeking to win the NHL title for the first
time in franchise history, while the Devils are chasing their
fourth championship and first since 2003.  The Kings, who lost in their only prior visit to the title
round in 1993, are seeking to become the first No. 8 seed to win
the Stanley Cup. The only other eighth seed to play in the
Stanley Cup Final was the Edmonton Oilers, who lost in seven
games to the  Carolina Hurricanes  in 2006.  Los Angeles  won the first two games in New Jersey 2-1 in
overtime before recording a 4-0 shutout at home in Game 3.  Scoreless Until Third  Brodeur and his Kings counterpart Jonathan Quick kept last
night’s game scoreless until seven minutes, 56 seconds into the
third period.  The Devils took the lead when Dainius Zubrus won possession
behind the Kings’ goal and sent the puck to Bryce Salvador,
whose 62-foot slapshot was deflected by Quick to New Jersey
captain Elias, whose backhand found the net from nine feet.  The score ruined the Kings’ chances of becoming the first
team since the 1960  Montreal Canadiens  to sweep a Stanley Cup
Final without trailing in any game.  The lead lasted a minute. The Kings won a faceoff six
seconds after  New Jersey ’s David Clarkson was given a two-minute
penalty for boarding. The puck went to Doughty, who scored with
a 57-foot slapshot.  New Jersey restored its lead with 4:31 to play when
Clarkson sent a pass to Henrique, whose 18-foot wristshot flew
high past the right hand of Quick and into the net.  Kovalchuk made certain of the win with a 49-foot shot into
an empty net with 20 seconds remaining in the game.  Both goalies ended the game with 21 saves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 