-- Djokovic Must Top Federer to Extend Bid for Fourth Straight Slam
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-07T22:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/djokovic-must-top-federer-to-extend-bid-for-fourth-straight-slam.html
Novak Djokovic must defeat the only
man who has beaten him in a Grand Slam tennis match since 2010
to reach his first French Open final and keep alive his bid for
a fourth straight major title.  The top-seeded Djokovic, a Serb who is trying to become the
first man since Australian  Rod Laver  in 1969 to win all four
majors in a row, has a semifinal today against 16-time Grand
Slam champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland.  The third-seeded Federer, who won at Roland Garros in 2009,
gave Djokovic his only Grand Slam loss of 2011 in the French
Open semifinals last year. Djokovic has won 26 matches at majors
since then and holds the Wimbledon,  U.S. Open  and Australian
Open titles.  “If my level was one for all of my previous matches, I
know that I have to reach a level of 10 to play against him,”
Federer said in a news conference. “We’ll see how fit he is. I
know I have to play a great match.”  Six-time champion  Rafael Nadal  plays fellow Spaniard  David Ferrer  in the other men’s semifinal today. Nadal has only lost
once at Roland Garros in his career and is trying to become the
first man with seven French Open singles titles. He has not
dropped a set in this year’s tournament and leads Ferrer 15-4 in
their career matches.  The women’s final will be played tomorrow between second-
seeded  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and  Sara Errani , the 21st seed
from Italy.  Sharapova yesterday beat reigning Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-3 to advance to her first
French Open final and regain the No. 1 ranking on the WTA tour.
Errani, who before this season had never gotten past the third
round of a major, beat U.S. Open champion Samantha Stosur, 7-5,
1-6, 6-3.  Five-Set Matches  Djokovic, 25, has been extended to five sets in each of his
past two matches. He came back from a two-sets-to-love deficit
in the fourth round against Andreas Seppi of Italy and then
saved four match points before winning his quarterfinal against
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France.  “Novak is really feeling the pressure like he did last
year,” seven-time Grand Slam champion  John McEnroe  said in a
news conference yesterday at  Roland Garros . “It’s impossible
not to feel that because he’s so close. Novak and Roger, both
guys have not really gotten their total A-game going.”  Federer, 30, overcame a two-set deficit to beat Juan Martin Del Potro, the ninth seed from Argentina and the U.S. Open
champion in 2009. Federer is now tied with  Jimmy Connors  for the
most Grand Slam semifinal spots with 31.  Djokovic, who trails Federer  14-11  in their career matches
having won five of their past six meetings, said there is no
real favorite in today’s match.  “It’s semifinals, so everything is open,” he said. “For
me it’s crucial to be very focused and aggressive from the first
moment, because that’s something that you can always expect
Roger to have, that control over the opponent from the start. I
will try to be out there believing I can win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  