-- Dodge’s $49,000 Charger SRT8 Is Hot as Ferrari
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/dodge-s-49-000-charger-srt8-is-hot-as-ferrari.html
We pull out of  Detroit ’s Metropolitan
airport in a Dodge Charger SRT8 so shiny-apple red that it
glistens. The $49,000 sedan has a full tank of gas, 470
horsepower and a trunk big enough for our entire luggage.  My traveling companion and I are heading four hours
northeast, to the shores of Lake Huron. After all, what better
place to shake down Dodge’s four-door sports machine than the
roads of Michigan?  Consider it a road trip to celebrate that America’s car
companies still make stuff. Good stuff, too.  It wasn’t so long ago that the Chrysler Group LLC’s
products interested me little. The Dodge Avenger and Chrysler
Sebring were embarrassments. Yet since emerging from bankruptcy
and forming an alliance with  Fiat (FI) , the company has seen a
turnaround.  May 2012 U.S. sales were up 30 percent, according to the
company, the result of refreshed and re-energized lineups like
the Chrysler 300 and  Jeep Grand Cherokee .  Yes, and the Charger. When it was first released in 2005,
the rear-wheel-drive sedan delivered equal amounts of bad
attitude and cheap plastic.  Tough Guy  It was tough enough to serve as the go-to ride of Michael Chiklis’s bad-guy detective in The Shield. But as a car you’d
take a road trip with? Not comfortable or luxurious enough by a
long shot.  The shape was unlike anything else on the road, with that
stubbed nose and bull’s-eye grill, curving roof and squat
stance. As identifiable as a bull dog, you only needed to see
the car in silhouette. (That’s helpful, as heaps of Chargers are
driven as police cruisers, a fact I’ll be reminded of frequently
on  Michigan  roads.)  The Charger has seen big changes in the last few years,
with a tweaked exterior, far better interior and refined driving
behavior. The $26,300 base model has 292 horsepower and gets 27
miles per gallon on the highway.  The top-line version I’m driving, the SRT8, starts at about
$48,000 with a 6.4-liter, Hemi V-8 with 470 pound feet of
torque, and a reverberating, bad-boy rumble that comes with it.  Road Works  Except when it doesn’t. Minutes into our drive we’ve
already hit  road construction . I roll up the windows and the
Hemi’s roar and the road-work jack-hammering disappear. The car
is remarkably quiet.  Detouring around Detroit, we wend our way around pickups
hauling bass boats and aging American brands which no longer
exist: Oldsmobile, Pontiac and Mercury.  The Dodge brothers got their start in Detroit in the early
1900s, and the company was bought by Chrysler in the late 1920s.
(My test car’s window sticker notes the engine is made in
 Mexico , the transmission in  Germany  and that it was assembled in
Ontario,  Canada . So much for Chrysler’s ad campaign, “Imported
from Detroit.”)  When cruising on the highway, the Dodge deactivates engine
cylinders to help minimize gas consumption. Even so, miles per
gallon on the SRT8 is only 14 in the city, 23 on the highway,
poor enough that the car gets slapped with a $1,000  gas guzzler 
tax.  Those who love a great tide of torque, especially from 35
to 65 miles per hour, will find the bug Hemi engine worthwhile.
Tap on the gas pedal and the engine comes to full alert.  Rust Belt  We pass through the outskirts of Flint, the town which gave
birth to  General Motors (GM)  and once employed some 80,000 auto
workers. Not anymore. Depressing thoughts of dilapidated
factories fade as Michigan’s horizon opens up.  We’re headed for the so-called Sunrise Coast, where the Au
Sable River pours into Lake Huron. The region has beaches,
hiking trails, boating and fishing. After stopping for snacks,
including local deer jerky, we leave the main road for secondary
routes.  I’d prefer a six-speed manual to the Charger’s clunky five-
speed automatic. Otherwise the extent of the car’s available
technology impresses. The navigation system, adaptive suspension
and back-up camera come standard. Options include moisture-
sensing windshield wipers, high beams that switch to low when
another car passes and adaptive cruise control.  Unfortunately, functions like heated and cooled seats and,
more pertinently, the sport button are operated by the touch-
screen. They’d be better served by physical controls on the
center console.  Muscle Car  The bucket seats are firm but comfortable and, as a full-
size sedan, the car boasts ample room in the back. It serves far
better on long trips than its muscle car roots would suggest.
There’s civility in this beast.  Finally we reach Lake Huron providing an infinite vista of
water, resembling a calm sea. We glide past  LuLu’s Sunnyside
Cabins  with a neon sign glowing in the dusk, and a parade of
cars for sale, by owner, at the side of the road. (A 1970s Trans
Am appealed.)  Checking into our hotel in Oscoda, the receptionist tells
us how the closure of the local Air Force base and recent
recession had hurt the town. “But tourism is starting to come
back,” she said, brightly.  The next morning, I gas up and a half a dozen patrons tell
me they love the car. In Oscoda, a Charger SRT8 is as hot as a
Ferrari.  Perhaps, though, it’s becoming too civilized. I spy a
private patch of asphalt in an abandoned parking lot. Switching
off the traction control, I jam on the gas and turn the wheel.
The car spins in mad doughnuts, deep smoke pouring from rear
wheels.  No fear of taming the beast. It’s just right.  The 2012 Dodge Charger SRT8 at a Glance  Engine: 6.4-liter, Hemi V-8 with 470 horsepower and 470  pound feet of torque.  Transmission: Five-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.9 seconds.  Gas mpg: 14 city, 23 highway.  Price as tested: $49,810.  Best features: Hemi roar, modern comforts.  Worst feature: Old-school five-speed automatic  transmission.  Target buyer: The driver who wants comfort and civility  with a dose of muscle-car madness.  Muse highlights include Richard Jaroslovsky on  technology 
and Patrick Cole on  philanthropy .  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 