-- Tea-Party Mayor Touting Japan Dictatorship Risks Worse Slump
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-06-08T03:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/tea-party-mayor-touting-japan-dictatorship-risks-deepening-slump.html
Osaka  Mayor Toru Hashimoto has become
a TV icon with attacks on everything from bureaucracy to nuclear
power and the political feuding that has stifled the economy.
His success may be about to make things worse.  The 42-year-old lawyer, who has said the country needs a
“dictatorship,” is building his One Osaka party to contest
national elections that must be held by August 2013, tapping
voter discontent with the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan and
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  that between them have
overseen a 10 percent  economic contraction  in the past 14 years.  “It’s not that voters particularly want to support me or
that they’ve looked carefully at what One Osaka stands for,”
Hashimoto told reporters on May 29. “If the existing parties
did their jobs properly, our support would drop instantly.”  Hashimoto aims to take as many as 200 of the 480 seats in
the lower house, tapping voters who are fed up with  Japan ’s
record debt and soaring pension costs. Political rivals estimate
One Osaka could win as many as 50 seats, which could create a
hung parliament and make it harder to enact laws.  “If Hashimoto is successful then they could be the swing
vote and that could give him a lot of influence,” said  Gerald Curtis , a professor of Japanese politics at  Columbia University 
in  New York . “That only would make the situation more
complicated and chaotic.”  His party has yet to take a stance on the central economic
issue in parliament: Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s bill to
double the 5 percent sales tax to fund welfare costs and rein in
the world’s largest debt. Nor has Hashimoto detailed how he’d
revive an economy that shrank three of the past four years.  Tattoo Ban  Instead, he gained support by attacking unpopular policies
and social ills. He first opposed Noda’s efforts to restart a
nuclear power plant near Osaka, citing safety in the wake of
last year’s Fukushima nuclear disaster, before last month
agreeing to the reactivation of the reactors on a “limited”
basis. He also banned municipal workers from having tattoos,
traditionally associated with the criminal Yakuza gangs, and has
forced public school teachers to stand and sing the national
anthem over the protest of teachers’ unions.  A Mainichi newspaper poll published June 4 shows 28 percent
of voters would back One Osaka, double the 14 percent support
for Noda’s DPJ. The LDP, which was ousted from half a century of
control in August 2009, had 16 percent. The newspaper surveyed
1,015 people and provided no margin of error.  The rise of One Osaka complicates a parliamentary system
that has recently struggled to give one party a mandate to push
through economic reforms. While the DPJ has two-thirds of the
more-powerful  lower house , it needs cooperation from the
opposition-controlled upper chamber to pass most laws.  Blocked Stimulus  The LDP has delayed or blocked economic stimulus and
budgetary measures, including legislation to fund the deficit
with  government bonds . The situation was reversed in 2007-2009,
when the LDP controlled the lower house and the DPJ the upper.  Kiyomi Tsujimoto, a DPJ lawmaker from Osaka, compares
Hashimoto’s popularity with that of the anti-tax  Tea Party  in
the U.S. and  France ’s anti-immigrant National Front led by
Marine Le Pen.  “When you have a painful fiscal situation and a stagnant
economy, frustration builds,” she said. “People often turn to
nationalism to relieve that frustration.” Hashimoto’s policies
“are all old.”  That frustration is evident in Osaka, the commercial center
of western Japan, which has a population of almost 9 million,
about the same as  Sweden , and a $490 billion economy on par with
 Malaysia . Hashimoto, the father of seven, sparked a debate in
the region last year in his run for mayor, when he campaigned on
a pledge to merge the job with his previous post as prefectural
governor to reduce bureaucracy and save money. He won with
almost 60 percent of the vote.  First Amendment  Now, his party wants to scrap the Diet’s upper house and
hold direct elections for prime minister, both of which would
require amending the 65-year-old postwar  constitution  for the
first time.  “He has spotted his chance and used the media very
skillfully,” said DPJ lawmaker Hajime Ishii, who estimates One
Osaka could win 50 lower house seats. Hashimoto’s challenge is
to gain national backing, said Ishii, who represents a
constituency in Kobe, a 20-minute train ride from Osaka.  “While he has a lot of influence in Osaka, there’s doubt
about how much he has in the rest of the country,” Ishii said.  Big Party Blues  Disenchantment with Japan’s biggest parties has helped the
candidacies of other regional leaders. The governor of Aichi
prefecture and the mayor of its biggest city, Nagoya, were
elected as independents in February 2011 on pledges to cut
income taxes. Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara, one of the
country’s most prominent politicians, won re-election as an
independent to a fourth term in April last year.  The two main parties began talks today on Noda’s plan to
double the  sales tax  to 10 percent by October 2015 and
differences over social security bills. While the LDP said it
backs the prime minister’s timetable for implementing the levy,
including initially raising it to 8 percent in April 2014, it
wants him to withdraw welfare pledges in return for its support.  Hashimoto’s rise has been compared in local media to that
of Ishihara, whose four-decade political career has been marked
by controversial comments about  China , the U.S. and immigrants.
The Tokyo governor sparked an outcry in April by saying he wants
to use public funds to buy a chain of islands that are also
claimed by China. Last month Ishihara said Hashimoto was “a
very wise person” who “analyzes his political situation in a
very realistic way.”  Single Mother  Hashimoto was born in  Tokyo  and moved to Osaka as a child,
where he was raised by his single mother. He graduated from
Tokyo’s  Waseda University , the alma mater of seven Japanese
prime ministers, including Noda. Hashimoto became a lawyer in
1996, gaining a wider audience by appearing on TV shows to give
legal advice, and won the Osaka gubernatorial election in 2008.  In March he opened a school to train politicians,
attracting 2,000 candidates to attend lectures in preparation
for running on the One Osaka ticket. He set a goal of fielding
300 candidates for the lower house.  Translating Hashimoto’s regional popularity into a national
power base is beset with obstacles. He has pledged to fulfill
his four-year term, which would keep him from running for
parliament in the next election. He also has yet to show how he
could work with the LDP or DPJ to pull Japan out of its economic
slump, said  Koichi Nakano , a politics professor at  Sophia
University  in Tokyo.  “He is good as a challenger,” Nakano said. “At the
national level you have to be much more of a team player,
compromising, making alliances. His strength so far has been his
iconoclastic style, challenging taboos, outspoken leadership,
vilifying opponents.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  