-- Eagles’ Banner Steps Aside as NFL Team President in Shakeup
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-07T20:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/eagles-joe-banner-steps-aside-as-nfl-team-president-in-shakeup.html
Joe Banner, who has been with the
 Philadelphia Eagles  since Jeffrey Lurie bought the team in 1994,
is stepping aside as president and will take on a new role as an
adviser to the owner.  Eagles Chief Operating Officer Don Smolenski has been
promoted to president as part of a succession plan that Lurie
said was first discussed more than a year ago because Banner is
“looking for a greater challenge.”  Banner, 59, said football remains his passion and he hopes
to find another opportunity in the  National Football League . He
said he’s recently spent about 75 percent of his time managing
those who report to him rather than breaking new ground.  “I hope to find a situation similar to what we found when
we got here,” Banner said today at a news conference. “We
referred to it as a turnaround situation. Over the years, my
role has gone from an active, aggressive front-line participant
to a more passive role.”  Since Lurie, 60, and Banner took control of the franchise,
the Eagles have been to the playoffs in 11 of their 17 full
seasons, second in the league to the  Indianapolis Colts  over
that time. Banner helped developed salary cap management
strategies that have been copied throughout the league and with
Lurie hired  Andy Reid  as coach in 1999.  Lurie said he’d seek out Banner if he was someone “looking
to buy an NFL franchise or was an owner that didn’t think my
franchise was maximizing.”  “Whatever Joe chooses here he’s going to be very
successful,” Lurie added.  While the Eagles went to five conference championship games
during Banner’s tenure, they haven’t won a  Super Bowl  title and
last season missed the playoffs with an 8-8 record even though
they entered the regular season among the championship favorites
of oddsmakers. Banner said today that not delivering a
championship to Philadelphia is one of his biggest
disappointments.  He also said the franchise’s front office remains in good
hands.  Smolenski joined the Eagles in 1998 as vice president and
chief financial officer. He took over as the club’s COO in 2010
and said he’s “excited to build on the work” he’s done with
Banner over the years.  The Eagles are tied with the Denver Broncos and Houston
Texans for the fourth-best odds of winning the Super Bowl after
the 2012 season, at 14-1 behind the  Green Bay Packers ,  New
England Patriots  and San Francisco 49ers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  