-- Ecuador’s Rating Raised by S&P on China Loans, Oil Proceeds
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-06-07T20:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/ecuador-raised-to-b-from-b-by-s-p-outlook-stable.html
Ecuador’s credit rating was boosted
by  Standard & Poor’s  for the first time in two years as loans
from China and higher crude oil prices buoyed the South American
government’s finances and economic outlook.  S&P raised the nation’s credit rating to B from B-, five
levels below investment grade, according to a statement from the
ratings company, which said the outlook is stable.  “The upgrade reflects the perceived improvement in the
government’s willingness, as well as capacity, to service its
debt due to improved financing options and higher oil production
and economic growth prospects,” Richard Francis, an analyst at
S&P in New York, wrote today in the statement.  Ecuador, a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, has relied on rising  oil prices  and tax
increases to fund higher government spending while drawing on
loans from China and the Inter-American Development Bank to
cover shortfalls since defaulting on $3.2 billion of
international bonds in 2008 and 2009.  A history of default and inconsistent economic policies
remain “credit constraints,” according to S&P.  The yield on Ecuador’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.81
percent at 3:29 p.m. in Quito, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price rose 0.08 cent to 98.72 cents on the
dollar.  Yields in 2012  Bond yields have increased 54 basis points this year while
those on similar maturity Venezuelan bonds have decreased 239
basis points to 10.38 percent over the same time period,
Bloomberg data show. This week, Ecuador’s yields reached their
highest level since October, climbing to 10.27 percent, as
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will derail a global economic
recovery helped push oil prices lower.  Ecuador, which forecasts a $4.23 billion  budget deficit 
this year, or 16 percent of total spending, is rated by Moody’s
Investors Service at Caa2 and at B- by  Fitch Ratings . The
 Finance Ministry  expects the economy to expand 5.35 percent this
year, according to the 2012 budget.  President  Rafael Correa  said in February the country is
negotiating a $1.7 billion loan from China and expects to
receive the first payment by August. Since the default, the
government has borrowed about  $7.25 billion from China,
according to Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in  Quito  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  