-- Hedge Funds Get Squeezed in Mayfair as Offices Become Homes
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-06-08T10:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/hedge-funds-squeezed-in-mayfair-as-offices-become-luxury-homes.html
Landlords in Mayfair and St. James’s,
two of  London ’s most expensive neighborhoods, are exploiting a
shrinking supply of new or refurbished office space to charge
hedge funds and financial firms the highest rents in three
years.  Offices are being converted into residences costing 2,000
pounds ($3,100) a square foot or more as demand surges from
foreign buyers seeking luxury homes in central London. A
shortage of financing for new development and restrictions on
high-rise projects add to the squeeze on commercial space.  London,  Europe ’s main center for hedge funds and private
equity managers, has attracted tenants willing to pay high rates
for prestigious offices from which to court customers of the
private banks based nearby. Owners face the choice of keeping
buildings, many of them former houses, as offices or cashing in
on a bidding war that has driven up luxury-home prices in the
capital by 37 percent in the past five years, according to
 Knight Frank  LLP.  “It’s a wonderful problem to have,” said Andrew Lax, co-
founder of Lancer Property Asset Management, which oversees
Mayfair’s  Berkeley Square Estate , a collection of low-rise
buildings on and near the historic square. “Holding the line
becomes increasingly difficult.”  The few developers and landlords that raised money to build
and renovate  office space  in the area, such as Grosvenor Group
Ltd., stand to benefit the most as increasing rents boost income
and lift property values.  Low Vacancies  Prime office vacancies in Mayfair and its southern
neighbor, St. James’s, are the lowest in almost three years at
3.4 percent. Net effective rents, which include incentives such
as rent-free periods, rose to 82.33 pounds a square foot for
Grade A space, broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  estimates. That’s
the highest since the first quarter of 2009. Sapinda UK Ltd.
agreed to lease the top floor of 23 Savile Row for 99 pounds a
foot annually.  Mayfair and St. James’s were transformed to office
districts after World War II, when bombing destroyed much of the
 City of London  financial center. The areas were the world’s
second-most expensive office market for Grade A space last year
and held first place the year before, according to a ranking of
central business districts compiled by Knight Frank.  Hong Kong 
was the most expensive in 2011.  Manhattan  was 16th.  Rent Rebound  Rents for the best offices in the London neighborhoods
peaked at 107 pounds a foot in the first half of 2008. That sank
to 60 pounds in the two years through June 2010 as the credit
crisis made firms reluctant to spend on space. Since then, net
effective rents have rallied by 37 percent, Jones Lang data
show. Egerton Capital LP and Axa Private Equity signed leases in
the past 12 months for more than 100 pounds a square foot.  Offices are fetching higher rents even as  hedge funds 
worldwide struggle amid concerns that  Greece  may exit the euro
and the global economy is weakening. Hedge funds fell 2.9
percent in May, the worst month since September, led by long-
short equity, multistrategy and global macro funds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Few property companies are able to capitalize on the rising
rents by building or upgrading office buildings in the two
neighborhoods. Developers are struggling to finance projects as
banks cut back U.K. real-estate lending to strengthen balance
sheets in compliance with new regulations on capital.  None of 63 the U.K. lenders in a De Montfort University
survey released earlier this month planned to finance new
property projects without commitments in advance from tenants or
buyers.  Foreign Money  As lucrative as the office rents are, the payoff from
selling a property is rising as foreign money pours into luxury
homes in the capital. Buyers from abroad accounted for about 60
percent of home purchases in the most expensive districts in the
four years through 2011, according to London-based  Development
Securities Plc. (DSC)  Values have climbed by more than 40 percent
since March 2009, the low point for the city’s prime residential
market after the credit crisis.  Conversions of offices into homes removed about 550,000
square feet (51,000 square meters), or 3.5 percent of Mayfair
and St. James’s office stock, in the decade through 2010,  H2SO
Property Consultants  estimates.  A 1730s house on Upper Grosvenor Street used as offices was
sold for 18 million pounds earlier this year, exceeding the
asking price by 22 percent, because of its potential as a
residential development project, said Peter Wetherell, owner of
specialist Mayfair broker  Wetherell & Co .  Less Attractive  As a rental office investment, the building would have
fetched less than 10 million pounds because staircases, kitchens
and bathrooms don’t generate an income and so aren’t included in
its investment value, he said.  Mayfair’s revival as a place to shop and go out has powered
a fivefold increase since 2000 in the average cost of a home on
Grosvenor Square, the most prestigious address, to 3,271 pounds
a square foot, according to researcher Lonres.com.  “I see Mayfair as a growing market because it has so much
potential,” Joe Burns, co-founder of developer Oliver Burns,
said in an interview.  Burns sold the penthouse at  The Walpole  in St. James’s for
a district record of 4,542 pounds a square foot. Three 3,800
square-foot apartments are on sale for 11.5 million pounds each.
The former office building consists of two heritage-protected
townhouses converted into apartments that span both properties.  Navy Property  More Mayfair and St. James’s offices may be lost to
projects such as entrepreneur  Richard Caring ’s planned
conversion of the former U.S. Naval headquarters on Grosvenor
Square into 37 luxury apartments.  West End  of London Property Unit Trust said today that it
acquired Buchanan House on St. James’s Square for 66.4 million
pounds. The fund didn’t say whether it will keep the property as
offices or convert it into luxury residences.  Rio Tinto Plc demolished its former headquarters on the
same square and is working with Exemplar, a developer, to
convert the site into  a mix of luxury apartments and offices .
Green Property Ltd. is converting an adjacent historic townhouse
used as offices back into a home, while it’s demolished the
neighboring property to  build new offices  that are due to be
completed next year.  Record Rent  Permal Group, the fund of hedge-funds unit of Legg Mason
Inc., agreed in September 2007 to pay a record 140 pounds a
square foot to lease the top floor of an office on St. James’s
Square.  The squeeze on office supply benefits the landowners and
developers that proceeded with office projects when others
delayed projects in the financial crisis and now face little
competition.  “We should be sitting pretty,” Peter Vernon, Grosvenor’s
chief executive officer for the U.K. and Ireland, said about
leasing 50 Grosvenor Hill, a new office on a back street off
Berkeley Square and  Bond Street .  Grosvenor runs 100 acres (40 hectares) of Mayfair on behalf
of its owner, the Duke of Westminster’s family trusts. Its
newest office there includes 20,000 square feet of new space
behind a preserved Georgian facade that it plans to lease for
more than 90 pounds a square foot.  Diminishing Development  Six other office projects, including another one belonging
to Grosvenor, are under construction in Mayfair and St. James’s.
Owners and developers including the  Crown Estate , Land
Securities Group Plc and Exemplar are building 559,000 square
feet of offices. Just 130,000 square feet of space may be
completed in 2014, H2SO estimates.  “There’s a supply shortage because of the lack of
development starts and as super-prime residences take the place
of offices,” said  Paul Smith , co-founder of H2SO. He said Grade
A office rents may soon surpass 100 pounds a square foot on a
regular basis.  Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR)  said its best-performing asset
in the year through March was 1.3 acres of holdings in Hanover
Square. The real estate appreciated by 37 percent after the
company won planning consent to build shops, offices and
apartments on a site incorporating a station for the Crossrail
subway rail link under construction. The developer won’t break
ground until the end of 2015.  “This is a very rare product in London, given the super-
prime nature of offices, retail and residential and the embedded
shortage of this type of accommodation in Mayfair over the next
few years,” said Neil Thompson, Great Portland’s portfolio
director.  Costly Niche  The competition with residential use is accelerating
Mayfair and St. James’s transformation into a niche, high-end
office market. Westminster City Council said it’s happy with the
way it’s changing.  “It has an eclectic mix of businesses that aren’t going to
disappear,” said Jonathan Glanz, the councilor who represents
the ward that incorporates Mayfair and is Westminster’s cabinet
member for housing and corporate property.  For the cost-conscious or those with large space
requirements, the alternatives lie elsewhere in London, such as
north of Oxford Street, Victoria, Knightsbridge or in landmark
buildings including the Shard in Southwark or the Heron Tower in
the City of London, said Smith at H2SO.  “There won’t be any more large organizations able to
justify being in high-rent space,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 