-- Edison’s San Onofre Nuclear Plant to Be Shut Through August
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-06-07T23:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/edison-s-san-onofre-nuclear-plant-to-be-shut-through-august-1-.html
Edison International (EIX) , owner of
California’s second largest electric utility, said its San
Onofre nuclear plant in  Southern California  will remain shut
through August.  The utility expects to submit a restart plan for the
plant’s Unit 2 reactor to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
by the end of July, said Jennifer Manfre, a company spokeswoman.  The NRC, which must sign off on the plan, will probably
need about a month to review the utility’s findings, Manfre said
in a telephone interview. Edison doesn’t have a timeline for
bringing its Unit 3 reactor back, Manfre said.  Edison estimated in March that the plant may return to
service by June, according to a statement on the company’s
website.  San Onofre has been offline since January after inspectors
found unusual wear on steam generator tubes that carry
radioactive water. Some tubes were rubbing, causing them to
degrade, Chief Executive Officer Ted Craver said on May 30 at a
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. investor conference in New York.  Edison has plugged and repaired about 3 percent of the
tubes in the generators, Craver said. The steam generators,
built by  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , were installed two
years ago at a total cost of $671 million. Mitsubishi’s
liability is limited to $137 million under its purchase contract
with Edison, according to a regulatory filing on May 2.  Edison estimated its share of inspection and repair costs
to be in the range of $55 million to $65 million, according to
the May 2 filing.  Lost Capacity  Edison’s Southern California Edison utility and  Sempra
Energy (SRE) ’s San Diego Gas & Electric Co. will pay $2.5 million a
month for power from two  AES Corp. (AES)  generating units to help make
up for lost capacity from San Onofre, the California ISO, the
state’s grid operator, said on May 11.  Edison owns 78.21 percent of San Onofre, while Sempra owns
20 percent and the city of Riverside owns 1.8 percent, according
to Edison’s website.  San Onofre, located about 60 miles (97 kilometers) south of
 Los Angeles , can produce enough power for 1.76 million average
homes, based on Energy Department statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  