-- Egan-Jones Sues to Have SEC Allegations Tried in Federal Court
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/egan-jones-sues-to-have-sec-allegations-tried-in-federal-court.html
Egan-Jones Ratings Co.  and its
founder  Sean Egan  sued the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to force the agency to bring its allegations of
misrepresentation against the firm before a federal judge.  Egan-Jones said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in  Washington  that it would be deprived of its rights,
including that to a  jury trial , if the SEC’s enforcement action
was to proceed in an “administrative forum” rather than in
court where the company can present evidence of the SEC’s
“improper” motive for making the allegations.  The firm, which calls itself an alternative to the larger
providers of credit ratings because it gets paid by subscribers
rather than by issuers of debt, said in its complaint that the
SEC conducted a biased investigation that resulted in the
administrative proceeding in April.  “The administrative proceeding is the latest in a series
of SEC actions which are designed to diminish and marginalize
Egan-Jones while supporting and maintaining the status quo of an
issuer-paid ratings agency monopoly,” the firm said in the
complaint.  “While the SEC targets Egan-Jones for alleged infractions
which have not affected a single rating or investor, the SEC has
not suggested that it will ever take any real, proportional
action against the large issuer-paid firms for issuing
profitable inflated ABS and CDO ratings which brought about
America’s economic crises.”  Exam Staff  The SEC violated Egan-Jones’s rights and abused the
investigative process by moving exam staff into and out of the
enforcement investigation, according to the complaint. Egan also
said the agency deliberately leaked to the press that the SEC
was deliberating whether to pursue sanctions against the firm.  Egan-Jones, based in Haverford,  Pennsylvania , is one of
about 10 firms registered with the SEC as a nationally
recognized statistical ratings organization, meaning companies
can use their credit ratings to meet regulatory requirements.  Ratings from the biggest NRSROs,  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and  McGraw-
Hill Cos. (MHP) ’  Standard & Poor’s  unit, are paid by debt issuers,
which critics say can introduce bias. Egan Jones’s ratings, by
contrast, are paid for by investors.  ‘Institutional Bias’  The leak to the press “is powerful additional evidence of
an institutional bias against Egan-Jones and the SEC’s clear
favoritism towards the conflicted issuer-paid firms,” Egan
Jones said in the complaint.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  The SEC filed an administrative proceeding against Egan and
the firm over claims they misrepresented the firm’s experience
rating asset-backed and  government securities  in a 2008
application to become an NRSRO. Egan-Jones falsely claimed in
the application that it had about 150 outstanding ABS issuer
ratings and 50 government ratings, the SEC said.  Egan-Jones also falsely stated that it was unaware of
whether its subscribers held certain positions in particular
securities, the SEC said. In fact, the firm’s salespeople were
aware of certain clients’ holdings, and in some instances knew
whether clients had long or short positions, according to the
administrative proceeding.  In its lawsuit, Egan says it seeks declarations that the
SEC may not apply civil penalty provisions from the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act retroactively and that the agency violated the
Administrative Procedure Act by authorizing staff to issue a
formal order of investigation.  The case is Egan-Jones v. SEC, 12-00920, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  