-- Emerging Stocks Reach One-Week High as China Cuts Rates
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-07T22:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/emerging-stocks-poised-for-biggest-three-day-gain-in-four-months.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a one-
week high after China’s first interest rate cut since 2008
fueled speculation more central banks will take steps to boost
economic growth.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index climbed 1.2 percent to
913.18 at the close in  New York . The gauge has advanced 3.5
percent in the past three days, the biggest gain since February.
Information technology companies rose the most since Feb. 15 as
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  jumped 5.2 percent in Seoul and Cielo
SA, Brazil’s biggest card-payment processor by market value,
added 2.3 percent to lift the  Bovespa. (IBOV)   Russia ’s Micex index rose
to a three-week high in Moscow.  China’s one-year deposit rate will drop to 3.25 percent
from 3.5 percent effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of China
said on its website today. The benchmark one-year lending rate
will drop to 6.31 percent from 6.56 percent. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials stand ready to act as
the euro region’s growth outlook worsens. Spain sold 2.07
billion euros ($2.6 billion) of bonds, having set a maximum
target of 2 billion euros, as its 10-year borrowing costs rose.  “The authorities are showing the determination to
stimulate the economy and that certainly is a powerful
message,” Esther Law, London-based director of emerging-markets
strategy at Societe Generale SA, said by phone. “It’s a
surprise in a good way and will force other central banks to
think about whether this will be a good time to ease.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has retreated 0.4 percent
this year, compared with a 0.7 percent increase in the MSCI
World Index. Shares in the emerging-markets gauge are trading at
9.9 times estimated earnings, cheaper than the 11.8 multiple for
shares on the developed-nations index.  Jobless Claims  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke today said the
 U.S. economy  is at risk from Europe’s debt crisis and the
prospect of fiscal tightening in the U.S. Fewer Americans
applied for  unemployment  insurance payments last week as
benefits fell by 12,000 to 377,000 in the week ended June 2, the
Labor Department said today.  The  Bank of England  left its stimulus plan on hold today as
threat from above-target inflation overrode policy makers’
concerns about the risk to the U.K. from Europe’s debt crisis.
The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , held
its ceiling for bond purchases at 325 billion pounds ($503
billion) today, a move forecast by 37 out of 42 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The  MSCI EM Information Technology (MXEF0IT)  index added 2.6 percent
to 232.77, the most in almost four months. Cielo rose for a
third day in  Sao Paulo , its longest winning streak in four
weeks.  NCSoft Corp. (036570)  gained 6.8 percent, the most since May 23,
to lead advances for the information technology sector.  Russia, Brazil  Russia’s Micex Index added 1.8 percent as OAO Novatek,
Russia’s second biggest natural gas producer, jumped 5.9
percent, the most since July 21. Novatek said today it plans to
buy back as much as $600 million of shares and global depositary
receipts within a year.  OAO RusHydro and OAO Inter RAO UES climbed after Russia’s
Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said the state will sell its
entire stake in the power utilities by 2016.  The Bovespa added 3.2 percent in Brazil, the most since May
21, on gains for  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA , the
Brazilian oil producer controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista .
The shares rose 9.5 percent, the sharpest increase since Aug. 9.  The Czech Republic’s PX Index jumped 1.3 percent while
Hungary’s BUX Index added 0.3 percent.  The ISE National 100 Index in Turkey gained 0.8 percent,
while South  Africa ’s FTSE/JSE All Share Index rose 0.9 percent.  ‘Bargains’  Templeton Asset Management Ltd. sees “bargains” in the
biggest emerging markets after stock declines dragged the MSCI
BRIC Index into a  bear market , according to Co-Chief Executive
Officer Dennis Lim.  “Emerging-market equities are cheap and as long-term
investors, we have remained invested,” Lim, who helps manage
$48 billion of emerging-market funds, said in a phone interview
from Singapore on June 5. “We are finding a lot of bargains in
China,  India , Russia,  Thailand , Brazil, and even in Africa.”  India yesterday outlined port, railways and road projects
and a push to add power-generation capacity to revive growth in
Asia’s third-largest economy.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, gained 1.2
percent in Mumbai, reaching its highest since May 7.  South Korea’s Kospi index jumped 2.6 percent, the most
among Asian benchmark indexes, as the market re-opened after a
holiday yesterday. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland stocks added 0.4 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 397, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  