-- Templeton Asset’s Lim Sees BRIC Bargains After Stock Tumble
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-06-07T02:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/templeton-asset-s-lim-sees-bric-bargains-after-stock-tumble.html
Templeton Asset Management Ltd. sees
“bargains” in the biggest emerging markets after stock
declines dragged the  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  into a  bear market ,
according to Co-Chief Executive Officer Dennis Lim.  “Emerging-market equities are cheap and as long-term
investors, we have remained invested,” Lim, who helps manage
$48 billion of emerging-market funds, said in a phone interview
from Singapore on June 5. “We are finding a lot of bargains in
China, India,  Russia ,  Thailand ,  Brazil , and even in  Africa .” He
declined to name specific stocks or make any forecast on stock
gains or declines because of company policy.  The benchmark  index  of shares in Brazil, Russia, China and
India has fallen 21 percent from this year’s high on March 2 on
concern Europe’s debt crisis and slower U.S. and Chinese
economic growth will curb exports from developing nations. The
MSCI BRIC gauge  traded  at 8.09 times estimated earnings on May
23, the lowest valuation since Dec. 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The measure rose 0.6 percent at 10:24
a.m. in Shanghai.  Lim said he favors consumer-related and commodity companies
in developing nations. Consumer stocks are backed by domestic
consumption while increasing demand for commodities from
countries such as India boost prices in the long term, he said.  The  Templeton BRIC Fund (TABRX) , which Lim co-manages, has fallen
7.7 percent this year, compared with the MSCI BRIC Index’s 3.7
percent decline, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund owned as of March 31 shares of Vale SA, the
world’s largest iron-ore producer, Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
Brazil’s state-owned  oil company , and PetroChina Co., the
country’s second-largest oil refiner, according to a factsheet
on Templeton’s  website .  China’s Slowdown  Shares of Rio De Janeiro-based Vale have dropped 2.1
percent this year while Petrobas, as the Rio-based oil company
is known, has tumbled 11 percent in Sao Paulo trading.
PetroChina, based in Beijing, has gained 4.2 percent in Hong
Kong trading.  “The markets have been nervous about  China ’s so-called
slowdown,” Adrian Lim, a senior investment manager at Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York yesterday.  The Chinese economy grew 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
the least since the three months ending June 30, 2009. Europe is
China’s biggest export market, making up about 18 percent of the
nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co.  Fund Outflow  Lim, who helps oversee $102 billion for Aberdeen in the
Asia-Pacific region, said China’s economic slowdown provides “a
decent opportunity” to add stocks and he remains bullish on
consumer companies after the firm boosted holdings in Hong Kong-
traded shares of PetroChina and  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the country’s
biggest mobile-phone carrier, in the past two years.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 12 percent last
month, the most since September, as concerns over Europe’s debt
crisis and slowing global growth hurt demand for riskier assets.  Emerging-market equity funds posted outflows of $7.8
billion in the second quarter, analysts led by Markus Rosgen at
Citigroup Inc. wrote in a report dated June 1, citing data
compiled by EPFR Global.  “It is difficult to predict how markets will perform in
the short-term,” Templeton’s Lim said. “We have already seen
significant corrections last month, so a lot of the bad news is
already priced in.”  Bear Market  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  gauge has fallen 16 percent from
March 2, approaching the 20 percent threshold that some
investors regard as a bear market. Shares in the emerging-
markets index traded at 9.58 times estimated earnings on June 4,
the lowest level since Jan. 9.  The gauge now trades at 9.9 times, compared with 11.8 for
the MSCI World Index of developed nations.  “Emerging markets can easily outperform developed
markets” amid low valuations and faster economic growth
prospects, Alistair Lowe, chief investment officer for global
equities at  State Street Global Advisors , said in a briefing in
Singapore yesterday.  The BRIC countries will probably expand at an average pace
of 5.5 percent this year, compared with 1.4 percent for
developed countries, according to April forecasts from the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  A worsening debt crisis in Europe may hurt investor
confidence, Templeton’s Lim said. The Group of Seven nations
agreed on June 5 to coordinate their response to Europe’s
turmoil, which has tipped at least eight of the 17 euro-area
economies into recession.  “We take a five-year view,” he said. “If we are buying
today, we are buying based on what we expect to happen in
2017.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  