-- EPA May Approve Texas Clean-Air Permits Amid Feud in U.S. Court
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-06-07T22:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/epa-may-approve-texas-clean-air-permits-amid-feud-in-u-s-court.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency plans to approve a portion of the Texas clean-air
permitting program, declaring a truce in one aspect of a
longstanding fight between the state and federal regulators.  “It’s not a panacea, but it’s a step in the right
direction,” Carl Edlund, director for the permitting division
of the EPA office in  Dallas , said today in an interview. “It’s
not solving all the policy and legal issues.”  The EPA signed off on a state plan that lets companies
average their pollution allowances across units within a large
plant. The EPA had insisted that operators measure pollution at
each unit, Edlund said. The agency will seek comments for 30
days before issuing a final decision.  The EPA and Texas are in court over the decision by the
agency in 2010 to reject the state’s so-called flexible
pollution-permitting program because, the U.S. said, it didn’t
adequately protect the environment. Texas sued the EPA in the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit, and the case isn’t
affected by today’s decision, Andy Saenz, a spokesman for the
Texas  Commission of Environmental Quality , said in an e-mail.  Both the state’s previous flexible-permitting program and
the plant-wide emissions program approved today provide the same
kinds of leeway for refiners, chemical plants and other
industries to help them comply with clean-air rules, Ilan Levin,
associate director for the Environmental Integrity Project,
which advocates for clean air, said in an interview.  “The concept makes sense, but Texas has a really bad track
record,” Levin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  