-- Equiduct Owned by Citadel, Knight Said to Seek Investors
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-06-07T19:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/equiduct-told-it-complies-with-securities-rules-by-esma.html
Equiduct Systems Ltd., the European
trading system owned by Citadel LLC and  Knight Capital Group
Inc. (KCG) , is seeking new investors as it tries to grow, according to
two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The London-based alternative platform, aimed at retail
brokers, has been talking to securities firms and exchanges
about selling a stake or adding partners, according to the
people, who requested anonymity because the discussions are
private. Equiduct plans a board meeting next week to discuss a
rights issue and strategy, the people said.  Citadel Execution Services Europe, the market-making and
electronic-trading unit of the Chicago-based hedge fund, bought
a majority stake in 2009 in Equiduct, a multilateral trading
facility operated by the Berlin bourse. At that time, Equiduct
had yet to take business from exchanges such as  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1) ,  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  and  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   Citadel appointedPeter Randall, who previously led Chi-X
Europe Ltd., as chief executive officer of Equiduct in December
2009 to spur growth. In 2010 Knight, the largest trader of U.S.
stocks, took a stake. Randall declined to comment today.  Equiduct’s monthly volume of shares changing hands exceeded
1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in November 2010 for the first
time. The company was deemed compliant with trading rules by  the
European Securities and Markets Authority , a move that may
encourage traders to connect to the system, in March.  Multilateral trading facilities such as Chi-X Europe and
Bats Europe emerged after new rules in 2007 facilitated
competition with traditional exchanges.  Plataforma Alternativa de Valores Espanoles, or PAVE, which
sought to create an alternative trading system in Iberian
markets, halted operations this year due to the difficult
financial environment in  Europe  and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s
Neuro unit closed after failing to gain market share. Bats
Europe eventually bought Chi-X Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  