-- Merkel Says Germany Ready to Back Use of Current Euro Tools
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-06-07T14:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/merkel-says-germany-ready-to-back-use-of-current-euro-area-tools.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that
 Germany  is ready to back the use of all existing euro-area
instruments to help stabilize the 17-nation euro region.  With the financial crisis raging, the German government is
willing to deploy the tools at hand whenever needed to bolster
the euro region, she told reporters today at a joint press
conference with British Prime Minister  David Cameron .  “In view of the current difficulties, it’s important to
emphasize that we have created the instruments of support in the
euro zone, that Germany is ready to work with these instruments
whenever that is necessary and that this is an expression of our
firm desire to keep the euro area stable,” the chancellor said.
Merkel didn’t outline to which tools she was referring.  With  Spain  struggling to avoid a bailout and  Greece  at risk
of exiting the euro, Cameron and President  Barack Obama  called
on Europe’s leaders yesterday for an “immediate” plan to
resolve the crisis. Merkel has stepped up her opposition to debt
sharing in the euro region and rejects proposals that Spain’s
banks be allowed direct access to the euro bailout funds.  Speaking earlier, Merkel said that she supports a two-speed
European Union, with a core group in the euro pressing ahead
with deeper integration and the U.K. among others relegated to
Europe’s margins. Her comments, made in an interview with ARD
television today, underscore her differences with Cameron as he
presses for more aggressive action by euro countries to counter
the financial crisis.  ‘Move Closer’  “Those in a monetary union will have to move closer
together,” Merkel said on ARD. “We have to be open. We always
have to make it possible for everyone” to join. “But we must not
stop because one or the other doesn’t want to come along just
yet.”  Europe  is already moving at different speeds, Merkel said,
citing the Schengen agreement that abolished border controls
between some European countries and the monetary union that
excludes the U.K. and  Denmark .  “This will be intensified,” she said. “We need more
Europe, we need not only a monetary union, but we also need a
so-called fiscal union, in other words more joint budget policy.
And we need most of all a political union, that means we need to
gradually give competencies to Europe and give Europe control.”  Ceding more control to Brussels is anathema to many
lawmakers in Cameron’s  Conservative Party , more than a quarter
of whom defied the government in October and voted in favor of a
referendum on continuing British membership of the EU.  ‘Right Advice’  “All countries across Europe can help by offering the
right advice and the right steps forward to the euro-zone
countries,” Cameron said in Oslo today before leaving for
Berlin. “Clearly the first priority is to stabilize the
financial situation. That means recapitalization of banks, it
means building of firewalls, it means reassuring markets.”  EU President Herman van Rompuy is drafting proposals on a
“fiscal union” that will be discussed by European leaders at a
Brussels summit on June 28-29. Merkel said leaders will consider
a plan to transform the EU into a political union. Still, a
breakthrough can’t be achieved at just one summit, she said.  Speaking with Cameron, the chancellor reiterated the need
to push for deeper cooperation in Europe to staunch the crisis,
saying that “we have common interests for all of Europe.”  “We want solid budgets and we want growth,” she said.
“We believe that the difficulties we have in Europe have to be
solved in a spirit that comprises all of Europe, because growth
and prosperity for all of us depends on it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net  