-- Merkel Pokes at Cameron With Backing for Two-Speed Europe
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-06-07T12:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/merkel-backs-two-speed-europe-with-core-euro-in-poke-at-cameron.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
that she supports a two-speed European Union, with a core group
in the euro pressing ahead with deeper integration and the U.K.
among the others relegated to  Europe ’s margins.  Merkel’s comments, made as she prepared to host British
Prime Minister  David Cameron  in Berlin today, underscore her
differences with the U.K. leader, who is pressing for more
aggressive action by euro countries to counter the financial
crisis roiling the 17-nation currency zone.  “Those in a monetary union will have to move closer
together,” Merkel said in an interview with ARD television
broadcast today. “We have to be open. We always have to make it
possible for everyone” to join. “But we must not stop because
one or the other don’t want to come along just yet.”  With  Spain  struggling to avoid a bailout and  Greece  at risk
of exiting the euro, Cameron and President  Barack Obama  called
yesterday for an immediate plan to resolve the crisis. U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  stepped up the
pressure today, saying Spain’s banks should have direct access
to the euro area’s bailout funds, a proposal at odds with
current rules and opposed by Merkel.  “The economic and political division between the Anglo-
Saxon world and the ‘Germano-sphere’ is increasing,” Fredrik Erixon, head of the European Centre for International Political
Economy in Brussels, said in a telephone interview.  U.K. Excluded  Europe is already moving at different speeds, Merkel said,
citing the Schengen agreement that abolished border controls
between some European countries and the monetary union that
excludes the U.K. and  Denmark .  “This will be intensified,” she said.  “We need more Europe, we need not only a monetary union,
but we also need a so-called fiscal union, in other words more
joint budget policy,” Merkel said. “And we need most of all a
political union, that means we need to gradually give
competencies to Europe and give Europe control.”  Ceding more control to Brussels is anathema to many
lawmakers in Cameron’s  Conservative Party , more than a quarter
of whom defied the government in October and voted in favor of a
referendum on continuing British membership of the EU.  ‘Ebb Back’  Cameron said the following month that the euro crisis
offered an opportunity for powers to “ebb back” from Europe to
nation states. “We should look skeptically at grand plans and
utopian visions,” Cameron said then. “We’ve a right to ask
what the European Union should and shouldn’t do.”  Cameron, speaking in  Norway  before he left for Berlin,
where he took part in a town hall-style event with Merkel and
Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, defended his
intervention on policy affecting the euro zone of which the U.K.
is not a member.  “All countries across Europe can help by offering the
right advice and the right steps forward to the euro-zone
countries,” Cameron said in Oslo in televised remarks.
“Clearly the first priority is to stabilize the financial
situation. That means recapitalization of banks, it means
building of firewalls, it means reassuring markets.”  Merkel, in her television interview, said that EU leaders
at a summit later this month will discuss a plan to transform
the EU into a political union. Still, a breakthrough can’t be
achieved at just one summit, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  