-- New No. 1 Sharapova Beats Kvitova, Plays Errani in French Final
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-07T17:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/errani-beats-u-s-open-champion-stosur-to-move-to-french-final.html
Maria Sharapova  regained the top spot
in women’s tennis by beating Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova to
move to her first French Open final, where she’ll play  Italy ’s
Sara Errani.  The Russian defeated the fourth-seeded Czech, 6-3, 6-3 on a
windy day at the main Court Philippe Chatrier at Roland Garros 
in Paris. Her victory means Sharapova will regain the No. 1
ranking from  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus in the women’s WTA
tour.  “What an amazing feeling,” Sharapova said in a televised
interview. “It was my third time in the semifinals and I’ve
always dreamt of being in the final stage.”  The 25-year-old was last ranked No. 1 in 2008, before a
shoulder injury forced her to have surgery and kept her away
from the tour for nine months. She dropped out of the top 100.  “It’s pretty awesome: a few years ago after my shoulder
surgery, I didn’t even know where my ranking was,” Sharapova
said.  The  French Open  is the only major to have eluded Sharapova,
the world’s highest-paid female athlete. The Russian won
Wimbledon at age 17 in 2004, and also took the 2006  U.S. Open 
and 2008 Australian Open.  Earlier today, U.S. Open champion Samantha Stosur was upset
by Errani, who moved to her first Grand Slam singles final.  The 21st-seed beat the sixth-seeded Stosur of  Australia  7-
5, 1-6, 6-3.  Two Finals  Errani had already reached the women’s doubles final with
Roberta Vinci and her win today means she’s the first woman
since  Kim Clijsters  in 2003 to make both championship matches in
Paris. The Italian had never got past the third round of a major
before this season. Since 1976, no player ranked outside the top
20 has won the singles title at  Roland Garros .  “I have no words,” Errani said in a televised interview
after she took the match with a forehand winner and fell to her
back on the clay. “It’s incredible. I can’t believe I am in the
final.”  Sharapova took control early on, breaking serve and taking
the first set on a forehand wide by Kvitova, her ninth error. In
the second set, both players dropped their serve as the clay
blew around the stadium. At 3-4 down, Kvitova dropped serve as
she netted a forehand. Sharapova won with a second serve ace and
held her arms above head.  After losing in the Wimbledon final to Kvitova, Sharapova
beat the Czech in the semifinals of this year’s Australian Open.
The Russian entered Paris having won clay-court titles in
Stuttgart and  Rome , while Kvitova has yet to make a final this
season.  Top 10  Errani, who will be ranked inside the top ten next week,
had lost all five matches against Stosur before today. She’s
never played Sharapova.  The opening semifinal was delayed an hour and 20 minutes
because of heavy rain. Errani and Stosur started nervously, each
dropping serve after the opening game. The Italian dictated play
throughout most of the first set, moving Stosur around with her
topspin forehand.  At 5-5, the Australian dropped her serve after several
backhand errors and netted a volley on the third break point. A
backhand error by Stosur handed the Italian two set points, and
Errani clenched her fist as she took the set with a forehand
winner.  More Aggression  Stosur played more aggressively and improved her accuracy
in the second set, stepping inside the court to take the ball
early off the Italian’s serve. Stosur leveled the match with her
11th ace.  In the final set, Stosur lost three games in a row as she
made a series of backhand errors. Looking at her coach  David
Taylor  between points, she then fought back to level at 3-3.
Stosur dropped serve again at 3-4 as she hit a forehand wide.
Serving for a place in the final, Errani won with a forehand,
her 22nd winner. The Italian made 21 errors in the match, while
Stosur had 48 and struck 46 winners.  “It was hard,” Stosur told reporters. “I think she kind
of played some good points. Then I got a little bit on the back
foot again, which kind of got me in that hole at 3-love in the
third in the beginning, and I couldn’t afford to do that. I paid
the ultimate price.”  Errani’s surprise entry into the final comes after a number
of high-profile upsets in the women’s draw. Thirteen-time Grand
Slam singles champion  Serena Williams  lost in the opening round
of a major for the first time. Women’s top seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus and defending champion Li Na of  China  exited
in the fourth round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros via the
London newsroom at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 