-- EU Court Said to Dismiss Steel Producers’ Suit on Carbon
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-07T17:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/eu-court-said-to-dismiss-steel-producers-suit-on-carbon-1-.html
The  European Court  of Justice
declared inadmissible two lawsuits brought by European steel
producers contesting the European Union’s method for allocating
free carbon permits, according to two EU officials.  The court dismissed a case filed by companies including
ThyssenKrupp Steel Europe AG and Voestalpine Stahl GmbH,
according to the EU officials, who declined to be identified,
citing policy. It also declared inadmissible a suit brought by
the association of European steel producers Eurofer, the group
confirmed in a statement e-mailed today.  The decision of the court is that a complaint on the
distribution of allowances, which is based on benchmarks
designed by the European Commission, should be judged by a
national court, according to Eurofer.  “The decision does not mean that the steel benchmarks set
by the Commission are correct,” the Brussels-based group said
in an e-mailed statement. “The ETS directive makes it very
clear that the benchmarks must be set at a level which allows
the allocation of sufficient emission certificates to the best
performing installations.”  The commission is satisfied that the court sided with it,
said Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the EU
regulatory arm.  Carbon allowances for December rose as much as 1.6 percent
to 6.55 euros ($8.24) a metric ton on ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  and closed at 6.54 euros. The contract was
still down 62 percent in the past year as investors’ confidence
in the world’s biggest emissions market has been undermined by a
recession and debt crises.  Steel producers grouped in Eurofer said in their lawsuit
last year that carbon-efficiency benchmarks for distributing a
dwindling supply of free allowances to the industry in the
2013-2020 period infringe the law and will result in additional
costs to producers of about 5 billion euros.  National Level  The court’s decision “does not mean that the steel
benchmarks set by the Commission are correct,” Eurofer said in
an e-mailed statement. “The decision of the General Court is
that a complaint on the allocation of allowances (which are
based on the benchmarks) has to be judged by a national court
after allocation of certificates on national level.”  The steel lobby said it would pursue its case at a national
level, after which it would again take the matter up with the
EU.  The bloc, which has given away the majority of emissions
permits since it started its carbon cap-and-trade plan in 2005,
will sell the majority of them in the so-called Phase 3 that
starts next year.  The benchmarks favor the most efficient manufacturers in
the emissions trading system, also known as the ETS. Companies
that emit more than the benchmarks will need to buy permits to
cover their discharges, according to the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  