-- EU Pledge ’Fair and Equal’ Access to CO2 Auction Proposal
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-07T07:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/eu-pledge-fair-and-equal-access-to-co2-auction-proposal.html
European Union regulators pledged to
guarantee “fair and equal” access for market participants to a
planned proposal on delaying auctions of some carbon allowances
to curb oversupply.  The European Commission is planning to propose in the
middle of next month a review of the carbon-permit auctioning
regulation to postpone some sales of allowances in the early
phase of the next trading period of its carbon program that runs
from 2013 to 2020,  Jos Delbeke , director general for climate at
the EU regulatory arm, said earlier this month.  The EU will “in good time” inform the market and the
general public of the submission of any proposal to revise the
auctioning regulation to the Climate Change Committee, composed
of representatives of national government, the commission said
on its website.  “At the time the proposal were to be submitted to the
Climate Change Committee, it would in parallel be posted” on
the directorate for climate’s regulatory news website, according
to the commission.  A delay in the auctioning rate would be a short-term fix to
the EU emissions trading system, also known as the ETS, and
would amount to a temporary withholding of allowances, without
changing the 2013-2020 pollution cap, the commission said.  12,000 Facilities  The emission caps that the EU ETS imposes on more than
12,000 facilities owned by manufacturers and utilities were set
before the debt crisis and economic slump. The program will be
oversupplied by permits covering about 1.1 billion metric tons
of carbon dioxide by 2012, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. This surplus may be transferred into the eight-year
Phase 3 that starts next year.  In Phase 3 the EU will auction more than 50 percent of
permits after giving most of them to companies for free since
the system began in 2005. While the overall cap for 2013-2020 is
set in the ETS directive, setting the foundation for  emissions
trading  in the EU, the amount of permits to be sold to companies
is defined in the auctioning regulation, adopted in 2010.  The regulation specifies in Article 10 that the annual
volume to be auctioned is the difference between the total
number of permits, lowered every year in line with the
provisions of the directive, and the amount of allowances to be
handed out for free, based on benchmarks designed by the
commission. The number of free allowances hasn’t been determined
yet because of delays in calculations by some member states.  Back-Loaded  “The ongoing review assesses whether the time profile
decided in 2010 is still appropriate in the light of changed
circumstances, in particular the severe macro-economic crisis,
or whether some of the allowances planned for auctioning in the
early years of Phase 3 should be back-loaded toward the final
years of Phase 3,” the commission said.  The number of allowances to be auctioned within a calendar
year is not subject to the review, it said.  The revision of the regulation will be done in the so-
called comitology procedure, in which a measure proposed by the
commission needs qualified-majority support from representatives
of national governments in the Climate Change Committee to pass.
Then it becomes subject to a three-month scrutiny by the
European Parliament and ministers, a process that typically
takes about five months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  