-- Euro Breakup Precedent Seen When 15 State-Ruble Zone Fell Apart
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-06-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/euro-breakup-precedent-seen-when-15-state-ruble-zone-fell-apart.html
It was a currency union of 15 states
in 1992. Two years later, as budget deficits spiraled out of
control, hyperinflation reigned and economies shriveled, just
two members of the Soviet Union’s ruble zone were left.  As Greek politicians threaten to break terms of the
country’s bailout with international lenders,  Spain  calls for
financial help, and northern European nations balk at funding
the south, historians are asking whether the euro region is
about to face a similar exodus. They take a longer view of the
European Union’s crisis than economists, and it’s much bleaker.  The Soviet experience tells us “an exit like this is messy
and leads to loss of income and inflation, and people are right
to be scared of it,” said  Harold James , a  professor of history 
at  Princeton University  whose books include “The End of
Globalization: Lessons From the Great Depression.” “It isn’t
an attractive analogy at all because the Soviet Union states all
had serious troubles for the whole of the 1990s.”  While differences between the  Soviet Union  and the EU are
greater than their similarities, there are parallels that may
prove helpful in assessing the debt crisis, historians say. Both
were postwar constructs set up in response to a collective
trauma; in both cases, the founding generation was dying out as
crisis hit and disintegration loomed.  Forgotten Bond  “The Soviet Union and the European Union both lost a
generation that remembered what the union was about, a sense of
collective experience,” Ivan Krastev, chairman of the  Centre
for Liberal Strategies  in Sofia, said by telephone from Vienna.
“The Soviet Union was formed after World War I and the EU after
World War II. At least the Soviets had a common language.”  The vision that knitted together the states of the Soviet
Union was Communism. When that founding principle was cast into
doubt, partly through the advent of democracy in the former
satellites of eastern Europe after the  Berlin Wall  fell in 1989,
faith in the central Soviet government evaporated.  Greece’s departure from the euro bloc would deal a blow to
the EU’s raison d’etre, as set out in the 1957 founding  Treaty
of Rome , to “lay the foundations of an ever closer union,”
said Mark Mazower, director of the Center for International
History at  Columbia University  in  New York  and author of “Dark
Continent: Europe’s Twentieth Century.”  Blurred Vision  “The EU was driven by an ideological vision of the
elite,” said Mazower, who also has written books about Greece’s
economic crisis between the wars and the Nazi occupation of the
country. “Once a certain ideological vision of the future is
belied by events, you have a problem. Such a loss of confidence
in its ideology was devastating for the Soviet Union.”  The collapse of the ruble zone followed what the historian
Stephen Kotkin describes in his book, “Armageddon Averted,” as
the almost inadvertent dismantling of the Soviet Union by
President  Mikhail Gorbachev  and his rival  Boris Yeltsin .  The Russian republic, led by Yeltsin, declared sovereignty
from the Soviet Union in June 1990, the first of the Soviet
states after the Baltics to do so. Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova
followed. It was a step that led to the dissolution of a
federation of 286 million inhabitants. The euro region has a
population of 331 million people.  As Gorbachev struggled to formulate a new “Union Treaty,”
it was by then too late. In 1991,  Russia , Ukraine and Belarus
declared a  Commonwealth of Independent States  that had no common
parliament, president or citizenship.  Economic Ties  While the three countries now have separate currencies,
they are still intertwined economically.  Russia remains Ukraine’s largest trading partner,
accounting for 28 percent of all exports and 38 percent of
imports in the first quarter, according to the state statistics
committee in Kiev. In  Estonia , the only former Soviet state to
adopt the euro, Russian trade makes up 9 percent of the total.  Belarus, traditionally Russia’s staunchest ally in the
post-Soviet era, is the only sovereign state outside Russia to
sell bonds denominated in Russian rubles.  The lesson for the EU is that it should be watching closely
what  Germany  is doing, and be wary of calls for a smaller euro
zone, or a “two-speed  Europe ,” Krastev said. Unions don’t
break up because of troubles in peripheral countries, they break
up from the core, he said.  “Disintegration doesn’t occur because everyone wants to go
their own way,” said Krastev at the think-tank in  Bulgaria .
“It happens because politicians envisage a closer, optimal
union. This crisis is already reducing the borders of
solidarity. The EU space is going to be renegotiated.”  ‘Terrifying Paradox’  The alternative scenario of deeper political union in a bid
to save the euro may be even more dangerous, the British
historian Antony Beevor said in an interview in  Stockholm , where
he was promoting his new book, “The Second World War.”  “We are about to see a terrifying paradox,” Beevor said.
“If the European Union goes for sudden unification to control
the economies of the south which are doing so badly, then we are
going to see almost an elective dictatorship from Brussels, with
just the presidential elections being direct. That is going to
produce the opposite of what they wanted -- i.e. it will
reawaken the monster of nationalism.”  Golden Dawn , a Greek nationalist party with a red-and-black
logo resembling a disentangled swastika, entered parliament for
the first time in the May 6 election. Golden Dawn plans to build
on its popularity in the June 17 vote. That specter also emerged
in  Finland  where the anti-bailout True Finns party won 19
percent of the vote in last year’s national election.  System’s Weakness  “Nothing lasts forever,” said Eric Hobsbawm, president of
 Birkbeck College , London University, and a British historian
whose works include “The Age of Revolution: Europe 1789-1848.”
“The European project was to try and turn Europe into a sort of
federal state. I didn’t ever believe that was going to work.  “The whole essence of Europe is that it hasn’t got a basis
for unity,” said Hobsbawm, who is 94. “ Greece  is a special
case which shows the potential weakness of the system.”  As the Soviet states reverted to old national borders,
fiscal union disintegrated. Though the Russian central bank was
the only one of the 15 national banks with a license to print
rubles, all of them could issue credit.  Runaway deficits and hyperinflation followed. Ukraine had
an average quarterly inflation rate of about 100 percent from
the second quarter of 1992 through the third quarter of 1993,
according to Patrick Conway, a professor of economics at the
University of North Carolina, in his essay “Currency
Proliferation: the Monetary Legacy of the Soviet Union.”  Russian Blow  In the end, it was Russia that dealt the death blow to the
ruble zone by setting ever-tighter restrictions and introducing
a currency reform in 1993 that took fellow members by surprise.  Conway’s  essay  dates from 1995, a time when European
leaders were negotiating terms for the introduction of the euro.
He wrote then that the “ruble area’s demise is significant for
Western Europe. Monetary union requires fiscal coordination and
fiscal constraint.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has repeated that the euro
is the glue that holds Europe together. “If the euro fails,
then Europe fails,” she said during a speech in November.  The trouble is, as the ruble experience shows, that a joint
currency requires its own glue that goes beyond common economic
interests, Krastev said.  “A currency is about trust,” he said. “There is a need
for an emotional sense of shared citizenship to have a common
currency. It is good to have a shared sense of belonging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  