-- Euro 2012 Opener Showcases New Economy as Poland Takes On Greece
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   W o j c i e c h   M o s k w a
-- 2012-06-07T23:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/euro-2012-opener-showcases-new-economy-as-poland-takes-on-greece.html
Few games in the European soccer
championships will illustrate the continent’s shifting fortunes
better than tonight’s opener.  Poland , the host of the quadrennial tournament with Ukraine
and the fastest-growing economy in the European Union, takes on
Greece, the epicenter of the debt crisis that’s afflicting every
one of the group’s 27 members. Soccer fans from  Athens  to
Thessaloniki are counting on a little respite.  “I hope, as all Greeks do, that the national team plays
well but it’s more to help us forget for a little bit all the
problems in general going on around us at the moment,” said
Zisis Pouros, 38, a garbage collector in the Greek capital.
“Even if the team wins or does well people will still celebrate
but people will watch those games to forget about everyday
problems, whether there will be work tomorrow or enough food.”  Originally started in 1960, three years after the formation
of what became the EU, the soccer championships this year
involve a Europe that is divided more than at any time since the
collapse of communist rule in 1989. While matches pairing up
teams from east and west used to highlight ideological
differences, now it’s north and south and it’s financial.  Odds-makers put  Spain , which is pressing for EU help to
bail out its banks, as favorite to win the tournament ahead of
 Germany , the euro region’s paymaster. Spain is 11-4 and Germany
is 3-1. Poland is 40-1 to win it, while Greece is 50-1,
according to  U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes Plc’s website .  ‘Special Reason’  “We all know what we have to do and a special reason is
the  living conditions  in the country,” said Giorgos Karagounis,
captain of the Greek national team. “We will take part in the
competition without stress and pressure and we’ll give it
everything with the hope that we will again see happy times.”  Poland is in its second tournament after qualifying for its
first championship in 2008, when  Greece  played as the trophy-
holder after upsetting the odds and winning four years earlier.  Marek Belka , Poland’s central bank president, said this
week he would cheer for Greece in the tournament had the two
teams not been drawn to play each other.  “I’d be keeping my fingers crossed for them,” Belka said
at a press conference in Warsaw after the June 6 meeting on
 interest rates . “There’d be no better psychological kick for
the Greeks than to see their team do well in the European
championships. So let’s root for the Greeks.”  Opposite Directions  The largest of the former Soviet satellite states, the
Polish economy is set to grow 2.7 percent this year, the fastest
pace in the EU, the European Commission said on May 11. Greece,
which joined the euro in 2001 as notes and coins were being
introduced, is predicted to shrink by 4.7 percent in 2012, the
fifth straight year of recession.  “Unfortunately for Poland, economic strength has nothing
to do with soccer results,” said  Mateusz Szczurek , ING Groep
NV’s chief economist for central and eastern  Europe , who is
based on Warsaw and plans to go to the game. “In 1982, Poland
won third place in the  World Cup  as its communist economy was in
ruins and politically it was under Martial Law.”  Poland still has a way to go to catch up with Greek  living
standards . Although moving in opposite directions, per capita
gross domestic product in Poland is still about 26 percent below
what it is in Greece, which joined the EU 23 years earlier in
1981, based on Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development statistics.  Four years ago, the credit crunch had yet to become the
debt crisis. Roll back another four and Poland was beginning
life as an EU member while Greece was spending euros to host the
Olympics and its soccer team became European champion under the
stewardship of a German coach. Victory in 2004 was during a year
of Greece’s greatest modern triumphs, according to locals.  “At that time Greece was in another condition, we had the
 Olympic Games , the economy was in a better financial
situation,” Sophocles Pilavios, president of the Hellenic
Football Federation, said on June 3 as the Greek team set off
for Euro 2012. “Now we are in very poor condition but this is
something that happens here. We will try to do whatever we can
so the Greeks will be proud of their team and their country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net 
Wojciech Moskwa in Warsaw at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  