-- Europe Crisis Key Risk to U.S. Lies in Emerging Markets Impact
-- B y   M a t t h e w   P h i l i p s
-- 2012-06-07T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/europe-crisis-key-risk-to-u-s-lies-in-emerging-markets-impact.html
On Friday evening, June 1, about 350
people gathered in a high-ceilinged room at the Chicago Cultural
Center, sipping wine as songs by Sister Sledge and Kool & The
Gang played in the background. The $2,500-a-ticket-and-up
fundraiser was one of six President  Barack Obama  held across the
Midwest that day.  That morning the Department of Labor had released the worst
employment report of the year, showing the economy added just
69,000 new jobs in May. The culprit, in the president’s eyes,
was Europe. “A lot of that’s attributable to Europe and the
cloud that’s coming over from the Atlantic,” he told the crowd.
“The whole world economy has been weakened by it, and it’s
having an impact on us.”  Parsing out the exact impact of the European crisis on the
 U.S. economy  can be difficult. There’s a strong chance that
Europe can wound the U.S., and the cumulative effect could be
drastic. The danger doesn’t come from where you would expect --
exports from the U.S. to Europe, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its June 11 issue.  Turmoil in the region certainly poses a risk to U.S.
exporters. For the first quarter U.S. exports to Europe were up
more than 8 percent, to $86 billion. Total exports account for
only about 14 percent of U.S. gross domestic product, a small
fraction of which go to Europe.  Yet as the economy has recovered over the last three years,
increased exports have accounted for about 45 percent of GDP
growth, says RBC Capital Markets chief U.S. economist  Tom Porcelli . “That’s an enormous number for something that
accounts for such a small part of overall activity,” says
Porcelli.  Europe’s Troubles  Porcelli believes Europe’s troubles may hit U.S. exports in
a more roundabout way.  Emerging markets  such as  Brazil ,  Mexico ,
and  China  have accounted for the bulk of U.S. export growth over
the last few years. Since the recession began in 2007, exports
to Brazil have increased by more than 70 percent.  Emerging market countries get the majority of their lending
from European banks. So if Europe continues to deteriorate and
its financial system tightens, some emerging markets could lose
a key source of financing, which in turn could squeeze their
ability to keep buying U.S. goods. “That’s a very important
aspect that can’t be overlooked,” says Porcelli.  Europe’s mess also poses significant supply-chain risk to
U.S. manufacturers. According to Kris Bledowski, a senior
economist at the Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity and
Innovation, even if American companies are not shipping a lot of
goods to Europe, it’s an important source of components, such as
 car engines  and plastic parts, to many U.S. manufacturers.  ‘Logistical Issues’  “The feedback I’m getting is a concern over the logistical
issues that may arise in Europe due to labor issues or economic
paralysis there,” says Bledowski. Of special concern, he says,
is European suppliers losing access to credit from local banks.  Another potential point of contagion is the U.S. financial
system’s exposure to Europe’s souring debt, particularly that of
Spain and  Greece . According to the  Bank for International
Settlements , which promotes cooperation between central banks,
U.S. banks held $952 billion in euro area debt in the third
quarter of 2009. By the fourth quarter of 2011, the latest data
available, that exposure was down to $656 billion. That’s a
comfort, but still a large risk.  While the region’s turmoil has helped lower the borrowing
costs of the U.S. government as investors seeking safety buy
Treasuries, a new  study  from the  Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco  found that  Europe ’s woes have increased the borrowing
costs for U.S. corporations through a phenomenon known as the
contagion coefficient, essentially a measure of correlation.  Borrowing Costs  From 2009 to 2011, every percentage point increase in the
amount that European corporations were charged to borrow money
translated into a 0.68 percentage point rise in the rate U.S.
corporations paid, meaning that about two-thirds of the rise in
European corporate borrowing costs were passed on to U.S.
companies.  Other psychological factors are far more difficult to
quantify. Paul Ashworth, chief economist at Capital Economics,
says the turmoil in Europe is “responsible for quite a lot” of
the recent U.S. economic slowdown, not so much from a direct
sales or trade perspective but in the dampening effect it’s had
on animal spirits in the U.S.  The European crisis has been like a big yellow caution flag
waved in front of many U.S. businesses, Ashworth says, giving
many managers reason to act conservatively. “A lack of
confidence can be very contagious,” says Shawn DuBravac, chief
economist of the  Consumer Electronics Association , a trade group
that represents 2,300 companies.  Economic Activity  As businesses hold off from  hiring  and investing in
reaction to a crisis, economic activity decreases even more.
“The crisis of 2008 is still very fresh in the minds of a lot
of U.S. businesses,” says DuBravac. “Any time you see
something that seems similar, you’re going to revert to those
bad memories.”  For some large U.S. multinationals, Europe’s plight is
already producing losses. General Motors’ European vehicle sales
fell 12 percent during the first quarter of this year compared
with the same period in 2011. The carmaker’s first-quarter
European operating loss totaled $256 million, which doesn’t
include $590 million in writedowns.  Analysts expect it will have to spend at least $1 billion
shutting some of its 11 European factories and laying off some
of its 39,000 workers there. GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson signaled the difficulties back in February: “The
situation in Europe today is not a whole lot different than it
was in the  United States  or  North America  generally three-plus
years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Matthew Philips in  New
York  at   mphilips3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Power at   cpower3@bloomberg.net  