-- Yen Weakens After China’s Rate Cut, Dollar Pares Loss
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-07T21:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/euro-rises-5th-day-versus-yen-after-spain-france-auction-debt.html
The yen fell against most its major
counterparts after China cut its key  interest rates  for the
first time since 2008, damping appetite for refuge assets.  The dollar  pared losses  as  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  refrained from signaling additional steps the central
bank might take to spur growth, during congressional testimony.
The euro touched to a two-week high versus the dollar earlier as
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the nation is ready to back
euro-area financial instruments. The pound rallied after the
central bank kept stimulus plans on hold.  “You had the risk-on sentiment going into the Bernanke
comments because of the China cut and Germany seems to be
softening its stance a little bit,” said Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “Bernanke wants to keep his cards
close to his chest, so as not to sway thinking too much in case
there is a big dissension, so we’ve turned around a little
bit.”  The yen depreciated 0.6 percent to 79.63 per dollar at 5
p.m.  New York . The U.S. currency added 0.2 percent to $1.2561
per euro, after losing as much as 0.3 percent. The euro rose 0.4
percent to 100.02 yen.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.1 percent to 82.281. It touched 81.911,
the lowest level since May 28.  Listed Levels  South Korea’s won was the biggest winner against the yen,
followed by the Norway’s krone and Sweden’s krona.  “The way it’s played out is through a positive move in
risk appetite,” said  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange
strategy in London at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital
Markets . “The beneficiary that is less widely recognized is a
country whose trade is very much dominated by  China  and
increasingly so, is Japan, so that maybe a side effect that is
less widely appreciated that maybe intensifies the downward
pressure on dollar-yen slightly.”  The yen weakened versus the dollar after touching an almost
four-month high of 77.66 on June 1.  China’s benchmark one-year deposit rate will drop by 0.25
percentage point effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of China
said on its website. The one-year lending rate will also be cut
by 0.25 percentage point, it said.  The Australian dollar rallied above parity with the
greenback for the first time since May 15. The Aussie rose 0.8
percent to $1.0003 before trading at 98.94 U.S. cents. China is
Australia’s largest trading partner.  Pound Strength  The pound rose 0.2 percent to $1.5528 and gained 0.4
percent to 80.90 pence per euro after the  Bank of England 
refrained from announcing addition asset purchases at a meeting
today.  The euro was supported as  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers said Spain would get
euro-area bank aid. The nation’s short-term debt was downgraded
to F2 from F1 by  Fitch Ratings  today. Its long-term outlook was
negative.  Germany ’s Merkel didn’t specify which financial instruments
she was discussing.  “In view of the current difficulties, it’s important to
emphasize that we have created the instruments of support in the
euro zone, that Germany is ready to work with these instruments
whenever that is necessary and that this is an expression of our
firm desire to keep the euro area stable,” the chancellor told
reporters at a joint press conference with British Prime
Minister  David Cameron .  German Policy  “Everyone is looking for Germany to capitulate at some
point and come around from its recalcitrant stance, but we have
to be cautious before we see it actually happen,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist in Stamford, Connecticut at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit. “  The euro will meet resistance at the January low of $1.2624
and the May 21 high of $1.2824, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shared currency will find support versus the
dollar at $1.2134. Resistance is an area on charts where sell
orders may be clustered, while support is where buy orders may
be pre-established.  The shared currency will finish the third-quarter at $1.25,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News Survey. The
yen will weaken to 81 versus the greenback and the  Dollar Index (DXY) 
will weaken to 80.7, separate surveys show.  Bernanke Analysis  Bernanke said the economy is at risk from Europe’s debt
crisis and the prospect of fiscal tightening in the U.S., while
not signaling additional monetary easing.  “The situation in Europe poses significant risks to the
U.S. financial system and economy and must be monitored
closely,” Bernanke said today in testimony to the Joint
Economic Committee in Washington. “As always, the Federal
Reserve remains prepared to take action as needed to protect the
U.S. financial system and economy in the event that financial
stresses escalate.”  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday in Boston
that slowing job growth and deteriorating financial-market
conditions show the  U.S. economy  “remains vulnerable to
setbacks” and may warrant additional monetary stimulus.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  meets June
19-20.  The yen has dropped 3.3 percent in the past week, the worst
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar slipped 1.1
percent and the euro was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  