-- Ex-Goldman Olympics Boss Tackles Terror to Toilets
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B a k e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-07T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/ex-goldman-olympics-boss-tackles-terror-to-toilets.html
In an oak-paneled church hall a few
blocks from Big Ben, Paul Deighton, chief executive officer of
the  London  Organizing Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic
Games, strides to the podium.  He’s holding the almost 3-foot-high golden torch that he
proudly says was designed in east London and manufactured in
northern  England .  For all the mighty symbolism, the torch can’t shield
Deighton from the skeptical audience gathered one evening in
March to hear how they can profit from this summer’s Olympics,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its July issue.  The hall is filled with about 200 small-business owners,
and a gloomy mood prevails as Britain struggles through its
first double-dip recession since the 1970s.  One woman waves a London 2012 brochure and asks why it was
printed in China when the games should be helping British
businesses.  “I’ll look into it,” Deighton promises. He gently reminds
her that 95 percent of London 2012 contracts were awarded to
British firms.  Another man asks about a feared shortage of portable
toilets in the Olympic Park. Deighton politely reassures him
that they’ve got that one covered.  It’s fitting that a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker
is running the business end of the Olympics -- and getting
dumped on by cantankerous Londoners.  Bleaker Mood  When Britain won the bid for the 2012 games seven years
ago, the economy was booming, Prime Minister  Tony Blair  was
presiding over what was still “Cool Britannia” and the City,
London’s financial district, was gorging on cheap credit and
megabonuses for bankers like Deighton.  Then a bleaker mood set in. The day after London won,
homegrown terrorists bombed the city’s public transportation
system, killing 52 people and raising fears of more attacks,
including during the games.  In 2007, after a decade in office, Blair stepped down. Soon
the financial crisis was rocking the U.K., followed by the
sovereign-debt calamity in  Europe , Britain’s largest trading
partner.  Against that backdrop, not to mention the biggest
government budget cuts since World War II, a summer of Olympics
celebration offers London some relief.  ‘Public Eye’  It might not have seemed that way to Deighton as he fielded
hostile questions in the church.  Deighton, 56, says his 22-year career at Goldman didn’t
prepare him for being quizzed about such nitty-gritty details by
a cynical British public.  “When you’re in  investment banking , you’re pretty much
under everybody’s radar all the time,” he says. “Here,
everything we do all the time is completely in the public eye.”  As he speaks, Deighton is sitting in his office, a space so
cramped that, in his telling, a visiting delegation from the
2014  Winter Games , set to take place in Sochi, Russia, figured
he couldn’t be terribly important.  Wiry and blue-eyed, Deighton says he’s more cheerleader
than chief executive now that the hard part of the games for him
-- the finances -- is in place.  As Britain prepares to welcome 15,000 athletes from 205
countries on July 27 for more than four weeks of Olympic and
 Paralympic Games , Deighton is charged with making sure that the
events, which will be watched by more than 4 billion people, are
delivered on time, on budget and nightmare-free.  Age of Austerity  Together with London 2012 committee Chairman Sebastian Coe,
the only man to have won 1,500-meter Olympic gold twice,
Deighton is overseeing everything from transport to security,
while making sure he’s got enough of those portable toilets.
Surely his is one of the toughest jobs in the world right now?  “The best job in the world,” Deighton says, smiling.  While the games will take place in an age of austerity,
they won’t be austere. In 2007, after underestimating the cost
of cleaning up the site and constructing sports venues, the
Blair government more than tripled the original spending plan,
to 9.3 billion pounds ($14.3 billion).  In addition, Deighton’s London Organizing Committee of the
Olympic and Paralympic Games, or Locog, has a separate 2.2
billion pound budget.  For a country still reeling from the financial crisis, the
money amounts to a backdoor Keynesian stimulus. Plus, Deighton
says, the total outlay guarantees London a boost in tourism.  Dancing Nurses  Although the spending pales in comparison to the $67
billion  China  lavished on the 2008 Beijing Olympics, the
government of Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron  is doing
what it can to make Britain cool again.  “Getting it right and doing the best for Britain is the
overriding political driver in this, rather than saving the last
pound to cut the deficit,” says Tony Travers, director of LSE
London, a research center at the  London School  of Economics.  The government even found an extra 41 million pounds in
public money to mount Olympic spectacles, including “Slumdog
Millionaire” director  Danny Boyle ’s secrecy-shrouded opening
ceremony, which somehow will merge Shakespeare’s “The
Tempest,” a play about a shipwreck, with dancing National
Health Service nurses, singing schoolchildren and  Paul McCartney .  Spending on security has risen to more than 1 billion
pounds as the government tries to guarantee a trouble-free
Olympics.  Surface-to-Air Missiles  The original budget for security at Olympic venues has
almost doubled to 553 million pounds to pay for 23,700 guards
instead of the original estimate of 10,000.  At a time of deep cuts in policing and national defense,
the government is spending another 475 million pounds on wider
security measures, unsettling local residents.  The Ministry of Defense says it has tested sites around
Olympic venues as part of a plan to deploy surface-to-air-
missile batteries to prevent a terror Armageddon.  The 2012 games are sumptuous compared with the last time
London hosted an Olympics.  That was in 1948 in the shadow of World War II, when
athletes ate whale meat to supplement beef rations and slept in
schools that had been converted into makeshift dorms. The
government spent 750,000 pounds, about 20 million in today’s
pounds, on what came to be known as “the Austerity Olympics.”  Legacy Bid  This time around, it was so-called legacy planning that
helped Britain win the bid. London’s plan to use the games to
revitalize the East End will serve as a blueprint for future
hosts,  Jacques Rogge , the International Olympic Committee
president, told reporters earlier this year.  To that end, the government has turned what was once
London’s industrial core, a port crisscrossed by railways, into
Europe’s largest public building project -- a 500-acre (200-
hectare) Olympic Park in the midst of some of the most deprived
boroughs in Britain.  Bombed by German warplanes and contaminated by industrial
waste, the area was a toxic badlands. Prior to building
anything, contractors spent 2 billion pounds to clean up the
place; they even decommissioned a Luftwaffe bomb.  Before London won the bid, Australia’s  Westfield Group (WDC) , the
world’s biggest owner of shopping centers, acquired a site next
to the Olympic Park for Westfield Stratford City, a glittering,
1.8 billion pound edifice plopped down alongside grim high-rise
public housing.  Shopping Olympics  Three-quarters of the visitors to the games will funnel
through Europe’s largest urban shopping center -- past 240
stores, from Armani to Zara -- and be enticed to take part in
the Shopping Olympics before they get to the real thing.  After the games, the Athletes’ Village will be turned into
an apartment complex called the East Village.  Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co., a unit of Qatar’s
sovereign-wealth fund, and Delancey Estates Plc, a British
developer, paid 557 million pounds last year for about half of
the apartments and the right to build 2,000 homes nearby.  The remaining apartments, bought by three public housing
associations, will be turned into “affordable” homes.  For Locog’s own budget, Deighton hunted down sponsors to
supplement income from the sale of broadcasting rights, tickets
and branded merchandise. His target for UK sponsors was 700
million pounds.  By moving early, he avoided getting caught empty-handed
when the credit crunch hit in 2008.  “It was clear to me the sun was shining in the financial
sector,” Deighton says. “Being in the markets all my working
life tells me you do a deal when the market is there. You don’t
wait for it to get any better.”  ‘Ice to Eskimos’  By the time Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt in
September of that year, Deighton had already locked in seven
sponsors, raising 400 million pounds. They included Lloyds TSB
Bank Plc, part of whose contribution, in an ironic twist, fell
to British taxpayers because the bank was bailed out by the U.K.
government in 2009.  Locog ended up raising more money from sponsors than any
other Summer Olympics organizing committee, Coe says. Deighton,
who says his “sweaty moments” occurred when piecing together
all of the finances, won praise for pulling in another 300
million pounds after the financial crisis.  “I reckon he could sell ice to the Eskimos,” says Dee
Doocey, a member of the House of Lords who stepped down in May
from the  London Assembly . “And he could make the Eskimos thank
him for selling the ice. I don’t think anybody could have raised
the money he has in this economic climate.”  Goldman-Style  Deighton is self-deprecating enough to give Coe credit. He
says Coe -- a former Conservative member of Parliament and now a
member of the House of Lords -- is the celebrity with the unique
connections in political and Olympics circles.  “I am the easy one to clone,” Deighton says. “He’s the
hard one.”  Deighton, who made 50 million pounds when Goldman went
public in 1999, says his ease in working with Coe stems from
Goldman’s tradition of co-senior partners, as when  Robert Rubin 
(who would go on to be U.S. Treasury secretary) and  Stephen Friedman  ran the firm jointly in the early 1990s.  “I always remember Bob saying when he and Stephen had a
different point of view about something, he’d simply evaluate
which one of them felt more strongly about it,” Deighton says.
Of Coe, he says: “We’re both very happy to cede to each other
big decisions.”  All-British McNuggets  It was Coe after all who hired him. When London won the bid
for the 2012 games -- beating Paris, New York, Madrid and Moscow
-- Deighton was at Goldman’s London headquarters on a video
conference call with colleagues in New York.  “For the first time in 22 years, I got their attention and
they actually listened to me when I told them London had won,”
he recalled to a group of business leaders in March.  Deighton took up the Locog post in April 2006 after seeing
an ad in The Economist. He’d been at Goldman since 1983,
initially in investment banking focusing on aerospace before
spending two years in New York running the controllers
department.  After returning to London in 1996, he made partner and
became chief operating officer for Europe as Goldman began
ramping up its presence in London.  Deighton, who earns 480,000 pounds a year and promised to
give his 2011 Locog bonus of 220,125 pounds to charity, says he
has no regrets about moving into a job that requires him to
wrestle with such matters as the percentage of British chicken
in the McNuggets sold at McDonald’s Olympic Park outlets.  “I’d answered every question there was about derivatives
regulations,” he says. “Why not about chickens?”  The McNuggets are now 100 percent British after some public
wrangling.  ‘Downton Abbey’  The occasional absurdities of staging an Olympics spawned a
BBC spoof documentary, “Twenty Twelve,” starring Hugh
Bonneville of “Downton Abbey” as the “head of deliverance,”
aka Deighton.  The reality of organizing the Olympics is sometimes funny
enough, Deighton says, adding, “Why don’t they just bring a
camera into my office every day?”  Deighton recalls a conversation he had in 2006 with  Ken Livingstone , then London’s mayor, about whether they could save
money on the 269 million pound Zaha Hadid-designed aquatics
center by not putting the roof on it -- or just installing a
partial one.  “Do you let the swimmers get wet who are in the water, or
do you need to keep the crowds dry?” Deighton says, laughing at
the recollection. In the end, they kept the whole roof.  Gridlock Everywhere  As the games draw closer, Deighton says he’s growing
calmer.  “I’m actually sleeping probably as well as I’ve slept
during the past 6 1/2 years,” he says.  The same can’t be said for many others in London amid talk
of gridlock in the air, on the streets and underground.  At Heathrow, the world’s third-busiest airport, airlines
have warned of delays caused by increased air traffic and long
lines through customs and immigration.  Deloitte LLP, the accounting firm, says London’s subway
system, which struggles as it is to move 4 million people around
London each day, will have to cope with an additional 3 million
daily journeys.  While nearly 80,000 athletes, VIPs and journalists zip
around the city in specially designated lanes, the less
fortunate may find themselves stuck in Olympic-size traffic
jams.  ‘On Track’  One rainy day in May, Deighton heads to the Olympic Park to
survey his work. He passes the basketball arena, explaining how
London organizers are in talks with  Rio de Janeiro  about
shipping the structure to Brazil and using it there for the 2016
games -- all part of his pledge to not leave behind any white
elephants.  He turns and points to the looming, 1.9 million-square-foot
(176,000-square-meter) shopping mall, where he says 10,000 jobs
have been created. All thanks to the games.  “People don’t mind you spending money as long as you
demonstrate you’ve really thought about the long-term return,”
he says, sounding like both the banker he once was and the
Olympics impresario he now is. “We’re on track, but you really
can’t assess it until it’s over.”  When they’re over, the Olympics often don’t yield the
returns their proponents promised; post-2004 Athens is Exhibit
A. And yet if Deighton is proved right, he and London alike will
reap benefits long after that torch he carries around has been
passed to someone else.  To contact the reporters on this story: Stephanie Baker in
London at 
 stebaker@bloomberg.net 
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  