-- Texas Judge Steps Aside in Gas Case He Used in Campaign
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-06-07T20:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/texas-judge-steps-aside-in-gas-case-he-used-in-campaign.html
A Texas judge agreed to step aside in
a gas-drilling case involving  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  after a
landowner suing the company complained the judge showed bias in
the matter in his campaign materials.  Judge Trey Loftin sent fliers to voters saying he forced
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to back down and cited
news stories and comments by radio host  Rush Limbaugh  on the
case between Range Resources and landowner Steven Lipsky. Lipsky
says Range’s drilling resulted in contamination of his water
well with methane and benzene.  Lipsky’s lawyers petitioned to disqualify Loftin from the
case after Bloomberg News wrote about his campaign mailers.  “While I know that I have been a fair and impartial
jurist, I am concerned that appearances in this case have become
its own story,” Loftin wrote June 5 to his state administrative
judge, Jeff Walker. “I agree that I should be recused and this
case transferred for the appearance alone.”  Loftin lost the May 29 Republican primary for the 43rd
District Court in Parker County to keep his state judgeship. He
remains on the bench until January.  The campaign mailers “reveal a personal bias or prejudice
against the Lipskys,” according to a May 31 filing by Lipsky’s
lawyers.  Loftin may have violated the  Texas  code of judicial ethics,
Lipsky’s lawyers said. Loftin, in his letter to Walker, said he
didn’t violate those canons.  Range Decisions  The code prohibits judges from commenting on pending or
possible cases “in a manner which suggests to a reasonable
person the judge’s probable decision.”  Loftin ruled for Range three times in the dispute with
Lipsky and Alisa Rich, a consultant he hired. Lipsky accused
Range of contaminating his well water. Range, in a countersuit,
said Rich and Lipsky conspired to defame the company by getting
the Environmental Protection Agency to issue an order against
the company, which prompted media coverage.  Range, Rich and Lipsky aren’t named in either of the two
fliers provided to Bloomberg. The news stories and Limbaugh
commentaries they cite are about that case.  The case in Texas state court is Lipsky v. Durant, 11-cv-
0798, 43rd District Court of Texas, Parker County (Weatherford,
Texas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  