-- Facebook Trading Losses May Near $200 Million, Knight CEO Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-06-07T15:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/facebook-trading-losses-may-near-200-million-knight-ceo-says.html
Industry trading losses from  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s mishandling of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering may be close to $200 million,  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) 
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said.  Knight said last month its losses ranged between $30
million and $35 million.  Nasdaq ’s $40 million plan to compensate
brokers for losses is “underwhelming at best,” Joyce said today
at the Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP Global Exchange and
Brokerage Conference in New York.  “Nasdaq made decisions that created this problem that the
industry suffered through, and it’s up to Nasdaq to create a
solution,” he said. “Nasdaq has got to go back to the drawing
board and come back with something sensible.”  Nasdaq OMX’s computer systems used to establish the opening
price for Facebook were overwhelmed on May 18 by order
cancellations and updates for the IPO. After the exchange
repaired the problem, order updates for 30 million shares didn’t
participate in the auction because of an error, Nasdaq said in a
 notice  the next day.  Knight is one of the largest wholesalers, a category of
market makers that executes orders for individual investors sent
to the firm from retail brokers. These firms may guarantee
customers executions in the auctions at the start and end of
trading each day at the resulting price, assuming they can
manage their financial risks by buying and selling in the
market. Other large wholesalers include UBS AG, Citigroup Inc.,
Citadel LLC and E*Trade Financial Corp.  Facebook  declined  29 percent to $26.81 yesterday from the
$38 price set by underwriters on May 17. Knight shares rose 2.3
percent to $12.86 in the same period, while Nasdaq OMX was down
3.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  