-- Facebook-Fueled Protests Erode Pena Nieto’s Lead in Mexico
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-06-07T18:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/facebook-fueled-youth-protests-erode-pena-nieto-s-lead-in-mexico.html
The main threat to Mexican
presidential front-runner Enrique Pena Nieto in July’s election
may prove to be a grassroots movement of students that started
on social networking websites.  Students have filled plazas in major cities in the past two
weeks, using Facebook and Twitter to organize marches against
what they say is a media bias in favor of Pena Nieto. The
students, many of whom were in elementary school when Pena
Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party  lost power in 2000,
warn that corruption that blossomed during the PRI’s 71-year
rule could worsen if Pena Nieto is elected.  While the protests are unlikely to derail Pena Nieto’s
presidential ambitions three weeks before the July 1 vote, they
may cut into support for his party’s candidates running for
Congress, said Antonio Crespo, a Mexico City-based political
analyst. If elected, Pena Nieto, 45, will need a majority in
Congress to approve proposals to overhaul tax and labor laws and
allow private investment in the state-owned oil industry.  “The students are doing things Pena Nieto’s rivals haven’t
managed to,” said Crespo, who is a professor at the Center for
Economic Research and Teaching. “They are changing voter
trends.”  Since the first major rally on May 19 drew 45,000 students
to  Mexico  City’s historic downtown, according to the police,
Pena Nieto has seen his lead in polls narrow. Benefiting the
most has been  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , 58, who opposes Pena
Nieto’s plans to end Petroleos Mexicano’s oil monopoly and
narrowly lost to outgoing President  Felipe Calderon  in 2006.  Televised Debates  Students, hailing from both public and private
universities, have rejected any political affiliation and plan
to hold their next gathering on Sunday, June 10, the day the
candidates participate in the second of two televised debates
organized by the electoral institute.  The protesters are demanding a third debate on June 19
organized by students. All of the contenders except for Pena
Nieto have agreed to participate, while the front-runner said
conditions do not exist for an impartial debate, Reforma
newspaper reported today.  Pena Nieto had 35.8 percent support compared with 24
percent for  Lopez Obrador  in a poll of 1,000 registered voters
taken June 1 to June 3 by Consulta Mitofksy. The PRI candidate’s
lead was the smallest since campaigning began March 30 and is
down from a 17.6 percentage point advantage in a poll published
May 15, according to Mexico City-based Mitofsky.  Josefina Vazquez Mota, 51, of the ruling  National Action
Party  had 20.8 percent support. The poll had a margin of error
of 3.1 percentage points.  Rise of Obrador  The peso fell 1.6 percent on May 31, more than all 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, to its weakest level since 2009
after Reforma newspaper published a poll that day showing Lopez
Obrador within 4 percentage points of Pena Nieto and after the
U.S. posted a disappointing jobs reports. It was the closest
Lopez Obrador has come in any major poll.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in a June 1 report attributed Lopez
Obrador’s rise to the anti-PRI movement ignited by the students,
while saying it expects  Europe ’s debt crisis and concerns about
global growth, not electoral politics, to weigh on Mexico’s bond
and currency markets in the coming weeks. Mitofsky also
attributed Pena Nieto’s drop in polls to the students.  Democracy’s Strength  An official with Pena Nieto’s press office who declined to
provide his name in accordance with campaign rules said that the
marches reflect the strength of Mexico’s democracy and that the
candidate respects the views of all voters.  Lopez Obrador’s spokesman did not immediately respond to an
e-mail request seeking comment. The candidate said June 6 that
those who thought the election was decided “didn’t count on the
young people,” according to the newspaper, La Jornada,
referring to the student marches.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 have dropped 56 basis
points, or 0.56 percentage point, this year to 6.11 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark IPC stock
index is little changed over the same period. The stock market
has risen 49 percent since Calderon took office Dec. 1 2006.  Mexico’s gross domestic product expanded an annual 4.6
percent in the first three months of the year, the fastest pace
in six quarters. The country will grow 3.5 percent this year,
the Finance Ministry estimates.  Grupo Televisa  The now nationwide demonstrations, inspired partly by
protests in  Spain  and student marches in  Chile , have taken aim
at what they allege is favorable coverage of Pena Nieto by the
nation’s dominant broadcaster, Grupo Televisa SAB. That is the
same network that produced soap operas starring the candidate’s
wife, Angelica Rivera, before they were married.  At one rally last month, young people held signs saying
“Welcome to the Fifth Power: Social Networks” and wore
cardboard cut-outs of television sets to poke fun at Pena
Nieto’s media-driven campaign.  PRI allies initially said that those who jeered Pena Nieto
during a visit last month to the Iberoamerican University were
not enrolled at the Mexico City-based institution.  In reaction, 131 students posted a video on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube website of themselves holding up their IDs from the
college. Protesters marching in solidarity with the 131 students
call themselves #YoSoy132, a hashtag in Spanish meaning “I am
the 132nd,” which has become the name of the student movement.
A hashtag is a symbol used to mark a topic on Twitter.  Anti-PRI  Anti-PRI sentiment has also been stirred by U.S. federal
prosecutors’ decision last month to file civil charges against a
former PRI governor in the border state of Tamaulipas for
allegedly taking millions of dollars in bribes from drug cartels
and investing them in  Texas  real estate. The two cases were
presented in  San Antonio  and  Corpus Christi , Texas.  A poll of 1,000 people taken May 24-28 by Mexico City-based
pollster Buendia y Laredo found that 47 percent of those
surveyed support the marches, while 32 percent opposed them. The
poll published in El Universal newspaper had a 3.5 percentage
point margin of error.  Still, maintaining the same level of public support and
organization will become more difficult if the movement begins
to endorse specific policies, said Carlos Ramirez of Eurasia
Group, a Washington-based policy analysis group.  Constitutional Amendment  Pena Nieto’s campaign chief, Luis Videgaray, in a May 30
interview, said that the candidate would push for a
constitutional amendment to open to foreign investment oil
fields currently operated by Pemex. The PRI needs to convince a
two-thirds majority in both congressional houses to approve such
legislation. Currently the party has a nine-seat majority in the
lower house of Congress thanks to an alliance with the  Green
Party .  The PRI had 44.2 percent support among respondents asked by
Mitofsky which party they’d vote for in the congressional race
taking place the same day as the presidential vote. It was the
lowest level of support for the party since campaigning began
March 30.  Student leaders plan to vote later this week on whether to
oppose Pena Nieto’s energy proposals. Crespo said that the
students risk alienating voters if they lean more heavily in
favor of Lopez Obrador as some are urging.  Even as summer vacation and the Mexican rainy season begin,
organizers have promised more rallies and vow to stay active if
they’re unable to block the PRI’s return to power.  “If Pena Nieto becomes the next president, we will surely
be on the streets,” said Brenda Hernandez, a history student of
the Mexican National Autonomous University who wore a pink
#YoSoy132 T-shirt at a recent rally. “You can count on it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  