-- Fed’s Kocherlakota Says Job Growth Remains ‘Disappointing’
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M a r y   V a n   B e u s e k o m
-- 2012-06-07T18:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/fed-s-kocherlakota-says-u-s-job-growth-remains-disappointing-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis 
President Narayana Kocherlakota said U.S employment growth
remains “disappointing” and that an elevated jobless rate may
persist even as the expansion continues.  “The erosion in labor-market performance that we’ve seen
in the United States over the past five years may be highly
persistent, even under appropriate monetary policy,”
Kocherlakota said today in a speech in Minneapolis that was
similar to his May 23 comments in Rapid City,  South Dakota .  The Minnesota regional bank chief’s remarks followed Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s testimony to lawmakers earlier today
that “rapid gains in economic activity will be required to
achieve significant further improvement in labor-market
conditions.” Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday
slowing job growth and deteriorating financial-market conditions
show the  U.S. economy  “remains vulnerable to setbacks” and may
warrant additional monetary stimulus.  The U.S. added 69,000 jobs last month compared with 275,000
in January, even as the  Federal Open Market Committee  sustained
record  stimulus  that included a pledge to keep the benchmark
 interest rate  near zero until at least late 2014.  Job growth in May was less than half the number forecast by
economists, while April payrolls were revised down to 77,000
from 115,000, Labor Department figures showed June 1. The
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1
percent for the first increase since June 2011.  Greece, U.S.  The U.S. economy isn’t at risk of falling into a crisis
like Greece’s because policy makers in the world’s largest
economy are capable of agreeing on how to handle the fiscal
demands of entitlement programs that serve an aging population,
Kocherlakota said.  “There’s a great deal of confidence, which I share myself,
that American voters and policy makers are interested in getting
their debt problem under control,” he said in response to a
question from the audience. “I’ve been impressed with the
willingness of the people to come together and talk about an
issue that is a long-term one” involving “promises made to
older citizens that are embedded in legislation.”  The  Minneapolis Fed  chief dissented from a FOMC pledge in
 August  to keep interest rates near zero through mid-2013, and a
decision in  September  to sell $400 billion of short-term
Treasuries and buy $400 billion of longer-term securities. He
opposed the central bank’s decision to increase accommodation at
a time when the economy was showing signs of healing.  Kocherlakota, 48, was an economics professor at the
University of Minnesota before becoming head of the regional
bank in October 2009. He was an economist at the Minneapolis Fed
from 1996 to 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  