-- Fed’s Yellen Says More Easing May Be Warranted
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-06-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/fed-s-yellen-says-vulnerable-economy-may-warrant-more-easing.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said “stalled” improvement in the labor market and
weakening financial conditions may call for the central bank to
boost its record monetary easing.  “Scope remains for the FOMC to provide further policy
accommodation,” Yellen said in Boston yesterday. “It may well
be appropriate to insure against adverse shocks that could push
the economy into territory where a self-reinforcing downward
spiral of economic weakness would be difficult to arrest.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  meets June
19-20 to consider further steps to aid the economy after
employment growth in May cooled to the slowest pace in a year.
Two regional Fed bank presidents who vote on policy, San
Francisco’s  John Williams  and Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart , said
yesterday the central bank should be prepared to take action if
the economy deteriorates. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is
scheduled to testify on the economy in Congress today.  Yellen’s speech “is a prelude to the Fed clearly
considering additional easing,” said  Diane Swonk , chief
economist in  Chicago  at Mesirow Financial Inc., which oversees
about $61.7 billion in assets. “The Fed is keeping its powder
dry, but is at least signaling that it’s willing to act.”  Yellen laid down three conditions for action: if the
outlook entails “little or no improvement in the labor market
over the next few years,” downside risks are “sufficiently
great,” or the inflation rate threatens to drop “notably
below” the Fed’s 2 percent goal. The personal consumption
expenditures price index rose 1.8 percent for the 12 months
through April.  Stocks Climb  Stocks climbed yesterday on speculation policy makers in
 Europe  and the U.S. will take steps to boost growth. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said officials stand ready
to act as the euro region’s growth outlook worsens.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.3 percent to
1,315.13 in New York. Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note climbed nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to
1.66 percent and touched 1.67 percent, the highest level in a
week.  Yellen said the economy “remains vulnerable to setbacks”
and the central bank could try to spur growth “either through
its forward guidance or through additional balance-sheet
actions.” The Fed has said  interest rates  are likely to stay
“exceptionally low” at least through late 2014.  Using communications about the expected path of  interest
rates  is “likely to be weaker the longer the horizon of the
guidance, implying that it may be difficult to provide much more
stimulus through this channel,” she said. The Fed adopted the
2014 time horizon in January, extending an earlier date of mid-
2013.  Operation Twist  The U.S. central bank could also undertake another round of
asset purchases or continue its Operation Twist program, set to
expire this month, to lengthen the maturities of bonds on its
balance sheet, Yellen said. The Fed purchased $2.3 trillion of
bonds in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing.  “It is for this reason that the FOMC emphasized, in its
statement following the April meeting, that it would ‘regularly
review the size and composition of its securities holdings and
is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate to promote a
stronger economic recovery in a context of  price stability ,’”
Yellen said.  A report from the Labor Department last week showed that
the unemployment  rate  rose to 8.2 percent in May from 8.1
percent in April, and the economy added 69,000 jobs, compared
with a gain of 275,000 in January.  ‘Headwinds’ Seen  “It’s going to be a prolonged recovery,” Yellen said in
response to audience questions after her speech. “Recent data
we’ve seen on the economy are pretty disappointing,” and the
labor market appears to have “stalled.”  Yellen said the economy is expanding at a “moderate pace”
of about 2 percent and that “significant headwinds will
continue to restrain the pace of recovery so that the remaining
employment gap is likely to close only slowly.”  Among the headwinds are a 35 percent decline in  home prices 
that has cut into household wealth, looming fiscal tightening
and strains in financial markets caused by the European crisis.
As a result, “a highly accommodative monetary policy will be
needed for quite some time to help the economy mend,” she said.  Inflation will “remain at or below” the Fed’s 2 percent
goal “for the foreseeable future,” Yellen said. Longer-term
inflation expectations that haven’t climbed above that objective
have “freed the FOMC to take strong actions,” she said.  Moderate Pace  The Fed said yesterday that the  U.S. economy  maintained a
moderate pace of growth from early April to late May as factory
output rose and the real-estate market improved.  “Overall economic activity expanded at a moderate pace,”
the Fed said in its Beige Book business survey, which is based
on reports from its 12 district banks. “Hiring was steady or
increased slightly.”  The report, which gives central bankers anecdotal evidence
on the health of the economy two weeks before they meet,
contrasts with recent data showing manufacturing and the labor
market cooling.  Policy makers this week voiced opposing views on whether
the central bank should step up its record easing. The Fed has
already kept its benchmark rate near zero since December 2008.  Atlanta’s Lockhart said extending Operation Twist is an
“option on the table.” Williams of  San Francisco  said the
central bank must “stand ready to do even more if needed to
best achieve our statutory goals of maximum employment and price
stability.”  Rotating System  Williams and Lockhart both vote on the FOMC this year under
the Fed’s rotating system, along with Cleveland’s  Sandra Pianalto  and  Jeffrey Lacker  of Richmond. Fed Washington-based
governors, along with New York Fed President William C. Dudley,
have permanent votes.  Chicago’s Charles Evans said “soft” economic data
warranted “extremely strong accommodation,” while  Richard Fisher  of Dallas said more Fed purchases of bonds would be
“pushing on a string.”  James Bullard  of  St. Louis  said there’s
time to assess the economy and a policy change isn’t needed now.  Before the Fed undertakes additional easing measures,
policy makers would need to consider the “limitations and
costs” of its remaining tools, Yellen said.  Yellen also said that “some have expressed concern” that
further expanding the Fed’s balance sheet could “interfere”
with its ability to tighten monetary policy. The vice chairman
said she disagreed, though it “could in theory reduce
confidence” in the Fed and cause inflation expectations to
climb.  “On the other hand, risk-management considerations arising
from today’s unusual circumstances strengthen the case for
additional accommodation,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  