-- Fed's Rosengren Says Financial System Risks Harm Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-07T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/fed-s-rosengren-says-financial-system-risks-harm-growth.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said persistent risks in the global
financial system may slow the economic expansion.  “Concerns about the possibility of future problems cause a
substantial reduction in current economic growth,” Rosengren
said today according to remarks prepared for a speech in
Copenhagen.  Rosengren’s speech to the  Institute of International
Finance ’s membership meeting highlighted the aversion of risk in
global financial markets that has prompted stronger demand for
the safest assets such as U.S. and German government debt.  “Policymakers and financial institutions need to continue
to improve the robustness of the financial system in order to
minimize the impact of this uncertainty,” Rosengren said.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to a record low
1.4387 percent on June 1, following a report that the  U.S.
economy  added 69,000 new jobs in May, the least in a year. The
yield has since risen to 1.66 percent. The yield on 10-year
German debt fell to 1.17 percent on June 1 and has since
increased to 1.34 percent.  The yields show that “investors believe that central banks
are more likely to undershoot their inflation targets than
overshoot them, and that policy makers need to be particularly
attentive to the downside risks of their economic and financial
outlooks,” Rosengren said. He didn’t discuss his outlook for
monetary policy.  More Efforts  In an interview last week, Rosengren called for additional
efforts to boost the U.S. recovery.  The Boston Fed Chief called today for financial
institutions and their regulators to better understand how
capital and liquidity needs can change in moments of “severe
stress.”  “A failure to decisively resolve banking problems could
cause collateral damage to the global economy,” he said, citing
the risk that capital may fail to be allocated to profitable and
productive new investment opportunities.  Rosengren, 54, was formerly the head of banking supervision
and regulation at the Boston Fed and became its president in
2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Rebecca Christie  in Copenhagen at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  