-- Bradbury Couldn’t Get Enough of Paris: Appreciation
-- B y   A l e c   M c C a b e
-- 2012-06-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/for-bradbury-writing-was-nearly-fun-as-sex-appreciation.html
Ray Bradbury, who died this week at
91, had some advice for an aspiring writer during the summer of
1989: “FINISH YOUR NOVEL, START ANOTHER TOMORROW!” he wrote in
a paperback copy of “Fahrenheit 451.” “REMEMBER, WRITING IS
ALMOST AS MUCH FUN AS SEX!”  I took his advice -- sort of.  Though I never did finish that novel, my career in
journalism has lasted more than two decades. The benediction
from Ray was thanks to my father, Robert McCabe, a journalist
based in Paris who got to know him through mutual friends.  Ray, who never learned to drive, would fly across the
Atlantic by  Concorde  and then tool around Paris with his wife,
Maggie, in a Mercedes chauffeured by a somewhat mysterious
eastern European driver named Stefan.  Introduced by friends, including the book critic at Time
magazine, where my father had worked, Ray would be a witness at
my father’s wedding in 1995.  “He hated to be called a science fiction guy, just hated
it,” my dad said by phone from Paris yesterday. “He’d say, ‘If
anything, I write fantasy.”’  Ray couldn’t get enough of the French capital.  “He spoke terrible French and spoke it with a great smile
on his face,” said my father, who retired after a long career
as an editor at the  International Herald Tribune. (NYT)  “The French
loved it.”  Liquid Affair  “He had a delightfully kind touch to him,” Dad continued.
“He spread these little bits of himself around. He had a gift
for that.”  I had the pleasure of dining with Ray and my father at La
Grande Cascade, a favored Bradbury retreat in the Bois de
Boulogne, on a steamy July day in 1993. It was a long, rather
liquid affair in which he encouraged my nascent ambition and
even offered, as he did to many young writers, to critique my
work.  Six months later, I took him up on the offer and sent him
my latest short story, a  Blade Runner -ish tale of a troubled
reporter (what else?) set some years in the future.  He quickly replied, typing on a yellow mailing label
decorated with a pen-and-ink drawing of a robotic creature
standing atop a spiky, somehow lunar-inspired landscape.  “It is well-written, of course, and fascinating,” he
began. “I think your first two pages need tightening because
you tell things instead of show them, correct?”  Hmmm, did he like it or not?  ‘Somewhat Confused’  “I am not sure that the story ends where you end it,” he
continued, confirming my suspicion. “I am somewhat confused as
to the final meaning. Sit down and ask yourself: wht [sic] is
the story about? what effect do you want to have on the reader?
what does the story mean to YOU?”  To this I had no answer.  “Sorry to bug you with all this, but I had to take similar
criticisms from my writers group (8 friends) fifty-five years
ago when I st [sic] out to write one thousand stories,” Ray
continued. “And I DID! One a week every week from high school
on!”  It was, in short, the nicest evisceration I’d ever had.  As for the drawing, it was probably by Ray himself.  “He’d draw sketches of people all the  time (TWX) ,” my father
said. “Generally they all looked a bit like Martians.”  (Alec McCabe is an editor at Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on  movies .  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 