-- Ford Plans First Bond Sale Since Rising to Investment Grade
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-06-07T17:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/ford-plans-first-bond-sale-since-rising-to-investment-grade-2-.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  is planning to sell
$1.5 billion of bonds in its first benchmark issue since the
second-largest U.S. automaker regained investment-grade ratings
from Moody’s Investors Service last month.  Ford Motor Credit Co., its financing unit, may sell five-
year notes as soon as today to yield 230 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to a person familiar with
the transaction who asked not to be identified because details
are private. The spread was reduced from initial talk of about
240 basis points, the person said.  Moody’s raised its rating on Ford by two levels to Baa3,
the lowest level of investment grade, from Ba2, on May 22. The
move, which followed Fitch Ratings’ upgrade of Ford from junk
status on April 24, enabled Ford to regain control of its logo
and other assets pledged as collateral to obtain a $23.4 billion
loan to keep the business going in 2006.  Ford may pay a spread that’s more than 120 basis points
less than the premium on its last sale of five-year notes in
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At that time,
the company sold $1 billion of 4.25 percent debt that yielded
354.1 basis points, or 3.54 percentage points, more than
Treasuries.  Bonds Rise  Those securities have climbed to 105.75 cents on the dollar
to yield 2.92 percent, with the spread tightening to 220 basis
points, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s second upgrade
meant that its debt shifted out of Barclays Plc’s and Bank of
America Corp.’s junk-bond indexes to their high-grade gauges.
Many bond-fund managers adjust their holdings to match the
indexes.  Ford Motor Credit converted $2.5 billion of asset-backed
securities into unsecured debt yesterday. The bonds, linked to
vehicle loans, were issued in 2011 and designed to automatically
convert when two of the three major rating companies lifted the
automaker’s credit ranking to investment grade.  Ford slid to junk in 2005. High-yield, high-risk, or junk
bonds, are graded below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch. Benchmark sales typically are at
least $500 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  