-- Former NFL Players File Consolidated Head-Injury Claims
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-07T19:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/former-nfl-players-file-consolidated-head-injury-claims.html
The  National Football League 
glorifies the brutality of the sport for profit, according to a
complaint filed by thousands of ex-players and their families
seeking damages for head injuries suffered on the field.  The NFL is accused of negligence and failing to inform
players of the link between repeated traumatic head impacts and
long-term brain injuries, including early onset Alzheimer’s,
dementia and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, according to a
so-called master complaint filed today. The league denied the
claims and said it’s reviewing the filing.  The NFL propagates “the fraudulent representation that
‘getting your bell rung,’ ‘being dinged’ and putting big hits on
others is a badge of courage and does not seriously threaten
one’s health,” according to the complaint filed in federal
court in Philadelphia, where lawsuits from across the U.S. have
been gathered.  Today’s complaint consolidates more than 80 suits filed by
more than 2,000 players, the plaintiffs’ lawyers said in a
statement. It follows the deaths of Junior Seau, a 12-time Pro
Bowl linebacker who retired in 2010, former Chicago Bears player
Dave Duerson, an 11-year veteran, and  Ray Easterling , an eight-
year player with the  Atlanta Falcons .  Seau, who spent most of his 20-year career with the  San
Diego Chargers , shot himself in the chest at his home in
Oceanside,  California , on May 2. His family is weighing whether
to donate his brain to research.  Player Suicides  Duerson shot himself in the chest last year, leaving a note
saying he wanted his brain to be studied. His children filed a
wrongful-death suit against the NFL.  Easterling, one of seven players who sued the NFL in
August, killed himself in April at age 62. His widow, Mary Ann,
said he began showing signs of brain damage 20 years ago,
including insomnia and depression leading to dementia.  “I firmly believe the NFL could have and should have done
more to protect Ray,” she said in a statement. “That’s why I
am seeking to hold the NFL accountable.”  Easterling after reaching 40 began to suffer from insomnia
and depression, Mary Ann Easterling told reporters today on a
conference call. The player was diagnosed with dementia in April
2011, she said.  “The first part of our marriage was wonderful,” Mary Ann
Easterling said. “When the insomnia and depression hit, it was
like a switch was flipped. He no longer enjoyed being around his
family.”  Medical Literature  The NFL has known as early as the 1970s about the increased
risk of repetitive head injuries, according to the complaint. It
allegedly took no substantial steps to address the issue until
1994, when it created a Mild Traumatic Brain Injury committee.  From 1994 to 2010, the league sought to suppress medical
literature showing a link between such injuries and post-career
 brain damage  and instead “produced industry-funded, biased and
falsified research” concluding that head impacts don’t pose
serious risks, according to the complaint.  The reason is economic, the players said. The league, which
generates about $9.3 billion a year in revenue, makes money on
“ferocious collisions,” according to the complaint. In October
2010, the NFL fined players for “illegal and dangerous hits”
and then sold photos of the same hits on its website for $54.95
to $249.95, according to the complaint.  “Vicious hits captured by NFL Films take on the appearance
of the slow-motion crash safety test videos that appear in many
car commercials -- with players taking on the role of the crash-
test dummy,” according to the complaint.  League Guidelines  The league began issuing guidelines on concussions in 2007
and last year ordered team doctors and trainers to assess
players who have sustained concussions during games.  “The NFL has long made player safety a priority and
continues to do so,”  Brian McCarthy , a spokesman for the
league, said today in an e-mailed statement. “Any allegation
that the NFL sought to mislead players has no merit.”  The consolidated complaint includes claims against Riddell
Inc., the NFL’s official helmet maker since 1989. Riddell’s
helmets are defective in design, unreasonably dangerous and
don’t provide adequate protection against head injuries,
according to the complaint.  “We are confident in the integrity of our products and our
ability to successfully defend our products against
challenges,” Riddell said in an e-mailed statement. The company
said it’s inappropriate to comment on pending litigation.  Suits Consolidated  Lawsuits against the NFL were consolidated in January
before U.S. District Judge Anita Brody in Philadelphia.
Complaints have been filed in California,  New York ,  New Jersey ,
 Georgia  and  Florida .  The NFL owes a duty to players to spell out risks of the
game beyond bad backs and arthritic knees, Kevin Turner, a
former  Philadelphia Eagles  running back who suffers from  Lou
Gehrig ’s disease, said on the conference call.  Turner, a plaintiff in the case who retired from the NFL in
2000, was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS,
in May 2010. At least five former NFL players suffer from the
disease, Turner told reporters on the conference call.  “I’m not a scientist and I’m certainly no genius but for
as long as I’ve known it two and two make four and this thing
has just really started to add up,” Turner said. “I just want
the NFL to stand up and be accountable for its actions. That’s
how we can prevent more people from suffering.”  The case is In re National Football Players’ Concussion
Injury Litigation, 12-md-02323, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  