-- Fugitive Uganda Warlord Still Kidnaps Children, UN Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-06-07T11:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/fugitive-uganda-warlord-still-kidnaps-children-un-says.html
The Lord’s Resistance Army led by
Ugandan warlord  Joseph Kony  is still kidnapping and abusing
children even while security forces have intensified the hunt
for him and his fighters, according to the  United Nations .  Between July 2009 and February 2012, the LRA kidnapped at
least 591 children mainly from the Democratic Republic of Congo,
 Central African Republic  and South Sudan, UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-Moon wrote in his first report to the  Security Council  on
the situation, published yesterday.  Girls were forced into marriage with combatants and the
group, comprising 200 to 500 fighters, committed crimes such as
rape, murder, maiming and sexual slavery, the report said.  “The LRA continues to cast a long shadow across central
Africa, causing enormous suffering for children,” Radhika
Coomaraswamy, the secretary-general’s special representative for
children and armed conflict, said in a separate statement.  The LRA, which first emerged almost three decades ago in
 Uganda  and is classified as a terrorist group by the U.S., was
driven out by Uganda’s army in 2004 and scattered into bordering
countries, the statement said.  Kony, a former altar boy who says the LRA is inspired by
the Ten Commandments, faces International Criminal Court charges
of murder, mutilation, rape and abducting and turning 30,000
children into sex slaves and killers.  Sex Slavery  While the rebel fighters have been weakened by
international efforts to eliminate them, sporadic attacks have
continued and they have changed tactics by abducting children
for shorter periods, the UN said.  U.S. President Barack Obama in October authorized the
deployment of 100 soldiers, mainly special forces, to Central
 Africa  to help Uganda and neighboring armies track down Kony and
the LRA rebels. The African Union in March announced it had
formed a joint force of 5,000 soldiers from Uganda, DRC, CAR and
South Sudan to join the hunt.  Kony was catapulted into the international spotlight after
San Diego-based Invisible Children in March released a video
that gained widespread exposure on the Internet.  While the so-called Kony 2012 campaign has won celebrity
backing from talk-show host  Oprah Winfrey , singer Justin Bieber
and actress Angelina Jolie, it has also angered some of Kony’s
victims who say it doesn’t accurately reflect their pain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryson Hull at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net  