-- Full-Force Bank Aid Is Spain’s Only Hope, Industry Warns
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-06-08T07:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/full-force-bank-aid-is-spain-s-only-hope-industry-warns.html
Spain’s banks  need urgent aid plugged
directly into their balance sheets and  Europe  can no longer
allow itself to deploy half measures, according to the leaders
of some of the world’s biggest banking and finance groups.  “It must be done with full magnitude,”  Christian Clausen ,
the president of the European Banking Federation and chief
executive officer of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , said in an interview in
Copenhagen yesterday. Recapitalizing Spain’s banks has become
the key hurdle that European policy makers need to overcome, and
fixing the turmoil in the nation’s financial system would calm
markets, he said.  Bankers are stepping up their pleas for action as Spain’s
financial crisis risks engulfing the euro area’s fourth-largest
economy and policy makers remain divided on how best to tackle
the issue. The European Commission last month lent its support
to proposals to provide a direct capital infusion to Spain’s
banks, a model Germany opposes in favor of aid with fiscal
austerity strings attached.  Spain’s banks are buckling under the weight of 184 billion
euros ($231 billion) in real estate loans that the  Economy
Ministry  has characterized as “problematic.” The country’s
lenders may need as much as 100 billion euros in support,
Antonio Lopez Isturiz, a leader of the European  People’s Party ,
said yesterday in an interview with broadcaster TVE.  ‘Spill Over’  Norway ’s Finance Minister added his voice to the request
for action as the world’s second-richest nation per capita after
Luxembourg warns failure to act will threaten financial
stability in its markets.  “It is important that they now manage to build a stronger
defense around the banks,” Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen
said in an interview in Copenhagen yesterday. “Problems in one
country quickly spill over into other countries. Norway is
affected via funding costs for Norwegian banks when uncertainty
increases.”  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Spain three levels late yesterday
to within two steps of junk as it increased its estimate for the
cost to the government of shoring up banks to as much as 100
billion euros. The rating company estimates the economy will
remain in recession through 2013.  Act Fast  Europe needs to act fast if it is to calm markets, said
 Stefan Ingves , the chairman of the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision . Recapitalizing Spain’s banks should be accompanied
by a restructuring of the country’s financial system, he said.  “They are going to have to do it one way or the other,”
Ingves said in response to questions about recapitalization in
Copenhagen yesterday, where bankers from across the globe are
attending a meeting of the  Institute of International Finance .
“The sooner the better. That is how you make the fog lift.”  The views were backed by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman  Douglas Flint , who this week became chairman of the IIF. The group
announced  Charles Dallara  is stepping down.  “The immediate concern is addressing bank recapitalization
where the markets believe that it’s necessary and doing it in a
way that people are confident that it’s being done appropriately
and fairly,” Flint told reporters in Copenhagen yesterday.  A European banking union, a model being discussed as a way
to coordinate regulation and deposit guarantees across borders,
would be a “step in the right direction,” Clausen said. Such a
model should accompany closer fiscal integration, though it’s
unlikely to offer any near-term solution to Spain’s woes, he
said.  Excessive Risk  European Union leaders, including European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso , have called for a banking union as lawmakers grope for
ways to bolster confidence. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  plans
to report on proposed “building blocks” for deeper integration
in the 17-nation euro area for the next summit of EU leaders on
June 28 and 29 in Brussels.  The EU’s financial services chief  Michel Barnier  said the
plans, which include setting up a network of national bank-
financed funds to stabilize crisis-hit lenders, are a necessary
step to curb excessive risk taking and to shield taxpayers from
the cost of bailouts. Senior unsecured creditors will also be
put in the firing line to cover costs from failing lenders under
the EU’s plans, announced this week.  Any banking union should seek to include all 27 EU members
as a starting point and individual countries would then have the
freedom to opt out, Barnier said in Copenhagen yesterday.  ‘Vague Concept’  Still, plans for such a model remain unclear, Ingves said.  “When you are talking about a banking union, that is a
vague concept,” he said. “It doesn’t really tell us much, as
far as I can judge, as to what you are supposed to do with
individual banks in individual countries, and those are the
types of problems people are struggling with presently.”  Under Barnier’s plans, national governments would impose
annual levies on banks to ensure that a minimum amount of money,
a so-called resolution fund, is immediately available to
stabilize a crisis-hit lender. This would allow regulators to
buy time while other steps, such as creditor writedowns, are
enacted.  “In the short term, the first thing we need to do is to
put out the fire” in  Spain , Clausen said this week.
“Recapitalizing the Spanish banks would help calm the
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  