-- Gasoline Falls on Concern Federal Reserve Won’t Boost Growth
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-06-07T15:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/gasoline-falls-on-concern-federal-reserve-won-t-boost-growth.html
Gasoline retreated as remarks that
U.S.  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  made to Congress
today raised doubts that the central bank would institute a
third round of quantitative easing to boost the economy.  Futures reversed a gain as Bernanke told lawmakers that
further rounds of stimulus could boost the economy, yet may have
“diminishing returns.” He also said the economy is at risk
from the  Europe  debt crisis and the prospect of fiscal
tightening.  “He’s playing both sides of the fence and there’s a lack
of confidence that the Fed will make the right moves to boost
the economy and create jobs,” said Daniel Flynn, a trader and
oil market analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  Gasoline for July delivery fell 0.94 cent, or 0.4 percent,
to $2.6809 a gallon at 11:39 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, heading for the first loss in four days.  “The situation in Europe poses significant risks to the
U.S. financial system”, Bernanke said today in testimony to the
Joint Economic Committee in  Washington . “As always, the Federal
Reserve remains prepared to take action as needed to protect the
U.S. financial system and economy in the event that financial
stresses escalate.”  Bernanke also warned lawmakers that “a severe tightening
of fiscal policy at the beginning of next year that is built
into current law -- the so-called fiscal cliff -- would, if
allowed to occur, pose a significant threat to the recovery.”  Bernanke on June 19-20 will lead the  Federal Open Market
Committee  in a policy-setting meeting.  Jobless Claims  First-time claims for jobless benefits in the U.S. fell by
12,000 to 377,000 in the week ended June 2 from a revised
389,000 the prior week, the  Labor Department  said today. The
 four-week  moving average of claims, a less-volatile measure,
climbed to 377,750, the highest in a month, from 376,000.  Futures rose earlier after  China  cut benchmark lending and
deposit rates for the first time since 2008. The People’s Bank
of China said on its website that the benchmark one-year deposit
 rate  will drop by 0.25 percentage point from tomorrow to 6.31
percent amid signs of slower economic growth.  “The market is reacting to the surprise interest rate cut
in China overnight, which is boosting prices,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,  fell  0.5
cent to $3.56 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. That’s the
lowest price since Feb. 18.  July-delivery heating oil declined 0.51 cent to $2.6666 a
gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Clark in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  