-- GDF Suez Starts Energy Trading This Week in New Singapore Office
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-06-07T04:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/gdf-suez-starts-energy-trading-this-week-in-new-singapore-office.html
GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,  Europe ’s largest power
utility by market capitalization, began operations this week at
the Singapore office of wholly owned subsidiary GDF Suez Trading.  The trading center will offer risk management and energy-
price hedging for other companies in the Courbevoie, France-
based GDF Suez group and for customers.  “The choice of Singapore was quite obvious,” said
Phillipe Vedrenne, deputy chief executive officer. “Singapore
is the hub of energy trading.”  The 12-person office opened with three sales specialists
and two traders, Angel Archuleta, previously with Societe
Generale SA, and Thierry Moreau. GDF will trade oil and coal
derivatives and plans to add physical coal trading next year,
Vedrenne said. The team will grow to 25 people by the end of
next year, said Eric Simon,  Asia  Pacific chief representative.  The trading division shares an office with GDF Suez’s
liquefied-natural-gas division and will support the sister
company with hedging.  “In Asia, the gas business is still oil driven,” Vedrenne
said. “You need to be able to trade crude properly and all the
oil-related products, more or less all the barrel if you want to
be active.”  Singapore will begin imports of LNG in 2013 and has a
contract with Berkshire, England-based BG Group to buy as much
as 3 million metric tons a year until 2023. The government will
decide this year how it will bring in additional supplies, Neil McGregor, managing director of  Singapore LNG Corp. , said Nov. 8.  Asia LNG  “We’ll see if there is something here in terms of
opportunities” for future supplies to  Singapore , Vedrenne said.
“The group might contemplate what sort of operations can be
organized around the terminal.”  Asia will be short of LNG through 2018 amid a surge in
demand from countries including  China  and  Japan , according to
Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  China’s LNG imports may rise to 30 million metric tons a
year in 2015, according to the consulting firm’s estimates.  Japan, the largest LNG buyer in the world, will consume as
much as 90 million metric tons by 2025 as the country’s nuclear-
power capacity shrinks following last year’s Fukushima disaster,
Shigeru Muraki, chief executive of Tokyo Gas Co.’s energy
solution division, said June 6 at the World Gas Conference in
 Kuala Lumpur .  Indonesia , the world’s second-largest exporter of LNG, will
seek to import overseas cargoes to meet rising domestic demand,
R. Priyono, the head of the nation’s petroleum regulator BPMigas,
told Bloomberg on May 9.  GDF Suez Trading was created in May 2011 after the merger
of Gaselys SAS and Electrabel SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  