-- GE Picks Wind-Industry Survivors as Tax Credit Expires
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-06-07T21:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/ge-picks-wind-industry-survivors-as-tax-credit-expires.html
Vic Abate expects that many makers of
gearboxes, towers and blades for wind turbines will go under
next year. He should know -- as vice president of  General
Electric Co. (GE) ’s renewable energy business, Abate is the executive
who will seal their fates.  With a federal tax credit that subsidizes the U.S. wind
industry set to expire at the end of 2012, GE is scrutinizing
its  supply chain . Uncompetitive vendors will be culled, Abate
said, while stronger suppliers will be offered operational and
financial assistance.  The looming shakeout may give GE, the top turbine maker
with 29.4 percent of the U.S. wind market in 2011, an
opportunity to wring better terms from its 200-plus vendors. The
company has as many as 10 suppliers for some components now, a
figure that may dwindle to just three once Abate is done,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its June 11 issue.  “We’re in the process of picking winners and losers,”
Abate said.  Manufacturers of turbines and parts will shed an estimated
10,000 workers in the U.S. this year in anticipation of a
slowdown in orders, according to the  American Wind Energy
Association . If Congress doesn’t extend the production tax
credit, that figure will hit 37,000 in 2013 -- about half the
industry’s workforce.  The incentive, first offered in 1992, grants owners of wind
farms a credit equal to 2.2 cents per kilowatt-hour for
electricity produced over a 10-year period. Congress’s Joint
Committee on Taxation  estimates  that extending the break for
just one more year would cost $4.1 billion in forgone  tax
revenue  over a decade.  No Decision  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, one of the
sponsors of a bill that would preserve the credit, has said he
expects no decision until after the November elections.  “Without an extension this industry is going to be in real
trouble,” said Steven Lockard, chief executive officer of TPI
Composites Inc., a Scottsdale, Arizona-based maker of blades
that counts GE among its financial backers and customers. “The
job cuts are coming pretty quick, depending on where you are in
the supply chain.”  Renewing the credit near the Dec. 31 deadline would still
mean a lag time of six to nine months for production rates to
rebound,  Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)  CEO Peter Duprey said during a
May 9 conference call with investors. The Naperville, Illinois-
based maker of steel towers for turbines got more than 10
percent of its 2010 sales from GE.  Kaydon Corp. (KDN) , an  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based manufacturer of
ball bearings that counts on GE for 10 percent of its revenue,
is also bracing for tough times. “There will unquestionably be
a dropoff in wind shipments and production,” Kaydon CEO James O’Leary said in a May 9 conference call.  Uncertain Plans  Uncertainty over the tax credit is making it hard for
developers to plan new projects.  “If I don’t have that long-term outlook I can’t find
investors,” said Gabriel Alonso, CEO of EDP Renewables North
America, the U.S. development unit of  Portugal ’s  EDP-Energias de
Portugal SA . “Right now utilities are not contracting for long
term power for 2013.”  GE, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , is in a better
position to weather the loss of incentives than its suppliers.
Its orders for  wind turbines  more than doubled to 696 turbines
in the first quarter, from 327 turbines a year earlier, partly
because wind-farm developers are scrambling to beat the December
deadline.  GE suppliers will be scored on efficiency, quality and
price, along with the strength of their balance sheets. “The
ones that have the best quality and the lowest cost position are
the ones that are going to win,” said Abate.  Sounds like “Survivor,” the reality-TV show pioneer.
Except in Abate’s version, there’s no 11th-hour immunity. “Once
you’re out, you’re out,” he said. “There won’t be any head-
fakes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  