-- German Stocks Extend Gains After China’s Rate Cut
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-06-07T15:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/german-stocks-rise-on-stimulus-speculation.html
German stocks  rose, completing their
biggest two-day rally since April, after China cut  interest
rates , bolstering optimism that policy makers will increase
their efforts to stimulate the global economy.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  led gains on the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  after
China’s decision and amid reports the European Union may support
Spanish lenders.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  rose after  RBC Capital
Markets  advised buying shares in the operator of the Frankfurt
stock exchange.  The DAX climbed 0.8 percent to 6,144.22 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt. The gauge gained 2.1 percent yesterday after
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi indicated the bank
will act if the debt crisis worsens. The DAX has still  tumbled
14 percent from its 2012 high  on March 16 amid growing concern
that Greece will have to leave the euro area. The broader HDAX
Index rose 1 percent today.  “We need policy action right now,” said Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas SA in
Luxembourg. “Any reaction from central banks will be positive
and a support in the short term, although markets will remain
hostage to the European situation until we get more clarity and
a solution on that front.”  China  cut benchmark lending and deposit rates for the first
time since 2008. The  one-year deposit rate  will drop to 3.25
percent from 3.5 percent effective tomorrow. The  one-year
lending rate  will fall to 6.31 percent from 6.56 percent.  European officials are working on a plan that would allow
Spain to recapitalize its banks with aid from its European Union
partners, Reuters reported, citing unidentified German
officials.  Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank  Commerzbank jumped 5.7 percent to 1.43 euros.  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  climbed 1 percent to 28.69 euros.  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said yesterday
slowing job growth and deteriorating financial-market conditions
may warrant additional monetary stimulus in the U.S.  “If the authorities drop the ball, then we easily risk a
repeat of 2008 and 2009,” said  Jim Reid , a strategist at
Deutsche Bank in London, wrote in a report. “However, if they
act aggressively, we could see a decent two to three months for
risk assets.”  Deutsche Boerse  rose 2.1 percent to 38.96 euros, paring its
decline in 2012 to 9.7 percent. The shares’ discount to its
peers is “too extreme,” RBC wrote in a report, adding that the
company may continue to pay between 7 percent and 10 percent of
investors’ money in dividends or buybacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  