-- Gibson Dunn, Latham, McDermott, Boies Schiller: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/gibson-dunn-latham-mcdermott-boies-schiller-business-of-law.html
Former Solicitor General  Theodore Olson , a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, bills as much
as $1,800 an hour, according to the Wall Street Journal, which
reported that the hourly fee came to light in bankruptcy filings
for LightSquared Inc.  Olson’s fees are the highest on record, the Journal said,
citing Washington consulting firm Velo Partners, which tracks
the figure from court filings.  Gibson Dunn partner Eugene Scalia, son of Supreme Court
Justice  Antonin Scalia , was listed as next highest in the
billing pecking order, at $980 an hour, according to the
bankruptcy papers.  Olson, an appellate lawyer, was hired by Reston, Virginia-
based LightSquared in March in preparation for a possible legal
battle with U.S. regulators. In February the FCC said it would
withdraw preliminary approval for the company’s network after
government tests found that the signals would interfere with
global-positioning systems. LightSquared filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy May 14, with listed assets of $4.48 billion and debt
of $2.29 billion as of Feb. 29.  Olson has handled many prominent cases. His firm biography
says he has argued 58 cases before the U.S. Supreme Court,
including acting as the lead counsel for President  George Bush 
in the 2000 Supreme Court case that decided that year’s
election. More recently, he joined with  David Boies , the lead
attorney for 2000 Democratic presidential nominee  Al Gore  in
that year’s battle for the White House, to legally challenge
 California ’s 2008 ballot measure known as Proposition 8 that
banned gay marriage.  A spokesperson from the firm declined to comment on his
rate.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Deals  Latham Advises Calumet in $335 million Royal Purple Purchase  Latham & Watkins LLP advised  Calumet Specialty Products
Partners LP (CLMT)  in its agreement to acquire Royal Purple Inc. for
approximately $335 million.  Latham Houston partner Michael Chambers and New York
partner David Kurzweil handled the deal for Calumet.  Hallett & Perrin PC is acting as legal counsel for Royal
Purple. Corporate lawyer Bruce Hallett in  Dallas  was the partner
on the deal.  Calumet produces specialty hydrocarbon products by
processing crude oil and other feedstocks into customized
lubricating oils, solvents, waxes and asphalt used in consumer,
industrial, and automotive products. The company also produces
fuel products including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.  Royal Purple manufactures high-performance lubricants for
automotive, industrial, marine, motorcycle and racing
applications.  “Calumet is very excited to be adding the Royal Purple
product line to our portfolio of specialty products,” Bill Grube, Calumet’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.
“Royal Purple has an extensive specialty product line serving
the industrial and consumer automotive markets.”  Calumet will acquire 100 percent of its membership
interests at the closing, which the company expects to happen in
the middle of July, subject to customary closing conditions and
regulatory approval.  Calumet will finance the acquisition through a combination
of cash on hand and borrowings under its senior secured
revolving credit facility, as well as potentially other long-
term debt financing, the company said in a statement.  Moves  McDermott Paris Office Expands with Seven New Lawyer Hires  McDermott Will & Emery LLP has hired seven new lawyers in
its Paris office who will strengthen the firm’s corporate, tax
and dispute resolution law practices. Three lawyers joining from
Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP’s Paris office will be
partners. They include Bertrand Delafaye, Antoine Vergnat and
Antony Martinez. They will be joined by four associates coming
from Orrick Rambaud Martel, SJ Berwin LLP and  Reed Smith LLP ,
the firm said.  Delafaye, previously a partner with Orrick Rambaud, will
join the corporate advisory practice group. He advises private
and listed companies on corporate, mergers and acquisitions and
securities law matters.  Vergnat will be a partner in the U.S. and international tax
practice group. He assists French and foreign investment funds,
corporate groups and entrepreneurs operating in the industrial,
service and real estate sectors.  Martinez, who is admitted to the Paris and  New York  bars,
will join the trial practice group. He handles international
disputes relating to complex commercial contracts involving
multiple jurisdictions on behalf of French and foreign clients.  McDermott opened its Paris office in May last year, naming
corporate and competition lawyer Jacques Buhart, formerly of
Herbert Smith LLP, as the partner-in-charge of the Paris office,  “The expansion of the Paris office is key to achieving the
McDermott’s strategy of being able to give high-quality advice
to multinational corporate clients in all the major economies in
which they conduct their business,” Buhart said in a statement.  The expansion of the Paris office follows McDermott’s
growth in other parts of  Europe . The firm opened a Frankfurt
office last month. Two other partners have joined the Paris
office this year. The firm also hired a pair of private equity
partners in  London , as well as a corporate partner in Milan and
three other partners in  Germany .  The firm has more than 1,000 lawyers at offices in the
U.S., Europe and a strategic alliance in  Shanghai .  Moves Round-Up  Morgan Lewis, Greenberg, Baker & McKenzie, Baker Hostetler  Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP hired capital markets partner
Allan Reiss to join its business and finance practice in the New
York office. He was most recently a partner with Vinson & Elkins
LLP, where he practiced corporate and  securities law , the firm
said.  Greenberg Traurig LLP has added cross-border mergers and
acquisitions attorney David Gitlin to the Philadelphia office in
the corporate and securities practice as a shareholder. He was
previously a partner at Blank Rome, LLP.  Real estate lawyer Kent F. Beattie has joined  Baker &
McKenzie  LLP as a partner in Toronto. He was previously a
partner with Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP, the firm said.  Baker Hostetler LLP hired Edmund W. Searby, who joins the
firm’s litigation group as partner in its Cleveland, Ohio,
office. His practice will focus on white collar defense and
corporate investigations, securities litigation, antitrust and
commercial litigation. He was previously at McDonald Hopkins
LLC, the firm said.  David Luce has joined DLA Piper LLP’s corporate and finance
practice and insurance and reinsurance sector practice in New
York. Luce is a former director in the Fixed Income Division of
Credit Suisse, the firm said.  K&L Gates LLP hired broker-dealer lawyer K. Susan Grafton
as a partner in the investment management practice. Grafton is a
former vice president and associate general counsel for Goldman,
Sachs & Co. and staff member at the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Division of Trading and Markets. She was previously
at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, the firm said in a statement.  Business law and litigation firm Fasken Martineau LLP
announced that Frank Mariage has joined the firm’s
corporate/commercial, mergers and acquisitions and mining groups
as a partner.  Blank Rome LLP announced that Debra P. Goldberg has joined
the firm as a partner in the financial services group. She was
previously of counsel at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the firm said.  Litigation  Barclays’s Battle With Lehman Brokerage Brings $5.5 Billion  Barclays Plc (BARC)  has won as much as $5.5 billion from the
liquidator of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s brokerage since
buying the defunct investment bank’s North American business
more than three years ago.  A federal judge in Manhattan told the brokerage to pay
Barclays what it owed, saying the final sale documents showed
the parties’ true intent. James Giddens, of Hughes Hubbard &
Reed LLP, the brokerage trustee, originally demanded $7 billion
from Barclays, saying he hadn’t read last-minute changes to the
contract in the September 2008 chaos after the Lehman parent
filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  “We are gratified by the court’s decision confirming that
Barclays is entitled to the Lehman assets it purchased in
September 2008,” the bank’s litigation lawyer, Jonathan Schiller of Boies, Schiller  & Flexner LLP, said in an e-mail.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest ordered Giddens to
pay London-based Barclays $1.1 billion and renounce his claim to
$1.5 billion in margin assets backing trading operations that
Barclays took over from Lehman. In confirming part of a lower-
court decision, Forrest cost Giddens a total of $3.5 billion in
margin and $2 billion in clearance-box assets, held to clear
trades, the trustee said yesterday.  The dueling between the second-biggest U.K. bank and
Giddens, who also is liquidating the MF Global Inc. brokerage,
followed a 2010 court trial before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan . Both sides challenged Peck’s order on the
disputed assets, and Giddens said he plans to appeal Forrest’s
ruling.  “We strongly believe that the former customers of  Lehman
Brothers Inc . are entitled to these assets,” Giddens said in an
e-mailed statement June 5. “Our duty to customers mandates that
we continue to pursue all legal avenues to recover the assets.”  The Lehman parent is still buying and selling assets after
exiting bankruptcy to pay creditors an average of about 18 cents
on the dollar. The defunct firm had sought an $11 billion
“windfall” it alleged Barclays made on the 2008 purchase. Peck
rejected that demand and Lehman dropped its appeal of his
ruling.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy with $613 billion in debt.  The district court case is Giddens v. Barclays Capital
Inc., 11-cv-06052, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  