-- Glencore’s Glasenberg Says He Has to Accept Xstrata CEO Pay
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-06-08T20:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/glencore-s-glasenberg-says-he-has-to-accept-xstrata-ceo-payments.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said he has to accept the
retention payments  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  intends to pay its own employees
as part of Glencore’s planned acquisition of the mining company.  Xstrata  investors   Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and Fidelity Worldwide
Investment criticized as excessive payments of as much as 172.8
million pounds ($267 million) for 73 executives. Xstrata’s CEO
 Mick Davis , 54, who would lead the combined company, stands to
get 28.8 million pounds in bonuses over three years.  “If this is a package that keeps him there and they
believe this is the package, I’ve got to accept it,” said
Glasenberg, Glencore’s largest shareholder, in London yesterday.
“Mick is a key guy to keep in the company going forward.”  Xstrata investors will vote July 12 on whether to approve
both the payments and the 19.6 billion-pound acquisition, which
would be the world’s largest mining takeover. The proposed
compensation can be passed with 50 percent of votes cast and the
Glencore transaction with 75 percent. Zug, Switzerland-based
Xstrata needs both items passed for the deal to proceed.  Glencore won’t be allowed to vote its holding in Xstrata of
about 34 percent on the deal, according to the U.K.’s takeover
code, meaning Xstrata investors holding a combined 31.75 percent
stake could join forces to block the takeover.  “If I was a CEO and my shareholders voted down my salary,
my compensation, because they didn’t believe I was worth it, I
think you’ve got to resign,” Glasenberg said.  ‘Good’ Ratio  Glasenberg, 55, who would become deputy CEO in the merged
company, said it was upto Xstrata whether the payments can be
adjusted. “It has to get a 50 percent vote and I hope it gets
it,” he said at a dinner organized by the Melbourne Mining
Club, a non-profit group that promotes the  mining industry .
Xstrata shareholders have been “telling everyone they are not
happy,” Glasenberg told reporters after the dinner.  Glencore has also faced calls from Xstrata investors
including  Schroders Plc (SDR) , Fidelity and Standard Life to increase
its bid for Xstrata, the world’s largest exporter of coal burned
by power stations. Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore is offering
2.8 of its shares for each Xstrata share. Glasenberg said
yesterday that the ratio is “good.”  Glencore, the largest publicly traded commodities supplier,
sold $10 billion in stock at 530 pence each in an initial public
offering in May last year, ending more than three decades of
operating as a closely held partnership. Glasenberg has a 15.8
percent stake, valued at about $6 billion at current prices.  101 Mines  Glencore declined 0.9 percent to 357.8 pence in  London  and
Xstrata fell 0.8 percent to 959.1 pence.  A combined Glencore and Xstrata would have operations and
projects in 33 countries, including 101 mines and more than 50
metallurgical facilities. It would have about 130,000 workers.  Glencore is working with Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley
as financial advisers, while Xstrata has tapped Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura
Bank International Plc. Glencore is paying as much as $80
million in fees, while Xstrata’s bill will be as much as $116
million, a document on the merger published by the two shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  