-- Global Food Prices Fall Most in 2 Years on Dairy Plunge
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-07T11:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/golbal-food-prices-fell-most-in-2-years-in-may-on-grains.html
Global food prices  had their biggest
drop in more than two years in May as the cost of dairy products
slumped on increased supply, easing strain on household budgets.  An index of 55 food items tracked by the  United Nations ’
Food & Agriculture Organization fell 4.2 percent to 203.9 points
from 213 points in April, the Rome-based agency reported on its
website. That was the biggest percentage drop since March 2010.  A stronger U.S. dollar may weaken the effect of falling
prices on importers’ food bills,  Abdolreza Abbassian , an FAO
economist, said by phone from  Rome . The U.S.  Dollar Index , which
tracks the  exchange rate  against major world currencies, jumped
5.4 percent in May, the biggest monthly gain since September.  “The dollar has strengthened tremendously, so if you’re an
importing country and you have to pay in dollars, you’re not
really getting the full impact of these sliding prices,”
Abbassian said. “You’re not getting the full effect.”  Meat prices may fall in coming months, mirroring a price
correction for dairy, according to Abbassian. The FAO Dairy
 Price Index  slumped 12 percent to 164.1 points, the biggest drop
since January 2009, while the meat index slipped 0.5 percent to
178.8 points.  “The dairy decline is from a very high level,” Abbassian
said. “It’s a delayed correction. It would not surprise me to
see the same for meat.”  Freight Rates  World milk production is forecast to climb 2.7 percent this
year to 750.1 million metric tons, accelerating from last year’s
2.3 percent increase, the FAO has forecast.  Falling agricultural-commodity prices and “really low”
freight rates help food-importing countries, the FAO economist
said.  Ukrainian consumer prices fell for the first time in more
than nine years in May, led by a 0.8 percent month-on-month drop
for food and beverages.  Turkish inflation  last month slowed the
most since January 2003 as the central bank tightened lending
and food prices slumped.  “International prices for most commodities weakened in
recent weeks on generally favorable supply prospects amid
growing economic uncertainties and a strengthening  U.S.
dollar ,” the FAO wrote.  Cereals Drop  The FAO Cereals Price Index dropped for a second month,
slipping 1.1 percent to 220.9 points.  Corn futures fell 12 percent in  Chicago  last month amid
expectations for record world production after U.S. farmers
increased planting. Wheat slipped 1.6 percent in Chicago, while
soybean futures declined 11 percent.  The FAO, in a separate report, raised its outlook for world
grain production in 2012-13 to 2.42 billion metric tons from
2.37 billion tons previously. The forecast for the harvest of
coarse grains, which includes corn, was lifted to 1.25 billion
tons from 1.21 billion tons.  “A lot of the prospects of good supplies still hinge on
harvest results, which are still a couple of months ahead,”
Abbassian said. “We are now in a market where any bad news on
weather could move prices up sharply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  