-- Good Energies Changes Name as Focus Shifts to Traditional Energy
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-06-07T21:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/good-energies-changes-name-as-focus-shifts-to-traditional-energy.html
Good Energies Inc., the renewable
energy investor, changed its name to  Bregal Energy  and said
future private-equity deals will be primarily in  North America ’s
traditional energy industry.  The name change comes two years after the New York-based
fund began investing outside of the renewable-energy industry,
it said today in a statement. Good Energies started its
 portfolio  in 2006, and the new name will identify the fund more
closely with others that also are part of Bregal Investments,
according to John Breckenridge, managing director of Bregal
Energy.  The older name “defined us as a renewables only fund”
instead of one investing in “any kind of energy,” Breckenridge
said today by telephone. “Rather than move away from
renewables, we just expanded to a broader energy focus,
including renewables,” he said.  The fund will continue to invest in renewable energy,
though its “primary focus” will become traditional energy,
including oil and gas exploration and production, thermal power
plants and power transmission, according to the statement.  “The renewable space still has some interesting
opportunities, but it’s become more challenged than it was two
or three years ago,” Breckenridge said. “The overall broader
energy space has many interesting things going on,” he said.  No Change  Good Energies typically invested between $15 million and
$75 million per deal, and that won’t change, Breckenridge said.
“That’s our sweet spot, and that stays the same.”  Its investments include the Atlantic Wind Connection, a
transmission project for U.S. offshore wind power that’s also
backed by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  The fund also did deals
with solar-thermal developer SolarReserve LLC, photovoltaic
project developer Agile Energy Inc. and 3tier Environmental
Forecast Group Inc., which maps wind and solar resources for
developers.  Bregal Investments, founded in 2002, is the private equity
business of Cofra Holding AG, the holding company for the
Brenninkmeijer family, which founded the closely held C&A Group
clothing retailer in the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  