-- Google’s Android Faces Growing Fragmentation, Flurry Says
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-06-07T23:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/google-s-android-faces-growing-fragmentation-flurry-says.html
(Corrects year-earlier figure in final paragraph.)  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software is
powering an increasingly fragmented array of mobile devices,
making it costlier for developers to craft applications that run
smoothly on every product, a report found.  Just three of the 20 most popular Android devices held a
usage market share greater than 6 percent last month, according
to research published today by Flurry, a provider of app
analytics software that tracks use of more than 100 million
devices globally. Only one phone, the  Samsung Galaxy S II ,
commands a double-digit market share among Android products,
Bloomberg.com reported on its Tech Blog.  The vast product array may deter some developers, who often
have to customize apps to accommodate each device’s screen size
and features. As the Android marketplace becomes increasingly
fragmented, developers’ costs of building applications for that
platform are mounting, Flurry said.  Developers write 10 apps for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS operating
system, which powers iPhones, for every seven done for Android
Flurry found. And for each $1 earned on Apple apps, developers
reap about 24 cents on Android.  “Android delivers less gain and more pain than iOS,” said
the report, which comes before Google and Apple hold their
 developer conferences  this month.  Christopher Katsaros, a Google spokesman, declined to
comment.  Flurry measured market share by tracking each time users
launched an app from a unique device. The top 10 Android
products were used for 24 percent of sessions last month, down
from 47 percent a year earlier, Flurry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  