-- GreenOak Founders Revisit Morgan Stanley Property Roots
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-06-07T18:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/greenoak-founders-revisit-morgan-stanley-property-roots.html
Sonny Kalsi, Fred Schmidt and John Carrafiell, who ran Wall Street’s largest real estate investing
group at Morgan Stanley until the market crashed, are seeking to
raise $800 million to capitalize on the wreckage.  Their new firm,  GreenOak Real Estate LP , has raised about
$300 million for a debut U.S. fund and is about halfway toward
its $500 million target for a  Japan  fund, according to marketing
materials. The New York-based company expects to finish
gathering pledges for the U.S. pool by the end of September and
for the Japanese one early next year.  Investors are seeking to take advantage of lower property
values to buy real estate and troubled loans and, in some cases,
restore track records tarnished by the financial crisis.
GreenOak’s founders left Morgan Stanley starting in 2009 after
the bank reported $21.5 billion in writedowns and losses tied to
the plunge in residential and commercial real estate. GreenOak
focuses on so-called middle-market recapitalizations, providing
$10 million to $50 million to borrowers in need of refinancing.  “We’re in the third inning of restructuring all this
debt,” Kalsi,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s former global head of real
estate, said at a presentation yesterday in Toronto hosted by
Queen’s University. “You’ve got to be patient. You’ve got to
really pick your spots and look for opportunities where you’re
buying assets which are defensive, have good  cash flow  and are
located in markets where tenants want to be.”  Coastal Markets  GreenOak expects most of its deals to be for  office
buildings , followed by retail properties and hotels, and will
focus in the U.S. on large coastal cities such as New York,
Boston and  Los Angeles , according to the marketing materials.
The company is working on a recapitalization of an office
building in  Washington , with borrowers known from Morgan Stanley
days, said a person with knowledge of the situation.  GreenOak, with about 40 employees, touts the network of its
founders in its fund marketing materials, saying their
relationships will give them an advantage in finding deals.  The company has been raising money for two years. It has
had challenges attracting investments, said Steve Coyle, chief
investment officer of the global private equity fund unit of
 Cohen & Steers Inc. (CNS) , a New York-based real estate investor that
oversees about $45 billion.  “They’ve got a model that is less in favor today,” which
includes allocating capital to local operating partners that
manage real estate, he said. “Then if you add in the fact these
guys have a track record that is questionable, that makes it
even more difficult.”  Investment History  Coyle said GreenOak ultimately will raise the money it is
seeking, given the executives’ long history in real estate and
the firm’s assets in  Manhattan , a favored location for property
investors.  “They will likely get to or close to where they hope to
be,” he said.  Kevin Robinson, GreenOak’s general counsel, declined to
comment. Kalsi declined to be interviewed for this story.  GreenOak recently invested about $20 million in a troubled
condominium project in  New York  whose construction was financed
by a European bank, said the person with knowledge of the
investments, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The borrower turned to GreenOak after
the lender refused to give it an extension on the construction
loan.  Garment District  GreenOak also teamed last July with East End Capital, a New
York-based firm started by former executives of real estate
investment company Broadway Partners, to buy a 15-floor office
building at 256 West 38th St. in the city’s garment district for
about $30 million, or $250 a square foot, about half the
estimated replacement cost.  GreenOak and East End bought the building when it was less
than 50 percent occupied and headed for possible foreclosure,
said Jonathon Yormak, co-founder and managing principal of East
End Capital, which manages the property. Occupancy is now almost
90 percent, he said. Green Oak owns 85 percent and East End 15
percent of the building.  “The seller had a debt maturity and capitalization
problems so it afforded an opportunity to buy it,” Yormak said
in a telephone interview.  Building Upgrades  The seller, Eretz Real Estate Group, was in the process of
upgrading the building. East End and GreenOak spent about $4
million to renovate the lobby and elevators and install a new
fire-alarm system. Facade work is still going on, Yormak said.  Like the GreenOak founders, Yormak has returned to real
estate investing on a smaller scale after the market crash. He
was a principal at Broadway Partners, which lost properties
including the John Hancock Tower in  Boston  in 2009 after being
unable to refinance short-term debt used in acquisitions.  Yormak’s new firm is buying office, retail and apartment
buildings in the Northeast one by one and fixing them up for
resale.  “We don’t have a fund,” said Yormak, managing principal
of  East End Capital . “We’re very much enjoying doing deal by
deal at the moment.”  In addition to the garment-district deal, GreenOak and East
End in March paid $18 million for a mixed-use property at 21-27
Mercer St. in New York’s Soho neighborhood, known for its
boutique shops and hotels. Retail tenants include Nike, Japanese
bathroom-fixtures manufacturer Toto and fashion label Surface to
Air. The seller was New York-based Aion Partners LLC. GreenOak
owns about 75 percent of the property and East End the rest.  Adding Apartments  “The retail was approximately 50 percent under market so
there was an opportunity to create value on re-leasing,” Yormak
said. “The  apartments  were undermanaged and there was an
opportunity to raise rents. We’re also adding apartments to the
top of the building.”  In January, GreenOak, with a partner, paid $60 million for
218 West 18th St. in Manhattan’s Midtown South neighborhood, one
of the top areas for office leasing in the city. A  U.S. bank  had
loaned about $80 million on the asset and GreenOak negotiated a
deal to buy the building and restructure the debt. The new
owners signed energy drink maker Red Bull Gmbh to be the anchor
tenant, lifting the building from 35 percent occupancy to almost
70 percent.  Morgan Stanley  GreenOak’s new funds are about the same size as the initial
pools Morgan Stanley raised when it got into property investing
two decades ago, when Kalsi joined the New York-based bank. In
1991, Morgan Stanley raised $490 million from investors to buy
troubled loans backed by commercial properties on the U.S. West
Coast and other assets. It amassed almost $12 billion of equity
in seven subsequent funds from 1995 to 2005, and employed more
than 1,000 people in real estate at its peak.  In 2006, Morgan Stanley raised an $8 billion fund, at the
time the biggest-ever high-return real estate fund. The timing
meant the firm was investing when commercial property values
were near or at record highs. With cheap debt abundant, Morgan
Stanley put money into everything from Japanese hotels to
Hawaiian resorts, Hong Kong luxury apartments, Chinese shopping
centers, San Francisco office towers and Ukrainian farms.  Commercial-property prices reached a high in December 2007,
then tumbled as much as 38 percent, according to an index
compiled by Moody’s Investors Service and Real Capital Analytics
Inc. They remain about 20 percent below the peak.  Recovering Losses  Morgan Stanley may recover less than half of the money
invested from the $8 billion Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund VI
International, after generating real estate fund returns of more
than 20 percent from 1991 to 2005, according to a person with
knowledge of the situation.  Matt Burkhard, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment.  “We got away from our knitting when the market got big,”
Kalsi, 44, said at the Toronto presentation. “It’s a lot harder
to make the investments, to do the due diligence and to manage
the portfolio.”  GreenOak also plans to make investments in  Europe  next
year, mainly in the U.K. and  Germany , as European banks shed
problem loans, Kalsi said yesterday in Toronto. “We’re
actively, actively engaged in looking at stuff,” he said.  In five years, two-thirds of GreenOak’s investments
probably will be in  Asia , said Kalsi, who moved to Japan in the
late 1990s to buy soured real estate loans from Japanese banks.  “Just the size and scale of  China  and the increasing scale
of  India , you do the math and I just personally think that’s
where we’re going to have our greatest exposure,” he said.  GM Pension  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s pension fund is the largest investor
in GreenOak, according to a person briefed on the investment.
GM’s pension fund was one of the original investors in Morgan
Stanley’s first property fund in 1991.  Raising money for a first fund usually is a challenge.
While GreenOak has kept some investors from Morgan Stanley days,
it’s been harder for the firm to attract new clients, said Coyle
of Cohen & Steers.  “We’re seeing a lot more local operators raise money
directly,” said Coyle, citing the recent fund formed by Related
Cos., the developer of New York’s Time Warner Center. Related
said in January it raised $825 million for a fund to buy
distressed property assets. “That’s more the future of private
equity real estate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  