-- Greeks Need to Accept Austerity as Balkans Suffers, Romania Says
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-06-07T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/greeks-need-to-accept-austerity-as-balkans-suffers-romania-says.html
Greeks need to accept steps to avoid
exiting the euro as the prospect that voters will reject
austerity measures may push the Balkan region into a prolonged
recession,  Romania ’s two top government leaders said.  Greek efforts to form a Cabinet in May 6 elections failed
after voters rejected pro-bailout parties, prompting a new vote
on June 17. The reluctance to accept more spending cuts led
policy makers in  Europe  to speak openly about the possibility of
Greece leaving the euro area. Romanian Finance Minister Florin Georgescu said voters would be “wise” to keep the euro because
it’s “less costly and less painful.”  Southeast European nations, including Romania, are
struggling to keep their economies afloat as Greek’s debt
troubles threaten to destabilize the Balkan region’s banking
industry and may prompt governments to step in, risking even
deeper fiscal instability.  “I hope  Greece  is going to remain in the euro zone,”
Prime Minister Victor Ponta said in Bucharest on June 6.
“Romania and all the countries in the region have already been
affected. I hope they won’t be affected even worse in the
future.”  Greece’s economy will shrink 4.7 percent this year after
contracting 6.9 percent in 2011, the European Commission said
last month. Its debt load will reach 160.6 percent of gross
domestic product, versus a euro-region average of 91.8 percent,
the commission said. Romania’s debt load stood at 34.6 percent
at the end of March.  Currency Weakness  Fallout from the Greek crisis helped push the Romanian leu
to a record-low 4.4946 per euro on May 28. The currency has lost
about 3 percent since the start of the year, while the Polish
zloty and the  Hungarian forint  gained 5 percent and 6.4 percent.  Subdued demand because of Europe’s debt crisis is damping
export growth across the Balkans, which rely on their richer
western European peers to take in the goods they produce.
Romania’s economy shrank 0.1 percent in the first quarter from
the previous three months, entering its second recession in four
years, while  Bulgaria ’s stagnated in the same period and
Slovenia’s expanded 0.2 percent. GDP contracted 1.3 percent from
a year ago in Serbia and  Croatia .  Leaving the region even more vulnerable is the position of
Greek banks in eastern Europe, which control more than 10
percent of the banking industry.  ‘Wise’ Society  “I’m sure the Greek society as a whole and the politicians
will be wise enough to realize that adjustment inside the  euro
zone  is less costly and less painful in the long term than
adjusting outside it and navigating alone in a globalized
world,” Georgescu said in a Bucharest interview on June 5.  The cost of insuring against a default by Romania increased
to 450 basis points yesterday, after declining to as low as 297
basis points on March 14, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default swaps for
Hungary increased to 595 basis points, while for Poland they
reached 253 basis points.  Some European leaders, including Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and French President  Francois Hollande , have
challenged German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to get a euro-area
debt-sharing system in place and increase the role of the
 European Central Bank  in protecting the financial system.  Ponta said he supports French President Francois Hollande’s
economic growth-oriented plans, including joint Eurobonds, as
austerity alone is “unsustainable.”  Wage Increases  Ponta’s Cabinet raised state wages by 8 percent beginning
this month and plans to grant another 7.4 percent increase next
year to compensate for a 25 percent cut in 2010, one of the
deepest in Europe.  The Romanian premier inherited from the previous
administration a target date of 2015 for adopting the euro.
Though he doesn’t plan to immediately change it, he acknowledged
it’s probably too ambitious.  “We just hope the crisis in the euro zone will be history
in 2015 and then if Romania is prepared, we will think again
about joining it,” Ponta said. “Realistically speaking, we
should take this date just as a wish and nothing more.”  Romania secured a 5 billion-euro ($6.3 billion)
precautionary loan from the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union last year to shield it from market turmoil. Ponta
plans to meet commitments to the lenders and keep the  budget
deficit  below 3 percent of GDP ahead of elections this year.  ‘Clean Bill of Health’  The government may continue to seek the IMF and EU’s
guidance even after the current accord expires in March 2013
without borrowing more money and depending on the outcome of the
vote, according to Ponta.  “I think it doesn’t hurt at all to continue to have some
sort of a precautionary arrangement with the international
financial institutions,” Ponta said. “We would use it as a
clean bill of health which we would present to markets to get
funding.”  Romania’s economy will receive a boost from private
consumption, which will probably grow 1.8 percent following the
wage increase and the payback of some social contribution to
pensioners, Georgescu said.  Next year’s budget will be based on a deficit target of
about 2.2 percent of GDP, under European accounting standards,
Georgescu said, adding that the government’s parallel objective
is to keep public debt below 34 percent of GDP between 2013 and
2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net 
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  