-- Gupta Prosecutors Offer Phone Records With Blankfein
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-07T17:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/gupta-prosecutors-offer-phone-records-with-blankfein.html
Just 23 seconds after a telephone
line associated with Rajat Gupta’s assistant ended a call with
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  on Oct. 23, 2008, a call was placed at
4:50 p.m. from that phone to Raj Rajaratnam’s line at Galleon
Group LLC, an FBI agent said at Gupta’s insider-trading trial.  When the market opened the next morning, Galleon traders
sold 150,000 shares of Goldman Sachs stock ahead of news that
the bank would sustain losses in the quarter, the agent said.
Galleon traders saved $3.8 million by selling when they did, the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation’s James Barnacle said.  “By selling the stock on Oct. 24, the traders avoided
losses in the stock because of the resulting price decline,”
Barnacle told jurors in  Manhattan  federal court.  As prosecutors near the close of their circumstantial case
against Gupta, Barnacle this morning testified about Galleon
trading data and records of calls between Gupta and Rajaratnam
phone lines. The agent provided details on calls and trades
involving eight sets of Galleon transactions.  Gupta, 63, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003 and was
on the boards of Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , is
accused of leaking tips to Rajaratnam. Gupta has pleaded not
guilty to one count of conspiracy and five counts of securities
fraud, which carries a maximum term of 20 years in prison.  One of Gupta’s alleged leaks involves a tip on Oct. 23,
2008, that Goldman Sachs would lose almost $2 a share, worse
than  Wall Street  expected. Another centers on news that P&G
would sell its Folgers coffee unit to J.M. Smucker Co.  Phone Records  Barnacle reviewed phone records showing calls from McKinsey
offices in Switzerland to Cincinnati-based P&G and then to
Rajaratnam’s line on June 2, 2008, two days before the Folgers
deal was announced. Prosecutors say Gupta made the call from the
 World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos. Galleon traders,
who rarely traded in Smucker stock, were responsible for
25 percent of all Smucker trades on June 2, Barnacle said,
showing jurors charts he’d made.  Galleon earned more than $10 million on trades that
prosecutors say were based on inside information, Barnacle said.  Defense attorney  David Frankel  began his cross-examination
of Barnacle seeking to show that the information in his charts
is misleading and omits important data.  The government’s final witness will be Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , who was testifying when the
trial recessed on June 4 and may return to the witness stand
this afternoon. Blankfein was testifying about Gupta and Goldman
Sachs policies when the trial ended that day.  Blankfein will be subject to a lengthy cross-examination,
defense attorney  Gary Naftalis  said in court.  Prosecutors are expected to rest their case tomorrow after
Blankfein’s testimony concludes.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  