-- Iceland Targets Commercial Oil Discoveries Off Its Coast by 2025
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-06-07T12:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/iceland-targets-commercial-oil-discoveries-off-its-coast-by-2025.html
Iceland  expects to have made
commercial oil discoveries in three separate areas off its coast
by 2025, according to Foreign Minister Ossur Skarphedinsson.  The areas are in the waters at Dreki northeast of Iceland,
near the volcanic island of Jan Mayen, and off the coast of east
Greenland, the minister said in an e-mailed statement today.
Iceland is particularly “optimistic” about finding oil at
Dreki after research last year provided “incontestable proof”
of its existence, he said.  Oil and gas producers are seeking untapped reserves in the
world’s northernmost regions as deposits in more hospitable
climates mature and governments restrict access. The Arctic may
hold 90 billion barrels of oil, more than the combined known
reserves of Nigeria, Kazakhstan and  Mexico , the  U.S. Geological
Survey  said in 2008.  Iceland is planning to build infrastructure to service the
three areas, Skarphedinsson said today. The country has held
talks with Greenland’s Prime Minister Kuupik Kleist and
Norwegian Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere about building
“Icelandic service centers for oil exploration,” he said,
without providing further detail.  Iceland last October started a second round of bidding for
oil and gas exploration licenses after its first round was
derailed in 2009 when four companies pulled out.  Faroe Petroleum Plc (FPM)  and  Valiant Petroleum Plc (VPP)  are amongst
companies to have applied for licenses in the latest round,
according to Iceland’s National Energy Authority, which plans to
announce the awards by the end of November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  