-- In-Car Technology Use to Get More U.S. Guidelines: LaHood
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-06-07T19:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/in-car-technology-use-to-get-more-u-s-guidelines-lahood.html
U.S. regulators, who’ve asked
automakers to restrict how drivers can use in-dashboard
infotainment systems, may draft guidelines for mobile devices
and voice-activated controls in cars, Transportation Secretary
Ray LaHood said.  The guidelines may apply to handheld phones, GPS devices
and portable music players such as iPods, as well as voice-
activated systems such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Sync and  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s OnStar.  LaHood, at a press conference today in Washington, didn’t
say whether the guidelines would be directed at the wireless
industry or auto companies.  “I’ve met with every car executive and talked with them
about what they can do to help us with technology they’re
putting in cars that may become a distraction to drivers,” he
said. “We hope to examine voice commands for hands-free
functions too.”  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , a
Transportation Department agency, is researching whether hands-
free systems distract drivers and, if so, how that compares with
the distraction caused by hand-held devices, Ron Medford, NHTSA
deputy administrator, said.  LaHood, who has focused on distracted driving since
becoming President  Barack Obama ’s transportation secretary in
2009, also called on the 11 states with no laws banning texting
and driving to pass measures to do so.  Mobile Connections  “Americans have gotten into very dangerous behavior with
their cell phones and their texting devices to think they can
use them behind the wheel of a car,” he said. “People continue
to be killed and injured despite the fact these deaths are 100
percent preventable.”  LaHood discussed the next steps in his campaign a day after
 Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, said
it’s teaming up with automakers including  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM)  and
Honda Motor Co. to promote the use of fourth-generation wireless
Internet features in cars.  The 4G Venture Forum for Connected Cars will encourage
manufacturers, suppliers, device makers and other companies to
use the new wireless standard, which allows for faster Internet
connections, Verizon said today in a statement. The group also
includes  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia
Motors Corp.  Wireless Industry  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the co-owner of Verizon
Wireless, announced plans last week to buy  Hughes Telematics
Inc. (HUTC)  for $612 million in cash, expanding the telephone company’s
presence in the automotive-technology market.  “The government is on the right track by taking a holistic
approach that integrates technologies available today,”  Gloria Bergquist , a spokeswoman for the  Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers , said in an e-mail. “We hope to see guidelines
that encourage hands-free, voice-activated systems like
automakers are already offering.”  The Washington-based trade group’s members include Toyota,
Ford and GM.  Facebook, Driving  The Transportation Department in February issued voluntary
guidelines for automakers for built-in systems used for
infotainment and navigation. The guidelines, which aren’t
binding, recommend that no task for drivers take longer than two
seconds and that cars be stopped and in park before drivers can
enter navigation commands or use social networking sites such as
Facebook and Twitter.  “We want to make sure they understand, and that’s why we
put out the voluntary guidelines that we did, that the ability
to download Facebook, the ability to access information while
you’re driving the car is not exactly a safe way to drive,”
LaHood said. “There have to be ways for car companies to
address these issues.”  The Centers for Disease Control, in a  study  released this
month, found that 58 percent of high school seniors said they
had texted or e-mailed while driving at least once in the 30
days before they were surveyed. Boys were more likely than girls
to have reported doing so.  LaHood said he’s also met with  Steve Largent , chief
executive officer of the wireless industry’s trade group, CTIA-
the Wireless Association, about distractions that may be caused
by his members’ devices.  “We agree with the secretary that the combination of
legislation, technology and education provides the best
opportunity to combat the problem of distracted driving,”  John
Walls , a CTIA spokesman, said in an e-mail.  In 2010, at least 3,092 people, or 9.4 percent of road
fatalities, were killed in crashes related to driver
distraction, according to NHTSA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  