-- India Highway Agency to Sell 130 Billion Rupees of Bonds
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-06-07T03:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/india-highway-agency-to-sell-130-billion-rupees-of-bonds.html
National Highways Authority of India ,
the state-run agency overseeing road building, plans to raise
130 billion rupees ($2.3 billion) this fiscal year selling bonds
as the nation steps up construction to support economic growth.  NHAI aims to raise 100 billion rupees by January selling
income tax-free bonds and the remainder from notes that exempt
investors from  capital gains  tax, J.N. Singh, its finance chief,
said in a June 5 interview in  New Delhi . The government
yesterday set a goal of building 9,500 kilometers (5,903 miles)
of roads in the year ending in March.  The agency will use part of the money to purchase land
required for widening existing highways, Singh said. In March,
the government allowed NHAI and other state-run entities to
raise 600 billion rupees this year through bonds as India seeks
to improve an  infrastructure ranked  below Kazakhstan and
 Guatemala  by the  World Economic Forum .  “Road sector is one area where projects are being bid out
at regular intervals,” Singh said. “That activity will
continue and there’s no cause for pessimism.”  Revive Growth  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh yesterday pledged to revive
growth in the economy as he outlined port, rail and road
projects and a push to expand power generation capacity.  India ’s
gross domestic product expanded  5.3 percent  in the quarter ended
March 31, the slowest pace in nine years.  NHAI, based in New Delhi, raised 100 billion rupees selling
10-year and 15-year tax-exempt bonds last financial year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its 8.2 percent bond
maturing in 2022 traded at a yield of 7.84 percent yesterday,
according to BSE Ltd. prices.  The agency also sold 20 billion rupees of bonds that
offered investors tax exemption from capital gains, NHAI’s Singh
said. For similar notes this year, NHAI will pay a coupon of 6
percent, same as in the previous period, he said.  NHAI may also use part of this year’s bond sales to give
financial assistance as the nation’s flagging economic growth
may hurt road builders’ ability to tie-up funds, Singh said.  “The aggressiveness in bidding we saw last year may not be
seen this time around,” Singh said. Also, the projects set for
award are in routes where traffic is relatively low, he said.  Competition among builders such as  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI) 
and  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  helped the agency win payments, or
premiums, of 30 billion rupees for projects it awarded last
year. Winning bidders get to collect tolls for as long as 30
years before transferring the highways to the state. Toll fees
are decided by NHAI.  Last year the nation built an average 4.5 kilometers of
roads a day against a target of 20 kilometers, according to a
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. study. The national highway system,
a predominately two-lane network linking major cities, carries
65 percent of India’s freight and 80 percent of passenger
traffic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  