-- India’s Richest Seek New Fortunes in Arms Amid China Race
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-06-08T11:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/india-s-richest-seek-new-fortunes-in-arms-amid-china-race.html
Indian billionaires  Mukesh Ambani ,
 Azim Premji  and Adi Godrej made their fortunes in refining,
software and toilet soaps. These days the moguls see big money
in bullets, bombs and ballistics.  India  is the world’s largest weapons importer, depending on
foreign companies including  Boeing Co. (BA)  and MiG Russian Aircraft
Corp. for about 70 percent of its $35 billion military budget.
Now Asia’s third-biggest economy is revising its rules to give
domestic private-sector companies a better shot at more of the
spending. That’s got big Indian companies such as Premji’s  Wipro
Ltd. (WPRO) , the country’s third-largest software exporter, setting up
weapon-making units, forming new partnerships with foreign
defense companies or eyeing acquisitions overseas.  “This is a sexy market with a huge capital acquisition
program,” said Dhiraj Mathur, an  executive director  at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s India unit. “The advantage the big
players have is that they are large, have deep pockets and the
resources.”  The tilt to domestic companies comes as India ramps up its
 defense budget , looking beyond its traditional rivalry with
 Pakistan  to counter  China ’s rising power. India tripled military
outlay over the last decade to become the world’s  seventh-
largest defense spender  in 2011. China is the second largest at
$105 billion. In the next five years, KPMG International
estimates, India will seek bids for $42 billion of military
hardware -- from fighter jets to artillery guns.  ‘Major Area’  “Defense will be a major area of expansion” for Indian
companies in the next few years, said Godrej, chairman of
Mumbai-based  Godrej Group , whose consumer unit is India’s third-
largest maker of personal-care products, such as deodorants and
soaps. “We are looking at all opportunities” to expand into
the segment and discussing partnership possibilities, he said,
declining to name companies.  Billionaires such as Godrej, Ambani and Premji accumulated
their fortunes as India started opening its economy in 1991,
ending decades of license requirements, scrapping state
monopolies in industries ranging from telecommunications to
aviation and allowing foreign investments and ownership.  Last year the government revised its policy on military
procurement, opening the door for private-sector companies to
expand into a new market. They now account for only 10 percent
of India’s defense spending, mostly as sub-contractors to state-
owned entities, which contribute about 20 percent, according to
a March  report  by Boston Consulting Group Inc. Foreign suppliers
account for the remaining 70 percent.  Advantage Locals  The new procedures added a “buy and make Indian”
provision. For contracts that require certain expertise, only
local companies, including joint ventures with overseas
companies, can enter bids.  India also tweaked rules governing local purchase
requirements. Foreign suppliers were required to source at least
30 percent of a defense contract from local companies, a rule
known as the offset policy. The scope of that has been expanded
to allow foreign arms makers to purchase civil aerospace
components, and offer weapons and services for  homeland
security , to meet the obligation.  Lacking extensive military-manufacturing expertise, Indian
companies are forming partnerships with foreign defense
contractors to take advantage of the new rules. That will
benefit both local and overseas companies, said Nidhi Goyal,
director of the aerospace and defense team at Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu Ltd. in India.  Naval Weapons  The State Department approved a record number of export
licenses, estimated at a value of $44.3 billion, last year for
weapons and military parts and services sold overseas by U.S.
companies, according to an annual report to Congress yesterday.
It approved licenses valued at $217.3 million for sales to
India, up from $154.5 million in fiscal 2010.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s biggest tractor maker,
has set up several joint ventures including one in March with
Israel-based Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd. for naval
weapon systems.  Mahindra expects sales of about $500 million in 10 years
for its defense business, up from zero now, Vice Chairman and
Managing Director  Anand Mahindra  said in March.  Premji’s Wipro last year agreed with a  European Aeronautic,
Defense & Space Co. (EAD)  unit to manufacture aerospace actuators, a
controlling system, and related precision engineering
components. The work will be done at a factory Wipro is building
in India, said Sunil Rajagopalan, who heads aerospace and
defense at Wipro Infrastructure Engineering. Premji ranks 37 on
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  with a $15.9 billion net worth
as of June 6.  Fighter Jets  Ambani’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the Mumbai-based
operator of the world’s biggest refinery complex, signed an
agreement this year with  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  to explore defense
projects. India is negotiating with Dassault, based in Paris, to
buy 126 Rafale warplanes in the world’s biggest fighter-jet
purchase in 15 years, estimated to cost at least $11 billion.  Tushar Pania, a Reliance spokesman, declined to comment.
Ambani, Reliance’s chairman, is the world’s 23rd richest person,
with a $20.4 billion net worth as of June 6, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Mathieu Durand, a spokesperson at
Dassault, also declined to comment.  Shares of Reliance rose 1.2 percent to 729.70 rupees at the
close in Mumbai. Wipro added 0.6 percent to 403.35 rupees. The
benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index gained 0.4 percent.  Scouting for Acquisitions  Indian companies are also scouting for acquisitions,
targeting small military-equipment makers in the U.S., U.K. or
Europe.  Ajay Piramal, who controls drugmaker  Piramal Healthcare
Ltd. (PIHC) , reiterated May 16 he is considering a defense acquisition
and other defense projects.  “We currently have more requests from Indian companies
interested to buy overseas than in the last two years,” said
Nicolas Ribollet, a Mumbai-based partner at Mazars LLP, an
accounting and consulting group in Paris.  Kalyani Group, which makes machined components, is going it
alone. Controlled by billionaire Baba Kalyani, it is spending 1
billion rupees over the next two to three years on new defense
projects including bombs, shells and a 155 millimeter towed
artillery gun, according to Amit Kalyani, executive director of
 Bharat Forge Ltd. (BHFC) , the flagship firm.  Kalyani said the growth of a homegrown military industry
will take a long time, in part due to regulatory uncertainty and
India’s bureaucracy. “As an entrepreneur it can be quite
deterring,” he said.  Richer Margins  Yet richer operating margins in defense contracts is luring
companies, according to Alok Deshpande, a Mumbai-based analyst
at Elara Securities Ltd.  Reliance posted an operating margin of 6.4 percent in the
year ended March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg--
about half the margin reported for 2011 by  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) , maker of the U.S. military’s Global Hawk drone.  “Anybody with anything in their pocket is talking defense
now,” said Neelu Khatri, a defense analyst at KPMG. “I get
calls every day from companies in all kinds of manufacturing
fields, wanting to find out how they can enter the space.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  