-- Indian Stocks Rise to One-Month High as Singh Pledges Stimulus
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-06-07T12:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/indian-stocks-rise-to-one-month-high-as-singh-pledges-stimulus.html
Indian stocks climbed to the highest
level in a month after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  pledged to
revive growth in Asia’s third-largest economy.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s second-biggest lender, paced
gains among its peers.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the
world’s largest oil-refining complex, rose to a four-week high
after Chairman Mukesh Ambani unveiled plans to plans to invest 1
trillion rupees ($18 billion) over five years to double its
operating profit. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  advanced 1.2
percent to 16,649.05, its highest close since May 7, bound for
its best week this year with a 4.3 percent gain.  India’s Singh yesterday outlined port, railways and road
projects and a push to add power-generation capacity to bolster
the economy. The government’s pledge follows the central bank’s
signal to cut borrowing costs to support an economy expanding at
the weakest pace in almost a decade as policy gridlock deters
investment and  Europe ’s debt crisis hampers exports.  “From a very low level of confidence there’s now hope that
things will happen,” Hitesh Zaveri, head of investments of
portfolio management services at Mumbai-based Birla Sun Life
Asset Management Co., said in a phone interview. “There’s
expectation of a stimulus coming from Europe and of a rate cut
locally. That forced short-sellers to cover their bets.”  While European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday officials stand ready to act as the euro region’s
growth outlook worsens, China cut  interest rates  for the first
time since 2008 to boost growth. The decision came after close
of Indian markets.  China Rate Cut  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 1.4 percent, extending
yesterday’s biggest rally in six months, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures added 0.9 percent, as China’s move
fanned optimism that policy makers around the world will do more
to support growth.  “It is going to be very positive for  emerging markets  and
could create a short-term rally, particularly in markets like
China and India because they have been very affected by what’s
happening in Europe,” Sam Mahtani, director of emerging market
equities at F&C Asset Management Plc in London, said in a phone
interview. “May obviously was a tough time for all.”  The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC) , a gauge of shares traded in Brazil,
Russia, China and India, sank 14 percent in May, the most since
September. Growth concerns dragged the Sensex down 6.4 percent
last month, its worst May  performance  since 2006.  “We must work to create an atmosphere which is conducive
to investment and to removing any bottlenecks that may be
hurting the growth process,” Singh said in a statement in New
Delhi yesterday. “We as a government are committed to taking
the necessary measures to reverse the present situation.”  Policy Gridlock  Gross domestic product  expanded 5.3 percent last quarter,
the least in nine years, stoking concern the nation’s economic
outlook has deteriorated as policy gridlock deters investment
and Europe’s debt crisis crimps exports. The slowdown and an
oil-price drop suggest more room for interest-rate cuts even as
inflation risks remain,  Reserve Bank  of India Deputy Governor
Subir Gokarn said June 1 and reiterated his position on June 4.  The RBI cut rates on April 17 for the first time in three
years, after raising it a record 13 times from mid-March 2010 to
October last year to cool prices. Inflation averaged 7.1 percent
in the first four months of this year, compared with 9.5 percent
in the whole of 2011.  The rupee, Asia’s worst performing currency in the past
year with a 19 percent plunge, advanced for a third day after
Singh’s statement. The currency added 0.8 percent to 54.945 a
dollar at close. It fell to a record 56.5150 on May 31.  VIX Cools  India VIX, which measures the cost of protection against
losses in the S&P CNX Nifty Index, sank 5.1 percent to 23.64.
The Nifty increased 1.1 percent to 5,049.65. The  BSE 200 Index (BSE200) 
rose 1 percent to 2,046.21, its fourth day of gains. About 900
million shares traded on the BSE and NSE yesterday, matching the
12-month daily average.  ICICI Bank increased 2.7 percent to 830.05 rupees.  HDFC
Bank Ltd., (HDFCB)  the third-biggest, jumped 3.4 percent to 537.8
rupees.  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  rallied 3.6 percent to 1,057.1 rupees.  Tata Power Co. (TPWR) , the biggest electricity generator outside
state control, advanced 1.9 percent to 93.3 rupees.  Sterlite
Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) , the largest copper and zinc producer,
rallied 3.9 percent to 93.3 rupees, the most on the Sensex.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , the second-largest software exporter that
gets 98 percent of its sales from abroad, rose 1.6 percent to
2,452.95 rupees. Reliance added 0.8 percent to 721.25 rupees,
extending its gain to 6.7 percent since May 16 when it closed at
more than a three-year low.  Overseas  investors  bought a net  $31 million  of domestic
stocks yesterday for the first time in five days, raising total
investment in equities this year to $8.3 billion, data from the
regulator show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  