-- Indonesia to Push Through Down-Payment Rules Amid Protest
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-06-07T23:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/indonesia-to-push-through-down-payment-rules-amid-protest.html
Indonesia ’s central bank will push 
aside calls to delay rules requiring down payments for new home 
and vehicle loans, seeking to avoid a property bubble and 
minimize credit risks.  The new rules will be effective June 15 as planned, Bank
Indonesia Deputy Governor Muliaman Hadad said yesterday. The
minimum down payment will be 30 percent for mortgages and four-
wheeled vehicle loans, 25 percent for motorcycles and 20 percent
for commercial vehicles,  Bank Indonesia  said in March.
Businesses had asked for a delay to avoid a decline in sales.  “So far we have no plan to postpone the implementation of
the rule,” Hadad said via mobile-phone text message in response
to questions. “The rule won’t affect purchasing power, it will
just make people postpone vehicle or house purchases. We see
demand for vehicles and houses remaining strong this year.”  Bank Indonesia  has sought to sustain economic growth and
contain inflation without raising its  benchmark interest rate ,
which has been steady since a cut in February. Indonesia took
steps to reduce excess funds in the economy last month, raising
the rates on central bank bills and term deposits to absorb
liquidity.  “Bank Indonesia’s new tighter lending regulations will
help protect the financial system and safeguard growth against
any potential negative shocks,” said Fred Gibson, an associate
economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “Policy makers have
become increasingly wary of frivolous lending leading to
overleveraged households and property bubbles that could trigger
a domestic banking crisis.”  Business Concern  The bank expects the  economy  to expand 6.3 percent to 6.7
percent this year. Inflation in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy
was 4.45 percent in May, slowing for the first time in three
months.  Businesses from finance companies to property developers
and vehicle retailers say the rules will hurt sales this year.  “National mortgage sales may miss a target of 300,000
units this year after Bank Indonesia implements the rule,”
Setyo Maharso, chairman of the Indonesian Real Estate
Association, said in a phone interview on June 6. The group sent
a letter to the central bank seeking a delay, he said.  Indonesian mortgage sales rose 15 percent in 2011 and the
association had forecast growth of 15 percent to 18 percent this
year before the new rules were unveiled, Maharso said.  Wiwie Kurnia, chairman of the Indonesian association of
financial services companies, said last month that the rule
meant financing could fall 30 percent to 50 percent this year.
“To minimize this impact it’s better if the government
implements this rule gradually,” he said.  Vehicle Decline  For “productive” vehicles such as buses used for public
transportation, the down payment will be 20 percent, and at
least 30 percent for other vehicles, according to the  central
bank .  For motorcycles, the down-payment rule would cut sales this
year to about 8.4 million units from a previous target of 9.04
million units, Gunadi Sindhuwinata, chairman of the Indonesian
Motorcycle Industry Association, said last month in Jakarta.  The  Association of Indonesia Automotive Industries , which
had previously expected full-year vehicle sales of about 1
million, now sees sales of about 875,000 units, down from
894,000 last year, according to Chairman Sudirman Maman Rusdi.  “Because of the down-payment policy, there will be
slowdown of about 25 percent in the second half,” he said in a
phone interview June 5. The association, which also wrote to
Bank Indonesia about the new rules, expects sales of only
875,000 units may force factories to cut overtime work, he said.  About 65 percent of Indonesian vehicles are purchased with
financing and an average down payment of 10 percent to 15
percent, the chairman has said previously.  Falling Shares  PT Astra International (ASII) , Indonesia’s largest automotive
retailer, said its vehicle and financing businesses would be
impacted by tighter lending rules when it reported first-quarter
earnings on April 25. Jakarta-based Astra, which sells Toyota
Motor Corp. vehicles and Honda Motor Co. motorcycles, has lost
4.2 percent to 6,800 rupiah since the rules were unveiled on
March 16.  PT Indomobil Sukses Internasional Tbk (IMAS) , the manufacturer of
 Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  cars and motorcycles, lost 6.7 percent in the
two days after the rules were announced in Jakarta trading.  “In the short term, this rule will have a negative impact
on vehicle companies such as Astra and Indomobil,” said Erwan Teguh, head of research at PT CIMB Securities Indonesia in
Jakarta. “In the long term, this is a prudent regulation that
needs to be implemented before a bubble happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  