-- LinkedIn May Face Irish Privacy Probe Over Password Leak
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-07T16:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/linkedin-may-face-irish-privacy-probe-over-leaked-passwords.html
LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , owner of the world’s
biggest professional-networking website, may be investigated by
the Irish Data Protection Commissioner’s Office after some user
passwords were compromised in a security breach.  Gary Davis , the country’s deputy data-protection
commissioner, said the incident falls within the area that can
be investigated under the agency’s code of practice on data
breaches.  “We are in ongoing contact with LinkedIn in relation to
the matter,” Davis said in an e-mail. “I am not in a position
to indicate how we will be progressing.”  Irish privacy regulators can levy fines on electronic-
communication providers and networks for data breaches, Davis
said. Ireland polices LinkedIn’s data security because its base
for operations outside the U.S. is in Dublin. The company, based
in  Mountain View ,  California , apologized to customers in a  blog
post  yesterday and said that its more than 160 million users
will know if their accounts were affected because their
passwords will no longer be valid.  LinkedIn “has been working closely with the Irish Data
Protection Commissioner’s Office to keep them abreast of the
situation,” said Darain Faraz, a spokesman for the company in
 London .  “We’re taking immediate action to protect our members,”
Faraz said in an e-mail.  Passwords have been changed for members with accounts
linked to the data breach and they will receive an e-mail with
instructions on how to reset the passwords, he said.  The company cites security issues as a risk for investors
in regulatory filings and disclosed as recently as last month
that it experienced website disruptions and outages for reasons
including “denial of service or fraud or security attacks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  