-- Invesco Junk ETF has Record Redemption Amid Europe Crisis
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-06-07T16:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/invesco-junk-etf-has-record-redemption-amid-europe-crisis.html
Investors  pulled  a record number of
shares from Invesco Ltd.’s exchange-traded fund that buys  junk
bonds  this week amid mounting concern that Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis will disrupt economic growth.  PowerShares Fundamental High Yield Corporate Bond
Portfolio (PHB) , the third-biggest ETF that buys the debt, reported
redemptions of 1.6 million shares on June 5, valued at $29.5
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
biggest one-day outflow since the fund’s inception in November
2007.  High-yield bonds in the U.S. have lost 1.7 percent since
the end of April, paring the gain for the year to 4.4 percent,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said today the economy is at risk from
Europe’s debt crisis and the prospect of fiscal tightening in
the U.S. This month, investors have yanked 4 million shares from
BlackRock Inc.’s $13.7 billion junk-debt ETF and 8.5 million
shares from  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s $10.1 billion fund.  ETFs typically allow individual investors to speculate on
securities without directly owning them. Unlike mutual funds,
whose shares are priced once daily, ETFs are listed on exchanges
and are bought and sold like stocks.  ETFs generally don’t buy securities directly when they
receive inflows or sell them to meet outflow requests. Instead,
an authorized participant receives cash from investors and uses
it to buy securities in exchange for ETF shares. With redemption
requests, the approved participant returns shares to an ETF’s
fund manager and receives securities.  Junk bonds are ranked below Baa3 at Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  