-- IRISH-MAY-SELL-BILLS
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-06-07T09:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/irish-may-sell-bills.html
Ireland may sell treasury bills
within weeks, returning to international debt markets after
almost two years.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
the nation may be able to return to markets in the “not too far
distant future” after last week approving the European Union’s
fiscal treaty in a referendum. The National Treasury Management
Agency may seek to sell short-term securities in June or July,
Chief Executive Officer  John Corrigan  said in January. A NTMA
spokesman declined to comment.  “They are on track to do something in the next 10 days or
so,” said Owen Callan, a Dublin-based analyst at Danske Bank
A/S, a primary dealer in Irish debt. “The elephants in the room
are the Greek election and  Spain , but at this point my feeling
is 70 percent to 75 percent they’ll go this month.”  Even as Ireland mulls a return to markets, the euro-region
debt crisis is escalating. Spain, which has resisted pressure to
become the fourth euro-area nation to seek a bailout, called on
June 5 for the first time for European funds to shore up its
banks. In  Greece , voters go to the polls for a second time in
six weeks on June 17, in an election which may determine if the
euro region survives intact.  “It would be more prudent to wait until after Greek
elections, more likely into July, when hopefully we’ll have an
orderly market,” said Barry Nangle, head of fixed income at
Davy, also a primary dealer in Irish debt. “Market intelligence
would lead us to believe there is demand out there.”  Yield Falls  The yield on Ireland’s 2020 bonds, considered the
benchmark, fell 2 basis points to 7.36 percent today. Irish
borrowing costs have risen from 6.84 percent on May 3, before
the Greek election, when voters failed to produce a government.  In contrast to Ireland, Greece and  Portugal  kept selling
bills after international authorities bailed them out. Portugal
yesterday sold 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) of 12- and six-
month bills that allowed the country to reach its issuance
target for the first quarter.  The securities due in June 2013 were issued at an average
yield of 3.834 percent, falling from 3.908 percent at the
previous auction of 12-month bills on May 2.  At its first sale, Ireland may seek to sell between 500
million euros and 600 million euros of bills initially at a
yield of 2 percent or below, Callan at Danske said.  Banking Crisis  The government stepped out of the bond markets in
September 2010 and sought a 67.5 billion-euro bailout, as the
costs of one of world’s worst banking crises became too big to
handle alone. With Ireland’s aid program due to run out at end
of 2013, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in December the
NTMA may seek to sell bills in the second half of this year as a
step to full  market access  in mid-2013.  “They’ll probably go at the end of June or early July, as
long as they find a sweet spot,” said  David Tinsley , a London-
based economist at BNP Paribas SA, another primary dealer.
“They’ll probably wait till after the Greek election, because
the last thing they want is to come back a second time after a
Greek election goes wrong and not be able to get it away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  