-- Hitachi Construction Expects Mining Companies to Fuel Sales
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-06-07T05:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/hitachi-construction-expects-mining-companies-to-fuel-sales.html
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305) ,
the world’s biggest maker of giant excavators, expects its
global sales of mining equipment to reach a record this year as
customers press ahead with projects in resource-rich countries.  The company won an order from  Vale SA (VALE5)  to supply excavators
and  dump trucks  for an iron ore project in Africa and has
secured a contract for gold mining equipment in  Turkey  this
month, said Toshiaki Takase, vice president at Hitachi
Construction’s global mining operation group. Sales from mining
companies may surge by a third to 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion)
in the year to March, the company said.  “More and more orders will come,” Takase said June 5 in
an interview at the company’s Tokyo headquarters. “We’re not
concerned” about a slowdown from mining companies, he said.  Takase’s outlook puts his company at odds with others in
the industry paring forecasts as the largest mining companies
curtail investments or re-evaluate plans.  Joy Global Inc. (JOY) , the
U.S. maker of P&H and Joy mining equipment, cut its full-year
earnings and revenue forecasts last week amid concern that
 China’s economy  is slowing.  Commodity prices  have declined 17 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 24, according to the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index of 24 raw materials.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, said
on May 15 that it will fall short of its $80 billion capital-
expenditure target over the next five years. Caterpillar Inc.,
the world’s largest maker of construction and mining equipment,
yesterday said demand from the U.S. coal-mining industry is
slowing.  Orders Hold Pace  Regardless of growth projections, Hitachi Construction
hasn’t seen cancellations or a slowdown in orders, Takase said.
The company is already negotiating new excavator orders for
delivery in 2014 because contracts for the current and next
fiscal years are secured, he said.  “We see strong sales in Australia,  Indonesia , the U.S.,
 Latin America , Africa and  Russia ,” Takase said, dismissing any
concern that Europe’s debt woes will slow equipment demand.  Industry sales of mining excavators weighing 120 tons to
800 tons will likely surge by 67 percent to 1,500 units a year
globally by 2020, Takase said, citing the company’s estimate.
Sales from dump trucks weighing at least 150 tons will probably
increase about 30 percent to 1,700 units, he said.  A 550-ton excavator, twice as heavy as an Airbus SAS A380
and as high as a three-story building, is used to scoop rocks or
minerals for loading on dump trucks.  Concerns About China  Any adjustment in the mining-equipment market will probably
be avoided in the short term if the Chinese government takes
steps to boost its economy, said Yoshikazu Shimada, an analyst
at Tachibana Securities Co., who rates Hitachi Construction
Machinery “outperform.”  To capitalize on demand, Hitachi Construction, which gets
72 percent of its sales from Asia, in March unveiled a plan to
invest 47 billion yen on new plants in Japan and Indonesia,
challenging industry leaders  Caterpillar (CAT)  and  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)   Caterpillar derived 51 percent of its sales from North and
South America, with Asia and the Pacific regions accounting for
25 percent last year. The U.S. accounts for 51 percent of Joy
Global’s sales.  Joy Global has  declined  about 40 percent since its February
high as mining companies reduced spending amid falling demand
for coal in the U.S., forcing the Milwaukee-based manufacturer
to cut fiscal 2012 forecasts.  Hitachi Construction, half owned by electronics maker
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , has risen 13 percent this year, outpacing a 4.5
percent gain in Tokyo-based Komatsu and 1.9 percent advance for
the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Acquisition of a company such as  Joy Global , a producer of
underground mining equipment, isn’t being considered because its
product mix doesn’t match Hitachi Construction’s, Director
Michijiro Kikawa said in a Dec. 22 interview while he was
president of the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 