-- Japan Cabinet Said to Approve Insuring Iran Tanker Calls
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-06-07T14:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/japan-cabinet-said-to-approve-insuring-iranian-tanker-calls-1-.html
Japan ’s Cabinet is poised to approve
a bill giving sovereign guarantees for the nation’s oil tankers
loading Iranian crude, potentially undermining Western sanctions
targeting the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program.  The government plans to provide as much as $7.6 billion so
that ship owners and petroleum refiners can maintain insurance
when hauling crude from  Iran , according to two government
officials with direct knowledge of the law, who declined to be
identified before the Cabinet gives consent to the legislation
as soon as tomorrow. The bill will be submitted to the Diet, or
national parliament, after the Cabinet endorses it, they said.  The European Union announced a ban on Iranian oil in
January that also prohibited insuring the shipments. The move
affected 95 percent of the world’s  tankers  because they were
covered by organizations following EU law. A law signed by
President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31 blocks countries’ access to
the U.S. financial system if they can’t show they’re reducing
oil imports from Iran. Japan and 10 European nations received
exemptions in March for a renewable period of 180 days.  “If there are insurers in the  Far East  who can insure this
without relying on Europe, then it will to some extent undermine
the sanctions regime and the pressure the West is trying to put
on the Iran government to stop its nuclear ambitions,” Chris
Zavos, a London-based lawyer and partner at Norton Rose LLP,
said by phone today.  July 1 Deadline  The EU introduced the embargo against Iran to convince the
country to halt its nuclear program, which it alleges is for
weapons production. The government in Tehran faces four sets of
United Nations sanctions urging the country to stop enriching
uranium.  Japan imported 362,000 barrels a day of crude from Iran in
2010, making it the country’s second-largest buyer, after  China ,
according to data from the U.S. Department of Energy. To comply
with the European sanctions, ships carrying Iranian oil would
need to unload before July 1. A very large crude carrier hauling
2 million barrels of oil would take about four weeks to reach
Japan from Iran, according to the e-ships.net website.  Banks that allow ships to change to an insurer who’ll cover
Iranian shipments would potentially violate U.S. sanctions
because such a move might be interpreted as facilitating trade
with the Persian Gulf nation, according to Clare Hatcher, a
London-based consultant at Clyde & Co., an international trade
law firm. The U.S. has restricted dealings with Iran since 1979,
when militants took 52 hostages at the American embassy in
Tehran.  Nobody answered a telephone call at Japan’s Transport
Ministry press office.  Japanese Club  The Japan Ship Owners’ Mutual P&I Association, which
insures owners against risks including spills and collisions,
will lose access to  Europe ’s reinsurance market for Iranian
cargoes after the European embargo comes into effect July 1.  “For that oil to get to Japan, it needs P&I cover,” Mike
Roderick, a London-based partner at Clyde, said by phone today.
“China, Japan and  India  are all looking at sovereign guarantees
because they are major importers of Iranian oil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  