-- Japan Watchdog May Increase Headcount as Insider Probes Deepen
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-06-07T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/japan-watchdog-may-increase-headcount-as-insider-probes-deepen.html
Japanese Financial Services Minister
Tadahiro Matsushita said his banking watchdog needs more staff
to bolster investigations into wrongdoing ranging from  insider
trading  to accounting fraud.  “Personally I would like to increase” the number of staff
at the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission,
Matsushita, 73, told a group of reporters in  Tokyo  today. The
SESC “also needs to hire more people with special knowledge of
asset managers and custodians and so on, so that it can improve
the quality of inspections,” he said.  After his appointment this week, Matsushita pledged to
expand the SESC’s insider-trading probes to rebuild confidence
in  Japan ’s markets. The commission this year uncovered
information leaks ahead of share sales including Nippon Sheet
Glass Co. and  Inpex Corp. (1605) , and found that AIJ Investment
Advisors Co. hid more than $1 billion in pension fund losses.  The SESC, the investigative arm of the Financial Services
Agency, more than doubled staff including regional inspectors
over the past decade to about 710 as of March 31 from 265 in
March 2002, according to its website. By comparison, the  U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  employs about 3,500.  Matsushita said the SESC needs to increase the frequency of
inspections to avoid a repeat of the AIJ case. It examined only
15 of Japan’s 299 registered asset management companies in the
year ended March 2011. At that rate, each firm would be
inspected once every 20 years.  The minister took the post this week, replacing  Shozaburo Jimi  as part of a Cabinet reshuffle by Prime Minister  Yoshihiko
Noda .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  