-- Krugman Anti-Austerity Jab Irks Budget Champ Estonia
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-06-07T15:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/krugman-anti-austerity-jab-irks-budget-champ-estonia.html
Estonian President Toomas Ilves
lashed out at Nobel laureate economist  Paul Krugman  for
questioning the Baltic nation’s economic recovery as an
austerity success story.  Estonia ’s recovery from a “depression-level” economic
slump in 2008-2009 has been a “significant but still incomplete
recovery,” Krugman wrote in his New York Times blog yesterday.
“Better than no recovery at all, obviously -- but this is what
passes for economic triumph?”  The Baltic nations of Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania ,
suffered the world’s biggest recessions after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 burst a debt-fueled
property bubble, shut off credit flows and curbed export demand.
The three countries reduced spending and raised taxes by as much
as 15 percent of their gross domestic products in 2009-2010.
Estonia was the only country in the euro area to report budget
surpluses for the last two years.  “Let’s write about something we know nothing about and be
smug, overbearing and patronizing,” Ilves, a graduate of
 Columbia University , wrote late yesterday on his Twitter Inc.
account. “But yes, what do we know? We’re just dumb and silly
East Europeans. Unenlightened. Someday we too will understand.
Nostra culpa.”  ‘Sincere’ Defense  He confirmed his comments in an e-mail, adding “it was a
sincere and immediate defense of the major and often difficult
efforts of Estonia to deal with the economic crisis and to stick
to the rules adopted in the European Union.”  Austerity measures helped Estonia improve its budget
balance by more than 10 percent of gross domestic product, adopt
the euro last January and cut government debt to 6 percent of
economic output, the lowest among the 17 countries that use the
currency.  The $19 billion economy grew 7.6 percent last year, the
fastest pace in the EU. GDP, adjusted for inflation, may return
to pre-crisis levels in 2014, the central bank said in December.  The Baltic nations “managed to do what no-one thought was
possible -- implement internal devaluations, which in practice
meant salary cuts for everyone in the country,” Peter Elam Hakansson, chairman of Stockholm-based East Capital, wrote in a
monthly newsletter, e-mailed today.  Austerity Needed  Austerity is necessary to produce growth, Ilves said last
month in an interview, adding that growth as a policy “doesn’t
make sense.” He failed to predict his country’s recession at
the end of 2007, calling forecasts of an economic crisis “fear
mongering” in a New Year’s Eve speech.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen
this month cited the Baltic countries as an example of the
benefits of fiscal overhaul. Krugman, along with economists
including  New York  University’s Nouriel Roubini, in 2008 and
2009 forecast the Baltic countries would have to abandon their
currency pegs to the euro as the costs of austerity would become
too high for their populations.  “Krugman supports the worldview that created poverty,”
Estonian Finance Minister Juergen Ligi told a news conference
today in Tallinn. “Our poverty won’t be cured with the recipes
that prescribe lavish borrowing, purchasing expensive things and
then feeling rich.”  Comparing levels of economic output today to those in 2007
is “totally arbitrary,” Ligi said. “God forbid those times
come back. They ushered in the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  