-- Navistar Falls After Surprising Loss, Mangement Shakeup
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-06-07T21:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/navistar-falls-after-surprising-loss-mangement-shakeup.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  fell the
most in almost 10 months after reporting a surprise loss,
lowering its forecast for a second time this year and shifting
top managers as it struggles to meet 2010 federal emission
standards for one of its truck engines.  Navistar dropped 14 percent, the most since Aug. 8, to
$24.11 at the close in  New York , and had plunged as much as 28
percent earlier in the day. The shares have declined 36 percent
this year after tumbling 35 percent in 2011.  Navistar, based in Lisle,  Illinois , lowered its annual
profit forecast to a range of break-even to $2 a share as it
copes with the repercussions of pursuing a emission-reduction
technology that has prevented it from winning U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency certification for its 13-liter engine.  “It goes without saying that the start of the year has
been a disappointment for us,” Dan Ustian, Navistar’s chief
executive officer, said on a conference call with analysts and
investors.  Ustian, who said in March he wanted the engine to be in
production this month, declined today to estimate when the EPA
would rule. Engine production can begin within 30 days of
certification, Ustian said on the call today.  Navistar had an adjusted loss of $137 million, or $1.99 a
share, in the three months ended April 30. Analysts had
estimated profit of 67 cents, the average of 15 estimates.
Warranty costs for the noncompliant engines reduced profit by
$104 million.  Forecast Reductions  In March, the company forecast profit of as much as $5.25 a
share, down from a February projection of as much as $5.75. The
average of 17 analysts’ estimates was for an annual profit of
$3.79 before today.  The net loss was $172 million, or $2.50 a share, compared
with a profit of $74 million, or 93 cents, a year earlier.  Navistar said its share of the heavy truck market in the
U.S. and  Canada  have dropped to  16 percent  so far this year from
24 percent in the year ended Oct. 31, 2010, as “aura” and
“speculation” in the market and by investors has hurt sales,
Ustian said.  The company’s truck business recorded a loss of $89 million
for the quarter from a $92 million profit a year earlier. The
engine business had a $108 million deficit compared with a $2
million profit.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered Navistar’s
corporate credit rating to B+, or four levels below investment
grade, from BB-. S&P also is reviewing Navistar’s ratings for
possible future downgrades, the ratings company said in a
statement.  EPA Certification  Navistar has struggled to develop a 13-liter engine that
meets EPA certification at 0.2 gram of nitrogen oxides.  The company said today it is “working tirelessly with the
U.S. EPA to get resolution.” A lack of certification cost the
company $10 million in penalties in the quarter and may cost as
much as $40 million if the engine isn’t certified this year,
Ustian said.  Navistar also said today that Troy Clarke, president of the
company’s Asia Pacific region, will oversee its truck and engine
operations, including parts, product development and purchasing.
Clarke joined Navistar in 2010 after a 35-year career at  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and its predecessor.  Jack Allen  will run truck and parts in  North America . He’s
currently president of the North American truck group for
Navistar. Eric Tech, head of the engine group, was named
president of global truck and engine, Navistar said in the
statement. All changes take effect July 1, the company said.  Dee Kapur, president of Navistar’s truck group, was named
vice chairman and chief product officer, Karen Denning, a
spokeswoman for Navistar, said in an e-mail. Phyllis Cochran,
president of Navistar parts, will join Navistar Financial Corp.,
Denning said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  