-- Nigerian Islamists Reject Muslim Cleric’s Talks With Government
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2012-06-07T06:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/nigerian-islamists-reject-muslim-cleric-s-talks-with-government.html
Boko Haram, the Nigerian Islamist
group blamed for a spate of bombings and gun attacks, said it
opposes efforts by a Muslim cleric to help start negotiations
with the government.  Sheikh Dahiru Usman said on June 5 he had established
contacts with state officials and Boko Haram leaders, and both
sides agreed to begin talks. Abul Qaqa, a spokesman for Boko
Haram, said the group hasn’t been approached about starting a
dialogue and its position remains unchanged from when it last
ruled out negotiations in March.  “We have seen it published in the media that Sheikh Dahiru
Bauchi said he is talking to us on dialogue, but we want the
world to know that this has never happened and we call on Sheikh
Dahiru Bauchi to desist from such statements,” Qaqa said in an
e-mailed statement. “We have closed all doors to dialogue.”  Authorities in  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer,
blame Boko Haram, which seeks to impose strict Islamic law in
the country, for a surge in attacks in the mainly Muslim north
and the capital, Abuja, in which hundreds of people have died
this year.  President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s administration insists talks
will be held with the militants “on the condition that their
leader will come out and announce a cease-fire for three months
or a minimum of 40 days” after which the government will stop
arresting their members, Usman said yesterday, showing reporters
a letter he said was written to the sect leaders by the
government.  Reuben Abati, a spokesman for Jonathan, didn’t answer two
calls on his mobile phone or respond to an e-mail seeking
comment yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 