-- Obama Raises Cash as Romney Seeks Lift From Wisconsin
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-07T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/obama-raises-cash-as-romney-seeks-lift-from-wisconsin.html
President  Barack Obama  pressed donors
for contributions during his third visit to California in a
month as Republican Mitt Romney looked to Wisconsin election
results for signs his presidential bid is gaining ground.  Raising campaign cash at events yesterday in  San Francisco 
and Los Angeles, Obama told supporters that he needs more time
to right the economy, seeking to counter criticism from Romney
on the election’s central issue that the president’s policies
have failed to spur growth and lower unemployment.  “This is going to be a tough race precisely because the
economy’s not where it needs to be yet,” Obama told donors in
public remarks at the Julia Morgan Ballroom in San Francisco,
the second of four fundraisers in  California . “We’ve got to
finish what we started.”  Obama dropped his recent rhetoric blaming the economy’s
vulnerability on Europe. He also made no mention of Republican
Governor  Scott Walker  surviving a June 5 recall election in
Wisconsin -- a win that prompted Democratic and Republican
strategists to reassess whether the state will be a battleground
in the presidential race.  Romney, 65, who has clinched enough delegates for the
Republican nomination, said yesterday the Wisconsin results may
boost his chances nationally as well as in a Midwestern state
that has voted Democratic in the past six presidential
elections, albeit narrowly at times.  ‘Conservative Principles’  “Yesterday was won by the people of Wisconsin doing the
right thing and voting for conservative principles,” Romney
said at a fundraiser in  San Antonio , Texas. “I think people
recognize we just can’t keep going down the same path that we’re
on. It ends up in calamity.”  Until earlier this week, target states listed by Obama’s
campaign didn’t include Wisconsin.  In a campaign video released on June 4 -- the day before
the recall vote -- Obama campaign manager  Jim Messina  listed
Wisconsin as “undecided,” along with Colorado, Florida, Iowa,
Ohio,  North Carolina , New Hampshire and Virginia.  If Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, were able to
make Wisconsin competitive, it could make a major difference in
the election. Winning a Midwest industrial state such as
Wisconsin or Michigan, which both backed Obama in 2008, would
provide him an easier path to the 270 electoral votes needed to
win the White House.  Wisconsin Poll  Obama, 50, in the 2008 election beat Republican  John McCain 
in  Wisconsin  56 percent to 42 percent. An exit poll of recall
election voters conducted June 5 showed Obama beating Romney 51
percent to 44 percent.  “I certainly wouldn’t read much into yesterday’s
results,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  Obama’s Wisconsin win four years ago was boosted by a surge
in support among younger voters, a demographic that remains more
supportive of him than Romney and yet, polls show, is less
energetic about his campaign than it was four years ago.  Romney said during a telephone town hall meeting with
members of the National Federation of  Independent Business  that
Wisconsin voters “said we’ve seen a conservative governor; he
cut back on the scale of government and has held down taxes and
stood up to the public sector unions and we want more of that,
not less of it.” Romney added: “I think you’re going to find
that in the decisions being made in November.”  California Swing  Obama’s latest California swing follows his May 10 dinner
at the  Los Angeles  home of actor  George Clooney , where he
collected an estimated $15 million, and a May 23 visit with
events at the home of philanthropists Lisa and Douglas Goldman
of Atherton and at Redwood City’s Fox Theatre.  Yesterday’s fundraisers took in at least $4.6 million for
the president’s re-election bid. The San Francisco events
included a roundtable with tickets at $35,800 apiece for 25
guests, and a luncheon for 250 donors with tickets priced at
$5,000, according to the campaign.  In Los Angeles, Obama attended a gay-rights gala at the
Beverly Wilshire hotel featuring television personality  Ellen DeGeneres , followed by a dinner at the home of Ryan Murphy,
creator of the television series “Glee,” and Murphy’s fiancé
 David Miller . The gala was for 600 donors, with tickets starting
at $1,250. Another 70 donors were invited to attend the dinner
at Murphy’s home, with tickets at $25,000.  Obama’s campaign had raised $19 million in California,
compared with $10.6 million raised by the Romney campaign,
according to Federal Election Commission data released May 21
and compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based campaign research group.  ‘Broader Fight’  During the California events, the president touted his
signature initiatives, including the auto industry bailout,
health-care overhaul and the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”
-- the ban on gay people serving openly in the military. Obama
said his administration’s support for gays, including hospital
visitation rights, is “just part of a broader fight on behalf
of all Americans.”  “There were those who said we should let Detroit go
bankrupt,” Obama said. He said because of his administration’s
intervention in an auto industry bailout, General Motors Co. is
“back on top.”  The president’s prospects for a second term suffered a blow
with a U.S. Labor Department report on June 1 showing payrolls
expanded by 69,000 jobs last month, fewer than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of private
economists, while the  unemployment rate  rose to 8.2 percent from
8.1 percent.  Blaming Europe  Obama called German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  from Air Force One during his flight
to California from Washington to discuss the euro zone debt
crisis. In yesterday’s public remarks, he refrained from the
rhetoric he and former President  Bill Clinton  used in recent
days: blaming  Europe  for threatening the U.S. economic recovery
and suggesting that Romney and Republicans would take the U.S.
down the same road as Europe.  At last night’s gala, Obama said Americans are “anxious”
about the economy and “that anxiety can be tapped into.” He
criticized Romney’s calls for tax cuts for the wealthy, less
regulation and more spending reductions.  “I don’t think that’s how you grow an economy,” Obama
said. “The other side’s not offering anything new.”  The president is to hold a fifth California fundraiser
today, a breakfast at the home of real estate developer Charles
Quarles, before heading to the University of Nevada in Las Vegas
to talk about extending a freeze on student-loan  interest rates .  Quarles, president of Los Angeles-based Bedford Group,
which specializes in urban development, declined to talk in
detail about Obama’s re-election prospects or the role the
economy may play in the campaign.  “If I didn’t think he was doing a great job I wouldn’t be
doing this,” Quarles said in an interview. Obama is “doing the
best he can given the constraints he has to work under.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Los Angeles at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  