-- Obama Should Forget About Dogs and Focus on Jobs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-06-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/obama-should-forget-about-dogs-and-focus-on-jobs.html
Stuart Stevens, who is  Mitt Romney ’s
chief strategist, is also a novelist and memoirist, and last
week he offered me a couple of bon mots that help frame the
challenge President  Barack Obama  faces as the economy sputters.  “They think this campaign is ‘Travels with Charley,’
Stevens says. “We think it’s more ‘The Grapes of Wrath.’”  “Travels with Charley” is John Steinbeck’s gentle  quasi-
memoir  of traveling across the country in 1960 with his poodle.
“The Grapes of Wrath,” for those Americans who slept through
eighth-grade English, is his searing novel of the migrant Joad
family in the Depression.  The crack was aimed in part at Stevens’ opposite number,
 David Axelrod , who in January famously  tweeted  a picture of the
Democratic president with his dog Bo in a car and the message:
“How loving owners transport their dogs.” Axelrod was exploiting
the oft-told story of the Republican Romney putting the family
dog Seamus in a kennel on the roof of the car en route to
 Canada .  Stevens insists that this election will have everything to
do with the economy and nothing to do with how Romney treated
his dog, and his second quip reflects the same analysis in a
more positive context. “They think the election is about
eHarmony.com,” he says, referring to the dating website devoted
to measuring compatibility. “We think it’s about Monster.com,”
the job-finder site.  Trumanesque Brawler  This is part of the Boston team’s effort to make the
balloting a rehire-or-fire referendum on the president’s
economic performance. The Chicago team, of course, wants the
whole thing to be a choice between a president you like and
trust to be on the side of the middle class, and a candidate you
don’t.  Obviously, any election involving an incumbent is both a
referendum and a choice, but this one has recently become more
of a referendum than  Chicago  would care to admit.  The president had shifted early this year from a 1948 Harry Truman-style attack on the “Do-Nothing” Congress to a modified
1984 Ronald Reagan-style “Morning in America” message, about the
economy rebounding after the crisis Obama inherited. Now, given
the dispiriting economic news, it’s back to 1948, with a little
of  George H. W. Bush ’s 1988 attacks on the competence of a
former Massachusetts governor ( Michael Dukakis ) and  George W. Bush ’s 2004 attacks on a flip-flopping Massachusetts stiff ( John Kerry ) thrown in.  The president’s poll numbers aren’t down much yet, but just
wait. Even if Obama fully inhabits the role of Trumanesque
brawler that liberals hunger for (and which doesn’t come
naturally to him), sooner or later he’ll need to adjust his
strategy.  In an economy headed in the wrong direction, comparison
campaigning is necessary but not sufficient. It might not matter
much to frustrated voters that we’ve tried the Republican recipe
for growth (tax cuts and deregulation) in the 2000s and it
failed, or that Romney was 47th out of 50 governors when it came
to  job creation  in his state. The tie -- two failed job creators
-- goes to the challenger.  That means Obama must match his focus on the choice with
more work on the referendum side -- more affirmative reasons to
vote for him. He has begun reminding voters of the  American Jobs
Act  he pushed last fall that would help small business and
create a million new jobs, his 2012  State of the Union  “Built to
Last” long-term investment agenda, and last month’s
congressional “ To- Do List .” The problem is, they all blur
together.  Grand Bargain  Meanwhile, the president’s support last summer for reducing
the  debt  by $3 trillion dollars (after already cutting it by $1
trillion) has been forgotten amid the acrimony following the
failure to reach a “Grand Bargain.”  Instead of referring voters to a hodge-podge of previous
proposals and stymied congressional deals, Obama should
reintroduce his ideas as a clear and cogent renewal plan for the
country.  That second-term agenda needs some new elements. A youth
advocacy group, Our Time, has  created  a petition campaign
seeking a million new jobs for young people in teaching,
nursing, park restoration and infrastructure repairs. Obama, who
has been silent on national service, should say yes immediately
and own that issue. Without more energy among under-30 voters,
he loses.  Direct government hiring of able-bodied adults, out of
fashion since the Depression, also deserves a fresh look. If the
private sector isn’t producing enough new jobs, the public
sector must step in. Who will that proposal offend? Only voters
already siding with Republicans.  Finally, Obama should say forthrightly that although he
doesn’t support everything proposed by the  Simpson-Bowles 
commission, its combination of short-term Keynesian spending and
long-term deficit reduction through entitlement reform and tax
increases was basically right and that he regrets not saying so
earlier. This admission -- better late than never -- will appeal
to business-minded independents and voters looking for a little
humility.  To win, the president needs to capture  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s spirit of “bold, persistent experimentation,” not
just figure out new ways to hit Romney. Of course, this renewal
plan is DOA in Congress before the election. So what? At least
Obama will have put down a leadership marker.  For all the spin, Stevens was on to something. Whichever
candidate makes the better case for getting Tom Joad a job off
Monster.com will win the election.  (Jonathan Alter is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on how  Bahrain can model Mideast
reform  and why  Ben Bernanke should ease more ; Stephen L. Carter
on  the failures of capitalism ; A. Gary Shilling on  why the
strong yen won’t last ; Takeo Hoshi and Anil Kashyap on  Japan’s
nuclear safety ; Robert and Edward Skidelsky on  markets versus
the good life ; Dmitri Trenin on the risk that  Russia and China
ally against the U.S.   To contact the writer of this article:
 Jonathan Alter  at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 