-- Lobbyist on Incremental Mission to Restore Lobbying’s Good Name
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2012-06-07T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/lobbyist-on-incremental-mission-to-restore-lobbying-s-good-name.html
On an April morning, Howard Marlowe
started his day walking the byzantine hallways of the Capitol
with the same goal he has had for 35-plus years: to try and
persuade people to do something they’d rather not do.  He was there to pay a visit to the office of Representative
Mike Quigley, a Democrat representing  Chicago ’s North Side.
After a short wait, a smiling young staff member emerged from a
backroom, and she and Marlowe made their way to the Longworth
House Office cafeteria. It’s a walk he’s made countless times.
The difference this time was that he wasn’t here on behalf of a
client; he was representing himself, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its June 11 issue.  Marlowe, who runs the K Street lobbying firm Marlowe & Co.,
is president of the American League of Lobbyists, the industry’s
professional association, which counts about 1,400 of
Washington’s 10,199 registered lobbyists as members.  As lobbyist for the lobbyists, he represents those working
for groups as diverse as the American Foundation for the Blind
to über-lobbying firm  Patton Boggs , which raked in $452 million
lobbying last year.  Marlowe relishes his role as emissary, spokesman, and
promoter of one of America’s most despised professions, which
spent $3.32 billion in 2011, according to the  Center for
Responsive Politics .  Lobbyist Brand  He’s also on a mission to reinvent the lobbyist brand. With
money transforming American politics at an unprecedented level,
Marlowe says it’s no wonder the public disdain for lobbying is
at an all-time high. Yet he insists that lobbyists are
misunderstood, that theirs is a noble calling, and it isn’t all
about raising money for congressmen.  Lobbying, he says, “is our version of advocacy journalism.”  To change the public’s mind and secure a future for
lobbying, Marlowe is pushing to broaden the word’s definition.
Quigley introduced legislation last year mandating that Congress
publish more information about relationships with lobbyists than
is currently required.  Marlowe had an alternate proposal, yet still saw Quigley as
a potential ally. On C-Span and in  Washington  publications such
as The Hill, Marlowe frequently campaigns to rewrite current
disclosure laws so that more people will have to register as
lobbyists in a public database.  Ethics Training  He’s gotten the league to endorse mandatory ethics training
for its members. He’s trying to cut down on the pay-to-play
culture by organizing monthly breakfasts with members of
Congress, which he says is a chance for lobbyists to get access
without having to throw lawmakers a pricey fundraiser.  Critics of lobbyists’ influence in the Capitol are open to
Marlowe’s ideas, yet many are skeptical that they are sufficient
to change the process.  “I think we’ve had enough reform efforts that move the
chairs around the deck of the Titanic,” says  Jack Abramoff , the
former superlobbyist who got out of prison in 2010 after serving
3½ years for defrauding Indian tribes.  Lawrence Lessig, who directs a vast research project into
public corruption at the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics at
 Harvard University , says: “There’s all the difference in the
world between a lawyer making an argument to the jury and a
lawyer handing out $100 bills to the jurors. That’s a
distinction the system doesn’t understand right now.”  Industrywide Shift  Even as he works for greater transparency, Marlowe faces an
industrywide shift that’s forced lobbyists to figure out new
ways to practice their trade as earmarks in bills have been
banned, gifts have been disallowed, and in-person meetings made
more difficult to secure.  President  Barack Obama , who refuses contributions from
lobbyists, has released some White House visitor logs for the
first time and has prohibited recent lobbyists from joining the
administration and from serving on White House advisory boards,
though he has issued more than two dozen waivers to hire
lobbyists.  Obama has made it clear that this year lobbyists and
corporations won’t be allowed to contribute money to the
Democratic National Convention.  Yet the Obama administration has violated the spirit of its
own policies by meeting with corporate lobbyists at Caribou
Coffee -- avoiding the official visitor log -- and ferrying them
into the White House as guests of well-placed friends. The
Democratic National Convention has explained to lobbyists that
although they can’t make contributions to the convention, they
can encourage their corporate clients to write personal checks.  White House Ban  The White House’s latest attempt at taking the higher
ground is in the form of a tough proposal that would ban
lobbyists from interacting with thousands of federal employees.  Under the proposed rules, lobbyists would no longer be
allowed to sponsor federal employees to attend industry
conferences and galas.  “Pure nonsense,” Marlowe cries. “I’m sorry, but the whole
world is built on relationships. What are you going to say, no
relationships anymore?”  Marlowe and the Quigley aide got to the cafeteria and sat
down, ready to joust. First, Marlowe complimented the staffer’s
boss for being “out front” on the legislation. The aide, who
wished to remain unnamed -- Quigley’s bill would publicize such
meetings and not the names of staff -- set her clipboard on the
table. She noted that Quigley’s and Marlowe’s proposals had five
key issues, and that three of them overlapped nicely.  Who Qualifies  Both bills address the sticky question of who qualifies as
a lobbyist. On the Republican presidential primary campaign
trail last fall, former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s
credibility was undermined by the charge that he made millions
of dollars consulting for  Freddie Mac  and health-care companies,
while never having to register as a lobbyist. Marlowe’s meeting
with Quigley’s staffer was an opportunity to nail down a
definition.  Marlowe noted the woman’s own “lobbying style”: She had
pre-empted him by bringing up the League of Lobbyists’ proposal.
She too wanted to establish common ground. He dove into the
point where they agreed the most: getting more lobbyists
registered.  “To me, it’s critical,” Marlowe said. He gestured around
the cafeteria, indicating how it was hard to know who was a
buttoned-up lobbyist and who was a buttoned-up congressional
staffer. The woman nodded vigorously.  20 Percent Loophole  Both the Quigley and Marlowe proposals would get rid of
what’s known as the 20 percent loophole. That rule says people
who spend less than 20 percent of their time lobbying on  Capitol
Hill  don’t have to register as Washington lobbyists.  How much of one’s time constitutes 20 percent is entirely
up to the lobbyists, which is one reason why Gingrich could fly
under the radar, critics say.  “Even I could have gotten out of the 20 percent rule,”
Abramoff says. “These are basically fungible numbers.”  Marlowe and the aide knew they disagreed on what would
replace the 20 percent rule. Quigley’s bill would get rid of the
time rule entirely and force lawmakers to report every single
contact with a lobbyist -- each meeting, coffee, and exchange of
chitchat at a fund-raiser.  Marlowe didn’t like that at all; he wanted to lower it to
10 percent for lobbyists from industry associations and
nonprofits, and eliminate a time cap for professional lobbyists
like himself. He thought that reporting every contact with a
lobbyist was crazy.  Corporate Jets  Instead of saying so, Marlowe brought up a scenario. He
asked the aide to picture a chief executive officer who flies
into Washington three times a year on a corporate jet to meet
with members of Congress.  “By the look and smell of it, he’s engaged in lobbying. But
how to treat him?” he said. “That’s where we got tied into
knots. What is the standard? Is it a dollar amount? I have no
problem with that,” Marlowe said, muddling just what it was that
he had a problem with. “The corporate CEO would break it just
for flying his jet in.”  Maybe, the aide said, there should be a two-tiered
registration system, one for people like CEOs, for whom it’s
impossible to separate how much they get paid for lobbying from
their salaries, and one for other kinds of lobbyists. She
shrugged and said she was just brainstorming.  Marlowe, though, has a problem with any proposal that would
rope in a CEO. The more they talked, the more difficult it
became to define the word “lobbyist.” Was it the CEO, or a
small-town dentist being flown to Washington by the  American
Dental Association ? How about the small armies of researchers
that supply lobbyists with ready-made language to insert in
legislation?  Needle Moved  Nothing really happened at the meeting, yet Marlowe
considered it successful. A needle had been moved forward an
imperceptible fraction. Marlowe had also made a decision: The
league wouldn’t endorse the Quigley bill -- at least, not in its
current form. A requirement to report every single meeting, he
insists, is a de facto attack on lobbyist’s free-speech rights.  Entering into a conversation with Marlowe, 69, is a
quizzical experience. He answers questions with questions, and
in a low, raspy voice that never betrays a hint of passion. It’s
hard to know where he stands, yet he projects the confidence of
someone who is certain he knows what you want.  Marlowe started lobbying in 1978, a year before the
 American League of Lobbyists  was founded. In response to
Watergate, the Senate tried to close loopholes in disclosure
rules that governed lobbyists. Lobbyists argued that their free
speech was being curtailed and beat back the bill. From the
outset, the league attempted to create a body of ethical
standards for lobbyists to show that their tainted profession
was, in fact, capable of regulating itself.  Boutique Firm  Marlowe, who declines to say which party he belongs to,
started his own boutique lobbying firm in 1984. His clients are
mostly Republican-controlled local governments. He represents a
county in  Florida  seeking restoration funds from the BP oil
spill. One longtime client, the American Shore and Beach
Preservation Association, employs him year after year to
continue to push for more federal funding to prevent coastal
erosion. There are many days when he spends hours on Capitol
Hill with the handful of legislative aides that specialize in
water issues -- they’ve all known one another for years --
narrowing a tiny piece of language that, on its face, seems
completely insubstantial. It has taken years to get a word
changed. Often he works until 10 or 11 at night.  Tighter Rules  Marlowe became president of the  American League  of
Lobbyists in January 2011, a position he also held in 1989. His
first act in office last year was to get the board to endorse an
ethics training class for lobbyists. The course, he says, would
familiarize members with the current legislation governing the
profession, the  Lobbying Disclosure Act . After the Abramoff
scandal, Congress tightened the gift rules, making it so that
lobbyists couldn’t give any gifts to members of Congress or
their staffs.  Although he wants to be sure lobbyists understand these
rules, Marlowe doesn’t agree with them. “You can’t take them to
lunch,” he complains. “You can’t take them to dinner. You can’t
even buy a bottle of water for them! So what do lobbyists do?
They tend to pay $500 or more to go to a fundraiser, where they
will be asked to discuss whatever their issue is.”  He has also focused the league on image consulting. Marlowe
has drafted a public relations campaign, which he calls “The
Many Faces of Lobbying.” He’s held seminars for lobbyists --
masters of messaging -- in social media. If they send Twitter
messages about what they do, he says, it will make the whole
thing seem less secretive.  Internet Radio  Marlowe extols the benefits of lobbying to anyone who will
listen, and is starting an Internet radio show, The Inner Loop,
that will give what he calls “an insider’s view of Washington.”
His campaign against the 20 percent loophole isn’t entirely
fueled by civic nobility. He also wants to level the playing
field: These secret lobbyists, who exert influence while
remaining unregistered, he insists, make things unfair for the
official lobbyists.  It took him a year to get the board to agree to a
resolution ending the 20 percent rule. Lobbyists in the group
resisted the public scrutiny.  “I understand,” says Marlowe. “I don’t like the media doing
nasty stories about me, either.”  Marlowe isn’t always successful at lobbying his colleagues.
When he proposed a rule saying that lobbyists would commit to
not talking about policy issues at campaign fundraisers, the
members shot him down.  Fundraiser Talk  “They weren’t ready for that,” he says, shaking his head.
Marlowe himself says he has never talked about a client’s issue
at a fundraiser.  For Harvard’s Lessig, restrictions such as these are
meaningless.  “Rules about what you can say are just silly. As long as
the system is providing the funding, people will recognize who
is providing the funding and who isn’t,” he says. “All of these
solutions ignore the capacity of humans to understand each
other. You can have rules where you say you can’t talk about
things, or you can’t talk about things at certain times. But
people understand cause and effect.”  Campaign fundraisers loom larger than ever in the lives of
lobbyists now. By far, the biggest transformation in the
profession in the past 30 years is the surge in the amount of
money needed to run for office, and politicians have become
dependent on lobbyist cash to bankroll their campaigns.  Cash Calls  “There’s not a lobbyist in this town who likes being called
up regularly by a member of Congress or campaign staff to say,
‘Hey, cough up some money for a campaign,’” he says. “We would
prefer not to have those calls.”  The day-to-day activities of a lobbyist have changed a
lot, too. Congress is at a virtual standstill compared with two
years ago, when major bills on health care and Wall Street
reform were passed, and lobbyists were spending an unprecedented
amount of money.  Two years later the bills are law, and lobbyists are
putting their energies into the rulemaking process, which is run
by federal agencies and not lawmakers. Whatever special-interest
groups don’t like in a bill, they attempt to undermine and tweak
in the rulemaking process.  Unlike lobbying Congress, where it’s hard for the public to
have any sense of the issues being lobbied on or the meetings
that take place, lobbying government agencies is mind-numbingly
transparent: Every agency must post all the comments made about
a given rule on their website.  Earmark Ban  Last year lawmakers banned earmarks, legislative provisions
tucked into bills that target money for specific projects in
their home localities. Without earmarks to argue for, lobbyists
have to figure out how to sneak provisions that they want into
the few bills that get passed. That means a lot more waiting and
strategizing.  On top of all of that, face-to-face meetings are harder to
come by. Members of Congress have always been busy, yet over the
years e-mail and increasingly lengthy lists of obligations have
made schedules tighter. The profession of lobbying has suffered,
sighs Marlowe.  When he started his career, there were a few ways one could
meet a member of Congress. He could arrange a meeting with the
member; the House was always much easier than the Senate. He
could meet with staff. He could stand outside the door of the
Senate lounge and ask a porter to submit a note card to a
lawmaker requesting an impromptu meeting -- a long-standing
practice.  Chasing Lawmakers  He could chase after the member as he walked through the
Capitol between votes.  “That used to be one of the poorer ways,” he says
wistfully. “Now it’s one of the better ways.”  Marlowe has tried to use whatever clout the league has to
help lobbyists get access to members of Congress in ways that
don’t involve getting hit up for money. To that end, he holds a
monthly breakfast meeting with a different member of Congress as
a keynote speaker. The lobbyists pay $50 and get a chance to
bring up whatever issues they want. Marlowe is always pushing
for more personal contact.  “You can’t lobby through e-mail,” he says.  Marlowe doesn’t see anything wrong with fundraising, while
lamenting that a new generation of lobbyists thinks using cash
is the way to make people listen.  “It’s getting harder to recruit young people into the
profession,” he says, although he is training his receptionist
on how to lobby.  Joel Porter, a 29-year-old who works for Marlowe’s firm, is
a standout. He brings a certain idealism to the job.  Porter asks: “You take your freshman Tea Party member of
Congress, who doesn’t know how things work. How else is he going
to learn?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Biuso   ebiuso@bloomberg.net  