-- Occupy Protester Claims Against New York, Mayor Dismissed
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-06-07T22:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/occupy-protester-claims-against-new-york-mayor-dismissed.html
Occupy Wall Street  protesters
arrested on the Brooklyn Bridge last year can’t proceed with
claims against  New York  City, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and police
Commissioner Raymond Kelly, a judge said.  The protesters can pursue claims against individual police
officers, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan ruled.  “Plaintiffs have not plausibly alleged that the violations
in this case resulted from a policy that  Mayor Bloomberg ,
Commissioner Kelly or the city implemented, executed or
tolerated,” Rakoff said in today’s order.  The protesters sued in October 2011, claiming the arrests
violated their rights under the First, Fourth and Fourteenth
Amendments to the U.S. Constitution.  The plaintiffs, in a revised complaint filed in December,
said thousands of demonstrators marched from Zuccotti Park in
downtown  Manhattan  to the Brooklyn Bridge to support the Occupy
Wall Street movement, which opposes economic inequality in the
U.S. After 700 marchers entered the bridge’s vehicle roadway,
the officers restricted their movement and arrested them,
according to the complaint.  “The allegations of the second amended complaint, if true,
establish that the officers did not give fair warning to the
overwhelming majority of the 700 demonstrators who were arrested
in this case,” Rakoff wrote.  Mara Verheyden-Hilliard, a lawyer for the protesters, said
in an e-mail that today’s ruling was “a major victory for the
700 people subjected to false arrest by the NYPD.”  ‘Scores’ Liable  “Scores of NYPD officers are potentially liable to
hundreds who were mass arrested in a peaceful protest,” she
said.  Arthur Larkin, a senior counsel for the  New York City  Law
Department, said in an e-mailed statement that the city was
pleased the judge found Bloomberg and Kelly weren’t liable.  “We are considering all legal options, including appeal,
concerning the remainder of the decision,” Larkin said.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  The case is Garcia v. Bloomberg, 11-06957, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  