-- Oerlikon Chief Vows ‘Clear’ Decisions If Units Fail on Targets
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-06-07T12:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/oerlikon-chief-vows-clear-decisions-if-units-fail-on-targets.html
OC Oerlikon Corp AG (OERL)  Chief Executive
Officer Michael Buscher said he’d take decisive action on units
that fall short of profit targets, as he shifts his focus to the
engineering portfolio after renegotiating a credit facility.  Oerlikon’s textile, drives systems, vacuum, coating and
advanced technologies segments all were given individual
performance measures and deadlines. Some of the goals are based
on the performance of competitors and companies which serve
similar markets, said Buscher, without disclosing the targets.  “If the return on net assets numbers cannot be achieved
over a certain period of time, then we will make clear
decisions,” Buscher said in an interview yesterday at company
headquarters in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland .  Buscher is working to shake off the legacy of Oerlikon’s
2010 restructuring, which included a 1.48 billion Swiss franc
($1.55 billion) debt facility. Oerlikon is now seeking to reach
a “solid platform” from which it can look at potential
acquisitions in the medium to long term, Buscher said.  Among businesses that Oerlikon has disposed of is the
carding machinery subsidiary, a part of the textile unit, which
it agreed to sell to  China ’s Hi-tech Group Corp. about a year
ago. The company announced the sale of its solar unit to Tokyo
Electron for 250 million francs in March.  Oerlikon reduced its net debt to 86 million francs, or 0.14
times its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization at the end of 2011, from 274 million francs, or
0.99 times leverage in 2010, the company said March 5.  ‘Not the Slowest’  “You cannot transform a business in a month’s time
frame,” said Buscher, a German national who joined Oerlikon
from Bombardier Transportation two years ago. “I think we have
proven we are not the slowest ones in moving things around.”  Oerlikon’s drive systems and textile units, which together
made up 68 percent of group revenue last year, reported
operating margins of 6 percent and 9 percent, compared with 14
percent and 20 percent for the smaller vacuum and coating units.
Oerlikon engineers goods ranging from precision textile
machinery to gears and tools to coat car engines.  The Swiss engineering group has gained 61 percent this year
after profit jumped to 224 million Swiss francs in 2011 from 5
million francs a year. Oerlikon said in April that results this
year may exceed earlier guidance. The company’s biggest
shareholder is Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg .  The previous debt facility, which averaged 850 basis points
over the benchmark, was closed at a time when it was “quite
clear” that Oerlikon couldn’t repay 600 million francs of debt,
Buscher said.  The 30 investors who took part in the old facility included
a number of  hedge funds , Buscher said. In addition to pledging
security such as real estate, Oerlikon had to report figures to
the investor group every month and later quarterly, Buscher
said.  Hedge funds are not part of the new facility, which
consists of seven banks and is unsecured. The re-negotiated
facility pays an average interest rate of 250 basis points over
Libor, and will be supplemented by a bond issuance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  