-- Oil Falls as Bernanke Says Economy at Risk From Crisis
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-06-07T21:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/oil-rises-a-fourth-day-on-china-rate-cut-stimulus-specul.html
Oil fell after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy is at risk from
 Europe ’s debt crisis and the prospect of fiscal tightening,
tempering optimism over a cut in Chinese  interest rates .  Futures slipped 0.2 percent as Bernanke refrained in
congressional testimony from discussing steps the Fed might take
to boost growth. Oil rose more than $2 earlier after the
People’s Bank of  China  said the benchmark one-year deposit rate
will drop by 0.25 percentage point starting tomorrow.  “Bernanke is keeping things pretty close to his chest and
hasn’t signaled any additional accommodative easing from the
U.S.,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The Chinese
rate cut was good news but we need to see more.”  Crude oil for July delivery declined 20 cents to settle at
$84.82 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
first drop since June 1. Futures are down 14 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement decreased 71 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session at $99.93 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The drop in New York oil accelerated after the settlement.
Crude was down $1.53, or 1.8 percent, at $83.49 at 4:45 p.m. in
electronic trading on the Nymex.  “I think we’re seeing an emotional reaction,” Evans said.
“There’s a real sense of a letdown after we weren’t able to
sustain gains from the Chinese rate cut and we didn’t get
anything to lift the market from Bernanke,” said  Tim Evans , an
energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York.  Bernanke’s Warning  Bernanke warned lawmakers that “a severe tightening of
fiscal policy at the beginning of next year that is built into
current law -- the so-called fiscal cliff -- would, if allowed
to occur, pose a significant threat to the recovery.”  Bernanke will lead the  Federal Open Market Committee  in a
policy-setting meeting June 19 and 20 that will confront the
slowest employment growth in a year and a worsening debt crisis
in Europe. The central bank said yesterday in its Beige Book
business survey that the  U.S. economy  maintained a moderate pace
of growth from early April to late May.  Chinese banks can offer a 20 percent discount to the key
lending rate, up from a previous 10 percent. Lenders will for
the first time be able to offer savers deposit rates that are up
to 10 percent higher than the benchmark.  “The initial reaction to the Chinese rate cut seems to
have run its course and now we’re returning to all the
uncertainty that’s sent prices lower,” Evans said.  Debt Crisis  Oil in New York, which fell 17 percent in May for the
biggest monthly drop in more than three years, may rebound if
policy makers take steps to contain the  European debt crisis  and
counter weaker economic growth in the U.S. and China, Goldman
Sachs said in a report e-mailed today.  Goldman reiterated its call to buy West Texas Intermediate
crude futures for September delivery. The recommendation, first
made on Feb. 22, has so far generated a “dismal” loss of
$22.72 a barrel,  David Greely , head of energy research in New
York, said.  The pending European Union oil embargo on Iran is another
area where government policy will affect the crude market by
tightening the amount of supply available, Greely said. The
sanctions are set to go into effect on July 1.  The bank forecasts in a worst-case scenario that Iranian
 exports  drop to 1.1 million barrels a day, about 1.3 million
barrels less than in 2011, according to the note. Its baseline
view is calling for a daily decline to 1.6 million barrels.  Japan ’s Cabinet is poised to approve a bill giving
sovereign guarantees for the nation’s oil tankers loading
Iranian crude, potentially undermining sanctions targeting the
Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program.  Japanese Bill  The government plans to provide as much as $7.6 billion so
that ship owners and petroleum refiners can maintain insurance
when hauling crude from  Iran , according to two government
officials with direct knowledge of the law, who declined to be
identified before the Cabinet gives consent to the legislation
as soon as tomorrow.  The bill will be submitted to the Diet, or national
parliament, after the Cabinet endorses it, they said.  A law signed by President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31 blocks
countries’ access to the U.S. financial system if they can’t
show they’re reducing oil imports from Iran. Japan and 10
European nations received exemptions in March for a renewable
period of 180 days.  U.S. Supplies  Gasoline stockpiles climbed 3.35 million barrels to 203.5
million in the week ended June 1, according to an Energy
Department report yesterday. Demand for the fuel dropped 3.2
percent to 8.65 million barrels a day.  “The fundamentals point to lower prices,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities research at IAF Advisors in
Houston. “The gasoline build was huge and demand terrible.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 584,570
contracts as of 4:43 p.m. Volume totaled 647,809 contracts
yesterday, 15 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.46 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  