-- Oil Boom Is Vote Curse for Ghana’s Mills as Cedi Slumps
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-06-07T05:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/oil-boom-is-vote-curse-for-ghana-s-mills-as-cedi-slumps.html
Ghana ’s currency has become a victim
of the economy’s success following an oil boom, depreciating the
most against the dollar this year in  Africa  after Malawi’s
kwacha and eroding support for President John Atta Mills as he
seeks re-election.  The cedi has weakened 14 percent to 1.9098 per dollar since
the beginning of January, the fourth-biggest decline in the
world, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By the time
Mills and his ruling National Democratic Congress party face
voters in a Dec. 7 election, the cedi may be at a record low of
2 per dollar, according to  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , Africa’s
biggest lender.  Ghana’s debut as an oil producer in 2010 fueled the fastest
economic expansion on the continent last year, spurring growth
in imports of everything from machinery and oil to food, driving
up demand for foreign currency and undermining the cedi.
Consumers are now paying more for rice, cars, TVs and clothing
as  inflation  soared to a 14-month high of 9.1 percent in April.  “The downside of a weak cedi is rising inflation,” Yvonne Mhango, a Pan-African economist at  Renaissance Capital  in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mail. Growth in consumer prices may
accelerate to 14 percent by the end of 2012, implying “there is
an upside risk to  interest rates , which is negative for credit
growth and also raises the government’s debt-servicing costs.”  Re-Election Campaign  Ghana doesn’t have the manufacturing capacity to sustain
the needs of an economy that expanded 14.4 percent in 2011 and
is forecast by the government to grow 9.4 percent this year.
Imports surged 20 percent in the first quarter to $4 billion
compared with a year earlier, according to the  Bank of Ghana .  Mills’ re-election campaign, which focuses on his economic
successes since coming to power in 2008, may be a victim of the
cedi’s slump. The president will face New Patriotic Party
leader, Nana Akufo-Addo, at the polls after defeating him by
less than 1 percentage point four years ago.  “If this government doesn’t do something about the cedi
soon it will be bad news for President Mills,” Kofi Manu
Asamoah, 52, an importer of spare parts for Mercedes-Benz
vehicles, said in an interview from his shop in Accra, the
capital. “I am running at a loss because I spend more to buy
dollars to pay for my imports,” Asamoah said, leaning against a
shelf in his shop that was empty of customers.  With reserves at $4.4 billion, covering about three months
of import requirements, the central bank is running out of
ammunition to halt the cedi’s decline. Two interest rate
increases this year have had limited success.  ‘Losing Side’  “The cedi’s situation is hurting us, we are on the losing
side,” Kwasi Okoh, managing director of  Aluworks Ltd. (ALW) , an
aluminum-products maker in the port city of Tema, said in an
interview on May 8. “We purchase our raw materials in dollars
so by the time we have sold our produce we have a shortfall in
sales.” Costs have risen by 15 percent in the first quarter, he
said.  Ghana’s economy depends on imports for “almost everything
from rice to clothing to toothpicks” and rising costs may push
up wage demands, Kwabena Nyarko Otoo, director of the labor
research and policy institute of the Ghana Trade Unions
Congress, said in an interview in Accra on May 17.  “If the cedi continues to fall then we could see some
labor agitations for further increases in salaries to restore
real income lost to price hikes,” he said.  Rising Costs  The currency’s slump boosted costs at  Guinness Ghana
Breweries Ltd. (GGBL) , a unit of London-based  Diageo Plc (DGE)  that makes the
popular lager beer, Star, by as much as 12 percent in the first
four months of the year compared with a year earlier, Anthony
Attu, the company’s treasury manager, said in a phone interview
from Accra on May 8.  “Our budget this year for the  exchange rate  was 1.6 per
dollar and 2.5 per pound sterling, but these levels have already
been broken,” he said.  The election itself is a source of cedi weakness as
investors bet the government will struggle to keep spending in
check, threatening a repeat of 2008 when pre-vote expenses
boosted the budget deficit to 14.5 percent of gross domestic
product. The shortfall is expected to reach 4.4 percent of GDP
in 2012, according to the government.  “There is a lot of concern among investors and
international community as to whether the government will be
able to keep within the  budget deficit  target this year,” James Clinton Francis, a sub-Saharan Africa researcher at Eurasia
Group, said in a phone interview from  Washington . “The stakes
are very high for both parties in the December elections and
that gives them the incentive to spend.”  Philomena Annan, a grocer in Bubiashie, a suburb of Accra,
is desperate for some relief as costs of staple foods, such as
rice, climb.  “We are really suffering now,” Annan, 45, said in an
interview on May 8. “I can’t even add profit margins to already
high prices. President Mills must do something about the cedi.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in  Accra  at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  