-- Oil Advances in New York on China Rate Cut, Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-07T12:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/oil-near-four-day-high-on-stimulus-talk-goldman-sees-rebound.html
Oil rose in New York after  China  cut
benchmark lending and deposit rates for the first time since
2008, while policy makers in the U.S. and  Europe  indicated they
may take steps to boost their economies.  West Texas Intermediate futures gained as much as 1.8
percent, reversing earlier declines after the People’s Bank of
China said on its website that the benchmark one-year deposit
rate will drop by 0.25 percentage points from tomorrow. Federal
Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the U.S. remains
vulnerable to setbacks that may warrant additional monetary
stimulus. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
officials are ready to act as the euro area’s outlook worsens.  “The market is hoping for a new money bazooka from the
central banks and rescue funds,” said Michael Poulsen, an
analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,  Denmark , who
predicts  oil prices  will remain near current levels. “In recent
days we’ve seen some decent volume during every upward move, and
that indicates some clear buying interest.”  Oil for July delivery rose as much as $1.50 to $86.52 a
barrel and was at $86.30 in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 1:02 p.m. London time. The contract
yesterday rose 73 cents to $85.02, the highest close since May
31. Prices are 13 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement was at $101.90 a barrel, up
$1.26, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $15.60, compared with $15.62 yesterday.  Goldman Reiterates Recommendation  Oil in  New York , which fell 17 percent in May for the
biggest monthly drop in more than three years, may rebound if
policy makers take steps to contain the European debt crisis and
counter weaker economic growth in the U.S. and China, Goldman
Sachs said in e-mailed report today.  Goldman reiterated its call to buy West Texas Intermediate
crude futures for September delivery. The recommendation, first
made on Feb. 22, has so far generated a “dismal” loss of
$22.72 a barrel, it said.  Prices may also gain as sanctions tighten on Iran and a
surplus caused by increased output from Saudi Arabia, the
biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, is eroded, according to the report.  Iran , OPEC’s second-biggest crude producer, faces
additional European Union sanctions starting July 1 because of
its nuclear program. The embargo will remove about 1 million
barrels of oil from the market, the International Energy Agency
estimates.  Site Inspections  Iran will “never suspend” its enrichment of uranium and
“will not permit our national security to be jeopardized” by
 International Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors working for
Western intelligence agencies, Ali Asghar Soltanieh, the
nation’s envoy to the IAEA, told reporters in Vienna yesterday.  Soltanieh contradicted IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano’s
May 22 announcement that a decision had been made to allow
inspectors increased access to nuclear sites. The Persian Gulf
nation’s nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili only pledged his
“determination” to reach an accord, Soltanieh said.  Diplomats from China,  France , Germany,  Russia , the U.K. and
the U.S. are scheduled to hold a third round of talks with their
Iranian counterparts in Moscow on June 18-19.  Saudi Arabia  may rein in oil sales after it achieved a
$100-a-barrel target for London-traded Brent by cutting the
price of its crude and pumping at the highest rate in at least
three decades. The world’s biggest exporter started to scale
back shipments this month, according to Vienna-based researcher
JBC Energy GmbH, citing tanker fixtures.  U.S. Supplies  U.S. crude stockpiles fell for the first time in 11 weeks.
Inventories dropped by  111,000 barrels  last week, a report from
the Energy Department showed yesterday. They were forecast to
decline 500,000 barrels, according to the median of 12 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New
York-traded futures, increased 926,000 barrels to a record 47.8
million. Domestic oil production rose to 6.25 million barrels a
day, the highest level since February 1999.  Gasoline supplies climbed 3.3 million barrels, the Energy
Department report showed. They were forecast to gain 950,000
barrels, according to the survey. Distillate stockpiles, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, rose 2.3 million
barrels, compared with a projected drop of 250,000 barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  