-- Oklahoma City Thunder Reach NBA Finals With 4-2 Ouster of Spurs
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-06-07T04:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/oklahoma-city-thunder-reach-nba-finals-with-4-2-ouster-of-spurs.html
Kevin Durant  had 34 points and 14
rebounds as the Oklahoma City Thunder rallied from an 18-point
deficit to reach the National Basketball Association Finals with
a 107-99 defeat of the  San Antonio Spurs .  The Thunder finished off the best-of-seven Western
Conference finals in Game 6 last night before a raucous crowd in
Oklahoma City, where the hosts are 8-0 this postseason.  Oklahoma City won the final four games of the series after
falling behind 2-0 against a team that was on a 20-game winning
streak. If the Spurs had won, there would have been a decisive
seventh game tomorrow night in San Antonio.  “This is the toughest game we’ve played since I’ve been
here,” said Durant, who hugged his mother and brother on the
side of the court in the game’s final seconds. “We kept playing
hard. Coach just said we had to play with force, with a sense of
urgency. We didn’t want to go back to  San Antonio .”  The Thunder will play the Boston Celtics or Miami Heat in
the Finals. Boston will try to wrap up the Eastern Conference
title tonight at home in Game 6. The Celtics lead the best-of-
seven series 3-2 after winning three straight games.  Tony Parker  had 29 points and 12 assists for San Antonio
and  Tim Duncan , who has led the Spurs to four NBA championships
since he entered the league in 1997, had 25 points and 14
rebounds.  Russell Westbrook  added 25 points and  James Harden  had 16
for the Thunder, who moved to the Chesapeake Energy Arena in
Oklahoma City from Seattle in 2008.  “All I can think of is how this incredible group of young
men has unified this city and this state as never before,”
owner Clay Bennett said in the televised trophy ceremony after
the game.  18-Point Lead  Parker had 21 points in the first half and the Spurs led by
15 at the intermission after being ahead by as many as 18 points
in the second period.  The Thunder opened the third period with an 11-2 run to
pull within six points and took their first lead since early in
the game on a 3-pointer by Durant with 1:39 remaining in the
quarter.  The Spurs led 81-80 entering the fourth period and held a
two-point advantage before Durant and Harden had three points
each in an 8-0 run that gave Oklahoma City the lead for good.  Derek Fisher , who won five championships with the  Los
Angeles Lakers  before signing with the Thunder midway through
this season, and Harden hit 3-pointers to help maintain Oklahoma
City’s margin. Kendrick Perkins put an exclamation point on the
victory with a two-handed slam on a pass from Durant with 25
seconds left.  “It’s happening before our eyes,” Fisher said in a
televised interview. “We’re just playing and doing it for each
other. Great things can happen when you play for each other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  