-- Champagne Sells for $156,000 After 170 Years Under Water
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-06-08T12:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/oldest-champagne-may-fetch-140-000-after-170-years-under-water.html
Eleven bottles of some of the world’s
oldest champagne sold for more than $156,000 at an auction in
 Finland  today after 170 years at the bottom of the sea.  Six bottles were Juglar, a house that disappeared in 1829,
four were Veuve Clicquot and one was Heidsieck. With interest
from Champagne makers, the sellers were watching after a 30,000
euro ($37,720) a bottle record set in the last sale, though the
Paris-based auction house of  Artcurial Briest-Poulain-F.Tajan 
had placed an estimate of just 10,000 euros each.  The Champagne was perfectly stored horizontally in cold,
dark Baltic waters after a shipwreck. It was sold in Mariehamn,
the only town in Aaland, an archipelago of 6,500 islands between
Finland and  Sweden . The first bottle, the Heidsieck, made 11,500
euros and the highest-priced Clicquot was 15,000 euros. The
total bid for all the bottles was 125,500 euros.  Divers exploring the wreck of a schooner discovered a total
of 162 bottles in 2010. Of these, 79 were drinkable. Aaland
plans to retain some bottles and to sell others for maritime
archaeology and for Baltic Sea environmental projects.  “We didn’t know what we had found at first,” said diver
Christian Ekstroem, 33, who manages the pub in the Stallhagen
brewery, outside Mariehamn. “I brought a bottle up and the
closer I got to the surface, I had to hold the cork down with my
thumb. It popped when I was in the boat, so we poured some into
cups. We had no idea how valuable it was.”  Champagne Compensation  The brewery is in a forest, housed in an old barracks that
was home to Russian coastal artillery a century ago. Ekstroem
said that wrecks more than 100 years old belong to the
government, and none of the eight divers who discovered the
Champagne has received any compensation.  “We’ve had nothing, not even a thank you,” Ekstroem said
in an interview at the brewery last month. “It’s not even about
the money.”  Five bottles of beer were also recovered and Stallhagen is
working on recipes based upon them, said Ekstroem, who will take
a day off work today to attend the auction.  I sipped the Juglar when I first visited  Aaland  in November
2010, when two bottles were opened for tasting. It’s aromatic
and sweet, like a dessert wine, and it’s deep and rich, with
notes of orange and raisin, like a Christmas cake.  The  Veuve Clicquot (MC)  sold for a world record for a single
bottle of Champagne of 30,000 euros at auction in Mariehamn on
June 3 last year. A bottle of Juglar went for 24,000 euros.  Maritime History  “Most people don’t know where Aaland is or even that it
exists, so we’re very happy to have this opportunity to share
our maritime cultural history and finally put Aaland on the
map,” said Lina Dumas, who is managing the Champagne project.  She showed off a display, including two of the Champagne
bottles, at the  Aaland Maritime Museum , a 10-minute walk from
the Culture and Congress House where the sale will take place.  The original twin-mast sailing vessel was schooner-rigged
with a hull typical of the early 1800s in the Nordic region.
 Veuve Clicquot  has dated its corks to the period 1831-1841.  Aaland is a Swedish-speaking autonomous region of Finland,
with its own stamps and license plates. There are 27,500
inhabitants, of whom about 11,000 live in Mariehamn.  The capital is situated on a narrow peninsula. It’s a
charming, quiet and spacious town where motor vehicles will
sometimes slow if they spot a pedestrian, except during the
summer, when as many as 1.5 million people visit. A main avenue
is lined with Linden trees and one resident told me his
childhood treat was to visit the archipelago’s only escalator.  Shipping lanes around the islands are filled with ferries
or you can fly in on an  Aaland  Air Saab 340A. On one of the
three visits I’ve made in the past two years, the road to the
tiny airport for an early-morning flight was covered in snow,
with barely a tire track to be seen. At night, the sky is black.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Martin
Gayford  on art and  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net , or
Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 