-- Molina Tumbles After Pulling Forecast: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-06-07T20:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/molina-tumbles-after-pulling-forecast-los-angeles-mover.html
Molina Healthcare Inc. (MOH)  fell the most
in almost seven years after the managed-care company withdrew
its 2012 earnings forecast because of potential costs of an
expansion in  Texas .  The health-management organization  fell  31 percent to
$17.77 at 4 p.m. New York time, the biggest one day decline
since July 2005. Molina said yesterday in a  regulatory filing 
that revenue generated in some markets in Texas isn’t enough to
cover the costs of providing services.  Molina has been increasing its health plans in Texas,
adding about 172,000 new members in the state between March 31,
2011 and April 30. The company said that use of long-term
services, such as adult day care, in the Hidalgo and El Paso
areas is much greater than in other parts of Texas, throwing off
the company’s evaluation of the state’s premium rates.  “Worst case, with no favorable offsets, it’s possible the
issue costs Molina $1.60 per share this year, erasing virtually
all of their earnings,” said Carl McDonald, a Citigroup analyst
in  New York , in a note to clients. “That said, how often have
we seen a troubled Medicaid market turn around in a couple of
quarters?”  Molina said it will implement new premium rates for its
Star+Plus contracts in Texas in September. The Star+Plus program
is a Texas Medicaid program designed to provide acute and long-
term health care through a managed-care system. Molina said it
will give more information on its financial performance during a
second-quarter earnings call on July 26.  Molina’s announcement sent down the shares of rivals who
also do Medicaid business in Texas.  Virginia Beach , Virginia-
based  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  fell 2.9 percent to $61.21 and St. Louis-
based  Centene Corp. (CNC)  declined 12 percent to $32.84.  Medicaid is the joint state-federal program for the poor.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 