-- Hollande Deficit Vow Lures Investors to French Debt: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-07T09:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/hollande-deficit-vow-lures-investors-to-french-debt-euro-credit.html
French voters head to the polls this
weekend with at least one material benefit from President
 Francois Hollande ’s three-week-old reign: record low borrowing
costs.  The yield on France’s benchmark 10-year bond slid last week
to an  all-time low  of 2.07 percent. The spread with equivalent
German securities has narrowed to 110 basis points from 142 when
Hollande took office on May 15. The government took advantage of
the drop by selling today 7.84 billion euros ($9.9 billion) in
debt, including 50-year bonds for the first time since 2010.  Hollande has stuck to his pledge to shrink France’s budget
gap while gaining from predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s record of
repeatedly beating the nation’s deficit-cutting targets. For
bond investors, the combination has put France -- which was
stripped of its AAA rating by  Standard & Poor’s  in January -- in
the league of  Europe ’s creditworthy north rather than its
struggling south.  “What we’ve seen is investors becoming more comfortable
with French risks,” said  Harvinder Sian , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “We
are happy not to short France anymore.”  French voters choose lawmakers for the National Assembly in
two rounds of voting on June 10 and June 17. Hollande’s
Socialist Party probably will win the largest bloc of seats,
although it may have to rely on other parties for a majority,
according to an OpinionWay poll taken June 4 and June 5.  Fiscal Austerity  “An absolute majority of Socialists would increase the
probability that the government will be able to deliver tougher
fiscal austerity,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in Paris.  While the European Commission said May 30 that France may
need to take “significant” steps to meet its target of
reducing its  budget deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic
product next year, Hollande has reiterated that he expects to
meet that goal and plans to introduce fresh budget measures
after the parliamentary elections.  His Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said yesterday that
“it’s a promise that will be kept.”  French bonds, Europe’s second-best performers in May after
Dutch debt according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, may extend
the rally as investors seek shelter from the region’s crisis.  Spanish Yields  “The outperformance of French bonds reflects demand for
high-quality paper with some yield,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head
of European fixed-income strategy at Societe Generale SA in
Paris. “This demand should continue in coming months as long as
concern about Spain lingers.”  The drop in French yields contrasts with increases in Spain
and  Italy . Spain now pays 6.15 percent to borrow for 10 years,
up from the year’s low of 4.85 percent on Feb. 1. The equivalent
Italian debt now yields 5.6 percent, compared with a 2012 low of
4.806 percent on March 8.  Spain , which has resisted pressure to become the fourth
euro-area nation to seek a bailout, this week called for outside
support for the first time as Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro
said European institutions should help to shore up its banks.  Spain today sold 2.07 billion euros in debt, meeting its
maximum target, as its 10-year borrowing costs rose to 6.044
percent, up from 5.743 percent at the last sale on April 19.  The spread between Spanish and German 10-year bond yields
widened to a record 5.48 percentage points on June 1 and the
cost of insuring against default on Spanish sovereign debt rose
to a historic high.  Perfect Fit  At the same time, French sovereign debt offers better
returns than  Germany , where 10-year bonds provide a yield of
just 1.25 percent and two-year yields went negative for the
first time on June 1.  “We may be entering a tipping point where investors are
forced to chase returns somewhere and are looking outside of
Germany,” said Michael Gayed, chief strategist at Pension
Partners LLC in  New York . “There’s a crowding out effect. You
look around the euro zone countries and  France  makes sense.”  In November, the premium investors demanded to hold French
10-year bonds rather than comparable German debt rose to 200
basis points, the most since 1990. That spread has almost halved
as investors face fewer options that are safe and offer yield.  “With negative yields on German debt, demand was certain
to propagate itself out to the next best credit which is
liquid,” said O’Hagan. “France fits the bill.”  Manageable Risks  Today’s French bond auction had a bid-to-cover ratio of
2.1, suggesting investor demand remains strong. The sale
included 3.84 billion euros in benchmark 10-year bonds at an
average yield of 2.46 percent, the lowest since 1999. The
treasury also sold 685 million euros in 50-year bonds at a yield
of 3.27 percent.  “There are still challenges ahead for France and I’m
watching the elections to have a clear idea of the true momentum
of reform, but compared with Spain, France’s risks appear
sufficiently priced in and manageable,” said Robin Marshall,
director of fixed income at Smith & Williamson Investment
Management in  London , which manages about $18 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  