-- Hollande Gets Crisis-Protection Tips From Business-Friendly Lyon
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-06-07T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/hollande-gets-crisis-protection-tips-from-business-friendly-lyon.html
Le Restaurant Alain Chapel , a
Michelin-starred bistro on the outskirts of the French
gastronomic capital of  Lyon , shuttered this year, joining the
lengthening list of casualties of  Europe ’s financial crisis.  “Restaurants were the first to suffer,” said  Christine
Ottavy , head of the Lyon Chamber of Commerce’s unit that advises
local companies in financial distress. “Many small restaurants
closed down because they didn’t have enough clients. Some bigger
names that have been in the city for years also had difficulties
and had to cut jobs to navigate.”  Eating out became a luxury with factory use around Lyon,
France’s second-most industrial region after Paris, languishing
below its 15-year average since the end of 2008, according to
 statistics  institute Opale.  To counter the exodus of labor-intensive industries, Lyon’s
local government is wooing companies in nascent sectors such as
biotech, energy and pharmaceuticals, luring businesses from all
over the world in what may serve as a model for France’s new
President  Francois Hollande  as he seeks to stem job losses and
shield the country from Europe’s more than two-year-old crisis.  In the past year, 30 companies, including  Japan ’s  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) , the U.S.’s Baxter International and  China ’s Huawei
Technologies Services Co. opened branches in the Lyon area,
according to Agence pour le Developpement Economique de la
Region Lyonnaise, or Aderly, the local development body. The
investment may create 1,345 jobs in three years, it said.  Emulate Lyon  Hollande, a Socialist who may have to rely on the anti-
capitalist fringe in parliament after the two-round legislative
elections on June 10 and June 17, has studiously avoided meeting
business leaders, even those who backed him in the presidential
elections on May 6, magazine Challenges said this week, raising
concern about his corporate friendliness.  During the presidential race Hollande named  Gerard Collomb ,
the Socialist mayor of Lyon since 2001, his campaign adviser for
relations between businesses and large cities. As president now,
he may need to take a leaf out of Lyon’s playbook, said  Arnaud
Lacheret , a professor at business school Idrac in Lyon.  “There’s proximity between public officials and the
business world that’s unique to Lyon,” he said. “Elected
officials surround themselves with businessmen who understand
economics, so talks aren’t all about political strategy. That’s
something we could learn from at a national level.”  Hollande is trying to save France’s welfare state which, at
about 31 percent of gross domestic product, is the world’s most
generous and has more than 136 billion euros ($171 billion) of
debt. He needs growth and jobs to be able to do that.  Job Losses  In the first quarter, Europe’s second-largest economy
posted no growth. Its joblessness is at a 13-year high.  France has lost more industrial jobs than any other
European country over the past decade. Labor unions expect
companies including ArcelorMittal,  Carrefour SA (CA) , Peugeot SA and
EON France to cut as many as 45,000 jobs in the months ahead, an
estimate that’s “realistic,” according to Labor Minister
Michel Sapin.  Hollande is going to need new initiatives from France’s
regions to revive growth.  The Rhone-Alpes region, where Lyon is the biggest city, has
8.4 percent unemployment, less than the national rate of 10
percent. The region has taken it upon itself to seek out newer
growth engines to rekindle the economy.  “We’re pulling every lever we can,” said  Pierre Preuilh ,
director at the Lyon Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  Road Show  The region, which also includes Grenoble, about 90
kilometers (56 miles) from Lyon, boasts an extensive network of
local research labs and scientists to attract investments. It
has the second-biggest number of patents filed in France, after
the Paris region, according to the national  Observatory of
Science and Technology .  Aderly went on a road show in Northern Europe last month to
make a case for investing in Lyon, Preuilh said.  Germany ’s auto-parts company Robert Bosch GmbH plans to
invest as much as 30 million euros in photovoltaic production in
Venissieux, near Lyon, and will create 200 jobs, Aderly said.  “There are more companies being created and fewer local
businesses closing down,” said  Christine di Domenico , a
professor at business school EMLyon. “That’s helped the region
keep economic activity up.”  Lyon’s local commerce and industry were hit hard by the
crisis. A slump in economic growth hurt specialty chemicals
maker Rhodia SA and truck maker Renault Trucks, among the city’s
biggest employers.  “Local industry got a real slap in the face in 2009 and
2010, and we felt the blow,” said Preuilh.  Need Investment  The Chamber of Commerce tried to help local businesses
monitor signs of operations derailing and find financing, he
added. It met with more than 1,200 companies in 2010 and about
1,000 last year to work through financial difficulties.  The region also tried to specialize in high-growth sectors
like pharmaceuticals, biotech and clean energy, to help offset
turmoil in industry and commerce.  Lyon is home to one of the world’s few P4 laboratories,
which experiment with the most dangerous viruses. It is called
Laboratoire Jean Merieux. There are only 10 such labs in the
world. It’s the only one in  France .  Inserm, the national health and medical research institute,
manages the P4 lab and finances it. This has helped keep drug
makers in the region and attract biotech companies.  Lyon is also leveraging its location between two wine-
growing regions, Beaujolais to the north and Cotes du Rhone to
the south, to lure tourists to the region and its new malls.  Shoppers Wanted  To boost tourism, the city sent a double-decker bus on a
two-month tour to Europe’s cities.  “How do you get a second-rank European city like Lyon to
stand out when everyone is talking about Berlin and Barcelona?”
said Preuilh.  Lyon gets 4 million visitors just during the “ Fete des
Lumieres ,” or festival of lights, in December every year.  The metropolis’ next challenge is turning the 6 million
tourists who flock every year to visit its historic sites; its
museums of tapestry and puppets; and to enjoy its renowned
cuisine -- from famous chef  Paul Bocuse  and at its  24 Michelin-
starred  restaurants -- into shoppers.  France’s third-largest city after Paris and Marseille is
putting finishing touches on its former industrial neighborhood
south of the Rhone river that has been transformed into a modern
shopping and business district. “Confluence,” its latest mall,
opened in April with 53,000 square meters of shopping space.  The Lyon Part-Dieu rail station is the busiest in Europe,
with 500 trains and about 80,000 people commuting through every
day, according to national French rail company SNCF. It expects
the number of passengers to rise to 130,000 in 2013.  “People go by Lyon to go skiing in the winter and to go to
the South of France in summer,” said Preuilh. “We just have to
find a way to get them to stop and spend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  