-- Olympus to Cut 2,700 Jobs, Consider Alliances to Boost Capital
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-06-08T07:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/olympus-may-unveil-job-cuts-turnaround-plan-at-meeting-today.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  will cut about 7
percent of its workforce and may consider an alliance as the
Japanese camera maker seeks to recover after writing down assets
following a $1.7 billion accounting-fraud scandal.  The 2,700 jobs are to be eliminated by March 2014, the
company said in a statement in Tokyo today. Olympus is
considering capital-alliance offers from domestic companies and
other options that may include selling shares in the market,
President Hiroyuki Sasa told reporters.  Olympus will increase its focus on the imaging, medical and
life-sciences businesses as the company aims to boost its
capital ratio to more than 30 percent by March 2017, it said in
today’s statement. The world’s biggest maker of endoscopes needs
to shore up capital after writing down the value of assets
because of a 13-year accounting fraud exposed by former
President  Michael Woodford .  “The first thing they need to do to accomplish their plan
is to become profitable, and it seems like they’ll begin this by
cutting jobs,” said  Yoshihiro Okumura  at Chiba-Gin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “But it seems like they’re still
working on how they’ll get cash after that.”  Olympus has received alliance offers from several
companies, which have already been mentioned in media reports,
Sasa told reporters in Tokyo today, without naming the
companies. None of the offers is from overseas, he said.  Sony, Fujifilm  The Tokyo-based manufacturer received offers from “more
than three” potential partners including Sony Corp.,  Fujifilm
Holdings Corp. (4901)  and  Terumo Corp. (4543) , he said in an interview in
April.  The camera maker may seek to sell a 10 percent stake in
itself and is looking for a strategic investment from companies
including  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the Nikkei newspaper
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  “They certainly need a capital injection,” said Tamaru Manabu, a senior investment manager in Tokyo at Baring Asset
Management Ltd. “Their first priority should be on their brand
image and financial stability.”  Olympus had a capital ratio of 4.6 percent as of March 31,
compared with 4.4 percent as of Dec. 31, according to earnings
statements. The ratio was 13.5 percent as of June 30.  Olympus had 34,391  employees , including 3,234 in  Japan , as
of March 2011, according to its website. Most of the jobs being
cut are in overseas manufacturing, Sasa told reporters in Tokyo
today. The company will close a plant in the  Philippines  this
year and will reorganize others, it said in today’s statement.  Net Income Forecast  The camera maker said it may post  net income  of 7 billion
yen ($88 million) this fiscal year, compared with the 25 billion
yen average of four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Operating profit may be 50 billion yen, compared with the 63.4
billion yen average estimate of analysts.  “We will withdraw from businesses which we judge to offer
insufficient profitability and potential,” Olympus said in the
statement. “We will not make new investment in areas other than
the core business domains.”  The maker of Pen digital cameras had a loss for the first
time in three years last fiscal year partly because of higher
tax costs and a strong yen that eroded overseas earnings,
Olympus said May 10. The net loss was 49 billion yen for the
year ended March 31.  Medical Business  Olympus is aiming for average annual revenue growth of 10
percent and profit growth of 13 percent at its medical business
as it expands in  emerging markets  including China and  India , it
said. The company plans to restructure its imaging business and
increase the focus on mirrorless cameras and high-end compact
models, it said in the statement.  Olympus controls  75 percent of the global market for
endoscopes, instruments that doctors use to look inside the
body’s cavities to help detect disease.  The company  got  41 percent of sales from its medical
division last fiscal year. The business, including endoscopes,
was the most profitable at Olympus and covered losses in imaging
and “other” businesses. The medical business posted operating
profit of 68.2 billion yen in the 12 month period, almost double
its overall operating profit of 35.5 billion yen.  The company will dissolve Altis Co., News Chef Co. and
Humalabo Co., three domestic companies, by March 31, it said in
April. Olympus paid a total of 73.4 billion yen to acquire them
between 2006 and 2008. In March 2009, the company wrote down a
total of 55.7 billion yen in the value of those companies.  Woodford, who was dismissed Oct. 14 after publicly
questioning fees paid for takeovers, settled a London lawsuit
against the company under whistle-blowing rules on May 29.
Olympus has said it attempted to conceal past losses by
inflating fees to advisers on the $2.1 billion acquisition of
London-listed Gyrus Group Plc in 2008 and overpaying for three
Japanese companies.  Olympus said today it settled the Woodford suit for 10
million pounds ($15.4 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  