-- Hontex Fails to Stop Hong Kong Watchdog Compensation Bid
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-06-07T07:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/hontex-fails-to-stop-hong-kong-watchdog-compensation-bid.html
  Hontex International Holdings Co. (946) 
failed to stop  Hong Kong ’s securities regulator from seeking a
court order to return HK$1 billion ($129 million) to investors
in its 2009 initial public offering.  High Court Judge Jonathan Harris today rejected the Chinese
fabric maker’s claim that the Securities and Futures Commission
was trying to avoid proving its fraud claims beyond a reasonable
doubt, ruling that criminal penalties on the company aren’t
being sought.  The regulator, which has fought to establish its right to
seek civil remedies from suspected rule breakers, alleges that
investors were misled by inflated sales figures in Hontex’s
prospectus in December 2009. Share sale arranger Mega Capital
(Asia) Co. was fined a record HK$42 million in April and
stripped of its corporate finance license.  Hontex lawyer Charles Manzoni asked for the trial to be
halted while the company appeals today’s ruling. Harris rejected
the request.  Hontex was suspended from trading in March 2010, leaving
nearly 8,000 individual investors in the lurch, Simon Westbrook,
a lawyer for the SFC, told the court on June 5.  “The SFC would like to give them the opportunity to engage
in a share repurchase offer,” Westbrook said.  Manzoni had argued that Hontex is only liable for any
losses suffered by investors in its IPO as a result of the
prospectus misstatements, and not to anyone who purchased shares
in the secondary market.  Mega Capital  Westbrook will make opening statements for the SFC’s case
tomorrow and present evidence from 25 witnesses, including
Hontex directors and employees of Mega Capital, as well as
lawyers and accountants from Sidley Austin LLP and KPMG who
worked on the IPO.  Harris today asked the SFC to hire an agent to locate an
unresponsive Mega Capital associate director, Chen Ying, who
conducted due diligence for the IPO and spoke with the SFC on
earlier occasions.  The SFC  said  today it revoked the license of Hong Hui Lung,
a former managing director at the securities firm, for failing
to “properly and adequately supervise” the work on Hontex’s
listing. Hong had denied he was in charge of the transaction
team.  Harris ruled last year in the SFC’s insider trading case
against Tiger Asia Management LLC that the regulator must obtain
a civil or criminal finding of culpability before asking a court
to order refunds or other kinds of remedies.  The Court of Appeal reversed Harris’ ruling in February,
giving the regulator the power to sue independently. SFC Chief
Executive Ashley Alder said last month that the regulator is
seeking civil remedies from 22 companies or individuals such as
the unwinding of transactions or compensation of investors.  New York-based hedge fund firm Tiger  Asia  is appealing the
case to Hong Kong’s highest court.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Hontex
International Holdings Co., HCMP630/2010 in the Hong Kong Court
of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  