-- Too Much Faith in Markets Denies Us the Good Life
-- B y   R o b e r t   S k i d e l s k y   a n d   E d w a r d   S k i d e l s k y
-- 2012-06-07T22:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/too-much-faith-in-markets-denies-us-the-good-life.html
John Maynard Keynes’s generation of
economists assumed that as people became more efficient at
satisfying their wants, they would, and should as rational
agents, work less and enjoy life more. Yet power relationships
and the insatiability of human wants are such that we have
maintained an ethic of acquisitiveness.  International rivalries add fuel to the acquisitive fire.
We are constantly being told to gear up to face further
challenges, particularly from the Chinese and other poor but
industrious peoples. But why, if we already have enough, should
we strive for a larger presence in  emerging markets ?  It is worth recalling that the ideal of economic growth as
an end without end is of fairly recent origin. When British
Prime Minister Harold Macmillan told the voters in 1959 that
they had “never had it so good,” he was echoing the widely held
view at the time that the capitalist countries of the West were
rapidly approaching a consumption plateau, and the main problem
of the future would be to ensure that the fruits of the new
abundance were democratically distributed.  Nevertheless, the perception of imminent bliss in the 1960s
led to the restoration of Darwinian capitalism in the 1980s. And
economic growth quickly and decisively came to trump all other
objects of economic policy.  Market Faith  Margaret Thatcher  (elected prime minister of the U.K. in
1979) and  Ronald Reagan  (elected president of the U.S. in 1980)
added an essential ingredient to the philosophy of growth: an
ideological faith in the market system. Faster growth would come
from markets freed of red tape, lighter taxes and weaker trade
unions. The Thatcher-Reagan philosophy also viewed increasing
 income inequality  as acceptable insofar as it improved the
incentives of the “wealth creators”: There would be a “trickle
down” from rich to poor.  It was the shift to a market-based philosophy of growth
that inflamed the insatiability of wants -- by abandoning any
interest in the social outcome of growth. The market was bound
by the rule of law, but there was no longer any moral, political
or cultural restraint on the individual pursuit of wealth.
Keynes’s notion of satiety had no place.  Such a system cannot work according to plan. It is both
economically and morally inefficient. The Anglo-American system
of the past 30 years, dominated by the financial-services
industry, has been retained for the benefit of a predatory
plutocracy that creams off the riches in the name of freedom and
globalization.  So, what intellectual, moral and political resources still
exist in Western societies to reverse the onslaught of
 insatiability  and redirect our purposes toward the good life?  In many ways, the political economy of the first half of
the 20th century was admirably tailored to realizing the good
life. The problem was that it lost the language for describing
itself in these terms. This is the main reason why it failed to
survive the economic and social troubles that beset Western
societies in the 1970s. The historian  Peter Clarke  has usefully
distinguished between “moral” and “mechanical” reformism. Moral
reformism saw improvements in material conditions as ways of
elevating the moral condition of the people; mechanical
reformism simply aimed to increase their prosperity.  Efficiency Rules  Deprived of their ethical language by the collapse of
religion and the strongly individualist fashion in economics and
political philosophy, by the second half of the century, “moral”
liberals were forced back on purely “mechanical” arguments. They
stressed the positive effect on productivity of a better-fed,
better-housed, better-clothed, healthier and better-educated
workforce. This was almost certainly true. However, once the
commonly accepted language became one of efficiency, the moral
reformers were vulnerable to the charge that their reforms had
created inefficiency by lessening the incentives to work and
save, and by stealing resources from the productive sector.  The social liberalism of the 1950s and ’60s had nothing
left to put in place of the profit motive, no defenses to offer
against the philosophy of untrammeled self-interest. Tax rates
tumbled, the welfare state was reined in, state industries were
privatized, and the financial sector was set free.  The coup de grace was delivered by the fall of communism.
In the Cold War era, the West had to proclaim its own concept of
the good life to counter the appeal of communism. This necessity
was now gone. Market individualism remains the only game in
town.  What would an economic organization geared to realizing the
basic goods for every citizen -- economic and personal -- look
like? It would have to produce enough to satisfy everyone’s
basic needs and reasonable standards of comfort. It would also
have to reduce the amount of necessary work, freeing up time for
leisure.  Just as important, it would have to ensure a less unequal
distribution of wealth and income, not just to diminish the
incentive to work, but also to improve the social bases of
health, personality, respect and friendship.  How far should policy be pushed toward these aims? We favor
a sort of non-coercive paternalism: encouraging or discouraging
certain behaviors, without limiting individual freedoms. We must
find ways to reduce the pressure to consume and hence,
indirectly, the pressure to work.  To begin, the aim of policy should be to maintain full
 employment , not full-time employment. Earning a living is an
important means to the basic goods of respect and security. But
it needn’t imply working eight hours a day, or five days a week,
or 1800 hours a year, in a soul-destroying job. Our goal should
be stable employment with fewer hours worked, but with more
people employed.  Working Less  The simplest approach would be a progressive reduction in
work hours by limiting weekly hours and/or increasing vacation
times. Such a framework would allow employers and employees to
negotiate flexible retirement and work-sharing arrangements.
There is no reason why a general reduction in working hours
should bring about a drop in wages. The Dutch, for example, work
shorter hours than the British but enjoy a higher average income
per head ($48,000 as against $35,000) with a more equal
distribution of wealth and income.  Productivity may even go up as workers pack more punch into
shorter hours. This seems to have happened in places where the
experiment has been tried. Hardly any production was lost in the
two months that  Edward Heath  put the U.K. on a three-day week in
1974, for instance. Moreover, there is plenty of evidence that
people are willing to trade income for leisure if they are
allowed to and if the fall in income is not too great.  Despite their attractions, however, work-sharing schemes
are not affordable to many lower-paid workers. It is in this
context that the idea of a basic income -- an income paid by the
state, independent of any obligation to work, to each citizen --
becomes appealing.  Two major objections are raised against basic-income
proposals: that they would provide a disincentive to work, and
that society cannot afford them. Yet when the goal is not to
maximize growth but to secure good lives, the aim is precisely
to reduce the incentive to work by making leisure more
attractive. Furthermore, a rich society can increasingly afford
to pay its citizens a basic income.  An unconditional basic income, in the form of a single
capital endowment or a guaranteed annual income, would start to
give all workers the same choice as to how much work to do, and
under what conditions -- a privilege now possessed only by the
wealthy.  In the future, education would be informed by the
understanding that one’s job would represent a decreasing
fraction of one’s waking hours. It would prepare people for a
life of fulfillment outside the job market.  Consumption Tax  The state can also help reduce the pressure to consume. The
economist  Robert Frank  has suggested doing this via a
 consumption tax , patterned after a 1955 proposal by Nicholas
Kaldor. All spending above $7,500 per person would be subjected
to an escalating rate of tax.  Such a tax would be redistributive, striking a blow at
inequality; it would reduce the pressure to consume; and it
would induce saving for retirement. It would also divert
resources from conspicuous consumption to spending on behalf of
society as a whole -- for such benefits as freedom from traffic
congestion, time with family and friends, vacation time, better
 air quality , more urban parkland, cleaner drinking water, less
violent crime and more medical research.  The pressure to consume is inflamed by advertising, which
today works mainly to make us want things we otherwise would not
have thought of wanting. Advertising could be restricted, for
example, by removing its tax deductibility. Companies would
simply no longer be allowed to write it off as a business
expense.  These proposals are not free of problems. They are
indications of direction, not blueprints for legislation.
Whatever readers may think of them, they are at least an attempt
to develop a collective vision of the good life. To instead
simply blunder on without considering what wealth is for is an
indulgence we can no longer afford. The greatest waste
confronting us is not one of money but of human possibilities.  (Robert Skidelsky is an emeritus professor of political
economy at the University of Warwick and the author of a three-
volume biography of John  Maynard Keynes . Edward Skidelsky,
Robert’s son, is a lecturer at the University of Exeter,
specializing in aesthetics and moral philosophy, and writes the
column “Words That Think for Us” in Prospect Magazine. This is
an excerpt from their new book, “How Much Is Enough? Money and
the Good Life,” which will be published on June 19 by Other
Press. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on how  Bahrain can model Mideast
reform  and why  Ben Bernanke should ease more ;  Jonathan Alter  on
 a new Obama campaign mantra ; Stephen L. Carter on  the failures
of capitalism ; A. Gary Shilling on  why the strong yen won’t
last ; Takeo Hoshi and Anil Kashyap on  Japan’s nuclear safety ;
 Dmitri Trenin  on the risk that  Russia and China ally against the
U.S.   To contact the writers of this article:
 Robert Skidelsky  at  Robert.Skidelsky@gmail.com 
Edward Skidelsky at  e.b.h.skidelsky@ex.ac.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  