-- OPEC Exports Stable as Refineries Resume, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-06-07T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/opec-exports-stable-as-refineries-resume-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will leave exports largely unchanged as
refineries worldwide approach the end of their annual
maintenance periods, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  OPEC will ship 24.09 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to June 23, compared with 24.1 million in the period to
May 26, the researcher said today in an e-mailed report. The
data exclude  Angola  and Ecuador. The group’s exports in the more
recent period are 6.2 percent higher than a year earlier as
companies stockpile crude in the event that tensions with Iran
curtail supplies, Oil Movements said.  “We are at the low point for the quarter,”  Roy Mason , the
company’s founder, said by telephone from Halifax,  England .
“Everything from here will go up as we head into summer and the
U.S. and European refiners ramp up production. There is a big
switch going on: All the extra oil is going west, and the east-
bound bubble has shrunk a bit.”  Exports from the  Middle East , including non-OPEC members
Oman and Yemen, will slip 0.3 percent to 17.78 million barrels a
day in the four-week period, according to Oil Movements.  Crude on board tankers will average 482.94 million barrels,
down 0.1 percent from the month to May 26, the researcher said.
Oil Movements calculates shipments by tallying tanker-rental
agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on board ships used
as floating storage.  OPEC, which pumps 40 percent of the world’s oil, comprises
Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria,
Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela. The
organization will meet on June 14 in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  