-- OPEC Will Keep Oil Market ‘Balanced,’ Algerian Minister Says
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n   a n d   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2012-06-07T11:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/opec-will-keep-oil-market-balanced-algerian-minister-says-1-.html
Global oil supply is sufficient and
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will study the
recent decline in crude prices to keep the market balanced,
according to  Algeria ’s energy minister.  The economic slowdown in Europe because of the debt crisis
may curb oil demand, and OPEC will address the situation at a
meeting next week in Vienna, said Youcef Yousfi, Algeria’s
Minister of Energy and Mines. The 12-member group pumps about 40
percent of the world’s crude.  “OPEC will study the price decline,” Yousfi said at a
briefing at the World Gas Conference in  Kuala Lumpur . “There is
enough oil in the market today.”  Brent crude futures in  London  fell 15 percent last month,
the most since October 2008, as signs of an economic slowdown in
the U.S. and  China  added to concern that global fuel consumption
will decline. The contract for July settlement on the ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange traded at about $100 a barrel today.  Oil demand in Europe will probably increase this year, even
as “some sort of stagnation” in consumption has been observed,
Yousfi said.  Algeria, OPEC’s third-smallest member by output, produced
1.2 million barrels a day of crude last month, according to the
minister. The country plans to boost its production capacity to
1.5 million from 1.4 million “in a few months,” he said.  Unconventional Gas  Algeria also has “substantial” reserves of unconventional
gas and is evaluating its option for processing and selling the
fuel, according to Yousfi. It has estimated deposits of so-
called tight gas of 1,000 trillion cubic feet and 8,000 trillion
cubic feet of shale gas, he said.  The North African country exported 55 billion to 60 billion
cubic meters a year of gas, the minister said. It is building
two new facilities to process liquefied natural gas to be ready
next year and has met potential customers in  Asia  to discuss
exports. Older plants will be revamped or closed.  “Gas demand is slowing down in Europe, but it’s for the
short term,” Yousfi said. “Next year, demand may increase.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  