-- Orbital Gains After SpaceX Success: Washington Mover
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-07T20:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/orbital-gains-after-spacex-success-washington-mover-1-.html
Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  shares rose
for a second day amid speculation the company would follow Space
Exploration Technologies Corp.’s success in launching a capsule
to the International Space Station.  Shares of Dulles, Virginia-based Orbital rose 45 cents, or
4 percent, to close at $11.78 in  New York . They gained 59 cents,
or 5.5 percent, yesterday. The two-day increase is the biggest
since April 2009.  “The company could be experiencing a bit of afterglow from
the recent success of SpaceX,” said Chris Quilty, an analyst
with Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida .
He has an outperform rating on the stock.  SpaceX, controlled by billionaire Elon Musk, on May 25
became the first company to dock a private supply ship at the
International Space Station.  A successful launch and docking may help Orbital reverse a
40 percent slide in the past year, according to a Bloomberg
story yesterday. Shares of Orbital on June 4 closed at $10.70,
the lowest since July 19, 2005.  “It’s been quite surprising to me that they didn’t benefit
from all of the positive press that SpaceX has received,”
Quilty said in a phone interview. “Most investors seem to have
missed the point that Orbital is the other company that has a
contract to carry cargo.”  Orbital plans to test a rocket in August, followed by
liftoff of a spacecraft to supply the station in October or
December.  “There’s no other defense company with better top-line and
earnings potential than Orbital,”  Patrick McCarthy , an analyst
with Arlington, Virginia-based FBR Capital Markets & Co., said
in yesterday’s Bloomberg story.  All nine analysts monitored by Bloomberg who  cover  Orbital
recommend the stock.  The first flight of Antares, Orbital’s newest and biggest
rocket, has been repeatedly postponed because of delays in
construction of a launch pad at Wallops Island, Virginia. The
liftoff was previously scheduled for 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  