-- Morgan Stanley Capital Boost Wins No Respect From Moody’s
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/morgan-stanley-capital-boost-wins-no-respect-from-moody-s.html
Regulators and investors have touted
higher capital ratios as the path for banks to restore
confidence.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the best-capitalized Wall Street
firm, is proving that’s not enough.  Morgan Stanley has the highest Tier 1 common ratio among
the five largest U.S. investment banks, topping  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  Still, it faces the largest potential downgrade from
Moody’s Investors Service, has the highest-priced credit-default
swaps and trades at the biggest discount to liquidation value.  The firm’s underperformance highlights Chief Executive
Officer James Gorman’s difficulty convincing investors that his
is a different company than the one that borrowed more than $100
billion from the  Federal Reserve  to survive in 2008. Morgan
Stanley also faces doubts after JPMorgan, the only  U.S. bank 
with more credit-default swaps on its balance sheet, announced a
$2 billion loss from derivatives trading.  “With the recent surprise with what happened at JPMorgan,
we are all very skeptical of what’s on those balance sheets that
we as outsiders can’t figure out,” said Charles Peabody, an
analyst with Portales Partners LLC in New York, who has a
neutral rating on the stock. “Morgan Stanley has not proven in
recent history to be good risk managers.”  Three-Level Cut  Gorman, 53, who has weathered a 53 percent  stock-price
plunge  since taking over at the start of 2010, has sold
businesses, added liquidity and vowed to increase the bank’s
reliance on steadier  wealth management , trying to assuage
concerns that his firm is riskier than rivals. He’s also trying
to convince Moody’s that Morgan Stanley doesn’t deserve the
three-level cut the ratings company said it may make this month.  The maximum downgrade, which would be the largest among
U.S. banks and place the firm’s rating two levels above junk,
may raise borrowing costs and force Morgan Stanley to post more
collateral on trades. It would also threaten a fixed-income
trading turnaround as some counterparties wouldn’t be able to do
derivatives deals with such a low-rated firm.  Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage, had
a ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of 13.3
percent as of March 31, using Basel 1 standards, the highest of
the five banks. It also may have the highest ratio under not-
yet-implemented Basel 3 rules. Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in April the ratio would have been between 8 percent
and 9 percent, depending on how the Fed assigns some risk
weightings in rules it is writing.  Capital Ratios  That may put the bank above JPMorgan’s 8.2 percent Tier 1
common ratio and Goldman Sachs’s 8 percent. Bank of America and
Citigroup have Basel 3 ratios below 7.5 percent.  Moody’s said in its downgrade of German banks this week
that it also considers the ratio of equity to total assets in
addition to risk-weighted regulatory measures. Morgan Stanley’s
ratio was 8 percent at the end of the first quarter, double the
4 percent for German banks that Moody’s criticized as “thin.”  Morgan Stanley fell on June 4 to $12.36, the  lowest closing 
price since Dec. 2, 2008. It’s trading at 51 percent of tangible
book value, a measure of equity that excludes intangible assets
such as goodwill, below Citigroup’s 53 percent and Bank of
America’s 59 percent. That means investors value the New York-
based bank at about half of what the company estimates would
remain if it sold all assets and retired debt.  Gorman said last month that the share price was
“inexplicable.” The stock climbed yesterday to $13.94, the
biggest advance since Nov. 30.  ‘Not Helping’  “Capital doesn’t seem to be solving all the problems,”
said Shannon Stemm, an analyst at  Edward Jones  & Co. in  St.
Louis . “Compared with the European banks, a lot of the U.S.
banks look really well-capitalized, yet that’s still not helping
them. They’re still trading at half of book value, just like the
European banks.”  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and former Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  are among
regulators who have called for higher capital ratios to help
restore confidence in large banks.  Morgan Stanley will deploy some of its capital to increase
its investment in a brokerage joint venture. The firm, which has
the option to buy Citigroup’s remaining 49 percent stake in
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney over the next two years, announced
it would buy an additional 14 percent this year.  The need for cash to fund the purchase has led some
investors to discount the firm’s high capital ratios, said  David Konrad , an analyst at  KBW Inc. (KBW)  in New York.  ‘Un-Investible’ Stocks  Morgan Stanley and its competitors have faced declining
trading volumes and low merger activity as investors and
companies remain wary about the European debt crisis and the
 U.S. economy .  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in
New York, downgraded all five banks to market underperform on
May 21, declaring them “un-investible” because of
macroeconomic threats.  Still, Morgan Stanley’s 7.9 percent share-price  decline 
this year is more than JPMorgan’s 0.5 percent drop, while Bank
of America, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs have climbed. The shares
fell even though Morgan Stanley had the largest trading-revenue
increase in the first quarter, leading Konrad to say it had the
best quarter of the five banks.  “It becomes very difficult at small fractions of book
value to make any kind of a fundamental call, because the stock
is trading as if the firm’s under severe duress, and the reality
is it’s not,” said  Roger Freeman , an analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
investment bank in New York. “Part of it is just institutional
memory. They were viewed as in a relatively weak position then,
and I think they’re viewed that way now and don’t get credit for
all the changes they’ve made.”  Moody’s Downgrade  Those changes may not preclude a bigger cut from Moody’s
than Bear Stearns Cos. received the week before it collapsed and
was sold to JPMorgan in March 2008. That would bring its rating
to Baa2, five levels below where it was at the end of 2007, when
its leverage was more than double its current level.  Moody’s said in February that current ratings don’t capture
challenges facing investment banks, including a more difficult
operating environment, fragile funding conditions and greater
regulation. Abbas Qasim, a Moody’s spokesman in New York,
declined to comment beyond the firm’s reports.  Morgan Stanley has cited its capital ratios in trying to
convince Moody’s that it doesn’t deserve a three-level cut,
according to a person briefed on the discussions. Gorman and
Porat are among bank executives who have attended about half a
dozen meetings with the ratings company since the review was
announced, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the meetings were private.  ‘Better Shape’  “We’re saying to them we’re actually in much, much better
shape than perhaps was understood by the marketplace and the
ratings agencies,” Gorman said in a CNBC interview last week.
“The kind of company we are now from a few years ago is very,
very different, and part of the discovery process with Moody’s
is to share that information.”  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to make Gorman available for comment.  The maximum cut would place Morgan Stanley at its  lowest
rating  ever and at least two levels below Goldman Sachs, its
closest U.S. competitor. Goldman Sachs generated 75 percent of
its revenue last year from capital-markets businesses, the
“inherent vulnerabilities” of which Moody’s said in February
prompted the industrywide review. That’s higher than Morgan
Stanley’s 53 percent.  Risk Management  Morgan Stanley’s risk management “did not perform as well
during the crisis as Moody’s had anticipated,” said the ratings
firm, which cited Goldman Sachs’s “strong track record.”  In the fourth quarter of 2007, Morgan Stanley posted $9
billion of writedowns, largely tied to proprietary trading in
mortgage-related products. In 2008, it faced a liquidity crunch
as clients pulled funds from its prime brokerage and had to rely
on Fed borrowing to survive. At the peak, on Sept. 29, the firm
owed the central bank $107.3 billion, an amount greater than its
total liquidity of $99.8 billion.  Since then, Morgan Stanley has taken writedowns as it
exited investments in hedge fund FrontPoint Partners LLC,
mortgage-servicing firm Saxon Capital Inc. and Atlantic City,
New Jersey-based casino operator Revel Entertainment Group LLC,
as well as posting a $1.7 billion loss in the fourth quarter to
close out contracts with bond insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI)   No Mistakes  Gorman has vowed to make no “new mistakes.” The bank has
increased the size of its risk-management operation to about 500
people, from about 300 at the start of 2009. It also has added a
risk committee to the board of directors, headed by former U.K.
Financial Services Authority Chairman Howard Davies, and
developed a new internal stress-testing model.  Moody’s said in a Feb. 17 credit opinion that Morgan
Stanley faces the challenge of sustaining improvements it has
made in risk management in the face of demands for higher
returns. The bank posted a 4 percent return on equity last year,
below Gorman’s goal of 15 percent. Investors also need further
proof that firm’s new leadership won’t repeat the mistakes of
the 2008 crisis, said Stemm of Edward Jones.  “They need a couple quarters of consistently demonstrating
they can operate and be profitable in a difficult environment,”
Stemm said. “Last year, they didn’t quite build that track
record because they were dealing with so many legacy issues. So
I don’t think investors feel they have that consistency yet.”  Decision Delayed  Moody’s gave guidance in February on how many levels it
could cut each of the banks, something it didn’t do when it
placed Bank of America, Citigroup and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  on
review last year. It ended up cutting Bank of America two
grades, Wells Fargo one level and affirming Citigroup’s rating.  The ratings firm also delayed its decision, saying it will
complete the review, previously scheduled for mid-May, by the
end of June. The uncertainty has hurt banks’ spreads and stock
prices, said Douglas Ciocca, CEO of Kavar Capital Partners LLC
in Leawood, Kansas.  The cost to protect Morgan Stanley debt for five years has
jumped 28 percent to 414 basis points since Moody’s announced
its review Feb. 15, leaving the firm’s protection more than 100
basis points costlier than any of the other investment banks.
Goldman Sachs’s credit-default swaps trade at 312 basis points,
while JPMorgan’s cost 160 basis points. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “Left to their own devices, the markets tend to over-
account for things,” said Ciocca, whose firm manages about $225
million in assets, including bank debt and equity. “It’s like
my mom used to send me and my brother to our room when we did
something wrong and wait for our dad to get home. The longer it
took for him to arrive, the more certain we became of how severe
the punishment was going to be.”  Downgrade Odds  John Guarnera, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in New
York, said there’s a 60 percent chance Moody’s will downgrade
Morgan Stanley three levels and a 40 percent probability of a
two-grade cut. Donald Jones, a credit analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc., estimated last month that the chance of a two-grade
cut is 75 percent.  Moody’s decision to provide specific guidance about
potential downgrades of 17 of the world’s biggest banks was the
result of investor demands for more transparency amid a volatile
European crisis, which helped prompt the delay, said  David Hendler , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York.  “Now investors and the companies rated are saying, ‘Get it
over with already,’” Hendler said. Some investors are upset
with ratings agencies because they rated banks too highly during
the crisis, and “then, after they rebuilt their balance sheets
two-to three-times stronger in capital and liquidity, now you
want to ding them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  