-- Orthofix to Pay $42 Million to End Federal Kickback Probe
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-06-07T18:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/orthofix-to-pay-42-million-to-end-federal-kickback-probe.html
Orthofix International NV (OFIX) , a maker of
bone-repair and sports medicine products, agreed to pay
$42 million to resolve a lawsuit and a six-year criminal probe
of allegations it paid kickbacks to doctors who used its bone-
growth stimulators.  The company’s Orthofix Inc. unit will plead guilty in
federal court in  Massachusetts  to a single felony count of
obstructing a U.S. government audit and pay a $7.8 million fine,
according to a regulatory filing today. Orthofix also will pay
$34.2 million to resolve civil claims, first raised in a
whistle-blower’s lawsuit, that the company defrauded the federal
Medicare program.  Orthofix officials filed “false and fraudulent claims for
payment” for the bone-growth stimulators, which medical
patients wear after surgery to help speed healing, lawyers for
 Jeffrey Bierman  said in an amended lawsuit filed over the
practice in 2010.  Mark Quick , a U.S.-based spokesman for Orthofix, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment about the false-claims
settlement. The accord requires a judge’s final approval.  Five Orthofix employees have pleaded guilty in connection
with the probe, according to the Justice Department.  Thomas
Guerrieri , an Orthofix vice president, pleaded guilty almost two
months ago to violating the federal anti-kickback statute by
setting up fake consulting agreements for doctors who used the
company’s products. Guerrieri, 51, is scheduled to be sentenced
on July 11 by a federal judge in  Boston .  Referral Fees  Orthofix, based in Curacao, in the  Netherlands Antilles ,
 said  in February that it had reserved $43 million to settle the
false-claims allegations.  The government joined Bierman’s suit after the whistle-
blower alleged Orthofix officials improperly waived patient co-
payments, which wound up misstating the bone-stimulator’s true
cost and generating Medicare overpayments,  Stuart Delery , a
 Justice Department  official, said today in an e-mailed release.
The company also paid kickbacks to doctors and their staffs in
the form of “fitter fees” and referral fees, he said.  “The Justice Department has longstanding concerns about
kickbacks and the routine waiver of co-payments, because they
can impose significant costs on federal health programs that are
not medically justified,” Delery said.  Bierman, who owns a Missouri company that provides billing
services to doctors and hospitals, sued under the U.S. False
Claims Act, which lets whistle-blowers file lawsuits on behalf
of the government and share in any recovery. He will receive
$9.2 million of the civil settlement, according to the Justice
Department.  Medicare Billings  Bierman originally sued in 2005 questioning Medicare
billings for bone-growth stimulators, which are often used by
patients who have had back surgery, according to court filings.  In his  suit , Bierman alleged Orthofix and other makers of
bone-growth stimulators defrauded Medicare programs by
submitting claims that patients needed to purchase the devices
rather than rent them.  The devices, which cost as much as $5,000, are only needed
by patients for as much as six months to recover from surgery
and Orthofix should have submitted reimbursement claims that
amounted to rental, rather than purchase, charges, according to
the complaint.  ‘Sitting Idle’  “Between 1998 and 2008, Medicare purchased more than
120,000 brand new stimulators on behalf of patients,” Bierman’s
lawyers said in the complaint. “The vast majority of these
devices are currently sitting idle in the homes of patients,
have been thrown out or otherwise disposed of.” The stimulators
sell for about $50 on  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s auction website, according to
the complaint.  To enable such billings, Orthofix officials duped doctors
and staff into miscoding documents sent to federal regulators,
Bierman claimed. The civil settlement resolves claims that
Orthofix improperly waived patient copayments, submitted false
certificates of medical necessity to support federal payments,
failed to advise patients of their right to rent rather than buy
products, and paid kickbacks to induce use of its devices.  Bierman also has sued other makers of bone-growth
stimulators, such as London-based  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  and Warsaw,
Indiana-based Biomet Inc. He intends to pursue those claims,
said  Neil Getnick , a New York-based lawyer with Getnick &
Getnick LLP who is representing Bierman.  “The industry is plagued by kickbacks, falsified medical
records and other illegal conduct designed to get orders and get
claims paid,” Getnick said in an e-mailed statement. “Medicare
has lost hundreds of millions of dollars to fraud and we intend
to recoup that.”  The Orthofix case is U.S. ex rel Jeffrey Bierman v.
Orthofix International NV, 05-10557, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  