-- Los Angeles Gasoline at Two-Month Low on Tesoro Deal, Supplies
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-06-07T19:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/los-angeles-gasoline-at-two-month-low-on-tesoro-deal-supplies.html
California-blend gasoline in Los
Angeles fell against futures for the second day after  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO)  reached an agreement with union workers at the Golden
Eagle refinery and U.S. West Coast gasoline supplies rose.  The  United Steelworkers  Local 5 at the 170,000-barrel-a-day
Golden Eagle plant voted yesterday to accept a settlement offer,
becoming the last of the company’s sites to agree on a deal and
avert a strike. Tesoro had said the refinery, its largest, would
become a terminal during a work stoppage until new personnel
could be trained to operate it.  “We want to commend Local 5’s bargaining committee for
their hard work in obtaining an agreement and to the membership
for their solidarity,” Lynne Hancock, a spokeswoman for the
United Steelworkers in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in an e-mail
yesterday.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles 
tumbled 8.25 cents to 7 cents a gallon below gasoline futures
traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 3:19 p.m. East
Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
first time the fuel in Los Angeles has traded at a discount to
futures since April 17 and its lowest level since April 11.  Gasoline supplies  in the West Coast, known as the Padd 5
region, rose by the most since January in the week ended June 1,
increasing by 4.7 percent to 25.9 million barrels, the Energy
Department said yesterday. Supplies in  California  climbed for
the second week, increasing 0.3 percent to 6.12 million barrels,
the state Energy Commission said in a separate report.  San Francisco  Carbob dropped 6.75 cents to a discount of
3.25 cents a gallon to futures, the lowest level since April 12.  CARB Diesel  California-blend, or CARB, diesel  in San Francisco  was
unchanged at 6.5 cents a gallon above Nymex heating oil futures.
The same fuel in Los Angeles rose 0.75 cent to a premium of 4
cents a gallon to futures.  CARB diesel supplies fell 11 percent to 1.78 million
barrels, the state said. Supplies of the fuel in Northern
California were the lowest for this time in at least five years,
according to a summary of the report.  Shell’s Martinez refinery in Northern California shut a
coker on May 30, according to a filing with county regulators.  Diesel in  Portland ,  Oregon , a benchmark for the U.S.
Northwest, was unchanged at 11 cents a gallon above futures.
Conventional, 87-octane gasoline  there  tumbled 12 cents to a
discount of 4 cents a gallon against gasoline futures, the
weakest level since April 11.  Low-sulfur diesel inventories  in the West Coast rose 11
percent to 10.7 million barrels, the Energy Department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  