-- House Votes to Repeal Medical Device Tax in Health Law
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/house-votes-to-repeal-medical-device-tax-in-health-law.html
Republicans in the U.S. House joined
with 37 Democrats to pass a bill repealing a medical-device tax,
chipping away at the 2010 health-care law in a victory for
companies including  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)   The Republican-led House voted 270-146 yesterday to pass
the repeal measure. The 2.3 percent excise tax on sales,
estimated to raise $29 billion over the next decade, is due to
take effect in 2013. It applies to devices such as hip implants
and coronary stents that aren’t sold directly to consumers.  “Plain and simple, this tax hike is a job killer and it
must be repealed,” said Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican who heads the House Ways and Means Committee.  The House bill is part of Republicans’ attempts to scale
back or repeal the health-care law that passed without a single
Republican vote. The U.S. Supreme Court is expected to rule this
month on the law’s constitutionality.  In a statement, Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said the tax would stifle innovation.  “The ill-considered medical device tax is only one of many
fatal flaws in Obamacare,” he said.  Senate Opposition  The measure faces opposition from  Senate Democrats  such as
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus . “Can’t the Republicans find a new script, rather than
trying to attack the health-care bill? That’s all that is,”
Reid told reporters on June 5. “So the answer is I’m not
looking forward to doing this.”  Some Senate Democrats who represent states with
concentrations of medical-device makers, including  Amy Klobuchar 
of  Minnesota , support repeal of the tax, and the House bill
attracted votes from Democrats such as Jason Altmire of
Pennsylvania,  Keith Ellison  of Minnesota and Tim Bishop of New
York.  Companies including  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  and  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) 
have been lobbying for repeal.  The White House opposes the legislation and said in a
statement that President  Barack Obama ’s advisers would recommend
a veto.  Republicans said companies were already cutting jobs in
anticipation of the tax increase. Democrats said the companies
were benefitting from the expanded health insurance market
created by the law.  Prior Year Income  Republicans propose paying for the change by altering
another feature of the health law. Because people qualify for
health insurance subsidies based on a prior year’s income, the
law requires a recalculation based on actual income and makes
people repay any excess subsidy to the government, within
limits.  The House bill would remove those limits, requiring people
to repay the government for all of the cost. Democrats said the
proposal would penalize people for bonuses or second jobs that
increase their income.  “We’re repealing a tax on an industry that had over $40
billion in profits in 2010 and we’re paying for it on the backs
of middle-class people,” said Representative Mike Thompson, a
California Democrat.  Democrats cited an estimate from the congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation that the change would cause 350,000 fewer
people to have health insurance.  Representative  Tim Scott , a South Carolina Republican, said
the provision requires people to repay money they shouldn’t have
received.  ’Honesty and Integrity’  “Requiring people to return money not correctly given to
them, this is not a tax and it certainly is not a tax
increase,” he said. “It is simply a matter of honesty and
integrity.”  Some  House Democrats  said they would support a repeal of
the tax if the cost was covered without making other changes
they oppose to the health law.  “We need to find a more acceptable way to do what I think
a lot of us agree needs to be done, which is to repeal the
medical devices tax,” said Representative Mel Watt, a North
Carolina Democrat. “But this is not the way to pay for it.”  The bill would repeal a portion of the health law that
requires people with tax-advantaged health savings accounts and
flexible spending arrangements to obtain prescriptions if they
want to use that money to purchase over-the-counter medication
such as aspirin.  The legislation also would change the “use it or lose it”
rule for tax-advantaged accounts that requires holders to
forfeit any money they don’t use by the end of each year. Under
the bill, taxpayers would be able to receive back as much as
$500 and would owe taxes on that money.  The bill is H.R. 436.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  