-- Palm Oil Heading for 20-Month Low as Slowdown Cuts Demand
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-06-08T04:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/palm-oil-heading-for-20-month-low-as-slowdown-cuts-demand.html
Palm oil , used in everything from
candy to biofuels, may tumble 9 percent to the lowest level in
20 months as a slowdown in China and Europe curbs demand,
according to Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  Futures may slump to as low as 2,700 ringgit ($848) a
metric ton from 2,968 ringgit in the absence of fresh stimulus
by the U.S. to revive growth, said Mistry, abandoning his
forecast for prices to reach 4,000 ringgit. The most-active
contract last traded below 2,700 ringgit in October 2010.
Futures may rebound to 3,300 ringgit as the decline may
stimulate demand, he said at a conference in Mumbai yesterday.  Prices have slumped 18 percent since climbing to a 13-month
high in April as growth slowed in  China , the biggest cooking-oil
user, and the debt crisis worsened in Europe. A decline in
prices may cut costs for companies such as  Nestle SA (NESN) , the
world’s largest food company, while reducing profits at
producers including  Sime Darby Bhd (SIME)  and  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)   “The scenario on commodities has darkened considerably in
the world at large,” said Mistry, who’s traded palm oil for
more than three decades. “The main catalyst as far as palm oil
prices are concerned has been the fall in crude oil prices. The
logic has been that biodiesel demand is the swing factor and as
crude oil falls, biodiesel becomes uncompetitive.”  Opening Gates  Biodiesel demand this year may see “very little growth”
as the drop in  oil prices  reduces consumption for non-mandatory
use, he said. Palm oil’s use in biofuels may expand by only 1
million tons this year, while its demand for food will expand by
2 million tons, he said. Brent crude oil prices have declined
8.1 percent this year, weakening demand for the tropical oil.  A further decline in crude prices in the absence of
stimulus measures from the U.S. “will see the opening up of the
gates for prices to fall further,” said Nagaraj Meda, managing
director of TransGraph Consulting Pvt., who has forecast prices
for 13 years.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the
Fed will need to assess conditions before deciding if more
measures are required to stoke an economy threatened by  Europe ’s
debt crisis and budget cuts.  Palm oil for delivery in August fell as much as 1.8 percent
to 2,922 ringgit before ending the morning session at 2,968
ringgit on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange.  Disappointing Demand  “On the whole, demand growth has been disappointing,”
said Mistry. “The Chinese consumer of vegetable oils has
tightened his belt and we have not seen the strong year-on-year
rise in consumption as in the past.”  China’s economy  will expand 7.9 percent this quarter from a
year earlier, the least in three years, based on the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. That compares with average
growth of 10 percent in the last five years. The People’s Bank
of China cut  interest rates  yesterday for the first time since
2008, stepping up efforts to combat a deepening economic
slowdown. The one-year deposit rate will drop to 3.25 percent
from 3.5 percent effective today, it said.  India ,  Asia ’s third-largest economy, grew 5.3 percent last
quarter, the least since 2003, government data showed last week.
 Vegetable-oil imports  by India, the biggest palm buyer, will
gain 9 percent to 9.48 million tons in 2012-2013, Mistry said.
“India’s imports of palm so far are well ahead of the previous
year. The period of out-performance has come to an end” as a
decline in rupee against the dollar increases costs, he said.  Rupee Decline  The rupee, the worst performing currency in Asia this
quarter, fell to a record low of 56.515 a dollar on May 31.
India imports nearly 55 percent of its annual vegetable oil
needs of almost 16 million tons.  Crude  soybean oil  will rebound to about $1,200 a ton free-
on-board by the end of this year after falling to $1,000 a ton,
Mistry said. Rapeseed oil may trade at a premium to soybean oil
even with an expansion in canola output, he said.  Palm-oil output  in Malaysia may decline as much as 900,000
tons from January to July from a year earlier, Mistry said. A
rebound is unlikely before August at the earliest, he said.  “The decline in seasonal growth is truly staggering and
something we have not seen in years,” he said. “Within the
first five months of 2012, we have a cumulative deficit of
almost 500,000 tons.”  Production may rebound in the second half, bridging the
shortfall, said Choo Yuen May, director-general of the Malaysian
Palm Oil Board. Output will reach 19 million tons this year as
harvesting peaks in the coming months, she said in an interview
yesterday. The country produced a record 18.9 million tons in
2011, according to the board.  El Nino Threat  “There is a strong chance of an El Nino phenomenon arising
later this year from August onwards,” Mistry said. “The
initial effect of this hot and dry weather will be to accelerate
the ripening of fresh fruit bunches and give us higher
production in the first few months.”  El Nino weather conditions, which can parch Asia and bring
cooler weather to the U.S., are likely to develop in the coming
months as the  Pacific Ocean  continues to warm,  Australia ’s
Bureau of Meteorology said on June 5. The oil-palm bears fruit
all year, with more output in the second half. Drought, such as
the one caused by El Nino in 2010, can hurt yields.  “There are now definite signals of an emerging El Nino and
if those signals give us an El Nino, prices will recover faster
than most people expect,” Mistry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in  Mumbai  at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  