-- U.S. Running Out of Patience on Pakistan Militant Havens
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-06-07T09:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/panetta-visits-afghanistan-as-attacks-on-coalition-rise.html
The U.S. is running out of patience
with Pakistan over its failure to crack down on the Haqqani
guerrilla group, which has stepped up attacks on coalition
forces in Afghanistan, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said.  “It’s an increasing concern that safe havens continue to
exist” in Pakistan and the Haqqani network is able to flee to
safety after mounting attacks, Panetta told reporters in Kabul
today after meeting Afghan Defense Minister Abdul Rahim Wardak.
“We are reaching the limits of our patience here and for that
reason it’s extremely important that Pakistan take action.”  Panetta arrived in Kabul earlier today from  India  on the
last leg of an Asian tour to assess troop pullout plans in
Afghanistan even as attacks on coalition forces by the Taliban
and the Pakistan-based Haqqani militants are escalating.  As the Obama administration plans its exit from an 11-year
war in  Afghanistan , its relationship with Pakistan has been
battered by series of standoffs. The U.S. needs Pakistan’s
cooperation in halting cross-border attacks, reopening coalition
supply lines, and at least tacitly accepting allied drone
strikes on terrorist targets in Pakistan such as the one this
week that killed al-Qaeda’s second-in-command.  “There clearly has been an increase in the attacks,”
Panetta told reporters accompanying him before arriving in
Kabul. “We’ve seen a recent attack that was much more organized
than what we have seen before, using a vehicle IED combined with
 suicide bombers ,” he said, referring to improvised explosive
devices.  Surge Troops  The Pentagon had anticipated that attacks would rise over
the next few months as it prepares to withdraw the additional
troops President  Barack Obama  sent to Afghanistan in 2010 as
part of his administration’s surge strategy, Panetta said.
Still, Marine Corps General John Allen, the top coalition
commander in the country, has “expressed concern at the renewed
level of attacks,” said Panetta, ahead of his fourth visit to
Afghanistan as defense secretary.  Wardak said today that Pakistan had several options it
could use to curb cross-border raids, including
counterintelligence operations,  law enforcement  or even military
action.  “If they take action, we’ll be able to disrupt” the
Haqqani network’s command and control, Wardak said. “Without
doing that our endeavor to achieve victory will become much more
difficult.”  The guerrillas controlled by Jalaluddin Haqqani maintain
bases in Pakistan’s North Waziristan tribal region along the
Afghan border. They have been blamed for high profile attacks in
Kabul and Afghanistan’s eastern provinces, including a rocket-
propelled grenade assault on the U.S. embassy in September last
year. Former U.S. military chief Mike Mullen last year said the
Haqqanis operate as a “veritable arm” of  Pakistan ’s main spy
agency as it bids to retain influence in Afghanistan.  Friends and Foes  The American-led international coalition plans to pull out
most of the 88,000 U.S. troops and their 40,000 counterparts
from other nations by the end of 2014. Once the withdrawal is
complete, “the Afghan war as we understand it is over,” Obama
said last month. An unspecified number of U.S. troops would
remain in training roles.  As it seeks to draw down involvement in the war, the U.S.
is bidding hold the international coalition together, train,
equip and transfer security missions and logistical support to
Afghan forces and prevent a Taliban resurgence. It must also
reassure friends that it isn’t abandoning Afghanistan and foes
that they can’t simply wait until America and its allies depart.  In discussions with U.S. officials, Pakistani Army Chief
General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani “continues to indicate a
willingness to cooperate” in efforts to control militants
operating from the country’s northwest Panetta said before
landing in Kabul. “We have to do as much as we can to urge
Pakistan to take that on.”  India, Pakistan  Speaking yesterday in  New Delhi , Panetta said achieving
U.S. goals for Afghanistan “is going to be in large measure
dependent on a Pakistan that can confront terrorism within their
own borders.”  The U.S. is still negotiating with Pakistan in an effort to
reopen routes used to transport military supplies to
Afghanistan, Panetta said. Pakistan halted the transit after
coalition air strikes in November killed 24 of its soldiers.  The U.S. also is urging traditional enemies India and
Pakistan to improve their relations so the South Asian nations
don’t turn Afghanistan into the battleground of a proxy war
after 2014, Panetta said.  India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who met with Panetta
in New Delhi, recognizes that danger and “has an interest in
trying to pursue improving” ties with Pakistan, Panetta said.  Trade ties and military-to-military talks between India and
Pakistan are improving, Panetta said.  ‘No Plan B’  In New Delhi, Panetta also met India’s Defense Minister
A.K. Antony and National Security Advisor Shivshankar Menon and
urged them to “continue, and if possible expand” India’s
efforts to train Afghan military and police units, he said.  About 30,000 Afghan forces already receive training in
India as part of an agreement between the two countries.
Pakistani officials, though, have expressed concern about Indian
influence in Afghanistan.  The U.S. isn’t studying any alternatives to the U.S.-led
training effort in Afghanistan after 2014, Panetta said
yesterday in response to a question after speaking at an event
in New Delhi organized by the Institute for Defense Studies and
Analyses. He said no effort is under way to organize a regional
peace-keeping force led by the  United Nations .  “We don’t have a Plan B because we don’t think we need a
Plan B,” Panetta said. “Our goal is to continue to train and
support and assist the Afghan army so they can be a permanent
force.”  The continued presence of U.S. military trainers beyond
2014 is “additional insurance” against any weakening of Afghan
capabilities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Kabul at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  