-- Pennsylvania County’s Dreams of Wealth Didn’t Work Out
-- B y   R o b e n   F a r z a d
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/pennsylvania-county-s-dreams-of-wealth-didn-t-work-out.html
Four years ago, as the economy was
entering a devastating recession, swaths of rural  Pennsylvania 
were booming.  Energy companies were using hydraulic fracturing, better
known as fracking, to tap the vast natural gas reserves of the
 Marcellus Shale  underlying much of the Keystone State. In Wayne
County, these corporations offered struggling farmers lucrative
leases for mineral rights.  “Land here became a whole different asset class,” says
Tim Meagher, a real-estate broker whose family settled in the
area in the 1840s.  Today there is no drilling in Wayne County, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its June 11 issue. The  Delaware  River
Basin Commission, a regional regulatory agency, has declared a
moratorium while it studies the environmental impact. Gas
companies have invoked force majeure clauses to put their
contracts with property owners on hold.  Investors who bought farmland are stuck, and farmers who
expected to retire on gas royalties are back to eking out a
living from agriculture.  Meanwhile, fracking opponents are brandishing the example
of Wayne County as they fight shale energy exploration across
the country.  The number of drilling permits issued in Pennsylvania
soared from 122 in 2007 to 3,337 in 2011, according to the
 Marcellus Center for Outreach and Research  at Penn State
University. Much of the activity was concentrated in the western
and central parts of the state, which have a history of energy
exploration and geology conducive to gas production.  Fresh Land  As the price of gas climbed, drillers looking for fresh
land started eyeing the verdant, rolling pastures of  Wayne
County in  the northeastern part of the state.  Companies such as Hess,  Chesapeake Energy (CHK) , and  Cabot Oil &
Gas (COG)  dispatched “land men” to go door to door to persuade
homeowners to sign mineral leases. Farmers were getting $250 to
more than $3,000 an acre to allow drilling on their property,
says Meagher. Land that sold for $2,000 to $3,000 an acre in
2004 was going for as much as $10,000 an acre by 2009. Meagher
says he often got calls from prospective investors in  Manhattan ,
 Boston , and beyond. To encourage more, he put property ads in
the New York Post, New York Times, and the Wall Street Journal.  “I wanted to get my clients here the highest possible
bid,” he says.  By the summer of 2009, a joint venture of Hess and  Newfield
Exploration (NFX)  had secured leases for 80,000 acres with the
Northern Wayne Property Owners Alliance, a group of 1,500
landowners formed to negotiate with the gas companies.  ’People Here Struggle’  “It’s the biggest thing ever happened around here, in my
lifetime at least,” says Alliance member Bob Rutledge, a dairy
and beef farmer whose family has been in Wayne for 170 years.
“People here struggle. The economy here sucks when it’s good.
The farms are dying.” Spokesmen for Hess, Chesapeake, Cabot,
and Newfield declined to comment.  Honesdale, the county seat, last saw a boom like this in
the 1820s, when it was the starting point for the new Delaware &
Hudson Canal. In March 2009, Leonard Schwartz, recently retired
as chief executive officer of chemical company Aceto, reopened
Honesdale’s 182-year-old Hotel Wayne. He gutted and redecorated
its rooms and upgraded its restaurant and bar to accommodate
out-of-town speculators and energy company officials with
expense accounts.  “The gas companies were giving out money,” says Schwartz.
“People were buying tractors, eating out. You felt it.”  Opposition Builds  As fracking fever spread, opposition to gas exploitation
was building. In the spring of 2008, a gas company offered Josh Fox’s family almost $100,000 to drill on its Wayne County
property, inspiring Fox, a filmmaker, to make the anti-fracking
documentary “Gasland.”  The Oscar-nominated film, which shows water from a faucet
catching fire, was shown on  HBO  and helped foment broader
opposition to fracking. Fox and an alliance of conservation
groups called on the Delaware River Basin Commission to ban the
practice in Wayne County. They argued that the drilling
technology, which involves injecting high-pressure jets of water
and chemicals into underground rock formations, would pollute
the river’s 14,000-square-mile basin, a source of  drinking water 
for 15 million people.  Permits Ordered  In May 2009 the commission, which includes the governors of
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, and New York as well as a
representative from the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers, declared
that gas companies wanting to drill in Wayne County would need a
permit from the DRBC as well as from the state of Pennsylvania.  Land men started pulling out of Wayne, according to local
townspeople. A year later the commission announced that it would
not issue permits and would study the impact of fracking.  The decision caught farmers and investors off guard.  “I had never even heard of this out-of-state commission,”
says Jim Stracka, a contractor from Scranton, Pennsylvania, who
joined with two  New Jersey  businessmen to form a company called
Gasaholics to invest in Wayne County.  In 2008, Gasaholics paid $900,000 in cash for a 96-acre
farm in northeastern Wayne. Stracka says he expected to lease
his mineral rights for at least $3,000 an acre and hoped a
producing well might generate as much as $50,000 a day in
royalties.  “We went on that premise,” he says. “Then, the
moratorium comes out of left field and the leases stop. Now
we’re just sitting on it.”  The property remains vacant. A local farmer stops by on
occasion to cut the land’s overgrowth for hay.  No Royalties  Rutledge fared better. Hess-Newbridge paid him $300,000 for
the right to drill on his farm. Even so, he’s bitter at the
prospect of not receiving royalties. He says his farm can’t
compete with corporate operations, and that he’s been selling
timber from his land, as well as portions of a century-old stone
wall.  “The DRBC,” he says, “isn’t writing me a check. They’re
just basically saying ‘screw you.’”  Drilling is not officially dead in Wayne County. In
February 2011 the DRBC held 18 hours of public hearings at three
locations to take testimony on draft regulations and received
69,000 submissions during a two-month public comment period,
according to spokesmen Clarke Rupert and Kate O’Hara.  The commission scheduled a hearing for Nov. 21, 2011. Fox
showed up with 2,000 protesters, but the meeting was canceled
and has yet to be rescheduled.  ‘Technical’ Meetings  A statement on the commission’s website says that as of May
the commissioners are “convening meetings with their respective
technical staff” as they consider rules for drilling.  As fracking continues in most of Pennsylvania, Wayne County
residents are recognizing that public-works improvements tied to
a gas boom aren’t going to happen.  “We expected better roads,” says Myron Uretsky, a retired
 New York  University professor who owns a house in the town of
Damascus, Pennsylvania. “We have no fire hydrants -— the gas
companies were going to put them in.”  While many residents blame Fox for their troubles, he says
they were naive to think drilling would ever be allowed in such
an environmentally critical area. He faults the gas companies
for dangling money in front of farmers without warning them of
the potential problems.  “It was all sweetness and light,” he says. “‘You’ll make
so much money.’ That’s exploitation, not prosperity. This was a
bubble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roben Farzad in New York at 
 rfarzad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  