-- Peru Likely to Keep 4.25% Rate as Greece, Protests Threaten GDP
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-06-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/peru-likely-to-keep-4-25-rate-as-greece-protests-threaten-gdp.html
Peru ’s central bank will probably
keep borrowing costs unchanged for a 13th month today as
 Europe ’s financial crisis and protests against mining companies
threaten to derail a rebound in investment.  The central bank will maintain the  overnight rate  at 4.25
percent, according to all 18 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
will announce its decision at about 6 p.m. in Lima.  Growth of  South America ’s sixth-largest economy accelerated
in the  first quarter  for the first time since 2010 as investor
confidence fueled a rebound in construction. Though rising
demand may fuel inflation that’s been above target for 11
months, policy makers are more concerned about the effects of a
global slowdown, said Siobhan Morden, head of  Latin America 
fixed income strategy at Jefferies & Co Inc.  “Any central bank in the region is going to be sidelined
until we get clarity on Europe in the next couple of weeks,”
Morden said by phone from  New York . “This isn’t the policy
meeting to respond to domestic demand.”  The price of copper, Peru’s top export, has dropped 20
percent in the last year as Europe’s recession damps growth in
 China , the biggest consumer of industrial metals, and amid
concern the U.S. recovery is faltering.  Peru’s exports fell 12 percent in April from a year earlier
to $3 billion, a one-year low, on declines in copper, zinc and
fishmeal prices, the Trade Ministry said June 5.  ‘Great Uncertainty’  “There’s great uncertainty about what will happen to
external demand and how it will hit economic activity,” Velarde
said May 29. “We’re probably less optimistic than we would have
been six weeks ago” about growth exceeding the central bank’s
5.7 percent forecast for this year, he said.  Increased social unrest has also clouded the outlook for
the $176 billion economy, he said.  The government declared a state of emergency last week in
the southern Andean province of Espinar after at least two
people died in protests against an  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  copper mine that
community leaders say is polluting water supply. Local residents
are also demanding a bigger share of profits.  Newmont Mining Corp.’s (NEM)  $4.8 billion Minas Conga gold
project was suspended in November after street protests against
what would be Peru’s biggest-ever investment. The protesters
resumed demonstrations on May 31.  About $50 billion of mining investment is on stand-by
because of the unrest, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla told
state television June 4. The industry accounts for about 20
percent of fiscal revenue and 60 percent of exports. The
investments are needed to fuel 6 percent growth this year and
halt a decline in the country’s mining production, he said.  Infrastructure Spending  Gross domestic product rose 6 percent in first three months
of this year as private investment climbed at the fastest pace
in three quarters and the government stepped up infrastructure
spending.  Government tax revenue rose an annual 8.9 percent last
month, the most since February, while demand for  consumer goods 
fueled a 9.4 percent increase in imports, the tax and customs
duty collection agency said June 4.  The central bank raised  reserve requirements  for the first
time in a year on May 1, citing concern foreign inflows risk
fueling demand for dollar-denominated loans and stirring
inflation pressures.  Annual growth in bank lending slowed to 16 percent in April
from 18 percent in March as demand for dollar loans eased, the
central bank said last week.  Consumer prices rose 0.04 percent in May, the slowest pace
in four months, after food and fuel costs fell. Prices rose 4.1
percent from a year earlier. The central bank targets annual
inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  Easing Commodities  Easing oil and grain prices will allow inflation to
converge to the target next year, said Felipe Hernandez, an
economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “Peru may want to hike once or twice more just to bring
neutral rates to a slightly higher level” should external risks
subside, Morden said. “If there were an extreme shock from
Europe, there would be case for easing instead of hiking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 