-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate on Global Outlook and Commodity Fall
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-06-08T18:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-as-greece-protests-threaten-growth-1-.html
Peru ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged yesterday for a 13th month as global market
turmoil and declining commodity prices threaten to derail a
rebound in domestic investment.  The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching
the forecasts of all 18 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “Uncertainty has increased again in the international
financial markets and as a result a decline in international
commodity prices is being observed,” policy makers said in a
statement posted on the central bank’s website.  Growth of  South America ’s sixth-largest economy accelerated
in the  first quarter  for the first time since 2010 as investor
confidence fueled a rebound in construction. Though rising
demand may fuel inflation that’s been above target for 11
months, policy makers are more concerned about the effects of a
global slowdown, said Siobhan Morden, head of Latin American
fixed income strategy at Jefferies & Co Inc.  “Domestic demand is very strong but external risks have
clearly worsened,” Morden said in telephone interview from  New
York . “They won’t hike rates not knowing the outcome of Europe.
Central banks are typically conservative and don’t want to flip
flop in terms of their policy management.”  ‘Less Optimistic’  The price of copper, Peru’s top export, has dropped 19
percent in the last year as Europe’s recession damps growth in
 China , the biggest consumer of industrial metals, and amid
concern the U.S. recovery is faltering.  The Andean country posted it’s a first trade deficit in two
years in April as slower global growth curbed demand for metals
and textiles, central bank research director Adrian Armas said
today. The $144 million deficit compares with a $342 million
surplus in April last year.  Exports fell 12 percent from a year earlier to $3 billion,
a one-year low, on declines in copper, zinc and fishmeal prices,
the Trade Ministry said June 5.  Business confidence weakened for the first time this year
in May amid concern global demand will slow, Armas told
reporters during a conference call.  The sol declined 0.1 percent to 2.68 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, from 2.6780 yesterday, according to Deutsche Bank
AG’s local unit.  Less Optimistic  “There’s great uncertainty about what will happen to
external demand and how it will hit economic activity,” Velarde
said May 29. “We’re probably less optimistic than we would have
been six weeks ago” about growth exceeding the central bank’s
5.7 percent forecast for this year, he said.  Increased social unrest has also clouded the outlook for
the $176 billion economy, he said.  The government declared a state of emergency last week in
the southern Andean province of Espinar after at least two
people died in protests against an  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  copper mine that
community leaders say is polluting water supply. Local residents
are also demanding a bigger share of profits.  Newmont Mining Corp.’s (NEM)  $4.8 billion Minas Conga gold
project was suspended in November after street protests against
what would be Peru’s biggest-ever investment. The protesters
resumed demonstrations on May 31.  About $50 billion of mining investment is on stand-by
because of the unrest, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla told
state television June 4. The industry accounts for about 20
percent of fiscal revenue and 60 percent of exports. The
investments are needed to fuel 6 percent growth this year and
halt a decline in the country’s mining production, he said.  Economic Growth  Gross domestic product rose 6 percent in first three months
of this year as private investment climbed at the fastest pace
in three quarters and the government stepped up infrastructure
spending.  Government tax revenue rose an annual 8.9 percent last
month, the most since February, while demand for  consumer goods 
fueled a 9.4 percent increase in imports, the tax and customs
duty collection agency said June 4.  The central bank raised  reserve requirements  for the first
time in a year on May 1, citing concern foreign inflows risk
fueling demand for dollar-denominated loans and stirring
inflation pressures.  Annual growth in bank lending slowed to 16 percent in April
from 18 percent in March as demand for dollar loans eased, the
central bank said last week.  Inflation  Consumer prices rose 0.04 percent in May, the slowest pace
in four months, after food and fuel costs fell. Prices climbed
4.1 percent from a year earlier. The central bank targets annual
inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  The annual rate will probably see “sharp” declines
starting in July as international grain prices ease and as
domestic  food supply  recovers after floods and landslides in the
first quarter, Armas said. “Moderate” monthly inflation will
probably allow the annual rate to return to the central bank’s
target range this year, he said.  “Peru may want to hike once or twice more just to bring
neutral rates to a slightly higher level” should external risks
subside, Morden said. “If there were an extreme shock from
 Europe , there would be case for easing instead of hiking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 