-- Pfizer Preparing for Stock Sale of Animal Health Unit
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-06-07T20:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/pfizer-says-it-s-preparing-for-stock-sale-of-animal-health-unit.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, plans to sell a minority stake in its  animal health 
division in an initial stock sale by July 2013.  The unit and its more than 9,000 employees worldwide will
become a stand-alone company called Zoetis, New York-based
Pfizer said today in a statement. The divested business may be
valued from $15 billion to $20 billion,  Catherine Arnold , an
analyst with Credit Suisse in New York, said in an April note.  The divestiture of the animal health operations, which sold
$4.18 billion in products for pets and livestock last year, is
part of a three-pronged strategy by Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  to refocus the company on developing new pharmaceuticals.
He said in April that the unit would probably be shed in a
combined initial public offering and share swap.  “Pfizer Animal Health is a dynamic business with strong
fundamentals, an expanding and loyal direct customer base and a
proven management team,” Read said today in the statement.
“Our focus continues to be on taking the actions that will
generate the greatest after-tax value for our shareholders.”  Pfizer  rose  less than 1 percent to $21.94 at the close in
New York and has gained 5.8 percent in the past 12 months. The
company previously said that July 2013 was its target to
complete the changeover.  Nutrition Sale  Pfizer announced on April 23 that it would sell its infant
nutrition business to Vevey, Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN)  for
$11.9 billion. Read has also said he is eliminating $1 billion
from costs this year.  Money from the unit divestitures is likely to be used for
more share buybacks, Read has said, calling them “the case to
beat” compared to acquisitions and dividend payments. Pfizer
has repurchased 2.43 billion shares worth $66.1 billion since
1998, according to a report by John Boris, an analyst with
Citigroup in New York.  Pfizer needs new products as it enters an era without
Lipitor, the cholesterol pill that lost patent protection in
2011 after generating $9.58 billion in revenue that year. The
company doesn’t have a medicine in its  pipeline  that will
replace all of Lipitor’s sales by itself. Instead, Pfizer is
trying to fill the hole with several products, including two
under review by U.S. regulators for possible approval this year.  Eliquis, a blood thinner developed with Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., is scheduled to get a ruling from regulators by the
end of this month. Tofacitinib, Pfizer’s anti-arthritis pill, is
scheduled for a decision this summer.  The new name for the company was suggested by the words zoo
and zoology, according to the company statement.  It “best captures the company’s focus on partnership with
veterinarians, livestock producers and companion animal
owners,” said Juan Ramón Alaix, president of the division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  