-- Pimco’s Home-Loan Wager Seen as Prescient on QE3 Odds: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-06-07T16:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/pimco-s-home-loan-wager-seen-as-prescient-on-qe3-odds-mortgages.html
Investors are positioning to benefit
from a third round of debt purchases by the  Federal Reserve ,
acquiring mortgage securities they’ll be able to sell to the
central bank at higher prices.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  raised
mortgage holdings in the $258.7 billion Pimco Total Return Fund
to 53 percent in April, the highest in three years, from 25
percent in July. A windfall would represent a repeat for the
 fund , which holds money ranging from individuals’ retirement
accounts to institutional investments, following its outsized
home-loan bets before the Fed acquired $1.25 trillion of
mortgage bonds between January 2009 and March 2010.  Economists at Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. see greater odds for a third round of asset
purchases by the central bank known as quantitative easing, or
QE3, as Europe’s leaders struggle to contain a sovereign debt
crisis and the U.S. added 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a
year. Morgan Stanley estimates the chances at 80 percent, up
from 50 percent last month, and expects that the Fed would
expand its mortgage bond holdings by about $200 billion.  Fed purchases of government-backed securities have
“started to look a lot more likely over the last few weeks,”
said Chris Kuehl, head of agency mortgage-backed securities for
 American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC)  at a conference hosted by Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Inc. in  New York .  ‘Exact Securities’  American Capital , the second-largest real estate investment
trust that buys mortgage securities, has acquired lower coupon
home-loan bonds that “will do fine” in the current
environment. Under QE3, though, these are “the exact securities
that we would expect that the Fed would purchase,” he said.
“We would have an opportunity to sell these positions into the
Fed at very inflated prices and reinvest in areas where the Fed
is not participating.”  American Capital, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , is run by
former Freddie Mac investment chief Gary Kain and had $88.4
billion of assets on March 31. The firm said until a few weeks,
while QE3 was possible, the odds were lower, amid moderate
growth that would have been a “great environment” for mortgage
holdings.  Pimco’s Gross has anticipated Fed action, writing “QE3
getting closer” in a Twitter message on May 8.  Scott Simon , the
 Newport Beach , California-based company’s mortgage head,
declined to comment yesterday. The Total Return Fund has
returned 5.1 percent this year to beat 99 percent of
competitors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors stepped up speculation that any QE3 or similar
program would include mortgage bonds after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  sent a study to Congress in January that highlighted
how housing is restraining the economic recovery.  Bernanke Testimony  Bernanke said today in testimony to the Joint Economic
Committee in  Washington  that the  U.S. economy  is at risk from
 Europe ’s debt crisis and the prospect of domestic fiscal
tightening, while refraining from discussing steps the central
bank might take to protect the expansion.  That followed comments by Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
yesterday that weak job growth and deteriorating financial
market conditions show the economy “remains vulnerable to
setbacks” and may warrant more accommodation.  About 61 percent of money managers who responded to a
survey a month ago by JPMorgan’s top-ranked mortgage-bond
analysts said they were already “overweight” home-loan
securities, or holding more than found in benchmark indexes.
Fifty-two percent expected QE3 within six months, the poll
found.  ‘Slightly Overweight’  Todd Abraham, co-head of the government and mortgage-backed
fixed-income group at Federated Investors Inc., said that the
firm has recently gone from “neutral” to “slightly
overweight” on agency mortgage bonds, debt guaranteed by
taxpayer-supported  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac or U.S.-owned
Ginnie Mae. He sees “the odds of the Fed doing something” as
having gone up this month.  The money manager’s additions of the debt have more to do
with its “ fundamental ” value, he said. Still, there is “a
little bit of a thought that if the things do get significantly
worse, the Fed’s not going to stand idly by,” said Abraham,
whose Pittsburgh-based firm manages about $364 billion of
assets.  The Fed began reinvesting in the mortgage market with
proceeds from its past purchases in October, acquiring $212.3
billion to offset repayments. It has targeted low-coupon bonds -
- focusing recently on 3 percent and 3.5 percent 30-year
securities -- because they most influence lending rates for
consumers.  Additional Purchases  QE3 may involve about $200 billion in additional purchases
over nine months, almost doubling the central bank’s
reinvestment program, Morgan Stanley analysts Vipul Jain and
Janaki Rao wrote in a June 1 report.  The Fed is limited because it wants to avoid disrupting
“smooth market functioning,” they said. Its current buying
accounts for 51 percent of the issuance of 30-year securities
not set aside by lenders for investors who are willing to pay
more for debt with steadier prepayments, they said.  QE3 could be about twice as big if the Fed acquires larger
amounts of 15-year and Ginnie Mae debt. It has been buying a
smaller share of those bonds than 30-year and Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac  securities because the notes aren’t “as directly
supportive of the policy goals,” according to the analysts.  Morgan Stanley recommended a “modest overweight” on
Fannie Mae 3 percent and 3.5 percent notes relative to benchmark
debt. Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by  Mahesh Swaminathan 
proposed a similar trade on the “likely buildup” to QE3 ahead
of a June 19-20 meeting of Fed policy makers.  Challenging Market  American Capital has purchased “generic” low coupon bonds
while cutting so-called specified pools that offer prepayment
protection, to a “majority” of holdings, from about 80 percent
on Sept. 30, because of their high prices, Kuehl said. While the
first type would do well in the current environment, if the Fed
buys they’d do even better and serve to offset the
“challenging” market created for higher coupon debt as lower
rates boost prepayments, he said.  Fannie Mae’s 3.5 percent securities rose to a record 105.3
cents on the dollar on June 1, from less than 103 at the start
of the year, amid gains in benchmark Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They’ve since fallen to 104.9 cents
as of 11:50 a.m. in New York.  Explicit Trade  Jason Callan, head of structured products at Columbia
Management Investment Advisers LLC, said that during a meeting
this week his team considered adding low-coupon 30-year bonds as
a bet on QE3. While the odds have risen, making it more likely
than not, they weren’t yet ready to place the wager, he said.  “We’re as close as we’ve ever been to an explicit QE3
trade,” said Callan, whose Minneapolis-based firm oversees
about $165 billion in fixed income. “Still, it’s far from a
certainty that the Fed’s June meeting is going to end with QE
coming out of it.”  Callan said in April that some investors were too quick to
see diminished QE3 odds after a Fed statement said certain
policy makers supported easing only “if the economy lost
 momentum .” QE3 probably wouldn’t provide much aid to the U.S.
after previous Fed programs, he said this week. “At the end of
the day low rates have done nothing to really stimulate a
significant level of growth.”  The impact of QE3 for consumers may be eroded because
lenders have little capacity to process additional home loans
for refinancing, according to Amherst Securities Group LP
analyst  Laurie Goodman . That often leads originators to leave
 mortgage rates  higher than bond yields suggest are possible,
ballooning their profit margins.  Writing Checks  “All you’re basically doing is writing a check to the
large financial institutions,” she said at conference in New
York for Bloomberg LP customers on May 17.  The difference between average rates on new 30-year loans
and yields at which Fannie Mae will buy debt for its face value
to package into securities has jumped in the past two months as
bond yields fell to record lows, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gap expanded to more than 0.50 percentage point,
from about 0.30 percentage point in late April.  While QE1 was extremely valuable after the global financial
crisis roiled the mortgage-bond market, further buying could be
disruptive and probably pointless for real estate because
mortgage underwriting by banks is tight, Troy Dixon, co-head of
securitized products trading at Deutsche Bank AG, said at the
conference.  “The recovery of the housing market isn’t about
affordability anymore, it’s about credit” being made available
to more consumers, he said.  Still, $200 billion of additional Fed holdings would bring
those of money managers and investors such as REITs close to
“neutral” relative to benchmark indexes, according to Morgan
Stanley, forcing them to invest elsewhere.  Redeploying Cash  Redeploying cash during QE1, Gross boosted the Total Return
Fund’s holdings of emerging-market debt to 6 percent, the most
since 2008, and non-dollar bonds of developed nations to 18
percent as of March 2010, with investment-grade corporate bonds
at 16 percent. The mortgage share fell to 16 percent, down from
81 percent in November 2008, when the Fed announced the program.  “We’ve exchanged our mortgages for the government’s check
and now, we’re moving on,” Gross said in a September, 2009,
interview with Bloomberg Radio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  