-- PIMCO’s Toloui Expects Moderate Impact After China Rate Cut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-07T13:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/pimco-s-toloui-expects-moderate-impact-after-china-rate-cut.html
 Ramin Toloui, Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s global co-head of  emerging markets  portfolio
management in  Singapore , comments by e-mail on  China ’s decision
to cut  interest rates  for the first time since 2008.  “The catalyst for the move is growing recognition by
Beijing authorities of the extent of the weakening economic
picture. The rate cut is an indication of greater policy
engagement but not harbinger of an ‘all in’ policy response.
The macro impact will be moderate and we still expect growth in
the mid-7% area for 2012. Key to watch will be the data on
new loans in the coming weeks and months, to gauge the extent to
which liquidity is reaching the broader economy.”  “China’s action is an incremental positive for global
demand, but only at the margin. The trajectory of the global
economy will be driven primarily by the situation in  Europe  and
the weak recovery in the US.”  “The adjustment on the deposit ceiling is an important
step toward interest rate deregulation reform.  That said, it is
premature to say that this signals a broader acceleration of the
policy reform agenda. In the short run, we could see competitive
pressure pushing up deposit rates, taking back some of the
impact of the deposit rate cut. This could have an ambiguous
effect on near-term aggregate demand:  while it would squeeze
the banks’ net interest margins & possibly reduce their
risk appetite, maintaining the level of deposit rates helps
prevent a negative income effect for households that might
otherwise contract household spending. In the longer run,
interest rate reform is a key component of shifting the domestic
economy from investment to household consumption.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net  