-- Poland Will Discuss U.S. Liquefied-Gas Exports, Minister Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-07T22:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/poland-will-discuss-u-s-liquefied-gas-exports-minister-says.html
Poland, which is building a liquefied
natural-gas terminal to lower dependence on fuel from Russia, is
interested in shipments from the U.S., according to Ilona
Antoniszyn-Klik, the nation’s deputy economy minister.  U.S. energy producers plan to sell gas overseas after
advances such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing
led to record production and a supply glut. Poland buys about
two-thirds of its gas from Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , and an LNG
terminal built on the Baltic Sea coast should be ready by 2014.  “We consider all sources of energy, because we want to
have an energy mix which consists of different suppliers,”
Antoniszyn-Klik said during an interview at Bloomberg’s
Washington office yesterday. Buying from the U.S. “will be a
possible area of cooperation.”  Poland may become another advocate for U.S. exports of the
fuel. Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda raised the issue of
U.S. gas exports during a meeting with President  Barack Obama  in
Washington on April 30. Antoniszyn-Klik plans to discuss the
issue today with the U.S. Commerce Department.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , based in Houston, won U.S. approval
in April to export 2.2 billion cubic feet of gas a day from a
$10 billion terminal in Louisiana. Shipments may start as early
as in 2015. Clients are  BG Group Plc (BG/)  in Berkshire, U.K.,
Barcelona-based Gas Natural Fenosa,  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  and  Korea
Gas Corp. (036460)   Other investors, such as  Sempra Energy (SRE)  with  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  and  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  and Freeport LNG in partnership with
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , need federal approval, which has been
delayed as Democratic lawmakers including Representative Edward Markey from Massachusetts and Senator  Ron Wyden  of Oregon,
raised concerns that sales overseas might increase prices for
U.S. consumers.  Poland pays about $500 per 1,000 cubic meters, according to
Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski. That puts the price at
about $13.80 per million British thermal units.  The U.S. gas price have declined more than 50 percent in
the past 12 months, to $2.274 per million Btu on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  