-- Pork Buyers May Pay Price for McDonald’s Sow-Pen Demands
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-08T13:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/pork-buyers-may-pay-price-for-mcdonald-s-sow-pen-demands.html
(Corrects spelling of Mankato in ninth paragraph of story
that was published yesterday.)  Pork producers say U.S. consumers
will pay more for the meat if the industry abandons the practice
of confining sows to single stalls to appease food companies
including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  demanding open pens.  The majority of sows in the U.S. spend time in solitary
gestation pens, the National Pork Producers Council said
yesterday in a  statement . The industry moved to individual
stalls to cut costs, so changing back will be expensive, said
 Ron Plain , a  University of Missouri  economist who surveyed
producers that hold 63 percent of the nation’s sows.  “It costs more to make these changes and operate this way,
and the question is, who’s going to cover these costs?” Plain
said in an interview at the World Pork Expo in  Des Moines , Iowa.
“As an economist, I can tell you, ultimately the consumer is
covering the cost of what they buy.”  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, and
 Kroger Co. (KR) , the biggest U.S. grocery store chain, have urged
suppliers to phase out gestation crates that animal-rights
advocates contend are cruel. Producers say the method is more
efficient and protects the sows. Pork council President R.C.
Hunt, a North Carolina hog farmer, said that the changes would
be “extremely difficult and costly.”  Only 17 percent of sows spend a portion of gestation in
open pens, according to Plain’s survey of 70 hog operations that
owned about 3.6 million of the nation’s 5.7 million sows. Only
producers with 1,000 or more sows were surveyed. The pork
council said that the results confirmed that a return to open
pens would mean wide-scale changes in the industry.  Pen Ban  McDonald’s, based in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , said in February
that it will require its suppliers to provide pork for its U.S.
business from producers that do not house pregnant sows in
gestation stalls. The company, which buys about 1 percent of the
U.S. pork supply, last week set a 10-year time line for
suppliers to comply. Cincinnati-based Kroger said June 4 that
that it’s encouraging suppliers to “accelerate” the transition
away from gestation crates.  “Americans just don’t agree with confining animals so
restrictively,” Matthew Prescott, a food policy director for
the  Humane Society  of the U.S., said in an e-mail. “They spend
their lives unable even to turn around. Anyone who says
gestation crates are the best farmers can do for pigs is selling
farmers short and selling animals out.”  Tracking System  Additional costs would be incurred to create a tracking
system for the animals. McDonald’s serves sausage that is made
of ground-pork trimmings from a variety of animals, and there’s
no system to knowing which ones were raised in open pens, Plain
said.  Mark Greenwood , a vice president at AgStar Financial
Services Inc., a hog-industry lender in Mankato,  Minnesota , said
at the pork expo today that it may cost $200 to $300 per sow to
change the way animals are housed.  McDonald’s decision may put “significant pressure” on
smaller farmers who use gestation stalls, according to Everett
Forkner, the former president of the National Pork Board and a
farmer from Richards,  Missouri . Forkner said in a statement that
he moved his hogs from open pens to stalls many years ago to
protect sows from being injured or to ensure they don’t lose
feed rations to aggressive sows in the same pen.  Company Decisions  “I just don’t want any farmers to go out of business
because they don’t have the financial capital to transition away
from their current production practices due to decisions made by
food companies that don’t fully understand the issue or
ramifications of a decision like that,” Jarrod Sutton, an
assistant vice president at the National Pork Board, said in an
interview at the expo. “They don’t understand why our industry
uses gestation stalls.”  Individual stalls allow producers to control the feeding of
each animal, keep animals from fighting, and to more efficiently
inspect the animals, Plain said. Any time sows “co-mingle,”
there will be fighting, he said. Sows are social animals that
will “establish a pecking order” by fighting.  “You don’t want to stress a sow shortly after she’s bred
because you tend to get fewer pigs born,” Plain said. “If
fewer pigs are born per sow, then the cost per pig goes up.”  The costs of having to make the changes may push older
producers of the business, said Sam Carney, a past president of
the pork council and a meat producer in Adair,  Iowa .  ‘Just Retire’  “If there’s an older guy that doesn’t have family members
in his operation, he’s not going to do it,” Carney said in an
interview at the expo. “He’ll just retire.”  While the industry will incur costs to make the switch, the
impact on productivity doesn’t appear as large as estimated, and
the changes seem manageable,  Steve Meyer , the president of
Paragon Economics, an industry consultant, said in an interview
at the expo. In the end, the consumer will pay for that
increased cost, he said.  “Anything that a consumer or somebody delivering to them
does to raise costs will be paid for by the consumer,” Meyer
said. “So if consumers don’t want to pay more, they need to
tell McDonald’s and others that they’re on the wrong path.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  