-- Prudential Names Sullivan to Lead Disability Unit Rebound
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-07T15:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/prudential-names-sullivan-to-lead-disability-unit-rebound.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, appointed  Andrew Sullivan  to
lead its disability unit as the company seeks to turn around its
group-coverage operation.  Sullivan, 41, will direct business strategy and oversee
product development, underwriting and claims management as
senior vice president for disability and small market business,
according to a statement today from the  Newark , New Jersey-based
insurer. He previously ran the small market operation and takes
the added duties from Andrew Mako, who is retiring after almost
35 years with Prudential, a spokeswoman said.  “It’s an important step for us in getting the disability
business back on the path of growth,” said Sheila Bridgeforth,
the spokeswoman.  Steve Pelletier was assigned in April to improve results at
the group insurance unit, replacing Lori High, who resigned.
Prudential posted a $38 million adjusted operating loss in the
segment in the first quarter, compared with $39 million in
profit a year earlier, as the disability unit weighed on
results.  “In group disability, we have clear performance issues and
we are moving aggressively to address and correct them,” Chief
Executive Officer John Strangfeld said on a May 3 conference
call with analysts.  Disability coverage has also weighed on results at  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  The insurer said last month that
it’s raising rates and changing managers at its group disability
business after results were “well below” expectations. Chief
Financial Officer Christopher Swift said on a May 3 conference
call that earnings from the business will probably be little
changed this year from 2011, compared with a December forecast
for improvement of 15 percent to 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  