-- Rajoy Holds Bank Talks With EU as Fitch Downgrades Spain
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-06-08T16:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/rajoy-holds-bank-talks-with-eu-leaders-as-fitch-downgrades-spain.html
Spain  is preparing to become the
fourth euro-area nation to seek emergency assistance as the
currency bloc’s finance chiefs plan weekend talks on potential
aid to shore up the nation’s lenders.  European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said
today that a Spanish request is “awaited” and will be
“exclusively directed at the recapitalization of banks.” The
bid may come as soon as tomorrow when finance ministers hold a
conference call at about 1:30 p.m., according to a person
familiar with the plans who declined to be identified because
the matter is confidential.  The prospect of action underscores officials’ concerns that
Greek elections on June 17 may unsettle investors as Spain
struggles to persuade markets it can protect troubled banks and
finance its  budget deficit . The country’s credit rating was cut
three grades by Fitch Ratings yesterday hours after Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said for the first time that he is
discussing with European leaders how to help Spanish banks.  “Finance ministers in the  euro zone  would like loose ends
tied up before the situation in Greece goes live again,”
Mujtaba Rahman, New York-based analyst for Eurasia group, said
in a telephone interview. “This move is designed to be
preemptive, to send a positive signal to market participants
that the Spanish situation is being managed.”  Quick Decision  Constancio said a decision should be taken quickly and
it’s up to the Spanish government to make a move.  “Not everything has to be concluded immediately, as long
as there is an expression of a will for there to be a specific
program for Spanish banks, which I hope will happen with some
rapidity,” he told reporters in Lisbon.  That urgency contrasts with comments by Rajoy, who said
yesterday he won’t act until he receives a report from the
 International Monetary Fund  on June 11, and the results of bank
stress tests from two international consultants by June 21.  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria declined
to comment when asked at a briefing today whether Spain was
seeking a rescue. She reiterated that the government will wait
until getting the reports before making a decision.  A bailout for Spain, reeling from a recession and the
bursting of a property bubble, may dwarf previous rescues in the
effort to stem the turmoil that began with Greece’s disclosure
in 2009 that its finances were in worse shape than previously
known.  Loan Pledges  Since then, European governments and the IMF have made 386
billion euros ($480 billion) in loan pledges to  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal . Spain’s economy is more than twice the size of the
three countries combined. JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist David Mackie said on May 30 that aid for the Spanish government and
banks could total 350 billion euros.  Spain’s 10-year bond yields rose to 6.24 percent today from
6.09 percent yesterday, more than double its 3 percent record
low in 2005. The euro lost 0.7 percent to $1.2487 at 6:47 p.m.
in Madrid.  Fitch downgraded Spain to BBB, within two steps of non-
investment grade. It said the cost to the state of shoring up
banks may amount to as much as 100 billion euros in the worst
case, compared with its previous estimate of 30 billion euros,
as the country will remain in a recession next year.  Pressure Builds  Pressure is building on Spain to take some kind of bailout.
European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny
said today that any delay by the nation in requesting aid would
increase the costs of a rescue.  While declining to comment on rumors that Spain may ask for
help this weekend, Nowotny said he “of course considered it
sensible to request aid, because the longer you wait with revamp
measures, the more expensive it gets.”  Rajoy has said he wants to overcome German opposition to
allowing the euro area’s bailout funds to sidestep governments
and recapitalize lenders directly. The Treasury’s access to
 capital markets  is narrowing as it increasingly depends on
domestic banks to buy its bonds, reducing the government’s
ability to backstop struggling lenders.  If there is a Spanish aid request, “it will follow the
usual procedure: a state files an application, it accepts
liability and is bound to conditions,” German government
spokesman Steffen Seibert said. “The decision whether that’s
the Spanish way will be taken by the Spanish government.”  Credibility Jolted  The government’s credibility was jolted by the funding hole
reported last month by the Bankia group, the third-biggest
Spanish bank. The lender’s new managers went beyond the
government’s provisioning rules in their cleanup of the lender
and asked for a 19 billion-euro bailout. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said two weeks earlier that 15 billion euros would be
enough to meet the requirements of the second of two banking
decrees he has drafted this year.  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday that its “base-case
scenario” has Spanish banks showing loan losses of 80 billion
euros to 112 billion euros this year and next. Fitch said
government support of 60 billion euros for the banks would help
push the nation’s debt load to 95 percent of gross domestic
product in 2015. Spain went into the crisis with a debt-to-GDP
ratio of 36 percent in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  