-- Raw Sugar July Futures Trade at Premium on Brazil's Rains
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-07T11:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/raw-sugar-july-futures-trade-at-premium-on-brazil-s-rains.html
Raw sugar futures for July delivery
traded at a premium to the October contract for the first time
since March 30 as rains disrupted the harvest and delayed
shipments from Brazil, the world’s largest producer.  The July contract on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange in  New
York  commanded a premium of 0.07 cent a pound to the sweetener
for October delivery by 7:13 a.m. in New York, after touching as
much as 0.15 cent a pound. That compares with a discount of 0.08
cent a pound by the close yesterday. The so-called backwardation
market structure, in which near-dated contracts are more
expensive than later ones, may signal limited supplies.  “Mills in center south Brazil have underestimated the
quantities needed at ports to fulfill obligations for July
shipment,” Nick Penney, a senior trader at broker Sucden
Financial Ltd. in London, wrote in a report e-mailed today.
“Rainy weather is threatening to increase the build-up of
vessels waiting to load as rain prevents or delays loading.”  The amount of sugar waiting to be loaded at the main ports
in  Brazil  climbed 37 percent over the past week after rain
disrupted deliveries. The total waiting to be loaded was almost
2.2 million tons of sugar yesterday, according to shipping
agency Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda. That compares with 1.6
million tons a week earlier.  “Physical off-take for the July shipment position has been
higher than at first thought, forcing traders to cover short
sales in the secondary market leading to a strengthening of
differentials for July shipment out of center south,” Penney
said. Differentials refer to a discount or a premium to obtain
physical sugar in relation to the futures price.  Raw sugar for June loading at the port of Santos, Brazil’s
largest, was at a premium of 0.15 cent to 0.2 cent above the ICE
Futures U.S. July contract on June 3, Swiss Sugar Brokers said.
That compares with a premium of 0.12 cent on May 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  