-- RDG Capital Weighing Bid for Digital Generation, Glass Says
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-06-07T20:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/rdg-capital-weighing-bid-for-digital-generation-glass-says.html
RDG Capital LLC, the New York
investment firm that owns a stake in  Digital Generation Inc. (DGIT) , is
weighing an offer for the advertisement-management company, said
RDG founder Russell Glass.  “RDG has been in discussions with the company regarding
its potential interest in exploring a takeover bid,” Glass said
today in an interview. A decade ago, he worked as president of
Icahn Associates Corp., the hedge fund of billionaire investor
 Carl Icahn .  RDG recently amassed a 4.9 percent  stake  in the Irving,
Texas-based company, Glass said. Digital Generation, which
operates a network linking advertisers to broadcasters and
websites, rejected an offer of more than $20 a share from
Extreme Reach Inc., people familiar with the process said
yesterday.  That per-share offer was more than twice Digital
Generation’s  stock price  the day before Bloomberg News reported
the bid. The company has worked with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
identify suitors, people with knowledge of the matter have said.
The sale process attracted interest from Hellman & Friedman LLC
and other private-equity firms, another person with knowledge of
the matter said yesterday.  “Digital Generation should engage with potential buyers,
including Extreme Reach,” said Glass. “We talked to other
shareholders and they share our view.”  A representative at Digital Generation didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  Stock Performance  The stock dropped 1.8 percent to $11.91 as of 4 p.m. in  New
York . Yesterday it rose 26 percent following the takeover
report, giving the company a market value of $334.5 million.  Digital Generation tried to sell itself a year ago, when
its name was DG FastChannel, people close to the situation said
at the time. That process stalled after Digital Generation’s
acquisition of MediaMind Technologies Inc. last year, the same
person said.  Needham, Massachusetts-based Extreme Reach operates a
network connecting more than 2,000 advertisers and agencies to
major broadcast networks, its website shows. Co-founder John Roland had served as president of Digital Generation’s
predecessor before starting Extreme Reach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  