-- Redbox, Netflix Go to Stores to Buy ‘John Carter’ DVDs
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-08T00:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/redbox-netflix-go-to-stores-to-buy-john-carter-dvds.html
Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox and  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX)  will buy DVDs of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “ John Carter ” from
stores rather than wait 28 days to get them from the studio.  “John Carter,” a $250 million science-fiction epic that
flopped with cinema audiences, is the first major Disney release
to be withheld from DVD rental services until four weeks after
it goes on sale in stores, a Disney spokeswoman said by
telephone.  Disney is joining  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
Warner Bros. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures in imposing
the waiting period on all releases. Studios use the four weeks
to promote sales of disks and video-on-demand transactions,
which offer a higher profit margin than Redbox’s $1.20-a-night
rental and Netflix’s monthly subscription fee.  Disney started its 28-day policy with “The Secret World of
Arrietty,” an animated film released as a DVD on May 22.
  In U.S. and Canadian theaters, the movie earned $19.2 million,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo. Redbox didn’t stock
“Arrietty” in its kiosks, spokeswoman Marci Maule said in an
e-mail. Netflix spokesman Jonathan Friedland didn’t return a
call seeking comment.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures,  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp. (LGF)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  continue to sell disks to rental services
without restriction.  “John Carter” generated $282.4 million in worldwide
ticket sales, including $72.7 million domestically, according to
Box Office Mojo.  Coinstar fell 2.9 percent to $61.01 in New York. Netflix
dropped 1.9 percent to $64.64.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  