-- Reliance to Invest $18 Billion in India to Double Profit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-06-07T08:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/reliance-to-invest-18-billion-in-india-to-double-profit.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the world’s largest oil-refining complex, plans to invest 1
trillion rupees ($18 billion) in  India  in the next five years to
double operating profit.  The company will invest across all its businesses and in
new divisions including retail and digital services, Chairman
 Mukesh Ambani  said today at a shareholder meeting in Mumbai,
where the company is based. The aim is to increase revenue from
the retail business as much as six times in three to four years
and more than double natural gas output to 60 million cubic
meters a day, he said.  Billionaire Ambani is adding retail stores and expanding
his petrochemical business to revive  operating profit , which
fell in the year ended March 31 for the first time since at
least 2003. The spending will be the most since the company
lost more than half of its market value after reaching a 
record in January 2008, the year it completed its second 
oil refinery.  “The aspiration to double operating profit alone will have
little bearing on the company’s valuations, until there is a
considerable change in fundamentals of the business,” said
Sudeep Anand, an analyst at IDBI Capital Market Services in
 Mumbai . “The environment for the company’s core business
continues to remain tough and it’s not a surprise that it’s
looking at new businesses to drive growth.”  The  shares  gained as much as 2.2 percent to 731.90 rupees
and traded at 723.05 rupees as of 12:14 p.m. in Mumbai. The
stock has gained 4.4 percent this year, lagging behind a 7
percent advance in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Shale Gas  Reliance is also boosting investment in extracting gas
trapped in shale rocks in the U.S., Ambani said. The shale-gas
business is a major area of Reliance’s investment over the next
three to five years, he said.  The company is planning an $8 billion expansion of its
petrochemicals business, betting Indian demand for materials
used to make plastics and polyester will help counter weak
global fuel sales.  Operating profit fell 5 percent to 227.8 billion rupees in
the year ended March 31 from a year earlier, the first decline
since at least 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Full-year  net income  gained 2 percent to 197.2 billion rupees.
Profit fell 21 percent to 42.4 billion rupees in the three
months ended March 31, the steepest drop since 2008.  “The refining industry experienced one of its most
difficult years in 2011,” Ambani said today. “The geopolitical
upheavals in the  Middle East , the massive earthquake in  Japan 
and financial instability in  Europe  combined to create a very
difficult operating environment.”  Declining Output  Output from Reliance’s KG-D6 block, India’s biggest natural
gas field, is expected at 28 million cubic meters a day in the
current fiscal year and may decline to 20 million in the year
starting April 1, 2014, oil minister S. Jaipal Reddy said in
parliament on May 8.  “The volatility in crude prices, subdued margin outlook
for transportation fuels as well as petrochemicals and lower-
than-anticipated production from the KG-D6 block resulted in
profits remaining at the same level as last year,” Ambani said.  The reserves from the D1-D3 field have proved more
difficult to produce than anticipated, he said, adding the
company is working closely with partner  BP Plc (BP/)  to “understand
the complex geology” of the KG-D6 block. BP acquired a 30
percent stake in Reliance’s 23 oil and gas blocks, including KG-
D6, for $7.2 billion in February last year.  More Partners  Reliance is seeking more partnerships to grow its business,
Ambani said. The 55-year-old Ambani last year took on BP as a
partner to help reverse the slump in gas output at its biggest
deposit and to develop new exploration areas off India’s east
coast.  The company had 702.5 billion rupees of cash and
equivalents as of March 31, surpassing its 682.6 billion rupees
of liabilities, according to an April 20 statement. Reliance
wants to use its record cash to reverse a 24 percent slump in
its stock in the past year after a slowdown in  China’s economy 
and Europe’s debt crisis cut fuel demand, adding to the drag on
earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  