-- Tribune Pushes to Exit Bankruptcy Into Depressed Market
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/tribune-pushes-to-exit-bankruptcy-into-depressed-market.html
Tribune Co. begins its last big court
fight today, one of two steps remaining before the publisher
exits bankruptcy into a newspaper market where values have
dropped by half.  After more than three years, the company is in the final
months of its bankruptcy case in Wilmington,  Delaware . When it
leaves court protection it will have new owners, including
Tribune’s senior lenders  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and hedge funds
Oaktree Capital Management LP, and Angelo, Gordon & Co.  Should they decide to sell some of Tribune’s assets they
will confront a newspaper market that’s beset by lower
circulation and advertising prices and increased Internet
competition, analysts said. Tribune owns the Los Angeles Times,
the Chicago Tribune, television and radio stations in both those
markets and investments in cable channels.  “The real issue for newspapers is we simply have too many
of them,” said investment banker Marshall Sonenshine, head of
Sonenshine Partners LLC in  New York , in an interview. Sonenshine
arranged the $139 million sale of the  Philadelphia Inquirer  and
its sister paper, the Daily News, while they were in bankruptcy.  Under Tribune’s reorganization plan, the company will leave
bankruptcy with all of its assets. Tribune and its senior
lenders have not said what, if anything, they will sell after
bankruptcy.  Settle Claims  Chicago-based Tribune is trying for the second time to win
approval of a reorganization plan that settles legal claims
against the senior lenders that funded the company’s 2007
buyout, which critics said left the television and newspaper
company insolvent. Objectors include hedge fund Aurelius Capital
Management and other investors that hold pre-buyout debt who are
being repaid less than the senior lenders.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey narrowed the issues the
two sides can fight about when he approved the settlement
between a committee of Tribune’s unsecured creditors and the
senior lenders. The hearing, which may end as soon as tomorrow,
will focus on technical questions of bankruptcy law.  Should Carey approve the plan after the two sides finish
making their legal arguments tomorrow, Tribune would move onto
the last step needed to exit bankruptcy. The company must
persuade federal regulators to transfer Tribune’s television and
radio licenses to new owners, a process that may take several
months.  Tribune and its senior lenders have spent more than three
years in Wilmington federal court fighting with junior creditors
over how to divide legal liability for the buyout.  New Owners  Tribune’s new owners will probably put some assets on the
market once they gain control of the company, Sonenshine and
media analyst Doug Arthur with Evercore Partners Inc. said in
separate interviews.  Those assets may include the Los Angeles Times and the
 Chicago Tribune , the properties most likely to attract a so-
called vanity buyer, they said. Some buyers may pay a premium to
own a prominent news outlet in their region, Sonenshine said.  Newspapers have fallen in value by at least 50 percent in
recent years, they said. The Philadelphia Inquirer and Daily
News sold earlier this year for about $55 million, Sonenshine
said.  “Good newspapers with unique content still have economic
value and that value may even increase as weaker ones shut
down,” Sonenshine said.  Billionaire  Warren Buffett  has been increasing investments
in newspapers, buying the Omaha World-Herald last year and
striking a deal in May to acquire 63 publications including the
Richmond Times-Dispatch of Virginia from Media General Inc.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  