-- Triple Crown Souvenirs Hawked by Vegas as Pacquiao Draws Bettors
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-07T14:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/triple-crown-souvenirs-hawked-by-vegas-as-pacquiao-draws-bettors.html
Belmont Stakes betting may double at
 Las Vegas  sports books from a year ago, buoyed by I’ll Have
Another’s potential to be thoroughbred racing’s first Triple
Crown winner in 34 years and Manny Pacquiao’s world championship
boxing match.  It’s the reason I’ll Have Another isn’t just the name of
horse racing’s Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes winner. It’s
also the refrain of Nevada sports book operators this weekend,
as the Belmont and Pacquiao’s welterweight title fight -- both
on June 9 -- fuel wagering.  “The state will probably write two times more than it
would be if the race weren’t involving a Triple Crown
possibility,” Jimmy Vaccaro, the director of sports operations
at Lucky’s Race and Sports Book in Las Vegas, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a big deal for us. You have people
come into town for the fight and now with a Triple Crown threat,
if you’re hanging around the book, it’s the talk.”  Simulcast wagering on the Belmont topped $56 million the
past two times there’s been a Triple Crown threat, according to
the  New York  Racing Association, including a record $63.7
million in 2004 when Smarty Jones’s bid was denied by Birdstone
in the 1 1/2-mile race at Belmont Park in Elmont, New York.  Las Vegas oddsmakers expect significant action on I’ll Have
Another, even though a winning $5 wager on the Belmont favorite
would return only $4, plus the initial stake, at 4-5 odds. The
3-year-old chestnut colt will start from the 11th post position
in the 12-horse field.  “There will be quite a few $2 win tickets on the No. 11
being pumped out,” Jay Rood, the sports book director at the
MGM Mirage, said in a telephone interview. “A lot of those
won’t even be cashed, but kept as souvenirs. I might do the same
thing at one of the other spots around town.”  Last Winner  Horse racing’s last  Triple Crown  winner was Affirmed in
1978, one year after Seattle Slew won the sport’s three biggest
races. The last horse to come to the Belmont with a chance of
winning the Triple Crown was Big Brown, who didn’t finish the
race as the 3-10 favorite in 2008.  The seven largest crowds for the Belmont Stakes were for
races in which a horse had a chance to win the Triple Crown,
with a record of 120,139 in 2004, when fans at the track wagered
an all-time high of $4.3 million on the race.  Nevada gaming officials said they don’t have a breakdown on
how much is wagered on the Belmont Stakes each year. The state’s
sports book operators said the impact of a potential Triple
Crown is significant.  ‘Extreme Novice’  “This brings it to a different level,” Rood said. “Your
extreme novice will come into our world at least for a race or
two.”  Betting on this weekend’s Belmont may also double at online
sports books over a year ago, said senior oddsmaker Pat Morrow
of  Bovada.lv .  “Everyone wants to bet on I’ll Have Another because even
the casual racing fan wants to feel like they’re part of
history,” said Morrow, who offered 6-1 odds before the  Kentucky
Derby  for any horse to win the Triple Crown. “If anyone but
I’ll Have Another had won the Preakness, we’d be seeing a pretty
steady decline in wagers.”  History suggests I’ll Have Another won’t pull off the win
at the Belmont.  Since Affirmed won, 11 horses have failed to win the final
leg in New York after winning the Kentucky Derby and Preakness.
The only two favorites to win the Belmont in the past 16 years
were Afleet Alex in 2005 and Point Given in 2001.  Betting Options  That may increase the betting options in Las Vegas, where
wagering on one major sporting event will be further helped by
another. Hours after the Belmont, Pacquiao, the WBO welterweight
champion, puts his title on the line at the MGM Grand Garden
Arena against unbeaten Timothy Bradley.  “A horse player might not be a boxing guy and a boxing guy
might not be a horse player, but I think it helps both sides,”
Vaccaro said. “Anything in June sticks out for us because it’s
vacation month, too. So it’s a big deal for us. This is
something you pray for because it burns up another day in June
where you normally might have a dead Saturday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  