-- Romania Shale-Gas, Mine Projects on Hold in 2012
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-06-08T10:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/romanian-shale-gas-mining-projects-on-hold-in-2012-ponta-says.html
Romania  wants to put shale-gas
exploration and gold-mining projects on hold until after a
general election this year as it balances improving
environmental rules with energy needs, Prime Minister Victor Ponta said.  Ponta’s government, backed by a coalition of  Social
Democrats  and Liberals, will attempt to assess environmental
conditions and would look over  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s plan to explore
for shale gas in the country should it win elections, said
Ponta. He became premier on May 7 in a political shakeup and
will try to win his first four-year team in October or November.  “I want to seriously discuss this issue next year, while
keeping environment protection in mind, on the one hand, and
Romania’s interest in ensuring additional energy resources, on
the other hand,” Ponta said in a June 6 interview in Bucharest.
“Legitimate environment and business development interests
unfortunately got caught up in political campaigning.”  Romania is trying to find new energy resources to cut its
reliance on Russian gas imports and compensate for a natural
decline in domestic production as the nation has been extracting
gas and oil for more than a century. Its Black Sea territory may
also hold additional resources after  OMV Petrom SA (SNP)  and  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  have announced a potential discovery in a deep-water
well.  Romania’s month-old government called for an immediate
moratorium on shale-gas extraction in its governing program
until European studies show the impact of hydraulic fracturing
on the environment.  European Bans  The process, which uses a mixture of water, sand and
chemicals to open fissures in shale rocks to release gas and
oil, has already been banned in  France  and  Bulgaria  on
environmental grounds. It’s also been suspended in the U.K. and
the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. energy company by market
value, received the licenses to explore for unconventional oil
and gas in Romania from the previous government of Prime
Minister Emil Boc. A few thousand people protested in March in
the northeastern town of Barlad against Chevron’s plans to
extract shale gas through hydraulic fracturing.  Greenpeace and four other non-government organizations
filed a complaint and threatened to sue the Romanian government
if it didn’t cancel Chevron’s licenses, saying the shale gas
production may harm the environment and local residents.  Gold Mine Decision  The Bucharest-based government is also expected to make a
decision regarding a gold-mining project in the town of Rosia
Montana, in the center of the country.  Gabriel Resources Ltd. (GBU) ’s,
the majority owner of the stalled project, needs an
environmental permit to start work at the mine.  Ponta  said his government’s stance on the project remains
unchanged. The company needs to meet the highest environmental
standards and guarantees, allow the state to hold a higher share
in the project and disengage itself from political lobbying
before going ahead with gold extraction, he said.  “When these conditions are met, we can go ahead without a
problem,” Ponta said. “I want investments and jobs in Romania
but these three conditions are mandatory.”  Romania pledged to the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union under a precautionary agreement to sell 15
percent stakes in natural-gas grid operator  Transgaz SA (TGN)  and
natural-gas company Romgaz SA and 10 percent stakes in hydro-
power generator Hidroelectrica SA and nuclear-power operator
Nuclearelectrica SA this year.  Free Prices, Taxes  “I am convinced that we will keep to the schedule,” Ponta
said. “Of course it’s a bad period, but we will try to adapt to
current market conditions. The only problem is finding a
reasonable price, otherwise we will enter into electoral debates
over this subject, which is in no one’s interest.”  Romania undertook to free regulated natural gas and
electricity prices starting from this year and is committed to
tax the “exceptional part of the profits” coming from price
increases after the liberalization, Finance Minister Florin Georgescu said in an interview on June 5. The nation’s biggest
oil company OMV Petrom, majority-owned by  Austria ’s  OMV AG (OMV) , and
state-owned Romgaz are the two biggest gas producers in Romania.  “The Romanian authorities have to negotiate with OMV in
order to conclude when it’s better to implement this law: at the
beginning of 2013 or in the second half of next year,”
Georgescu said.  OMV’s investments in its Romanian unit Petrom will depend
on the country’s “fiscal stability and regulation,” Chief
Executive Officer Gerhard Roiss said in an interview for Ziarul
Financiar on June 5. Roiss said that any change in the Romanian
taxing system will affect the investment plan of Petrom, the
country’s biggest oil company, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  