-- Romney May Fundraisers Outpace Obama’s Contributions
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-06-07T15:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/romney-may-fundraisers-outpace-obama-s-contributions.html
Presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  and the Republican National Committee
announced today that they raised more than $76.8 million last
month, surpassing the amount reported by President  Barack Obama 
and the  Democratic Party .  Romney’s campaign and the party said they entered this
month with $107 million to spend.  The Obama campaign said on its website today that it had
raised more than $60 million last month. It didn’t offer a cash-
on-hand figure.  The figures include money for the presidential campaigns as
well as national and state party committees, which can accept
much larger donations than candidates. Both Obama and Romney
have set up joint fundraising committees with the parties.  Romney is raising money for the general election for the
first time, allowing him to go back to the same donors who
funded his successful primary campaign.  The 2012 election will be the first since the Watergate
scandal-plagued 1972 race in which both major party presidential
nominees fund their campaigns entirely with private
contributions. Until now, at least one major-party nominee had
taken federal funds and agreed to spending limits in every
election since 1976, the first under campaign-finance laws
enacted in response to Watergate.  Voters Want Change  “Our strong fundraising is a sign that Americans are tired
of President Obama’s broken promises and want a change of
direction in the White House,”  Republican National Committee 
Chairman Reince Priebus said in a statement. “We will continue
the hard work of raising the resources to defeat President Obama
so that we can elect Mitt Romney and Republicans up and down the
ballot to get our country on the right track again.”  The Obama campaign touted its 572,000 donors last month as
“the grassroots strength of this organization, and a contrast
to the special-interest money the Romney campaign is relying on
for support.”  Details on fundraising by campaign and party committees are
due at the Federal Election Commission June 20.  Obama’s re-election committee more than doubled the amount
raised by Romney’s presidential campaign through April, taking
in $222.3 million to $100.4 million, and had $115.2 million in
the bank entering May, compared with $9.2 million for the
challenger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 