-- Romney Sees ‘Moral Failure’ on Jobs as Obama Blames Congress
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/romney-charges-moral-failure-on-jobs-as-obama-blames-congress.html
Mitt Romney  stepped up his attacks on
President  Barack Obama ’s economic record, accusing him of
presiding over “a moral failure of tragic proportion” by
failing to stem unemployment as the poverty rate rises.  Even as Obama made fresh appeals to a reluctant Republican-
controlled Congress to approve a plan he says will create 1.9
million more jobs, the Republican challenger said the president
is putting his own political interests ahead of voters’ economic
needs.  “It’s just not moral for a president of the  United States 
to put his political agenda ahead of the well-being of the
working men and women of America,” Romney told donors at a
fundraiser at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in  St. Louis  last night.  The former Massachusetts governor’s comments went beyond
Romney’s usual criticism of Obama, seeking to link the
administration’s policies to a moral breakdown he argued has
occurred on the president’s watch.  “Sadly, it’s become clear that this president simply
doesn’t understand or appreciate these fundamental truths of our
economic system,” Romney told a few hundred voters yesterday in
the St. Louis warehouse of Production Products, a military
contractor specializing in making chemical and biological weapon
protections and defenses. The high U.S. unemployment and poverty
rates are “not just a failure of policy; it is a moral failure
of tragic proportion,” Romney said.  Obama, stung by the latest jobs report showing an uptick in
the  unemployment rate  to 8.2 percent and the slowest job growth
in a year, argues Romney would be worse for struggling
Americans.  Tax Cuts for All  At a fundraiser in  Los Angeles  yesterday, he warned that
Romney wants to double down on across-the-board tax cuts enacted
under former President  George W. Bush , and that a Romney
administration and a  Republican Congress  would leave people to
fend for themselves.  “It’s a vision that basically believes that the answer to
every question are more tax cuts for the wealthiest, the most
powerful; the fewest regulations that protect consumers, or keep
our air and water clean, or make sure that workers are treated
fairly; and that somehow, if government isn’t doing anything,
then the country is automatically going to be better,” Obama
said. “We tried this whole recipe, and it didn’t work.”  His campaign released a new television advertisement
blaming Republicans in Congress for blocking his jobs plan.  Romney’s fresh line of attack on Obama is tailored to avoid
alienating those who may have supported the president previously
and may still wish him well, yet are considering abandoning him
in November.  No Evil Intent  “I don’t believe, by the way, it was done with evil intent
or ill will,” Romney said in his critique of Obama’s policies.
“But for a family watching their house get foreclosed, or the
family that is forced to spend their kid’s college savings just
to make ends meet, the results are just the same, and just as
devastating.”  Romney also argued Obama is trying to fool Americans into
believing he has improved their economic circumstances.  “There is something fundamentally wrong when there are
over 23 million Americans who are unemployed, underemployed or
have stopped looking for work, and yet the president tells us
he’s doing a great job,” he said. “I will not be that
president of doubt and deception; I will lead us to a better
place.”  As Romney and Obama pushed dueling economic visions, the
president’s re-election campaign charged that the Republican had
violated federal ethics rules by not keeping his investments in
a strict blind trust, designed to shield holders from charges of
conflicts of interest.  Trust Not Blind  The Obama campaign’s general counsel, Robert Bauer, said
yesterday on a conference call with reporters, “In a very
fundamental way, the trust is not blind, nor has he taken any
steps to make the trust blind from the vantage point of federal
ethics rules.”  Romney’s fortune is held in a blind trust by R. Bradford Malt, a partner at Ropes & Gray LLP in  Boston . Critics suggest
that, because Malt has been a trustee of Romney’s charitable
foundation and represented him in legal disputes, he lacks
independence to operate a blind trust on the candidate’s behalf.  Romney’s campaign has conceded that his trust doesn’t meet
the standards of a federal blind trust and said that he would
transfer his assets to one that did meet those requirements if
elected. Spokeswoman Andrea Saul reiterated that in an interview
with the  Associated Press .  “As has been reported for years, Governor and Mrs.
Romney’s assets are managed on a blind basis,” she said in a
statement yesterday. “They do not control the investment of
these assets, which are under the control and overall management
of a trustee.”  Bain Payments  The Obama campaign is also questioning continuing payments
to Romney from Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based private equity
firm he helped start. Much of Romney’s fortune, estimated at as
much as $250 million, comes from his work at Bain.  “What the governor has done is put himself in the middle of
a smoking appearance problem at best,” Bauer said. “At worst,
there are unanswered questions about what’s really taking place
around the continued profits that he is acquiring from Bain.”  Saul said the criticisms of Romney’s finances were a
“tired distraction” from Obama’s team designed to shift
attention from the president’s policy failures.  Fundraising Battle  Romney and the  Republican National Committee  announced that
they raised more than $76.8 million in May, surpassing for the
first time in the campaign the amount reported by Obama and the
 Democratic Party . Romney’s campaign and the party said they
entered this month with $107 million to spend.  The Obama campaign said on its website it had raised more
than $60 million last month. It didn’t offer a cash-on-hand
figure.  The president’s campaign responded with a text message to
supporters saying, “We got beat,” and including a link for
making donations.  The latest figures include money for the presidential
campaigns as well as national and state party committees, which
can accept much larger donations than candidates. Both Obama and
Romney have set up joint fundraising committees with the
parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in St. Louis,  Missouri  at  
1890 or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 