-- True Capitalists Are Pro-Market, Not Pro-Business
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-06-07T22:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/true-capitalists-are-pro-market-not-pro-business.html
Since the failure of the effort to
recall Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , a  curious meme  has been
slithering through the commentariat: Public-employee unions are
down and out.  They aren’t, of course. They remain as formidable as ever,
and will spend the current election cycle doing what they do,
spending tens of millions of dollars to elect candidates who
favor their interests. We might be better off if the unions had
less political clout -- as long as the pro-business groups that
get up to the same mischief were less powerful, too.  Or so argues  Luigi Zingales , a regular contributor to
Bloomberg View and a professor at the University of Chicago
Booth School of Business, whose new book, “A Capitalism for the
People: Recapturing the Lost Genius of American Prosperity,” was
recently  excerpted  in Bloomberg View.  Despite the charmingly misleading title, the volume is not
a paean to forced equalization of income or the strict
regulation of industry. Quite the contrary. Zingales, who seems
to be something of a moderate libertarian, wants to rescue
markets and competition from the forces that threaten them:
overregulation on the left and, on the right, a pro-business (as
opposed to pro-market) ideology.  Crony Capitalism  This last distinction is what makes his book so
fascinating. The great threat to our economic future, in his
telling, is crony capitalism, along with other forms of rent-
seeking that have become ubiquitous in a complex regulated
state. Although much of the argument might seem to be standard
public-choice theory, Zingales provides an enormous service by
laying out such persuasive evidence. Most of the book is devoted
to setting forth an original, middle-ground program for getting
us out of our current economic mess by reducing the
opportunities for rent-seeking and increasing the opportunities
for competition.  No reader, including me, is likely to agree with everything
Zingales says. But he provides a useful corrective to the
sloganeering and cant that inform so much of our public debate
about economic policy.  Zingales considers the free market both a moral and
economic imperative. He recognizes the current tide of populist
anger, reflected in different ways in both the Tea Party and
Occupy movements -- and that much of the anger is directed
against capitalism in general and big business in particular.
The real trouble, he contends, is the death of the Horatio Alger
myth. People no longer believe that hard work and following the
rules will get you ahead. The game, they believe, is fixed.  Zingales thinks they’re right. Special interests --
particularly big business and big labor -- hold too much
influence over the divvying up of resources that has become
among the most important functions of government. His solution,
however, is less regulation, not more. He prefers fewer and
simpler rules, and a government that encourages entrepreneurship
without trying to become an entrepreneur.  Predictably, Zingales scoffs at nearly all bailouts: “As
with the punishment of children, the costs of financial distress
have an important incentive effect.” Were policymakers right in
thinking that without the 2008 bailout, the banking system would
have collapsed? Zingales is skeptical. Government officials got
their information from the very financial institutions they were
charged with monitoring. Naturally, he writes, every call from
 Wall Street  to  Washington  said, “Buy the toxic assets.”  At the same time, he tells us that he has become a
supporter (sort of) of the  Glass-Steagall Act , which separated
commercial and investment banking and was repealed in 1999. In
economic terms, he concedes, the costs probably outweighed the
benefits. But the rule had a simplicity that even a “six-year-
old can understand”: “Banks should not gamble with government-
insured money.”  Simple Rules  Simple rules, he says, are better than complex ones, in
part because they can actually be subjected to democratic
debate, in part because it is harder “to hide the loopholes.”
If the basic problem slowing us down is a government built
around secret favors for special interests, then simpler rules
will leave space for fewer favors.  Then there is the matter of taxes. Zingales would tax
 capital gains  at the applicable personal rate, and in return
would slice the corporate income tax to avoid the problem of
double taxation. In this way, as any number of economists have
pointed out, taxes would be assessed on the profits distributed
to the actual owners of the corporation.  But Zingales identifies a different advantage. It is much
easier for corporations than for individuals -- even very
wealthy individuals -- to lobby for special treatment in the tax
code. If corporations aren’t being taxed, or are being taxed
only a little, their incentives to seek rents through the tax
code evaporate.  He also sees the entire spectrum of deductions on
individual returns as an instance of special interests grabbing
federal subsidies. He would abolish all deductions while cutting
all tax rates, a change that would (he and others insist)
produce the same amount of revenue.  Here I register a small but important point of
disagreement. Tax simplification is indeed imperative, and doing
away with deductions is an attractive idea. But  I would preserve 
the special treatment for charitable donations.  Everything else the government might choose to subsidize
through the  tax code  -- home buying, child care, and so on -- it
can support directly, with full transparency and opportunity for
debate. The charitable world it cannot, both because the
bureaucracy would lack the needed information and because
government support would swiftly put an end to the diversity of
civil society. I would turn the deduction into a refundable tax
credit, to encourage giving even by those who are most poorly
off, and to acknowledge formally that a dollar given to support
the institutions of civil society is no less important than a
dollar given to support the operation of the bureaucracy.  At the same time, Zingales does see the tax code as a
vehicle for certain incentives -- not by creating a welter of
deductions but by deciding what to tax.  Consider his approach
to campaign-finance reform.  Rather than fussing around in
arguments over who should be able to give how much to whom,
Zingales would prefer a progressive tax on all campaign
contributions, as well as all money spent on lobbying. If it
costs me $250 in taxes to make a $1,000 contribution, I am going
to think twice. The bigger the contribution, the bigger the tax
bill.  The genius of capitalism, he tells us, “is not private
property, not the profit motive, but competition.” He sees
competition as important in the public as well as the private
realm -- a proposition that I will take up in a future column.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
next novel, “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln ,” will be
published in July. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on how  Bahrain can model Mideast
reform  and why  Ben Bernanke should ease more ;  Jonathan Alter  on
 a new Obama campaign mantra ; A. Gary Shilling on  why the strong
yen won’t last ; Takeo Hoshi and Anil Kashyap on  Japan’s nuclear
safety ; Robert and Edward Skidelsky on  markets versus the good
life ; Dmitri Trenin on the risk that  Russia and China ally
against the U.S.   To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 