-- Rupee at Two-Week High as Singh Pledges Growth Stimulus
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-07T12:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/rupee-at-two-week-high-as-singh-pledges-growth-stimulus.html
India’s rupee advanced to a two-week
high after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  pledged measures to
revive economic growth, echoing similar statements from global
policy makers.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said yesterday
that officials stand ready to act to resolve their region’s debt
crisis after leaving the benchmark rate at 1 percent. The Dollar
Index weakened yesterday as Federal  Reserve Bank  of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said more stimulus should be
considered if U.S. growth slows. China cut  interest rates  today
for the first time since 2008.  “Talk of stimulus is positive for the rupee as that may
help boost growth and attract overseas investments,” said Vikas Babu, a currency trader at state-owned  Andhra Bank (ANDB)  in Mumbai.
“The dollar’s relative weakness has also underpinned the local
currency.”  The rupee advanced 0.8 percent to 54.9450 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier
touched 54.9325, the strongest level since May 22. The
currency’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, fell 85 basis points to 11.65
percent. The BSE India Sensitive  Index (DXY)  climbed 1.2 percent.  India’s gross domestic product rose 5.3 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the least in nine years,
government data showed last week. The  Reserve Bank of India  has
more room to cut interest rates after economic growth slowed,
Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said on June 4.  ‘Do Everything Possible’  Singh yesterday outlined port projects worth an equivalent
of about $6.3 billion for the financial year through March 2013,
an investment target of $3.6 billion for Mumbai’s elevated rail
corridor and plans to add airports. It also set goals of
building 9,500 kilometers (5,904 miles) of roads in the 12-month
period, up 18.7 percent from last year, and adding about 18,000
megawatts of power generation capacity.  “In these difficult times we must do everything possible
to revive business and investor sentiment,” Singh said in a
statement in  New Delhi  yesterday. “We must work to create an
atmosphere which is conducive to investment and to removing any
bottlenecks that may be hurting the growth process. We as a
government are committed to taking the necessary measures to
reverse the present situation.”  Three-month onshore currency forwards traded at 55.86 a
dollar, compared with 56.36 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 55.86 from 56.49. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  