-- Russia Revives Asset Sales With Sberbank, Alrosa, Sovcomflot
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 2012-06-07T09:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/russia-revives-asset-sales-with-sberbank-alrosa-sovcomflot.html
Russia’s government seeks to almost
triple revenue from selling assets this year as it loosens its
grip on the economy, including shares of lender  OAO Sberbank (SBER) ,
tanker operator OAO Sovcomflot and diamond monopoly OAO Alrosa.  The government approved a privatization plan that targets
revenue of 300 billion rubles ($9.3 billion) this year, with
about half of that total coming from those three companies,
Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said at a government meeting in
Moscow today. That compares with 121 billion rubles last year,
before President  Vladimir Putin  swapped jobs with Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev .  Medvedev is seeking to revive government efforts to lessen
its role in the economy and boost budget revenue amid falling
prices for oil and gas, the country’s largest exports. Other
companies on the privatization list for this year include
fertilizer maker OAO Apatit, nanotechnology holding OAO Rosnano
and operators of ports in Murmansk, Arkhangelsk and Vanino.  The biggest offering will be 7.6 percent of Sberbank, which
should take place “soon,” Belousov said. The government owns
57.6 percent of the former Soviet savings bank and has postponed
the sale several times since the original September 2011 target
date, citing market turmoil. The government may later cut its
stake further, Belousov said, without being more specific. The
Sberbank sale may take place in September, a person with
knowledge of the matter said May 29.  Rosneft, Transneft  The plan approved today also calls for the government by
2016 to sell its entire stakes in OAO Rosneft, the country’s
biggest oil company, OAO RusHydro, its biggest renewable energy
producer, power utility OAO Inter RAO UES and overseas crude
producer OAO Zarubezhneft. The government plans to reduce its
stakes in oil-pipeline monopoly OAO Transneft and high-voltage
transmission monopoly Federal Grid Co. by the same date.  Belousov said the government should gain at least 100
billion rubles from the Sberbank sale. The stock fell 0.3
percent to 80.37 rubles at 12:52 p.m. in Moscow, valuing the
bank at about $52 billion and a 7.6 percent stake at about $4
billion. Sberbank is the third-largest lender in  Europe  by
market value, after HSBC Group Plc’s $149 billion, and Banco
Santander SA’s $57 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  