-- Russia, China Get Syrian Request to Investigate Houla Massacre
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-06-07T16:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/russia-china-get-syrian-request-to-investigate-houla-massacre.html
Russia ,  China  and other countries
received a request from the Syrian government to investigate
last month’s massacre in Houla, according to a senior lawmaker
in the Russian ruling party.  “There’s no proof of either the involvement of pro-
government or opposition forces,” Alexei Pushkov, the head of
the foreign-affairs committee in the lower house of parliament
in Moscow, said in a telephone interview today. “If you listen
to Western media, you hear witnesses who say pro-government
militia carried it out, but if you listen to Syrian media, you
hear witnesses who say that it was opposition fighters.”  The United Nations Human Rights Council called for a probe
into the May 25 massacre of more than 100 people, including
dozens of children, which it said was carried out by “pro-
regime elements” and government forces.  Syria  blamed terrorists
for the killings.  The timing of the Houla massacre, as well reports yesterday
by opposition activists of the killing of 78 people, more than
half of them women and children, in a village in Hama province,
point to the involvement of rebel fighters, said Pushkov. The
first massacre happened a day before United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan  visited Syria and the latest on the eve of UN Security
Council discussions on Syria, he said.  “To carry out such acts on the eve of such events is
absolutely counterproductive for the Syrian government,”
Pushkov said. “To the contrary, I can see that for rebel
fighters, especially Islamist rebel fighters for whom blood is
cheap, as shown by experience in  Afghanistan ,  Iraq  and many
other places, there is a direct political benefit.”  Syria has found evidence that fighters from Libya and
Tunisia with ties to al-Qaeda are among the rebels and some of
the Houla massacre was filmed, Syria’s ambassador to Russia,
Riad Haddad, said in a June 1 interview.  “The main aim is to cause failure of the Annan plan and to
provoke foreign military interference,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  