-- Russia Urges Saudis, Qatar to Halt Help for Syria Rebels
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-06-08T08:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/russia-urges-saudi-arabia-qatar-to-halt-help-for-syria-rebels.html
Russia  is looking to a proposed
international conference on Syria to pressure Saudi Arabia and
Qatar to halt help for rebels against President Bashar al-Assad,
a senior lawmaker in the Russian ruling party said.  Russia and China on June 6 proposed a meeting to back peace
efforts by United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan . The two nations,
along with the U.S., the U.K.,  France , the European Union, the
Organization of Islamic Conference and Arab League states,
 Turkey  and  Iran  should take part, Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  said in Beijing after talks between Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  and his Chinese counterpart,  Hu Jintao .  “Boats carrying weapons are being dispatched and they are
getting financing too because  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar are paying
salaries to members of the Syrian Free Army,” Alexei Pushkov,
the head of the foreign-affairs committee in the lower house of
parliament, said in a telephone interview yesterday in Moscow.
“Instead of supporting the armed actions of the opposition, we
want them to exert a restraining influence.”  Putin, who returned to the presidency for a third term last
month, has signaled that Russia won’t insist on Assad staying in
power. A U.S. delegation, led by Fred Hof, the State
Department’s special envoy to the Syrian opposition, began talks
with Russian officials including Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov today in Moscow. A statement will be issued after the
meeting, the Russian Foreign Ministry said.  Veto Threat  Russia has shielded the Assad regime, its biggest Middle
East ally, vowing to veto any attempt at imposing sanctions on
the Syrian government through the UN Security Council. The
threat has hobbled 15 months of international efforts to
pressure the Assad government as the conflict deteriorated from
peaceful protests into an armed fighting with sectarian
undercurrents.  The U.S. delegation will try to forge a common approach to
moving Assad aside, with the goal of replacing him with someone
acceptable to both sides in the conflict, according to two U.S
officials speaking on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the issue.  Saudi Arabia and Qatar, ruled by Sunni monarchies that are
at odds with  Syria ’s mainly Shiite ally, Iran, have publicly
voiced support for arming the rebels. Syria’s ambassador to
Russia said last week that the two countries are sabotaging the
UN plan by continuing to arm rebels in violation of a cease-fire
agreement reached in April.  Arms Shipments  “Weapons are entering Syria through its borders with
Lebanon and Turkey,” Riad Haddad said in a June 1 interview.
“And these are heavy weapons.”  Lebanese authorities at the end of April seized a ship
originating in Libya that was carrying anti-tank and anti-
aircraft missiles destined for Syrian opposition groups, Haddad
said.  The U.S. in turn has accused Russia of propping up Assad’s
regime by supplying weapons to Syria. The latest shipment was
delivered by a boat owned by billionaire  Vladimir Lisin  on May
26, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Annan, who visited Syria in the wake of the May 25 massacre
of more than 100 people in Houla, called on Assad’s government
and opposition forces to halt the violence and abide by the
cease-fire agreement.  Russia,  China  and other countries received a request from
the Syrian government to investigate the massacre in Houla,
Pushkov said.  ‘No Proof’  “There’s no proof of either the involvement of pro-
government or opposition forces,” he said. “If you listen to
Western media, you hear witnesses who say pro-government militia
carried it out, but if you listen to Syrian media, you hear
witnesses who say that it was opposition fighters.”  The UN Human Rights Council called for a probe into the
Houla killings, including dozens of children, which it said were
carried out by “pro-regime elements” and government forces.
Syria blamed terrorists for the atrocity.  The timing of the Houla massacre, as well as reports two
days ago by opposition activists of the killing of 78 people,
more than half of them women and children, in a village in Hama
province, point to the involvement of rebel fighters, according
to Pushkov. The first massacre happened a day before Annan
visited Syria and the latest just before UN Security Council
discussions on Syria, he said.  ‘Absolutely Counterproductive’  “To carry out such acts on the eve of such events is
absolutely counterproductive for the Syrian government,”
Pushkov said. “To the contrary, I can see that for rebel
fighters, especially Islamist rebel fighters for whom blood is
cheap, as shown by experience in  Afghanistan ,  Iraq  and many
other places, there is a direct political benefit.”  Syria has found evidence that fighters from  Libya  and
Tunisia with ties to al-Qaeda are among the rebels and some of
the Houla massacre was filmed, the Syrian ambassador to Russia
said.  “The main aim is to cause failure of the Annan plan and to
provoke foreign military interference,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  