-- Saint-Gobain CEO Says First-Half Results to Fall on Europe
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-06-07T16:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/saint-gobain-ceo-says-first-half-results-to-fall-on-europe-1-.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA  Chief
Executive Officer Pierre-Andre de Chalendar predicted first-half
earnings will drop as European car sales decline and
construction markets struggle to recover in southern  Europe .  “The global economic environment could be tougher in
2012,” the CEO said at a shareholders meeting in Paris today.
“First-half results will be lower than a year earlier because
of a high comparison basis and an unfavorable development of
results” in the glass business.  The CEO reiterated that organic revenue growth in 2012
should be “moderate,” mainly driven by rising prices. He also
repeated that operating income and profitability “should prove
resilient” and that the group will achieve a “high” level of
free  cash flow .”  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA , Europe’s biggest supplier of
building materials, predicts western European car sales will
continue to drop in 2012, while other industrial markets should
keep a “decent level of activity,” de Chalendar said. European
residential construction markets should remain “somewhat
resilient,” with strong disparities among countries, he said.  Saint-Gobain, based in Courbevoie near the French capital,
fell 5.1 percent to 27.82 euros in Paris.  “After a first quarter that was somewhat decent, signs in
recent weeks aren’t very positive” for the economy, de
Chalendar said.  Spain Difficulties  First-quarter figures show that  Spain  is in difficulties
because of the economic crisis, de Chalendar said. Spain
accounts for about 4 percent of revenue, including packaging,
which is “little” affected, he said.  The company will continue to adjust operations in the most
difficult areas and businesses, the CEO said.  Growth should gradually pick up in the second half in  Asia 
and  emerging markets  after a lackluster start to the year, de
Chalendar said. The U.S. construction market should confirm its
progressive recovery in the second half, he said.  Saint-Gobain, which cancelled the sale of a minority stake
of its Verallia packaging unit a year ago as stock market
slumped, will resume the process when markets are more
favorable, the CEO said today.  “It’s out of the question” to sell Verallia “in bad
conditions,” the CEO said. The company will proceed with the
share sale when conditions are appropriate, “and I doubt that
it will be the case in 2012.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francois de Beaupuy at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  