-- Samsung Electronics Names Chip Business Head Kwon as CEO
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-06-07T10:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/samsung-electronics-names-component-business-head-as-ceo.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Asia ’s
largest electronics maker, named Kwon Oh Hyun, head of the
company’s display and chip business, as chief executive officer
after his division led the company out of an industry downturn.  Kwon, who was promoted to vice chairman in December, will
handle broader corporate matters in addition to running its
component business,  Samsung Group , parent of the electronics
maker, said in a statement today. Outgoing CEO Choi Gee Sung
will lead the group’s strategy office, according to the
statement from the Suwon, South Korea-based company.  Kwon helped Samsung, the top maker of computer-memory
chips, weather a slump last year by expanding into more
profitable semiconductors for mobile devices and servers. Kwon
is taking over a business  valued  at $159 billion that’s also No.
1 in mobile phones and televisions as global competition
intensifies.  “The consumer electronics business is still making much
more money,” Lee Sun Tae, an analyst at NH Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul, said by phone. “He won’t prioritize
one area over another, but consumer electronics will remain a
more profitable business, and he’ll take that into account.”  Overtaking Nokia  Samsung ended  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s 14-year run as the global leader
in mobile phones for the first time last quarter, while
regaining the lead in the smartphone market from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The
iPhone maker made a new court filing on June 5 to block sales of
the latest Galaxy smartphones in the U.S., deepening a global
 patent dispute .  Lee Jae Yong, the son of Chairman Lee Kun Hee, will remain
chief operating officer, according to the statement.  Samsung rose 5.2 percent, the most since Dec. 1, to
1,265,000 won at the close on the Korea stock exchange. The
shares have advanced 20 percent this year, compared with a 1.2
percent gain on the benchmark Kospi index.  Separately, Samsung said it plans to build a multibillion
dollar  semiconductor  factory in  South Korea .  The company will spend 2.25 trillion won ($1.9 billion) to
build the plant to meet rising demand for chips powering mobile
devices, Samsung said in a statement today.  The  production line  will be built in Hwaseong, South Korea,
south of Seoul. The company seeks to complete construction by
the end of 2013, according to the statement.  Samsung is shifting away from making computer memory to
more profitable mobile chips as smartphones and tablet computers
cut into demand for bulkier machines.  The company plans to spend 15 trillion won on the
semiconductor business this year as it challenges  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  in contract chip manufacturing,
building on its exclusive deal to make Apple-designed processors
running the iPhone and iPad.  “The size of the investment is very massive,” Choi Do Yeon, a Seoul-based analyst at LIG Investment & Securities, said
by phone. “It shows Samsung’s strong will to focus on the non-
memory side, rather than the memory side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  