-- HSBC’s Flint Says Bank Capital Is ‘Immediate Concern’ in Europe
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-06-07T13:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/hsbc-s-flint-says-bank-capital-is-immediate-concern-in-europe.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman  Douglas Flint  said the European Union and the financial industry need a
long-term plan to regain investor confidence once the region’s
bank recapitalization is resolved.  “The immediate concern is addressing bank recapitalization
where the markets believe that it’s necessary and doing it in a
way that people are confident that it’s being done appropriately
and fairly,” said Flint, speaking to reporters at a meeting of
the Institute of International Finance Inc. in Copenhagen today.  Concern about Spain’s ailing banks pushed up the country’s
funding costs to the most since November after Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro called on European institutions to help the
nation shore up its lenders. The EU yesterday unveiled plans for
more unified bank supervision, including mechanisms to assist
ailing banks that should alleviate the future cost to taxpayers.  “There’s no simple single measure about what mechanism to
use,” said Flint, who this week became chairman of the IIF, the
industry lobby group that led private creditor negotiations in
 Greece ’s debt restructuring. “The only thing that matters is
that people feel it’s the right measure and it’s equitable.”  Urs Rohner, chairman of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said the
EU’s banking plan proposed by  Michel Barnier , the 27-nation
bloc’s financial-services chief, is in line with changes backed
by the IIF and prescribed by the Financial Stability Board.
Rohner said he doesn’t favor a prefunded proposal to bail out
failed lenders.  Resolution Fund  Under Barnier’s plans, national governments would impose
annual levies on banks to ensure that a minimum amount of money,
a so-called resolution fund, is available to stabilize a crisis-
hit lender.  The IIF called on the FSB to force supervisors to work
together to create a common framework for overseeing global
banks and managing potential failures.  “The FSB should strengthen its approach to secure
effective cross-border resolution of major firms,” said Rohner.
The FSB “should mandate -- not just urge -- effective
cooperation among jurisdictions on cross-border resolution.”  A plan for  Europe  is “indispensable,” Rohner said.  “In any crisis you have to stabilize the patient,” said
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  Chief Executive  Richard Waugh . “You have to
then get to the long-term reforms. You have to do both to fix
the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  