-- Sberbank Said to Buy Dexia Unit Denizbank for $3.6 Billion
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-06-07T16:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/sberbank-said-to-buy-dexia-unit-denizbank-for-3-6-billion-1-.html
OAO Sberbank (SBER)  of Russia, Eastern
Europe’s largest lender, bought  Dexia SA’s (DEXB)  Turkish unit
 Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  for about $3.6 billion (2.9 billion euros), three
people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Franco-Belgian Dexia and Sberbank agreed on the transaction
today during talks in Istanbul, where Denizbank is based, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the process is
confidential.  Sberbank is the first Russian lender to buy a bank in
Turkey, joining  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  in a country where the economy expanded 8.5 percent last
year. The deal would be the largest in Eastern Europe, the
Middle East and Africa this year and the biggest in Turkey since
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA bought 24.9 percent of
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  for $5.8 billion in March last year.  Dexia and Sberbank will announce the results of the talks
tomorrow, Denizbank said in a filing with the  Istanbul Stock
Exchange  today. Alexander Baziyan, a spokesman for Sberbank,
declined comment. Benoit Gausseron, a spokesman for Dexia,
didn’t answer two phone calls to his mobile seeking comment.  “The sale is very positive for the Turkish banking
industry because now investors can start focusing on other
Turkish banks as well,” Haluk Akdogan, London-based analyst at
ING Groep NV, said in a telephone interview today. “The
valuation is very good from Dexia’s point of view.”  Bank Values  The sale price of $3.6 billion corresponds to 1.33 times
Denizbank’s book value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Dexia paid Turkish businessman Ahmet Nazif Zorlu and minority
shareholders $3.1 billion for 96 percent of Denizbank in 2006.  Turkiye Garanti, the biggest listed bank by market value in
Turkey, trades at 1.39 times book value.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , part-owned
by Citigroup Inc., has a price to book ratio of 1.24.  Turkiye Is
Bankasi AS (ISCTR) , the country’s biggest bank by assets, trades at 0.95
times book.  Denizbank rose 0.9 percent to 11.75 liras at 5 p.m. in
Istanbul. Less than 0.2 percent of Denizbank’s shares trade on
the exchange. Dexia dropped 6.3 percent to 15 euro cents in
Brussels. Sberbank rose 2.7 percent to 2.515 rubles in Moscow.  Growth Plans  Sberbank is seeking growth opportunities outside of the
former Soviet Union as some western European lenders sell their
subsidiaries in Eastern Europe to comply with capital rules or
state aid conditions. It bought most of  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG’s (VBPS)  eastern European business for 505 million euros
in February as a platform for expanding in the region.  Dexia, based in Paris and Brussels, put Denizbank up for
sale as part of a rescue plan imposed by the French and Belgian
governments when the debt crisis eroded its ability to obtain
funding. The Denizbank sale would have a positive impact on
Dexia’s creditworthiness, Moody’s Investors Service said May 28.  Net income at Denizbank more than tripled to 423.1 million
liras ($232 million) in the first quarter, according to a stock
exchange filing on May 8. The lender had deposits of 23.1
billion liras at the end of March. Loans were 23.4 billion liras
and assets 38 billion liras.  Profit in  Turkey ’s banking industry climbed an annual 11
percent to 7.66 billion liras ($4.2 billion) in the first four
months, the bank regulator in Ankara said on June 6.  Sberbank entered into exclusive negotiations with Dexia to
buy Denizbank on May 24. Sberbank’s advisers were Deutsche Bank
AG, Rothschild and Troika Diolog, while Dexia’s adviser was Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  