-- TSE’s Osaka Merger Gets 90% Odds as First Deal Since 2010
-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-06-08T08:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/tse-s-osaka-merger-gets-90-odds-as-first-deal-since-10.html
Tokyo  Stock Exchange Group Inc.’s
acquisition of Osaka Securities Exchange Co. is poised to gain
regulatory approval, the first for a major bourse since $32
billion of global deals were vetoed in the past 14 months.  The takeover has a 90 percent chance of being cleared by
 Japan ’s antitrust watchdog without any preconditions, after the
government streamlined merger reviews last year, according to
Koya Uemura, a lawyer in Tokyo at Anderson Mori & Tomotsune.
TSE’s bid, which values Osaka at 129.6 billion yen ($1.6
billion), would create the world’s third-largest exchange based
on turnover, according to data compiled by Deutsche Bank AG.  “Merger reviews are becoming looser than before,” Uemura,
whose firm is ranked among Japan’s leading antitrust practices
by legal publisher Chambers & Partners, said in an interview.  The Tokyo exchange accounts for about 96 percent of Japan’s
equity trading, the bourse’s data show, and Osaka is the only
domestic venue for futures on the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average. (NKY)  The
government wants to create what it calls a “comprehensive
exchange” by 2013 to regain the country’s role as Asia’s
financial hub by 2020, according to a 2010 economic planning
document.  Japan Fair Trade Commission  began its review Jan. 4.  Regulators scuttled more than $30 billion in exchange
takeovers globally since  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  launched a bid
for Australia’s  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  in October 2010 amid public calls to
maintain domestic control of  stock trading , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The $3.9 billion bid for TMX Group Inc.,
operator of Canada’s main bourse, is the only other merger of
public exchanges still pending.  Spokesmen for the Japanese exchanges declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg.  Osaka’s Shares  Osaka Securities shares were  unchanged  at 448,000 yen
yesterday, within 7 percent of the 480,000 yen TSE bid. The
stock has traded within 10 percent below the offer price since
the deal was announced on Nov. 22. The shares fell 0.3 percent
to 446,500 yen on Osaka’s Jasdaq market today.  The bourses will hold shareholder meetings this fall or
near the end of the year to vote on the merger,  OSE (8697)  President
 Michio Yoneda  told reporters on May 28 in Osaka.  The Japan Fair Trade Commission announced procedural
amendments last June 14 to increase transparency and speed its
reviews, and to clarify merger and acquisition guidelines. The
commission said a geographical market can be defined as
worldwide or regional, not just Japanese, in judging whether a
company would have too much power.  Review Abolished  Commissioners also abolished an informal review process
before companies submitted official M&A notices. That prior
consultation could take more than a year and result in lists of
questions and delays, according to a report by Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, a  law firm .  The prior consultation meant deals likely to be rejected
weren’t submitted for formal review. The commission has never
officially blocked a merger, said Wataru Kobayashi, director of
the regulator’s mergers and acquisitions division. No deals have
been stopped since the changes took effect on July 1, he said.  Australia’s competition regulator took five weeks to
approve  Singapore Exchange ’s takeover bid for Sydney-based ASX,
operator of the country’s main bourse. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  then
blocked the deal in April 2011 on national interest grounds.  The European Commission vetoed  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s $9.53
billion sale to  Deutsche Boerse  on Feb. 1 after a review that
began on June 29. The deal to create the world’s biggest bourse
owner would have led to a “near-monopoly” in European
exchange-traded derivatives, the regulator said. Any savings for
investors from the combination would “not be substantial enough
to outweigh the harm to customers caused by the merger.”  ‘Nationalistic Sentiment’  The  U.S. Department of Justice  had previously cleared the
merger as long as Deutsche Boerse sold its 31.5 percent stake in
another U.S. equity market, Direct Edge Holdings LLC.  “A major distinction between the Japanese proposal and the
many failed mergers is that the TSE-OSE merger is domestic,”
said Yap Lian Seng, a partner at Singapore-based law firm
 Stamford  Law, who advised ASX on Singapore Exchange’s failed bid.
“Many of the other mergers were cross-border transactions
involving the main, or national, stock exchange of the countries.
Opponents to such transactions could easily play up
nationalistic sentiments.”  While the TSE’s share of domestic stock trading value is
about 96 percent, it was 6.3 percent of the global total in 2011,
according Deutsche Bank’s May 24 report. OSE’s global share was
0.3 percent, making the combined trading value the third-highest
after NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX. For derivatives transactions,
TSE and OSE combined made up 0.9 percent of global trading value,
according to the report.  ‘Narrow’ View  “There were some opinions that the commission’s attitude
toward a global market was too narrow,” said Akinori Uesugi, a
senior consultant at law firm Freshfields, who was a previous
secretary general of the regulator. With the rules clarified,
more companies would “try to engage in bigger or more global
mergers,” he said.  An agreement between Japan’s Nippon Steel Corp. and
Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. to create the world’s second-
biggest steelmaker was approved by the commission less than a
year after their merger talks began.  “Despite the large-scale deal, it was approved in a short
time and almost without any preconditions,” said Anderson Mori
& Tomotsune’s Uemura.  Emerging Competition  In 2000, Japan had 12 companies among the world’s 30-
largest firms by sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The country had three as of June 1 this year, compared with six
from  China ,  South Korea ,  Russia  and Brazil in the top 30. In
2000, no emerging market companies were in the top 70.  “Mergers are rejected when a company’s market share rises,
leading to higher prices,” Uemura said. “Given the
deteriorating standing of TSE in the world, and with money
flowing out overseas, it’s hard to think the merged bourse would
increase fees or lower its quality of services.”  Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average slumped 17
percent last year after the March 2011 earthquake, tsunami and
nuclear disaster, and as a flight to safety from Europe’s debt
crisis drove the yen to a post-World War II high, reducing
repatriated corporate profits. The index is up 0.9 percent this
year through June 6, compared with a 4.6 percent gain by the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Initial public offerings in Japan increased to 36 last year
from 22 in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Total
proceeds of less than $2 billion accounted for 1 percent of the
global total in 2011. That compares with $23.9 billion raised in
Hong Kong, and $44.2 billion in China. Twenty-two listing
announcements have been made in Japan this year.  “There’s a lot of attention on this merger deal from those
who study antimonopoly laws,” said Funada Masayuki, a law
professor at Japan’s Rikkyo University. “This is a special case
involving exchanges, and it’s hard to bring up precedents. The
regulator will be faced with making a new kind of assessment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 