-- Seeing Euro 2012 by Train, Plane or Automobile May Tax Patience
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-06-07T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/seeing-euro-2012-by-train-plane-or-automobile-may-tax-patience.html
Czech soccer fan Ondrej Cihar and his
three friends will pack tents, sleeping bags and cooking gear
into their Volkswagen Passat for a bumpy ride.  The 279-kilometer (173-mile) weekend trip to  Wroclaw  in
southern Poland to watch their national team will take Cihar and
his companions along communist-era roads not designed for the
traffic expected during the European soccer championship, which
starts today in Poland and Ukraine.  “We’re aware that roads aren’t in the shape we’re used
to,” said Cihar, a marketing manager in  Prague . “There are
obstacles, but we aren’t afraid that we won’t get there.”  As  Euro 2012  provides sporting respite from the debt crisis
raging across the continent, the host countries are hoping the
$35 billion they have plowed into roads, airports, hotels and
rail lines over five years will be enough to cope with the
influx of about 2 million soccer fans.  The build-out took place amid criticism governments have
done too little, too late to improve shoddy infrastructure that
will have to shuttle tourists around eight cities flung across
an area a third the width of the U.S. and straddling either side
of the European Union’s eastern frontier.  “It’s infrastructure in general: buses, venues, hotels,”
said Rene Proske, managing director of Germany-based Proske
Sports, which is responsible for organizing Coca-Cola Co.’s
hospitality and who is concerned about his clients travelling in
Ukraine. “We have to be creative. Many clients have chosen to
have fly-in, fly-out programs,” he said.  Not Cosmetic  Poles and Ukrainians defend their record, saying the scope
of modernization was a massive feat, considering the condition
of most stadiums, airports and highways before reconstruction
began. The final 20-kilometer stretch missing to complete the
580-kilometer highway linking  Warsaw  and Berlin to the west was
opened this week, 23 years after communism ended.  “In five years we promised to make up for the entire lack
of infrastructure investment” after the fall of the communist
system in 1989, Adrian Furgalski, an analyst at Warsaw-based ZDG
TOR, a transportation consultancy, said in an e-mail. “Compared
with  Poland , investments by previous hosts of European football
cups were just cosmetics.”  Of the two countries, Poland is a member of the 27-nation
EU, giving it access to more investment money than Ukraine, and
it is a member of the Schengen treaty, which allows passport-
free travel from Germany and most other EU countries into
Poland. Still, some measures will be reintroduced to increase
safety, Poland’s border-control service said on its  website .  New Highways  Poland, which is the only EU nation to have survived the
global economic crisis without a recession, spent about 90
billion zloty ($25 billion) improving infrastructure for the
event, according to  PL2012 , the state-run company in charge of
preparations for the event.  For that money, the nation has added about 1,200 kilometers
of  high-speed motorways  to the existing 900 kilometers of
motorways since 2007, according to Antoni Mrugasiewicz, a
spokesman for the state road-building agency.  Neighboring Ukraine, which is not an EU or Schengen member,
spent about $10 billion to improve its Soviet-built
transportation system, including $2 billion to fix 1,625
kilometers of the country’s total 170,000-kilometer road network
that is often crumbling or crushed by modern traffic patterns.  “Relying on Ukrainian roads? Oh no!” said  Luis Costa , a
London-based emerging-markets strategist at Citigroup. He will
fly into Kiev and stay there instead of traveling to other
cities, such as Kharkiv and Donetsk in the eastern part of the
country for additional matches.  Flying Fans  About three-quarters of fans are expected to fly into the
two countries, prompting reconstruction of airports in the
capitals Warsaw and Kiev, and upgrades in smaller airfields
around the two countries.  To accommodate the increased traffic, air carriers Polskie
Linie Lotnicze LOT SA and Ukrainian International Airlines
boosted the number of flights. LOT added 58 scheduled flights,
including routes to Wroclaw and Donetsk in eastern Ukraine.  Low-cost airline Wizz Air Ltd. added 16 international
flights, including routes to Poland and  Germany , which borders
the country to the west. Ukraine International Airlines added 24
flights from Kiev to Donetsk and Kharkiv in the east and Lviv to
the west. Three runways were built and separate arrival and
departure terminals were added to Kiev’s Boryspil airport.  Road Miles  From there, it will mainly be ground transportation, with
supporters of the German, Danish, Dutch and Portuguese teams
forced to travel 1,017 kilometers back and forth between Lviv
and Kharkiv for group games.  Those who will watch the quarterfinals on June 21 in Warsaw
and follow their team to the semi-finals in Donetsk six days
later will have to cover 1,493 kilometers by road.  Travel  between cities in Poland may take from about 1 hour
by air, or as long as seven hours by train or car from Wroclaw
in southern Poland to Gdansk near the  Baltic Sea  in the north.
This week’s train ride by the Czech national team from Prague to
Wroclaw, a four-hour trip by car, took seven hours.  Ukraine announced the opening of new high-speed intercity
Hyundai-made trains between its four host cities last month,
although sale of tickets between Kiev and Donetsk, where five
games will be played, started just a week before the tournament.  Journey by train or car from Poland to Ukraine would take
much longer. According to Polish railways’ website, there’s no
direct train to Lviv in Ukraine from Warsaw. A 380-kilometer
train ride from Warsaw takes at least 13 hours.  ‘Absolute Nightmare’  David Meister, a 39-year old U.S. citizen who works in
advertising in Warsaw, said his trip to  Lviv  by car last year
was one of the “worst experiences” in his life.  “Once we crossed the border into Ukraine it was an
absolute nightmare” Meister said. “Sometimes it wasn’t even a
road, just holes and mud.”  Cihar from Prague and his friends are going to watch the
 Czech Republic  take on  Greece  on June 12. They want to soak up
the atmosphere of the  soccer tournament  to meet people from
different countries. He is also going to make sure nothing
prevents them, he said by telephone.  The group is coming to Wroclaw a day before to avoid
“traffic jams, all possible obstacles that might be on the
border,” Cihar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  