-- Senate Democrats Propose Pension Offset for Student Loans
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-08T04:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/senate-democrats-propose-pension-offset-for-student-loans.html
Company pension contribution rules
should be modified and pension insurance premiums increased to
cover the cost of a one-year freeze in the 3.4 percent student
loan interest rate, U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
proposed.  Reid urged raising the premiums companies pay to the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. and letting companies contribute
less to retirement plans that provide a defined benefit level.
The Nevada Democrat put the idea in a letter to House Speaker
 John Boehner  and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, both
Republicans.  “I suggest we use part of these offsets to pay for the
student loan legislation and pass that measure immediately so
that middle-class families will not see their  interest rates 
double on July 1,” Reid said.  Unless Congress acts, interest rates on government
subsidized student loans will double to 6.8 percent in July.
Republicans and Democrats have been unable to agree on how to
cover the $5.9 billion cost of the rate freeze.  In a May 31 letter to President  Barack Obama , McConnell of
Kentucky and Boehner of Ohio proposed various methods to pay for
the freeze, including higher pension contributions by federal
workers and a plan to prevent overpaying Social Security
benefits to retired state and municipal workers who receive
pensions.  Reid’s proposal would head off an increase in companies’
pension contributions caused by low corporate bond interest
rates. Because companies take tax deductions for contributions
to their employees’ pension accounts, the change would result in
more money flowing to the  U.S. Treasury .  Highway Bill  That part of Reid’s proposal was included in a highway bill
the Senate passed in March.  Reid spokesman Adam Jentleson wouldn’t say when Reid might
seek a vote on the plan.  “We’re hoping Republicans will engage on this proposal,
but of course we will try to avoid the rate hike on July 1,”
Jentleson said.  Obama kept up his campaign to prod Congress to avert a rate
increase when he spoke yesterday to students, faculty and local
officials at the University of  Nevada ,  Las Vegas . The president
blamed Republicans for inaction.  “These guys say that students like you should pay more”
for student loans to trim the deficit, while continuing tax
breaks for high earners and oil companies, Obama said. “It’s
wrong, it’s wrong.”  Senate Republicans on May 8 blocked Democrats’ proposal to
cover the cost of the one-year freeze in government student loan
interest rates by requiring some professional services firms to
pay withholding taxes on their income.  Health Fund  The House passed a bill that would cover the cost by
abolishing a public-health fund created by Obama’s health-care
overhaul.  McConnell spokesman  Don Stewart  said Reid’s latest offering
may be a sign of progress.  “While we still haven’t heard from the White House on our
bipartisan proposal, we are encouraged to see the majority
leader drop his insistence on taxing job creators,” Stewart
said in an e-mailed statement. “We will review these new
proposals and hope that they will finally review the bipartisan
proposals we sent a week ago.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
yesterday that the president thinks “there has been progress
and we will get this done, that Congress will eventually do the
right thing.”  Also, two Senate Republicans -- Richard Burr of  North
Carolina  and Tom Coburn of Oklahoma -- introduced legislation
that would restructure interest rates for government-backed
 student loans .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  