-- Serbia Raises Rate Amid Dinar Weakness, Inflation Worry
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-07T13:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/serbia-raises-main-rate-amid-dinar-weakness-inflation-pressures.html
Serbia ’s central bank raised its
 benchmark interest rate  for the first time in more than a year
to keep a lid on inflation and boost the dinar.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije raised the two-week
repurchase rate by a half point to 10 percent, the bank said
today in a statement. The move ended a series of cuts that began
in June 2011 and saw official borrowing costs fall 3 percentage
points. Fourteen of 22 economists in a Bloomberg  survey  forecast
an increase. Eight expected no change.  The central bank expects “inflation to increase from May
as import prices advance, a new agricultural season starts and
regulated prices gain from the second half of the year,” its
said in the statement. The bank also changed some reserve
requirements to “to stabilize the  exchange rate .”  The Balkan nation’s currency has weakened about 10 percent
against the euro this year, according to central bank figures.
Vice Governor Bojan Markovic said on June 1 that the bank may
increase rates to quell dinar volatility after inconclusive May
6 elections left the country without a government to speed up
the consolidation of public finances as the  economy  struggles to
avoid a second recession in three years.  The country’s five-month budget gap widened more than 80
percent from a year ago to 89.27 billion dinars as the shortfall
in May increased 41 percent to 4.51 billion dinars.  Reserve Requirements  The reserve requirement rate on foreign currency-indexed
dinar assets was raised to 50 percent, the central bank said.
Banks will also now set aside 27 percent instead of 20 percent
foreign-currency assets paid in dinars for maturities of less
than two years, and 19 percent instead of 15 percent for
maturities exceeding two years. The reserve requirement on
foreign-exchange assets paid in euros remained unchanged.  “These measures are expected to lessen the difference
between the cost of borrowing in dinars and in foreign exchange,
contribute to the stabilization of movements in the foreign
exchange market, and provide an additional impetus to long-term
borrowing in the coming period,” the bank said.  Dinar Recovery  Today’s moves failed to arrest the slide of the local
currency. It traded at 115.5161 versus the euro at 3:30 p.m.,
down 0.35 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The level of restrictive monetary policy in the coming
period will depend “on the speed, intensity and the
implementation of fiscal consolidation program as well as a
continuation of the International Monetary Fund assistance,”
the bank said in the statement.  Central bank chief Dejan Soskic is scheduled to elaborate
on the policy decision and macroeconomic outlook tomorrow at 2
p.m.. The next rate-setting meeting will take place on July 12.  Serbian parties may agree on the formation of the new
Cabinet “in the coming days,”  Boris Tadic , a former president
and the leader of the  Democratic Party , said after talks with
President  Tomislav Nikolic  yesterday.  “The central bank will likely be eager to put pressure on
politicians to quickly conclude an agreement to form the new
government,” Timothy Ash, an  emerging markets  economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc said in an e-mail today before the
announcement. “The dinar had come under heavy selling pressure,
driven partly by broader Eurozone concerns, but also by
uncertainty over the political and fiscal policy outlook in
Serbia.”  Austerity Effect  With the euro region slipping toward a recession amid
budget-cutting austerity measures and a flare-up of the debt
crisis, governments across  Europe  have been putting off rate
increases and considering easing to help their struggling
economies.  The Polish and  European Central Bank  left  interest rates  on
hold yesterday, while Czech policy makers last month left their
main interest rate at 0.75 percent for a 16th meeting and
Hungary held the European Union’s highest benchmark rate at 7
percent for a fifth month on May 29.  Serbia’s Fiscal Council, a three-member body monitoring
budget performance, said on May 30 that Serbia faces the threat
of a debt crisis after the  budget deficit  rose to between 7
percent and 8 percent of gross domestic product and public debt
approached 50 percent of GDP.  The dinar may plunge to 125 per euro by the end of the year
and inflation may accelerate to 10 percent if a new Cabinet is
not in place soon to implement fiscal consolidation, the
Belgrade-based Economics Institute said in a monthly report on
June 5.  The inflation rate fell to 2.7 percent in April, a 30-year
low. The bank targets an inflation rate of 4 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points at the end of 2012. The economy
contracted 1.3 percent in the first quarter after expanding an
annual 0.4 percent in the previous three-month period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Belgrade at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  