-- Shadow-Bank Rules a Banking Union Cornerstone, Barnier Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-06-07T16:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/shadow-banks-volcker-debate-are-eu-priorities-barnier-says.html
Proposals on shadow banking and the
structure of lenders’ retail and investment arms are priorities
this year as the European Union pushes toward a banking union,
said  Michel Barnier , the bloc’s financial services chief.  These measures, as well as the creation of European
financial supervisors and rules to end government-backed
bailouts of failing banks, are “fundamental cornerstones of a
banking union,” Barnier said today in a speech in Copenhagen.  European Union leaders, including European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso , have called for a banking union with more coordination
of regulation, as lawmakers seek to bolster confidence damaged
by debt turmoil. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  plans to report
on proposed “building blocks” for deeper integration in the
17-nation euro area to the next summit of EU leaders on June 28-
29 in Brussels.  Laws bringing deeper integration are “tough to implement
and even tougher to explain to citizens,” Barnier said,
according to prepared remarks. “But the reality is that we have
no choice. We can no longer have a monetary union without an
economic union.”  Shadow Banking  The commission “must ensure that the new financial
regulation does not push certain banking activities toward the
non-regulated sector,” Barnier said. Shadow banking, which
includes money-market funds, securitizations and off-balance-
sheet investment vehicles, represents as much as 30 percent of
the entire financial system, he said.  Joint bank resolution funds or deposit insurance systems,
which also may be proposed as banking union planning moves
forward, need to be conceived in a way that includes all 27 EU
member nations, not just the 17 countries in the euro area,
Barnier told reporters after his speech.  “If we go much further, with much more integrated
supervision, more pooling of resolution funds, more pooling of
deposit guarantee funds, we should in any event propose it for
27,” Barnier said. “Maybe at some point there should be opting
out for certain countries. But that is farther than where we are
today.”  Barnier also said a group of bankers, economists and
academics led by ECB council member Erkki Liikanen will report
later this year as to whether the EU should seek to impose
structural changes on lenders.  Volcker Rule  The group will examine plans in the U.S., known as the
Volcker rule, to ban commercial banks from proprietary trading
as well as U.K. proposals, drawn up by a panel led by former
Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers , to have a ring-
fenced pool of reserves to back their retail banking activities.  Barnier told reporters that for now there is no proposal to
help Spanish banks with the euro area’s firewall funds, the
European Financial Stability Facility and its permanent
successor the European Stability Mechanism.  “Today it’s not possible” and not foreseen, he said. He
also said the European Commission has confidence in the Spanish
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  