-- SNB Foreign-Currency Holdings Hit Record on Intervention
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-06-07T12:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/snd-foreign-currency-holdings-hit-record-on-intervention.html
The Swiss central bank’s foreign-
currency reserves surged to a record in May as the euro region’s
increasing turmoil forced policy makers to step up their defense
of the franc floor.  Currency holdings rose to 303.8 billion Swiss francs ($318
billion) from 237.6 billion francs in April, according to a
 statement  published on the  Swiss National Bank ’s website today.
Walter Meier, a spokesman at the SNB in Zurich, said a “large
part” of the increase was due to currency purchases to defend
the minimum exchange rate of 1.20 francs per euro.  The central bank finds itself engulfed by the euro region’s
worsening fiscal crisis after  Spain ’s banking woes and Greece’s
inconclusive elections raised the specter of a break-up of the
currency union. SNB President Thomas Jordan said last month that
policy makers are “observing a considerable upward pressure on
the franc” as investors shift into havens including the Swiss
currency.  “It’s quite a significant increase,” said Alessandro Bee,
an economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich. “The euro crisis is
decisive -- if there’s a further worsening, the SNB will be
forced to remain active on markets.”  SNB Intervention  The franc was at 1.2012 versus the euro as of 1:02 p.m. in
Zurich, little changed on the day. It has gained 1.2 percent
this year, trading at an average of 1.2052. The euro dropped to
a two-year low versus the dollar last month.  Investor concern about  Greece ’s future in the euro region
mounted last month after voter support grew for parties opposed
to austerity measures. A second ballot will be held on June 17.
In Spain, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro used a radio
interview on June 5 to call for outside support, saying the sums
needed to aid the country’s banks aren’t “astronomical.”  Geoffrey Kendrick, head of European currency strategy at
Nomura International in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note today
that the SNB probably spent 57 billion francs in May alone to
defend the floor, or 61 billion francs from April 1. The SNB
doesn’t disclose details of its market operations.  “This strong increase in currency reserves in May shows
that doubts about the floor’s credibility are emerging and that
pressure is increasing on the SNB,” said Julien Manceaux, an
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “However, for the moment,
there is no reason to believe the floor could be broken even
under higher pressure.”  ECB Rates  The  Bank of England  today left its stimulus plan on hold as
the threat from above-target inflation overrode policy makers’
concerns about the risk to the U.K. from  Europe ’s debt crisis.
Officials also kept the benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5 percent.  China  today cut its benchmark lending and deposit rates for
the first time since 2008.  The European Central Bank yesterday held its benchmark
interest rate at 1 percent, with President  Mario Draghi  saying
that “a few” council members had voted for a cut. The central
bank has injected more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of
three-year loans into the banking system and purchased
 government bonds  to fight the turmoil.  The crisis is clouding the economic outlook, with at least
eight of the 17 euro nations including Italy and Spain in
recession, commonly defined as two consecutive quarters of
contraction. In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, business
confidence dropped more than economists forecast in May. The
 unemployment rate  in  France  rose in the first quarter, Paris-
based national statistics office Insee said today.  Swiss Expansion  German exports probably declined in April, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. The Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden will release the trade report at 8 a.m. tomorrow.  In the U.S., the Labor Department may say initial jobless
claims fell to 378,000 last week from 383,000 in the previous
period, according to a Bloomberg survey. The  Federal Reserve  may
report U.S. consumer borrowing rose at a slower pace in April
than in March.  So far, the franc ceiling has helped shield the economy
from some of the European turmoil. Swiss  economic growth 
unexpectedly accelerated in the first quarter, led by consumer
demand. The unadjusted jobless rate slipped in May, a government
report showed today. At the same time,  consumer prices  had their
eighth straight annual decline last month, partly as the franc
strength made imports cheaper.  ‘Drastic Moves’  SNB policy makers imposed the currency ceiling in September
after the franc reached near parity with the euro in the
previous month, raising the threat of deflation. Jordan said in
an interview with SonntagsZeitung published on May 27 that a
government-led panel is weighing measures including  capital
controls  to weaken the franc if the turmoil escalates.  “We don’t expect further measures,” said  Alexander Koch ,
an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “Drastic moves such
as capital controls are certainly being discussed. But not least
due to the negative impact this would have on Switzerland’s
reputation as a financial center, we expect it to happen only in
a Lehman-like crisis scenario.”  The currency holdings are calculated according to standards
by the  International Monetary Fund  at the beginning of every
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  