-- Sovereign, Corporate Bond Risk Falls in Europe on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-06-07T09:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/sovereign-corporate-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Credit-default swaps on sovereign and
corporate bonds fell on speculation policy makers will take
steps to resolve  Europe ’s debt crisis as  Spain ’s borrowing costs
rise above 6 percent.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments fell 4.5 basis points to 320 at
10:15 a.m. in London. A decline signals improvement in
perceptions of  credit quality .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to
testify on the outlook for the economy in Congress today after
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi yesterday said he’s
“ready to act” should the crisis worsen. Spain sold its
benchmark 10-year bond at an average yield of 6.044 percent
today, after Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro asked for outside
help for the country’s banks on June 5.  “Hopes have risen that EU leaders are appreciating the
urgency of the situation and that Spain is now accepting the
need for outside help,”  Jim Reid , head of fundamental strategy
at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said in a note. “There is still
a long way to go and the market has rallied on hopes rather than
any proof of firm action to come.”  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped seven
basis points to 704. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings fell two basis points to
174 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers fell 9.5 basis points to 281 and the
subordinated index declined 19 to 457.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.6 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  