-- SP Setia, Sime Preferred Buyers for U.K.’s Battersea Site
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-06-07T14:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/sp-setia-sime-preferred-buyers-for-u-k-s-battersea-site.html
SP Setia Bhd. (SPSB)  and  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  of
 Malaysia  agreed to buy Battersea Power Station for 400 million
pounds ($623 million), six months after the London landmark’s
owner failed to pay debts and was put into administration.  SP Setia, Malaysia’s biggest publicly traded property
developer by sales, and Sime Darby plan to renovate the derelict
38-acre (15-hectare) site and retain the power plant’s iconic
chimney stacks, according to a  statement  today. They also agreed
to build a subway station as an extension to London
Underground’s Northern Line.  The Battersea plant, with four 350-foot-high smokestacks,
is Europe’s largest brick building. The site on the south bank
of the  River Thames  has been vacant since its sale to a group
led by entrepreneur John Broome in 1983, a year after the power
station closed. Previous plans included a theme park and a mall
that would have been suspended between the chimneys.  “It’s a well located site in a relatively affluent part of
 London ,” said Tony Travers, a director of the LSE London
research division of the  London School of Economics  and
Political Science. “It ought to work as a major location both
for residential and business property. It’s just that hitherto
it’s defeated all of the developers who’ve tried.”  Ten Bids  The site, about 2.2 miles (3.5 kilometers) by car from the
Houses of Parliament, was put on sale in February after its
owners failed to pay lenders owed more than 500 million pounds.
At least 10 bids were submitted for the building, including one
from Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich ’s Chelsea Football
Club Ltd., a person familiar with the matter said last month.  “We are disappointed not to be selected as the preferred
bidder for Battersea Power Station,” the  soccer club  said in a
statement on its website. “We have been clear throughout this
process that Battersea is one of a limited number of options the
club is considering.”  The station “is viewed as fundamental to the success of
the regeneration project,” the Kuala Lumpur-based companies
said. The site’s development will “create a vibrant center for
southwest central London,” they said.  Due Diligence  SP Setia is developing projects in Australia, Vietnam and
China. Sime Darby is the world’s biggest listed palm-oil
producer and also has real estate, automotive and industrial
businesses. The companies have 28 days to carry out due
diligence and agree on the transaction’s terms, according to
today’s statement. They were advised by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s RREEF
real estate affiliate.  “SP Setia has said it wants to have 50 percent of its
sales from overseas within five years, from less than 20 percent
now,” said Sean Lim, an analyst at Hong Leong Investment Bank
Bhd. “This is part of that plan.”  Battersea Power Station, featured on the cover of the 1977
Pink Floyd album “Animals,” was designed by Giles Gilbert
Scott and built in two stages starting in the 1930s. The plant
supplied a fifth of London’s electricity in the early 1950s,
according to the Battersea Power Station Community Group
website. The group campaigns to preserve the Battersea building.  The dilapidated edifice is in the city’s Nine Elms area,
which will be home to the new U.S. embassy after the current one
on Grosvenor Square was bought by part of Qatar’s sovereign
wealth fund. The regeneration of the district may provide as
many as 25,000 jobs, according to Wandsworth Council.  Nine Elms  “The power station is one of the biggest development
opportunities in Nine Elms and key to extending the Northern
Line,” Council Leader Ravi Govinda said in a statement.  Planning permission was granted to  Real Estate
Opportunities Plc (REO) , controlled by Irish developer Treasury
Holdings Ltd., last year for a 5.5 billion-pound redevelopment
of the power station. SP Setia tried to buy the debt related to
the power station in November for 262 million pounds and the
offer was rejected.  Creditors led by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Ireland’s
National Asset Management Agency put the REO units that owned
the site into administration, a U.K. type of bankruptcy
reorganization, in December after they failed to make loan
payments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
 Barry Porter  in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 