-- Spain’s Banks May See Losses Up to 112 Billion Euros, S&P Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-06-07T16:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/spain-s-banks-may-see-losses-up-to-112-billion-euros-s-p-says.html
Spanish banks will recognize loan
losses of 80 billion euros ($101 billion) to 112 billion euros
by the end of 2013 as the country’s double-dip recession drives
up defaults,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  Pressure is building on banks to make the loan-loss
provisions this year for both 2012 and 2013, the ratings company
said in a report. Were that to happen, “ Spain ’s banks would
require substantial capital support from the Spanish
government” or the European Union, S&P said.  Spain is five years into a property slump that has pushed
the economy into  recession , driving up bad loans ratios to the
highest level since 1994. Doubts about the ability of the
government to backstop losses at lenders following the
nationalization announced last month of the Bankia group has
driven up the country’s borrowing costs and led to calls from
bankers, including Banco  Santander (SAN)  SA Chairman  Emilio Botin , for
Spain to seek a bailout for its failed lenders.  S&P said it expects banks will be able to absorb most of
the estimated loan losses with pre-provision profits of about 60
billion euros generated through 2013. Spain’s deposit-guarantee
fund will probably be able to absorb 10 billion euros of losses,
while banks will also be able to cover part of the shortfall by
selling assets and consuming capital buffers, the ratings
company said.  However, if banks need to make 2012 and 2013 provisions
this year, the capital support the industry would need “could
be substantial,” S&P said. In this scenario, only Santander,
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA would have
capital comfortably above the regulatory minimum.  “The remaining banks in the system would likely face
significant challenges to remain compliant with the
aforementioned minimum  capital requirements ,” S&P said. “They
would have an increased probability of needing support from the
Spanish government or the EU.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net 
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  