-- Spain Market-Access Concern Eases, Bond Sale Beats Target
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-06-07T14:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/spain-market-access-concern-eases-bond-sale-beats-target.html
Two days after a senior government
official said  Spain ’s access to debt markets was closed, the
Treasury beat its 2 billion-euro target ($2.5 billion) at a bond
sale, easing concern about financing the region’s third-biggest
budget deficit.  Spain sold its  benchmark 10-year bond  to yield 6.044
percent, the most since Nov. 17 when the yield in the secondary
market reached a euro-era record 6.78 percent. Demand for the
security was 3.29 times the amount sold, higher than at the
previous auction in April. In the secondary market Spain’s 10-
year bond yield fell to 6.109 percent after the sale at 10:05
a.m. in  London .  The auction results were “pretty decent overall and the
market appears eminently comfortable with the outcome,” said
 John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in London.
“A tad above the top end of the target volume range obviously
looks good, but I think the more encouraging factor was that the
2022 bond came at 6.04 percent, so safely below levels
prevailing in the secondary market.”  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said on June 5 that the
“door of the markets isn’t open to Spain” as he called for
European institutions to help the nation shore up its lenders.
As Spanish borrowing costs approach the 7 percent level that
preceded bailouts in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal , the Treasury
increasingly depends on domestic banks.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond dropped to the lowest in
two weeks. The spread with the same German maturities was at
4.80 percentage points, the lowest since May 25 and down from a
record 5.48 percentage points on June 1.  Beating Target  Spain sold 611 million euros of the 10-year bond and
another 1.46 million of debt maturing in 2014 and 2016, bringing
the total for the auction to 2.07 billion euros. The country has
now sold 58 percent of its gross debt issuance needs for the
year, the  Economy Ministry  said in e-mailed statement.  “Spain can clearly still borrow in the markets but it must
pay high yields for the privilege,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in London, in
an e-mailed comment. “Yields are still significantly above the
levels seen when these bonds were last auctioned.”  Concern about the country’s ailing banks has pushed up
Spain’s funding costs, while driving down yields in countries
considered to be safer such as  Germany  and  France .  France auctioned 7.84 billion euros of debt today and
priced its 10-year bonds to yield 2.46 percent, the  lowest  at
auction in more than 13 years. The Treasury also sold a 50-year
bond for the first time since 2010.  May Rally  “In the 10-year area France has been a notable performer
in recent weeks, in doing so bucking the strong widening trend
seen in the periphery,”  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income
strategist at  Barclays Capital  in London, wrote yesterday in a
note to investors.  French bonds were the euro area’s second-best performers in
May, returning 3.9 percent, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Dutch securities outperformed, earning 4.3 percent in
the period, the indexes showed.  Spain is pressing Germany to allow the European Union’s
rescue mechanism to lend directly its banks, rather than to seek
a broader bailout that could force the country to adopt even
more austerity measures. Spain’s banks are hobbled by 184
billion euros of real estate loans that the Economy Ministry
calls “problematic.”  Spanish banks may need as much as 100 billion euros from
European allies, and the aid will be channeled through Spain’s
bank-rescue fund, Antonio Lopez Isturiz, head of the European
 People’s Party , said today.  Draghi Opposition  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
he also opposed allowing the European Stability Mechanism, the
region’s new bailout fund, to lend directly to banks. Currently
the ESM will only be able to lend to governments that meet
certain conditions to tap the funds.  “Have we designed the ESM to become a shareholder of banks
in the euro area?” Draghi asked at a press conference in
 Frankfurt . “The ESM wasn’t born for that.”  Bank Cleanup  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond rose by as much
as 100 basis points after the government nationalized the
country’s third-largest lender, Bankia group, on May 9 and
tightened banks’ provisions rules. It was the fourth attempt in
three years to clean up an industry hobbled by bad real-estate
loans.  Spain may wait to decide whether to formally request aid
until it has preliminary results of an audit commissioned to
determine the real value of the banks’ loan books. A first set
of conclusions are due in 10 or 15 days, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said yesterday.  Spain’s recourse to a bailout from the ESM “is gradually
becoming inevitable” and would drive the nation’s credit rating
to sub-investment grade, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc wrote
in a report yesterday. Yields on Spanish securities will climb
to at least 10 percent after Spain accesses the ESM bailout, RBS
strategists wrote in a separate report published on June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  