-- Spain Downgraded to BBB as Fitch Predicts Slump Through 2013
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-07T17:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/spain-downgraded-to-bbb-as-fitch-forecasts-slump-through-2013.html
Fitch Ratings  cut  Spain ’s long-term
credit rating to BBB and left it two notches from junk, citing
the cost of recapitalizing the country’s banking industry and a
lengthening recession.  Spain, which saw its rating lowered from A, may need as
much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion) to bolster its banking
system, compared with an earlier estimate of about 30 billion
euros, Fitch said today in  London . The Spanish economy is set to
remain in recession through 2013, the ratings company added,
having previously forecast a recovery for next year.  “The much reduced financing flexibility of the Spanish
government is constraining its ability to intervene decisively
in the restructuring of the banking sector and has increased the
likelihood of external financial support,” Fitch said in a
statement. “Spain’s high level of foreign indebtedness has
rendered it especially vulnerable to contagion from the ongoing
crisis in Greece.”  The government managed to auction 10-year debt today amid
speculation that European officials will act to boost growth in
the single currency area and ease the pressure on peripheral
nations. Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said June 5 that
Spain was shut out of  capital markets .  “The positive moves we have had this week have been on a
strange logic that things have got so bad that the authorities
need to do something about it,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an
analyst at Investec Bank Plc in London. The cut isn’t really a
surprise “given where the spreads have been, Spain’s potential
difficulties and the fact they may have to seek support.”  Three Levels  Fitch’s reduction by three levels now leaves its assessment
of Europe’s fourth-biggest economy on a par with Thailand and
Mexico.  Standard & Poor’s  has a BBB+ rating on Spain, while
Moody’s Investors Service grades it A3. Fitch cut the country
from AAA in May 2010.  “It was inevitable,” said  David Keeble , head of fixed-
income strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in New York. “What really matters is the political will to sort
things out. Quite clearly Spain is going to need external
help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  