-- Rajoy Seeks Formula for Spanish Banks in Talks With EU Leaders
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-07T17:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/spanish-banks-may-need-100-billion-euro-bailout-epp-chief-says.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said he’s talking to other European leaders about how to shore
up the country’s banks as a lawmaker said the industry may need
a $126 billion international bailout.  Rajoy said he wouldn’t give estimates on how much capital
the nation’s lenders need until he has reports from two
international consultants, due this month, and from the
 International Monetary Fund , due on June 11.  “After that I will give my figure and the government will
say what the system needs to be recapitalized,” he told a news
conference with Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  in Madrid today.
“I’ve been talking to my European Union colleagues, and to
Prime Minister Rutte, to take a decision on this matter.”  European stocks rose today after  China  cut interest rates
and amid speculation that leaders of the 17-member euro region
are preparing a rescue operation tailored to Spain, which has
been struggling to shore up its banking system. Rajoy is pushing
against German opposition to changing the rules of Europe’s
rescue mechanisms to allow them to recapitalize banks directly.  Spanish banks may need as much as 100 billion euros ($126
billion) in aid which could be funneled through the nation’s
bank-bailout fund, Antonio Lopez Isturiz, the general secretary
of the European People’s Party, said today in an interview with
TVE in Madrid. Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
yesterday that the stress-test reports from  Roland Berger  and
 Oliver Wyman  will be ready in the next 10 to 15 days.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield fell to 6.088 percent today from
6.282 percent yesterday -- retreating from the 7 percent
threshold that triggered bailouts in Greece, Ireland and
Portugal -- after the Treasury met its issuance goal at a bond
auction. Investors bought 2.07 billion euros of Spanish
securities, surpassing the maximum target of 2 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  