-- Statement by the IMF Mission to New Zealand (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-07T19:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-new-zealand-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  New Zealand :  On June 6, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with New Zealand
and considered, and endorsed, the staff appraisal without a meeting
on a lapse-of-time basis.  Background  The New Zealand economy continues to grow at a modest pace. Output grew
by 1 percent in 2011, as elevated export commodity prices and favorable
agricultural conditions helped offset the adverse impact of large
earthquakes in Canterbury in late 2010 and early 2011. Continued
aftershocks have delayed earthquake-related reconstruction. Domestic
demand has remained soft as households and businesses continue to
deleverage amid a weak housing market and an uncertain outlook.
Elevated rates of unemployment, currently above 6 percent, and spare
capacity have helped contain inflation.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand (RBNZ) lowered the policy rate in
March 2011 by 50 basis points to cushion the impact of the February
earthquake. Since then, it has kept the policy rate on hold given
the deterioration in the global economic position, subdued domestic
activity, and the expected impact on future domestic activity of the
strong exchange rate.  The nominal effective exchange rate has appreciated by around 30
percent since its trough in early 2009. The appreciation reflects
the effects of higher export prices, positive interest rate
differentials, and, although currently volatile, some increase in
global risk appetite since end-2011.  Reflecting the slow recovery, past revenue and spending decisions,
and accrued earthquake-related spending, the fiscal deficit in 2010/11
reached a record high of 9¼ percent of GDP on an accrual basis.
Net government debt increased to 20 percent of GDP by mid-2011 from
a low of 5½ percent in 2008.  The current account deficit in 2011 remained low at 4 percent of GDP,
well below the 8 percent level in 2005-08, reflecting terms of trade
gains, weak domestic demand, and low world  interest rates . Net external
liabilities have declined, but remain high at 72 percent of GDP at
end-2011.  The banking sector remains sound. Bank profits are strong and
nonperforming loans have fallen to less than 2 percent of total loans.
Capital adequacy has improved since 2007, with the Tier 1 capital ratio
reaching 10 percent in September 2011. Banks have made steady progress
in lengthening the maturity profile of their wholesale funding since
2008 and increasing the share of retail deposits, but the total stock
of banks’ gross external liabilities remains above 70 percent of GDP
and loan-to-deposit ratios remain high.  The pace of New Zealand’s economic recovery is likely to remain modest.
Output growth should pick up somewhat to 2⅓ percent in 2012 as earthquake
reconstruction spending gains pace, although the size and timing of this
spending is still uncertain. Growth is projected to rise to 3¼ percent in
2013, led by reconstruction. The key risks to the outlook are largely on
the external front and on the downside, related to emerging weaknesses in
the global economy and a possible upheaval in the global financial system.  Executive Board Assessment  In concluding the 2012 Article IV consultation with New Zealand, Executive
Directors endorsed staff’s appraisal as follows:  Outlook and risks. The pace of New Zealand’s economic recovery is likely
to remain modest. Output growth should pick up somewhat in 2012 as
earthquake reconstruction spending is expected to gain pace, but the size
and timing of this spending is still uncertain. High  household debt  is
likely to weigh on the growth of private consumption as households will
need to save to strengthen their balance sheets. The spare capacity and
elevated unemployment will contain wage and inflation pressures in the
near term. The risks to this outlook are on the downside and largely
external, stemming mainly from emerging weaknesses in the global economy
and a possible upheaval in the global financial system. The flexible
 exchange rate  would provide an important buffer against shocks.  Monetary policy. The current accommodative monetary stance is appropriate.
If the recovery remains on track and downside risks dissipate, monetary
policy will need to tighten gradually to contain inflationary pressures.
However, if the global recovery stalls or international  capital markets 
are disrupted, the RBNZ has scope to cut the policy rate and provide
liquidity support for banks.  Fiscal policy. The planned  deficit reduction  path strikes a balance
between the need to contain both public and external debt increases
while limiting any adverse impact on economic growth during the recovery.
The authorities’ plan to return to  budget surplus  by 2014/15 should put
New Zealand in a better position to deal with future shocks and the
long-term costs of aging. Moreover, it will relieve pressure on  monetary
policy  and thereby the exchange rate, helping contain the current
account deficit over the medium term. New Zealand’s relatively modest
public debt gives the authorities some scope to delay their planned
deficit reduction path in the event of a sharp deterioration in the
economic outlook.  External vulnerabilities and the exchange rate. New Zealand’s large net
liabilities present a risk. Despite recent improvements, the current
account deficit is projected to increase over the medium term as
earthquake reconstruction activity gains pace and global interest
rates normalize.  To contain this increase and limit a further buildup
of foreign liabilities over the longer term, the  New Zealand dollar 
would need to be weaker than its current level. However, part of its
current strength may dissipate over time with the eventual tightening
of policy rates by major central banks. Increasing national saving,
including through the planned fiscal deficit reduction, would reduce
external vulnerability.  Financial sector issues. Banks remain sound, but they are exposed to
highly leveraged households and farmers and rollover risks associated
with large short-term offshore funding needs. While New Zealand’s bank
regulatory norms are more conservative than in many other countries,
the authorities should assess on an ongoing basis the balance between
banking sector vulnerability versus efficiency to minimize the risk that
systemically important banks pose to the economy. Options to strengthen
prudential norms if needed could include setting banks’ capital
requirements above the Basel III minimum or raising the core funding
ratio more than the planned 75 percent to reduce short term external
debt further. The RBNZ’s continued work on the costs and benefits of
macroprudential measures is welcome, as is the authorities’ intention
to implement key features of Basel III in early 2013.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  