-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Bolivia (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-07T21:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-bolivia-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Bolivia :  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation with
Bolivia  On June 1, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV Consultation[1] with Bolivia
on a lapse-of-time basis.[2]  Background  Well-balanced macroeconomic policies, accompanied by an improvement
in terms of trade during recent years, have allowed Bolivia to achieve
very positive macro-economic results. Exports of goods tripled since
2005, thanks to increased volumes of gas, mineral, and agricultural
exports, and the concurrent boom in commodity prices. Real GDP growth,
which averaged 3.3 percent annually during 1996-2005, increased to an
average of 4.7 percent in 2006-11. The external and fiscal positions
strengthened sharply, as larger export receipts, higher taxation of
hydrocarbon production, and moderate rates of increase in  government
spending , led to substantial external current account and fiscal
surpluses. These surpluses contributed to the build-up of a
comfortable reserves buffer, now at 50 percent of GDP.  In 2011, economic activity remained robust amid strong domestic demand
growth, with real GDP growing by 5.2 percent. After a sharp increase
at the beginning of 2011, 12-month inflation has gradually declined to
4 percent in March 2012, reflecting a softening in international food
prices, price-stabilization policies in agriculture, and a gradual
re-anchoring of expectations. Domestic demand grew briskly, with
imports climbing over 40 percent with respect to 2010. As a result,
the external current account balance narrowed to 2¼ percent of GDP,
despite record-high export prices. Private investment has remained
subdued, amid lingering uncertainty about the legal framework.  Economic policies have been accommodative. In early 2011, the central
bank tightened monetary conditions in response to the pickup in
inflation. However, since mid-2011 and in the face of renewed external
uncertainty, the central bank reduced the pace of liquidity withdrawal,
allowing for a resurgence of excess liquidity in the banking sector.
At the same time, banks continued to expand credit to the private sector,
at above 20 percent in nominal terms. The central bank let the currency
appreciate only slightly, by 1.3 percent. The overall balance of the public
sector registered a surplus of 0.8 percent of GDP in 2011, as revenue
performance improved. Public investment picked up strongly, contributing
to a fiscal impulse of about
1 percent of GDP.  Strong results have also been achieved on improving social inclusion and
income distribution through cash transfer programs and investment in
infrastructure. The shareof the population living under extreme poverty
has halved between 2005 and 2011, from 48.5 percent to24.3 percent.
At the same time, social and regional disputes have persisted,
particularly in border conflicts and in the context of revenue-sharing
arrangements, and location of infrastructure.  Executive Board Assessment  In concluding the 2012 Article IV consultation with Bolivia, Executive
Directors endorsed the staff’s appraisal, as follows:  The Bolivian economy maintained a strong performance in 2011. Real GDP
growth accelerated, on the back of strong terms-of-trade and
accommodative policies. Strong demand growth led to a narrowing of
the external current account surplus and, despite buoyant revenue,
the fiscal surplus declined due to fiscal impulse. Net international
reserves climbed to new highs, thus offering strong protection to
external shocks. Bank credit continued to expand at rapid rates,
amid strong financial soundness indicators.  The outlook for 2012 is favorable and short term downside risks are
manageable. Real GDP is expected to continue growing at a fast pace,
reflecting still high terms of trade and mildly expansionary policies.
The external current account and the fiscal balance are expected to
remain in surplus. Downside risks from an adverse external environment
are limited by strong financial cushions and proven resilience of the
Bolivian economy to financial shocks.  A shift in macroeconomic policies to a more neutral level might be
required to consolidate the decline in inflation and reduce overheating
risk. The envisaged fiscal impulse is modest, but a higher fiscal
balance would help offset strong private demand growth. The central
bank may want to absorb part of the large excess liquidity in the
banking sector with a view to slowing credit growth and seeking a
gradual increase in short-term and deposit interest rates.  Given the outlook for commodity prices, projected fiscal spending
for 2012 is compatible with a sustainable fiscal position over the
medium term. Under current policies, public debt will remain on a
downward path over the next few years, as the nonfinancial public
sector is expected to run modest surpluses.  To protect public investment and make room for higher social spending,
a strengthening of the non-hydrocarbon balance is recommended.
Increasing productive and social investment--while containing current
expenditure--would require either higher revenue or reducing other
spending. Reducing fuel subsidies, with appropriate compensatory measures,
and strengthening direct taxation would help to make space for these
additional outlays.  Reforms to the policy framework, building on the authorities’ plans,
will help improve policy responses to changing economic conditions.
Setting up a medium-term fiscal framework for the exploitation of
natural resources would help avoid pro-cyclical fiscal spending and
build buffers to insure against commodity price volatility. It will
also help introduce intergenerational equity considerations in the
design of fiscal policy, as natural resource depletion is balanced
against strong development needs.  Limiting the role of the central bank in financing public investment
would help reinforce the strength of monetary policy. In line with
international experience, central bank financing for development
purposes should be limited, to avoid the emergence of quasi-fiscal
losses, especially under adverse external scenarios. As lower
dollarization becomes more entrenched and domestic financial
markets develop further, the authorities will have room to move
toward greater exchange rate flexibility.  The expansion of public sector involvement in productive activities
and investment should be accompanied by a stronger governance and
accountability framework. A strategy encompassing all public
corporations, as planned with the enactment of a new law for Public
Enterprises, is needed. Elements of the legal framework should include
a requirement that financial statements be externally audited; that
the cost of quasi-fiscal operations be disclosed; and that reports be
elaborated on the performance of companies and the risks they face.
In tandem, there is a need to step up efforts to ensure the
effectiveness of public spending and enhance implementation capacity
across all levels of government.  Building on important improvements in the financial sector, further
strengthening is needed to ensure macro-financial stability. Financial
sector indicators are strong, but credit expansion needs to be
monitored closely and banking sector buffers maintained. Staff welcomes
the progress in the adoption of FSAP recommendations. Plans to strengthen
the financial system safety net, with the introduction of a limited
 deposit insurance , should help consolidate the strength of the banking
sector. In addition, direct controls on the price and allocation of
credit should be avoided. To preserve Bolivia’s financial system
integrity, the Anti  Money Laundering /  Combating the Financing of
Terrorism regime should be rapidly strengthened to comply with
international norms.  Sustaining high and stable medium-term growth will require improvements
in the business environment. A key challenge will be to adapt the
legal framework for natural resources and private investment to the
mandates of the Constitution in a way that ensures clear and stable
rules of the game for the private sector. Clearly defining the scope
of public sector operations while ensuring a fair and swift process
of compensation of the former owners of nationalized companies would
also contribute to reducing risk perceptions.  Progress in social policies has allowed Bolivia to make inroads toward
achieving its Millennium Development Goals. Maintaining the real value
of cash-transfer programs to preserve their impact and enhancing the
delivery of education and health services are priorities. Appropriate
incorporation of these needs in the budgetary process will be
important in the period ahead.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  