-- Strong Yen Won’t Survive Japan’s Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-06-07T22:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/strong-yen-won-t-survive-japan-s-fiscal-cliff.html
As its  current-account surplus  fades
into deficit,  Japan  will be forced to import money at high
international rates to finance its government debt. Huge amounts
of money creation by the  Bank of Japan  could temporarily
postpone the ensuing debt death spiral.  Monetary easing, however, won’t help Japan address the
challenges presented by its rapidly aging population, which will
result in restraints on consumption that slow growth and
increase the cost of government-debt service as a share of gross
domestic product. Furthermore, retirees are consumers, not
producers, of goods and services, putting additional strain on
those still working to produce enough for their own needs and
for the elderly.  Yet, uniquely among major countries, Japan has the means to
respond to this crisis. The decades of current-account surpluses
and the related capital exports have created a huge pile of
foreign assets. The Finance Ministry estimates that foreign
reserves and investment assets, including $890 billion in U.S.
Treasuries, total $3.19 trillion more than foreign holdings in
Japan, as noted in  Part 2  of this series. That’s the biggest
capital surplus of any country. Japan could systematically
liquidate those foreign holdings and use the proceeds to buy
imported goods and services to support the growing number of
retirees.  Capital Imports  This idea, however, has two shortcomings. First, the
Japanese persist in their “export or die” philosophy, and
systemic  trade  and current-account deficits are anathema.
Second, the resulting chronic trade and current-account gaps
could imply chronic capital imports at higher interest costs,
further threatening a government-deficit and debt spiral, as
discussed in  Part 4 .  Last year’s earthquake and tsunami have brought this
reckoning closer, with imports jumping and exports plummeting.
Japan has essentially no domestic energy supplies, so  imports  of
coal, liquefied natural gas and low-sulfur Indonesian crude oil
have increased to offset the power loss from the shutdown of
Japan’s nuclear reactors. In addition, post-tsunami rebuilding
will require Japan to import much more steel, cement and other
building materials, as well as food to replace tainted domestic
supplies.  Since the earthquake and tsunami in March 2011, the
Japanese  trade balance  has been negative -- its deficit in 2011
was the first since 1980. With  Europe  in a recession, at best
modest economic growth in the U.S., and a probable hard landing
in  China , Japanese exports and  economic growth  will remain under
pressure. This will be compounded by the drag on exports during
the recovery from the natural disaster and by the continuing
reliance on imports for energy and other needs to rebuild.  The strong yen, at least until recently, has been a concern
for Japanese exporters and the government as their nation’s
competitive edge atrophies. Japan once dominated consumer
electronics, though TVs, digital cameras and game consoles have
become old-tech, and producers there largely missed out on
mobile devices. Also, businesses continue to move production
offshore; last year, almost 62 percent of Japanese vehicles were
assembled somewhere else. South Korean productivity continues to
outstrip that of Japan. Higher energy costs and the supply-chain
disruptions from the earthquake and tsunami have accelerated
offshoring, as has the weak domestic economy.  Export Share  Japan’s  exports  have become a surprisingly small share of
GDP, only 15 percent last year. That’s not much more than the
U.S.’s almost 13 percent and far less than  Germany ’s 47 percent
and China’s 30 percent in 2009. Japan has traditionally targeted
specific industries such as automobiles and consumer electronics
for global domination with state-of-the-art efficiency, as noted
in Part 1 of this series, but otherwise has a predominantly
inefficient domestic-oriented economy.  The effects of the earthquake and tsunami, then, will
probably accelerate the erosion of Japan’s current-account
balance. There may be a selloff of Japanese  government bonds  in
anticipation of the higher yields needed to attract financing
from abroad to cover current-account deficits. The 0.87 percent
yield on 10-year Japanese bonds would need to double to equal
the yield on U.S. 10-year Treasuries.  The effects would be devastating for Japan’s government
deficits and debt, which have relatively low yields throughout
the yield curve. Each percentage-point rise in the government’s
average borrowing cost would increase the  deficit  by about 7
trillion yen ($90 billion), or 15 percent.  As Japan’s government debt of 1,085 trillion yen matures
over time, it will be subject to any higher refinancing rates.
The average maturity of Japanese government debt is six years
and 11 months. Yet 17 percent of that debt matures this year, 52
percent in the next five years and 76 percent in the next
decade. Markets anticipate, so Japanese bonds throughout the
spectrum will probably plummet in price and leap in yield at the
first sign of a current-account deficit, maybe even before.  Foreign investors who sell  Japanese bonds  short would
obviously prefer the yen to weaken, not strengthen as it has for
years. It was probably the haven appeal of Japan with its serene
culture and stable, if flat, economy, as well as other reasons
discussed in  Part 1  of this series, that have buoyed the yen for
two decades. The accelerated timetable for a fiscal reckoning
means that image will probably vanish and the yen will drop
considerably.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the fifth in a five-part series.
Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on how  Bahrain can model Mideast
reform  and why  Ben Bernanke should ease more ;  Jonathan Alter  on
 a new Obama campaign mantra ; Stephen L. Carter on  the failures
of capitalism ; Takeo Hoshi and Anil K Kashyap on  Japan’s nuclear
safety ; Robert and Edward Skidelsky on  markets versus the good
life ;  Dmitri Trenin  on the risk that  Russia and China ally
against the U.S.   To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  