-- Structured Note Sales Fall Below Average as Interest Rates Drop
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-06-07T15:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/structured-note-sales-fall-below-average-as-interest-rates-drop.html
Bank sales of structured notes in the
U.S. fell below the year’s average in May, after excluding the
largest deal since 2010, as record-low  interest rates  made it
more difficult to create attractive products.  Banks issued $4.12 billion of the securities last month,
though the total was skewed by  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s offering of a $946.2
million note that was the largest tied to equities in at least
two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. After
excluding that note, May sales of $3.16 billion trail the yearly
average of $3.54 billion.  “Interest rates went to the basement,” which has made
creating some new products “tougher,” Alexandre Ecot, a
director at Societe Generale SA’s group that sells derivatives
and structured notes, said in a telephone interview.  The five-year swap rate, which serves as a benchmark for
borrowing costs, averaged 1.09 percent in May, the lowest level
on record. Falling rates can make it challenging for banks to
create alluring structured notes, because the zero-coupon bonds
that are combined with derivatives to construct the customized
bets become more expensive to buy.  Banks sold $4.52 billion of notes in March, the most this
year, when five-year swaps averaged their highest level in 2012,
1.25 percent, Bloomberg data show.  A rise in market volatility also contributed to the
difficulty in putting together some notes, such as those that
have no capped return, because the options embedded in the
products became more costly, Ecot said.  VIX Rises  The VIX, as the  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index (VIX)  is known, averaged 21 in May, the highest level so far
this year and up from 17.8 in April, Bloomberg data show. The
gauge measures the cost of using options to protect against
declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Fisher Asset Management LLC bought the largest note last
month, the May 16 offering of one-year securities tied to the
Russell 1000 Growth Index that UBS issued. The securities yield
twice the gains and losses of the index, which provides a way
for investors to bet on companies with the fastest earnings
growth.  While banks in May sold $407 million of notes linked to
interest rates, the least since December, issuance of foreign-
exchange linked was the highest since September, at $184.3
million, Bloomberg data show. Four of the five largest deals
were tied to bets on the  U.S. dollar  versus the Chinese  yuan .
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  underwrote $71 million of currency-linked
securities in 12 offerings, the most of any bank, Bloomberg data
show.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 