-- Syria Bars Observers From Alleged Massacre Site, UN Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-06-07T14:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/syria-bars-observers-from-alleged-massacre-site-un-says.html
United Nations monitors said they
were blocked by  Syria ’s army as they sought to reach a village
in Hama province to verify reports of a massacre in which the
opposition says at least 78 people were killed.  The UN observers, part of about 300 unarmed military
observers charged with overseeing a cease-fire plan, were halted
at Syrian checkpoints and some were turned back, General Robert
Mood, head of the mission, said in an e-mailed statement. Some
of the monitors were also stopped by civilians, and told by
residents that the village would not be safe for them, he said.
Syrian state television denied that the monitors were blocked,
saying a group of them have arrived in the village.  More than half of those killed in the village of Qubair
were women and children, with some dying during army shelling
while others were burned or stabbed by pro-government shabiha
militiamen who arrived an hour later, the opposition Syrian
National Council said in a statement on Facebook.  If confirmed, the massacre would be the second in less than
two weeks. On May 25, 108 people, including 49 children, were
killed in Houla in one of the worst atrocities in the 15-month
uprising against President Bashar al-Assad’s government. The
U.S., its Western allies and other countries, such as  Turkey ,
expelled Syrian diplomats after the massacre, leading Syria to
kick out the envoys of those states.  Options ‘Limited’  The reports emerged hours before UN envoy Kofi Annan was
due to address the General Assembly about ways to revive his
cease-fire plan, which has failed to end the bloodshed in Syria,
or seek alternative policies.  Syria’s state-run news agency SANA said reports of a new
massacre by security forces were “baseless.” It said
“terrorists” killed nine women and children on a farm
yesterday, and residents asked for government protection. When
government forces arrived at the scene, they clashed with the
perpetrators, killing some of them, SANA said.  Ayham Kamel, a Middle East analyst with Eurasia Group,
which monitors political risk, said that the U.S. and allies are
running out of policy alternatives.  “In terms of punitive tools, we’ve reached a stage where
the options are rather limited,” Kamel said in an interview
from  London . “We have reached a state in the conflict where
there’s both internal and external recognition that the country,
if it hasn’t already entered, is very close to a civil war.”  ‘Doubled Down’  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today in
Istanbul that Assad seems to have “doubled down on violence,”
calling the latest reported massacre “simply unconscionable.”  Russia  “categorically” condemned the killings, Alexander Lukashevich, the country’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, said in
Moscow today.  Russia, which along with  China  has protected the Assad
government against tougher UN sanctions, is seeking to enlist
 Iran , Syria’s ally, in a bid to engineer a political transition.
Lukashevich said he hoped the proposal would be addressed by
Annan and the UN today.  Clinton expressed doubt over Iranian involvement, saying
it’s hard to imagine that “a country working so hard to keep
Assad in power” could be a constructive participant.  “We think it is important to give  Kofi Annan  and his plan
the last amount of support we can muster, because in order to
bring others into a frame of mind to take action in the  Security
Council , there has to be a final recognition that it’s not
working,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  