-- Syria Could Unite Russia and China Against the U.S.
-- B y   D m i t r i   T r e n i n
-- 2012-06-07T22:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/syria-could-unite-russia-and-china-against-the-u-s-.html
The massacre of more than 100 men,
women and children at Houla has buried the peace  plan  for  Syria 
promoted by former United Nations Secretary General  Kofi Annan .
Soon, the regime and its opponents will get to fight out their
civil war unobstructed.  When that happens, Syria will present the U.S. and Russia
with choices that have implications far beyond the fate of a
single Middle Eastern dictator, including stronger Russia- China 
cooperation to counter U.S. foreign policies.  It’s a defining aspect of the Syrian conflict that it has
split the international community, especially the U.S. and
Russia, making it difficult to force any solution on the warring
parties. Americans see Russia as supporting a last, fellow
authoritarian ally in the Middle East. Russians retort that U.S.
policy toward Syria is all about changing the regime in
Damascus, because it’s allied with Tehran, and that the U.S.
never tried to make Annan’s peace initiative work.  Each accuses the other of allowing violence in pursuit of
larger geopolitical goals, regardless of the human cost. The
atrocities at Houla merely raised the temperature of that
dispute.  In the days after the massacre, Russia’s President  Vladimir Putin  made it clear to European counterparts that his opposition
to foreign military intervention in Syria was as strong as ever.
This has put Russia on a potential collision course with the
U.S., should President  Barack Obama  decide -- against his own
best judgment -- to authorize military action in Syria.  Turning Point  That scenario no longer looks as unlikely as it once did.
Former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  has already talked about
Obama reaching his Bosnia moment. The U.S. election is mainly
about jobs and the economy, but there is only so much passivity
that a White House incumbent can afford when faced with an acute
humanitarian crisis. Once the Annan plan is pronounced dead,
Syria’s civil war will gain in intensity. Arms shipments to the
opposition will increase and military advisers from Arab and
other countries will probably follow. As the death toll
accelerates, calls for international military intervention may
become irresistible.  A U.S.-backed military intervention would lead to a deep
rupture with the leadership in Moscow. Russia wouldn’t try to
stand in the way militarily, but it might well be driven to
forge a stronger strategic partnership with China, which also
opposes foreign military interventions in the  Middle East  and
has joined Russia in vetoing UN Security Council resolutions on
Syria.  China has been ambivalent in the past about Russian
overtures to ally against the U.S., but that’s changing due to
concerns over the implications of Obama’s pivot to Asia. There
have recently been calls from within the Chinese military for an
alliance with Russia to stand up to the U.S. pressure. China’s
political leadership, for the time being, remains skeptical, and
so does Putin. But in Moscow, too, there’s a pro-China lobby,
and Western intervention in Syria could provide the catalyst for
a strategic rebalancing, with wide-ranging implications for the
U.S.  Putin has been in Beijing this week to meet Chinese
leaders, including at a summit of the  Shanghai  Cooperation
Organization, a regional security and development arrangement
focused on Central  Asia . (In a coincidence of scheduling,
 Hillary Clinton  was meeting some of her allies on the Syrian
issue in Istanbul at the same time.) How to handle Syria,  Iran 
and the U.S. were topics for discussion in Beijing.  Russia’s Bind  Putin has vowed that Syria will not be another  Libya , and
it won’t be: Russia will block any UN Security Council
resolution that authorizes the use of force in Syria. Nor will
Russia support economic sanctions. Yet the Russian government
finds itself in a bind. Its calculation that Assad would prevail
over the opposition, Bahrain-style, woefully overlooked the
external dimension to the Syrian drama. Now it’s accused of
protecting the “butcher of Damascus,” while China withdraws into
its shell. To the leaders of the Kremlin, this looks unfair.  To start with, Russia doesn’t count Assad as an ally --
he’s merely a business client. Russia did lean on Assad,
persuading him to agree first to an Arab League mission, and
then the Annan plan. Nevertheless, it’s clear that Putin is
losing the argument internationally.  Susan Rice , the U.S.
ambassador to the UN, hinted after the Houla massacre that the
U.S. might go outside the  Security Council  to take tougher
action, thus circumventing the Russian and Chinese vetoes.  What can Russia do? There are just two options. One is to
stick to the current approach. This won’t stop foreign
involvement outside the UN, nor civil war, but Russia would be
able to denounce interference in Syria as illegitimate and watch
the resulting mess from the sidelines. That mess would be huge
and many outsiders who venture into the Syrian conflict may
emerge bruised. Still, Russia would suffer reputational damage
and would pay a price for being on the wrong side of history,
especially if Assad were to fall.  The alternative would be based on an idea recently invoked
by Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , namely that in civil
conflicts, the incumbent government bears a much larger
responsibility than its opponents do. Had he really wanted a
peace settlement, Assad might have used  Russia  to help him
arrange for a political transition in Syria. Instead, he used
Russia as a cover for stalling on peace and expanding a war
against his people. He has therefore failed in his
responsibility.  Lavrov and most recently his deputy, Gennady Gatilov, have
said they would be willing to accept a solution that involves
Assad’s departure, so long as that doesn’t involve a foreign
military intervention. This is, potentially, a point of
convergence between the U.S. and Russia.  Inviting Blowback  U.S. leaders should hold back from approving any military
action. Beyond the many risks on the ground, the U.S. would
invite blowback in the form of deeper rifts with Russia and
China in priority areas such as pressuring Iran over its nuclear
program. China and Russia might also be motivated to overcome
their differences and breathe real muscle into the Shanghai
Cooperation Organization, turning it into a counterpart to NATO.  Instead, the U.S. should make it clear to Russia that it
doesn’t foresee military intervention or forced regime change in
Syria, and that it would lean heavily on the opposition in Syria
to agree to talks and a political transition with the regime in
Damascus, though not with Assad.  Russia, for its part, should tell Assad: Your time is up,
we will no longer ship arms to a government involved in a civil
war, and the only thing we can do for you now is to help
negotiate your safe passage out of the country. Letting go of
Assad at this point, while encouraging members of the Syrian
military not implicated in atrocities to take over and open
talks with the opposition, would not plunge Syria into a civil
war -- that has already begun. What it might do is shorten the
conflict and save lives. If lives are more important than
regimes -- and they are -- then this is the path to follow.  ( Dmitri Trenin  is director of the Carnegie Moscow Center.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on how  Bahrain can model Mideast
reform  and why  Ben Bernanke should ease more ;  Jonathan Alter  on
 a new Obama campaign mantra ; Stephen L. Carter on  the failures
of capitalism ; A. Gary Shilling on  why the strong yen won’t
last ; Takeo Hoshi and Anil Kashyap on  Japan’s nuclear safety ;
Robert and Edward Skidelsky on  markets versus the good life .  To contact the writer of this article:
Dmitri Trenin at  DTrenin@carnegie.ru   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  