-- U.K. Urged to Scale Back Wind Goals to Make Cheaper Carbon Cuts
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-06-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/u-k-urged-to-scale-back-wind-goals-to-make-cheaper-carbon-cuts.html
Britain should abolish its renewable
energy target and use the cost savings to invest in natural gas-
fed power stations and revamp houses to make them more energy-
efficient, according to researchers at Policy Exchange.  Britain could save as much as 900 million pounds ($1.4
billion) a year by scaling back ambitious wind-power projects
around its coastline, the research group in  London  said in a
report published today. The U.K. should install about 9
gigawatts of offshore wind generation, rather than 13 gigawatts,
and plug the gap using natural gas-fed plants, according to the
report, written by Simon Less, a senior consultant at the Policy
Exchange.  “We need a proper debate about the right rate of
deployment of the most expensive renewable technologies,” Less
said in an e-mailed statement accompanying the report. “We need
to make best use of limited resources to maximize emissions
reduction and overall low carbon innovation.”  The European Union has a target of getting 20 percent of
energy from renewable sources by 2020. As part of this goal, the
U.K. would need to get 30 percent of its electricity from own
renewable sources. Alternative power accounted for 9.5 percent
of the country’s generation last year, government figures show.  Scaling back the wind-power target would free up cash to
invest in research for low-carbon technologies and improving
 energy efficiency  in homes, according to the report. The savings
would also be enough to allow the government to buy enough
European Union carbon allowances to cover the emissions from the
additional gas-fed stations six times over, it said.  The proposed measures won’t hinder Britain’s goal of
cutting emissions by 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050, the
Policy Exchange said. The group, funded by charitable donations
and established in 2002, favors free-market solutions, according
to its website. Some of its recommendations on carbon pricing
and the development of shale gas in the U.K. have been taken on
board by the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  