-- U.K. Services Unexpectedly Sustains Pace of Expansion in May
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-07T09:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/u-k-services-unexpectedly-sustains-pace-of-expansion-in-may-1-.html
U.K.  service industries  unexpectedly
maintained their pace of growth in May and employment rose as
demand increased.  A gauge based on a survey of  purchasing managers  remained
at 53.3 from April, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply  said in a report today in London. The
median forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a decline to 52.4. A measure above 50 indicates expansion.
Confidence weakened because of concerns related to the euro-area
debt crisis, Markit said.  The pound pared its decline against the dollar after the
survey, which indicates some strength in the economy after data
last week showed manufacturing shrank the most in three years in
May. The report adds to the case for the  Bank of England  to
maintain its target for bond purchases,  James Knightley , an
economist at ING Bank NV, said in a research note.  The index “has settled in a range that is a step or two
down from what we used to see prior to the financial crisis,
providing signs that the long-term growth rate may be shifting
lower,”  Paul Smith , senior economist at Markit, said in the
statement. “Exceptional circumstances prevail, with the euro-
zone debt crisis continuing to undermine service sector
confidence. The U.K. economy remains relatively fragile.”  Price Cuts  Markit said new business at services companies rose at the
fastest pace in four months, while employment increased at a
“solid rate.” Sales volumes were partly supported by price
cuts, it said.  The pound rebounded from a drop of as much as 0.4 percent 
after the report. It traded at $1.5489 as of 10:03 a.m., down 
0.1 percent from yesterday.  Government bonds  erased gains, 
pushing the 10-year gilt yield up 4 basis points to 1.698 
percent.  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee will keep
its bond-purchase target on hold at 325 billion pounds ($503
billion) today, said 37 of 42 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. All 55 economists in a separate poll forecast that the
central bank will keep its  benchmark interest rate  at a record-
low 0.5 percent, where it’s been since March 2009. Policy makers
announce the decision at noon in London.  The services gauge “didn’t fall as much as last Friday’s
manufacturing PMI, which had heightened talk about QE at today’s
BOE policy meeting,” Knightley wrote. “We suspect that the BOE
will choose to hold fire until after the Greek elections and
will keep further stimulus in reserve should markets become
dysfunctional.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  