-- U.S. Won’t Oppose Russia Sanctions That Risk Putin Reprisal
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-06-07T16:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/u-s-won-t-oppose-russia-sanctions-that-risk-putin-reprisal-1-.html
The U.S. administration will no
longer seek to prevent Congress from passing a bill targeting
human-rights offenders in Russia, a step that President  Vladimir Putin  has warned would spark retaliation and damage ties.  The House Foreign Affairs  Committee  today approved by voice
vote legislation that would impose U.S. travel and financial
curbs on any official abusing human rights in Russia, including
60 people suspected of involvement in the death of anti-
corruption lawyer Sergei Magnitsky in a Moscow jail in 2009.
Congress will vote on the measure at a later date.  “You’d be hard pressed to find anyone who would bet
against Congress expressing their concerns on the Magnitsky
matter in some way,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said
today in Moscow. “It’s important to work with Congress on an
appropriate mandatory response to that.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is seeking to
repeal trade restrictions with Russia to prevent U.S. companies
from being penalized once Russian membership of the  World Trade
Organization  takes effect later this year. A bipartisan group of
senators has made a repeal of the 1974 Jackson-Vanik amendment
conditional on imposing sanctions on Russian officials for
human-rights violations.  ‘Adequate’ Response  Any unilateral steps against Russian citizens would provoke
an “adequate” response, Konstantin Dolgov, the Foreign
Ministry’s human-rights representative, was  cited  as saying by
Interfax today. Russia still sees a chance the bill won’t be
adopted, according to the news service.  Such a law would be “a gross interference in Russian
internal affairs and, of course, it won’t have any positive
effect on U.S.-Russian ties, to put it mildly,” Dolgov told
reporters in Moscow on May 15. Russia warned in April it would
retaliate with unspecified measures against the law.  The U.S. is already at odds with Russia over its efforts to
oust Russian ally Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and its plans
to build a missile-defense shield in  Europe  on its former Cold
War foe’s borders. Obama is counting on Russia to help push  Iran 
toward a peaceful solution over its nuclear work and is seeking
a deal with Putin over a managed transfer of power in  Syria .  ‘Urgent Need’  The U.S. administration sees an “urgent need” to repeal
the Jackson-Vanik amendment, a Cold War-era trade-restriction
law that was passed to punish the communist  Soviet Union  for
refusing to allow Jewish emigration, Kirk said. Continued
existence of the trade barriers means U.S. companies doing
business in Russia won’t benefit from tariff reductions and
other measures that will follow Russia’s WTO membership.  The Obama administration should establish normal trade
relations with Russia to help companies compete in one of the
world’s fastest-growing markets, Ronald Pollett, president of
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s Russian unit, said on March 15.  The U.S. government in July 2011 imposed a visa ban on
several Russian officials involved in the Magnitsky case. The
U.S. ambassador in Moscow,  Michael McFaul , who’s pursuing
Obama’s “reset” policy of improving ties with Russia, said in
March that the visa ban made the Magnitsky bill “redundant,”
according to a Foreign Policy report posted on the envoy’s
Twitter Inc. account.  It’s no longer possible for Obama to resist pressure for
action, said  William Browder , head of London-based Hermitage
Capital Management Ltd., who has lobbied governments in the
U.S., Europe and  Canada  to sanction Russian officials over
Magnitsky’s death.  Torturers, Killers  “Does the U.S. want Russian torturers and killers coming
to America and using the U.S. banking system? The simple answer
is no, of course not,” Browder said by e-mail. “There is not a
democratically elected politician in the U.S. who will want to
be on the wrong side of this issue. Even appointed officials
understand they can’t publicly try to protect Russian criminals
without bringing the Obama administration into disrepute.”  Magnitsky, a lawyer for Hermitage Capital, said he was
abused and denied medical care in an effort to force him to drop
fraud allegations against Interior Ministry officials before his
death in November 2009 after almost a year in pretrial
detention. He was facing fabricated tax-evasion charges when he
was beaten to death, according to a Russian presidential human-
rights commission.  “The concerns over the protection of human rights are
deeply held within our country, and not just among a few human-
rights organizations or a few members of Congress, but across
the broad perspective of American stakeholders, including the
administration,” Kirk said. “We would like to have that
separate from the urgent need to lift Jackson-Vanik.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has urged Congress
to overturn the law, saying the statute hurts American farmers
and producers. Annual waivers have been allowed since 1993, two
years after the Communist government collapsed.  Russia , the largest economy outside the WTO, began
negotiating to join the Geneva-based trade arbiter in 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  