-- U.S. Issues El Nino Watch That May Affect Atlantic Storms
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-07T15:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/u-s-issues-el-nino-watch-that-may-affect-atlantic-storms.html
An El Nino may form in the  Pacific
Ocean  within six months, potentially crimping the number of
Atlantic hurricanes while bringing rain to the drought-stricken
U.S. South and drier weather in Asia.  An El Nino watch was issued by the U.S.  Climate Prediction
Center  in Camp Springs, Maryland, today because “there is a 50
percent chance” that the central Pacific will warm before the
end of the year.  The formation of an El Nino, a warming of the Pacific, can
have major impact on U.S. weather and on energy and agriculture
markets. The most immediate would be on the  Atlantic hurricane
season , which can produce threats to orange crops in Florida,
the second-largest producer behind Brazil, and to energy
production in the  Gulf of Mexico .  El Nino may also bring more storminess to the U.S. during
the winter and cooler weather in the South, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  Several preseason hurricane forecasts, including those by
 Colorado State University  and the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration , estimated there would be fewer
storms this year than last, based on predictions that an El Nino
would form.  El Nino enhances Atlantic Ocean wind shear, which is a
change in speed or direction of winds at different levels in the
atmosphere. The winds tear at the structure of growing tropical
systems, preventing them from organizing or strengthening.  Drier Asia  The area from Northern Australia through Indonesia tends to
be drier than normal during El Nino periods, according to the
U.S. Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory in Seattle. Less
rain also falls during the Indian monsoon, said  Jeff Masters ,
co-founder of Weather Underground Inc. in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  In the U.S., Southern states get more rain during December
to February in El Nino years, according to the marine lab.  Earlier this week, the Australian Bureau of Meteorology
also predicted an El Nino would form in the Pacific, citing
seven forecast models.  “Ocean temperatures below the surface are currently warmer
than average in the central and western Pacific,” the bureau
said, adding that the eastern Pacific is slowly warming. “The
tropical Pacific Ocean is likely to warm further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  