-- U.S. Moves Forward on Implementing Global Bank Rules
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-08T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/u-s-releases-steps-for-implementing-bank-capital-standards-1-.html
U.S. regulators moved ahead with
implementing global bank capital rules, releasing language for
measures proposed in previous years, even as the international
body overseeing the framework makes adjustments.  The  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency yesterday published a
revised version of rules that were decided in 2009, dictating
for instance how much capital banks need to back mortgage-linked
securities. The regulators also proposed another set of rules
that will translate for U.S. lenders a more fundamental overhaul
of the capital regime drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  in 2010.  Each Basel committee nation must write rules comporting
with the decisions of the 27-member body, and the 2009 revisions
were supposed to take effect last year. U.S. regulators were
delayed as they merged the Basel regime with the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act and had been criticized by the European Union for falling
behind. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday’s proposals
are a guide for other nations.  “It meets the standard of providing more and better
capital,” Bernanke said. The system of rules appropriately
focuses on the largest banks, which most easily can bear the new
burdens, and this “may well be the standard against which other
capital regimes around the world may be measured,” he said.  Capital Buffers  The Fed estimated the banking industry would face a capital
shortfall of almost $60 billion if the proposed capital buffers
of Basel III were in effect today. That compares with a Basel
committee survey’s finding that the largest global banks would
confront a $639.5 billion shortfall if forced to have a 7
percent core capital buffer last year. The regulators anticipate
U.S. banks could meet their 2019 requirement by retaining
earnings rather than raising capital.  Yesterday’s interagency proposal to implement Basel’s 2010
decisions stuck mostly to the original international framework.
The new regime more than doubles minimum  capital requirements ,
tightens the definition of capital and improves risk
measurements for loans.  “The proposal ups the ante on  Europe  regarding Basel III
implementation, even as it leaves off the table for now the
liquidity components,” said  Barbara Matthews , managing director
of BCM International Regulatory Analytics LLC, a Washington-
based consulting firm. “By implementing some of the framework
for all U.S. banks, the Fed seems to be bowing to years of
political pressure from Europe.”  The regulators didn’t include liquidity rules agreed to by
Basel two years ago and are reworking them for a later release.  ‘Harsher’ Rules  Wayne Abernathy , an executive vice president at the
 American Bankers Association , said the rules as drafted will
affect every  U.S. bank  and called that one of the surprises in
the nation’s “coming-out” party for Basel III.  Bankers, without time to dig into the details, already are
concerned that regulators will create “harsher” rules on
mortgages and some classes of commercial real estate, he said.  Dodd-Frank’s credit-ratings ban -- one of the major U.S.
departures from Basel -- slowed the process in the U.S. as
regulators devised alternatives. Congress barred ratings after
firms including  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service
gave their highest grades to mortgage-backed securities, which
allowed lenders to treat them as risk-free in the years before
the 2008 financial crisis.  The U.S. rules replace ratings of sovereign bonds with
classifications of country risk devised by the  Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development  that assign zero risk to
most European government debt, including that of Greece and
 Portugal .  Trading Books  The so-called market-risk  rules , which will be finalized
when all the regulators’ boards approve them, cover capital
charges for assets on bank trading books. The market-risk rules
would take effect Jan. 1.  The market-risk rule also contains formulas for determining
the riskiness of securitizations. The equations correlate risk
weightings with the hierarchy of tranches: If a bond is lower in
the order of receiving payments and among the first to get hit
by losses when loans in the package start defaulting, it’s
assigned a higher risk. Moody’s and S&P also would rate such a
bond lower, implying a higher  default risk .  The  Basel  committee has undertaken a fundamental review of
the market-risk rules once again this year and is likely to
overhaul the way they’re done.  The global body also is reworking parts of the liquidity
regulations, especially those that relate to how much cash or
easy-to-sell assets banks should hold to meet their long-term
liabilities.  ‘Good Governance’  “We cannot declare with these proposed rules, ’mission
accomplished,’” said Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin . “Capital
requirements do not compensate for good governance and
appropriate risk management by the institution.”  Raskin, who still supported the proposals along with all of
the other Fed governors, said she’s skeptical about letting big
banks rely on internal modeling to ensure proper liquidity.  Top U.S. bankers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  have warned in the past year that
stricter capital rules may curb economic growth by making it
more expensive to lend. That view was reiterated in a statement
yesterday by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, a Wall Street lobbying group, which said setting
excessive capital requirements will limit the availability of
funds that support new investments and  job creation .  ‘Economic Benefits’  Mike Kiley, an associate director on the Fed’s research
team, said its analysis found “significant economic benefits”
from higher capital requirements because they reduce the
probability of a financial crisis. The staff also found that the
requirements could affect the supply of credit, he said.  “Nonetheless, such long-run adverse consequences were
estimated to be modest relative to the benefits,” and total
estimated impacts on economic growth were “quite low,” he
said.  “While policy-making by the Basel committee is an
important step, it has to still flow through national bodies to
be effective,” said Stefan Walter, the committee’s secretary
general until October and now a principal at Ernst & Young LLP.
“Asian countries and the EU have introduced their local rules
in this vein. Now the U.S. coming out with its version is very
crucial for the global implementation of the rules.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 