-- U.S. Arms Exports Surge on Sales Push to India, Brazil
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-07T19:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/u-s-arms-exports-surge-on-sales-push-to-india-brazil.html
The State Department approved a
record number of export licenses last year for weapons and
military parts and services sold overseas by U.S. companies,
according to a report to Congress.  The estimated value of licenses issued by the department’s
 Directorate of Defense Trade Controls  was $44.3 billion, an
increase of more than $10 billion from the previous year,
according to the annual military assistance report delivered to
lawmakers today.  Companies need licenses before they can export goods and
services that are on the U.S. Munitions List, which limits
exports with military uses.  License approvals increased to
83,685 in fiscal 2011 from 83,158 in fiscal 2010 and 81,900 the
year before that, according to State Department data.  “The major prime contractors are focusing heavily on
building up sales overseas precisely because the Pentagon is
cutting back on spending,”  Philip Finnegan , director of
corporate analysis at Teal Group Corp., a defense research firm
in Fairfax,  Virginia , said yesterday in an interview.  “ India  and  Brazil  are key areas” for U.S. military
exports, Finnegan said. “The  Middle East  remains a key area.”  While contractors such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  will depend increasingly on markets abroad, “one of the
wild cards is European companies are trying to do precisely the
same thing,” he said.  Strong Demand  The licenses are required for so-called Direct Commercial
Sales between a company and a country. The State Department
report doesn’t include the Foreign Military Sales program
between governments, which is managed by the Pentagon.  Some items licensed in a particular year ship later,  Andrew Shapiro , assistant secretary of state for political-military
affairs, said today in a statement.  “Despite the global economic strains, this report shows
the demand for U.S. defense products and services has remained
strong,” Shapiro said. “This administration has worked hard to
support the defense industry abroad because it supports our
national security and jobs here.”  The report backs assertions by President  Barack Obama ’s
administration of improving commercial and military relations
with Brazil and India.  The State Department approved licenses valued at as much as
$219.9 million for sales to Brazil, up from $209.6 million in
2010. The biggest dollar-value category was for licenses valued
at $158.3 million for military aircraft and associated equipment
such as engines, technical data, components, emergency escape
equipment and inertial navigation devices.  Fighter Jet  The U.S. is courting Brazil in part to help the prospects
for selection of Boeing’s F-18E/F in a fighter competition
valued at as much as $4 billion. It pits the U.S. aerospace
company against  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ’s Rafale and  Saab AB (SAABB) ’s
Grippen. The decision may be made by mid-year, U.S. officials
said March 1.  India, another burgeoning partner, saw licenses approved
valued at $217.3 million, up from $154.5 million in fiscal 2010.
For India, too, the biggest category was for military aircraft
and associated equipment.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in a speech in New
Delhi yesterday that he hoped to streamline rules on the sharing
of defense technology with India.  Panetta said U.S.-India ties will move beyond a seller-
buyer relationship to “substantial co-production and
eventually, high-technology joint research and development” of
weapons.  Egypt Sales  The State Department approved licenses for sales to Egypt
with a estimated value of $114 million in the fiscal year that
ended Oct. 1, overlapping the Arab Spring protests and
imposition of military rule. That’s up from licenses in fiscal
2010 valued at $91 million.  The majority of items approved and shipped to  Egypt  were
spare parts for previously purchased aircraft, Shapiro said.  The Pentagon and State Department have sought to increase
Yemen military’s counter-terrorism capabilities against al-Qaeda
and other groups.  Licenses for Yemen increased in fiscal 2011 to $24.3
million in value from $4.1 million the previous year, mostly for
helicopters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  