-- U.S. Candidates Accuse Each Other of Being Too European
-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 2012-06-07T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/u-s-candidates-accuse-each-other-of-being-too-european.html
At an Obama fundraiser in  Manhattan 
on June 2,  Bill Clinton  previewed a new economic script for the
president’s campaign. “Why aren’t things roaring along now?” he
asked. “Because Europe is in trouble and because the  Republican
Congress  has adopted the European economic policy.” That
European policy, he said, was “austerity and unemployment now at
all costs.” He’d rehearsed the same line four hours earlier at a
fundraiser in the private home of a hedge fund executive,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its June 11 issue.  For a campaign known for its cool-headedness, there’s an
unmistakable note of fear lurking in the effort to draw a line
from Europe’s troubles to the GOP and  Mitt Romney . The subtext:
If Europe collapses and drags down the  U.S. economy  with it,
blame the Republicans. Blame Greece.  Just don’t blame  Barack Obama . This is not likely to be a
winning argument. If the economy does take a downward turn
before November, it isn’t Europe that voters will hold to
account.  Europe bashing, a feature of every modern presidential
campaign, is never about winning an argument. It’s about making
Americans feel superior -- and about changing the subject. When
 Karl Rove  said in 2004 that  John Kerry ’s hair “looked French,”
it didn’t matter that it made no sense. The line got a knowing
laugh. When American politicians caution against “European-
style” [fill in scary word here: “socialism” for Republicans;
“austerity” for Democrats], what they’re really doing is probing
at baser emotions.  European Empires  European countries all had their own empires, once. And now
the empires are gone.  Europe  exposes Americans’ darkest
political fear -- that they, too, may suffer a long decline that
ends in tourism, artisanal food, precision manufacturing, and
the occasional Olympic gold medal.  It was Romney who first pulled the Europe card this
campaign. In May he said Obama’s plan is to “follow in the
pathway of Europe, to shrink our military smaller and smaller to
pay for our social needs.” This is a ready theme for Romney. In
his 2008 campaign for president, he warned that unless America
changed course, it could become “the  France  of the 21st century
-- still a great nation, but not the leader of the world, not
the superpower.”  See how easy that is? “Europe” can be made into a backdrop
for any frightful scenario. In Romney’s version, the continent
has weakened itself through social spending. As Clinton --
acting as Obama’s proxy -- tells it, Europe is a victim of
drastic spending cuts.  Health Care  Republicans who want to repeal the health-care reform law
warn against heading down the path toward government-run
socialist systems like  Sweden ’s. Yet social spending has worked
out fine for Sweden--even if less so for  Greece .  “It’s so funny, because Europe has very different health-
care systems,” says Thomas Risse, who runs the Center for
Transnational Relations, Foreign and Security Policy at the Free
University of Berlin. “The most socialist is the British system,
which no American knows. They think of Britain as their main
ally.”  Clinton’s critique of European austerity is almost as
simplistic. Austerity is not a country-by-country choice. The
U.K. forced it on itself, and Germany has forced it on others.
Clinton, who knows better, conveniently lumped all of Europe
together. Philip Lane, an economist at Trinity College in
Dublin, agrees with Clinton that it’s a bad idea to rapidly
reduce a country’s deficit.  Ireland  Austerity, he says, is for “when you’ve got no choices,” as
with Ireland, which must accept the terms of its lenders. Still,
he says that taken as a whole, the  euro zone  looks a lot like
the U.S., with comparable rates of public debt to GDP. If all of
Europe could borrow against that economy, as the U.S. can, “the
level of austerity would be a lot less,” he says.  For Obama, who’s counting on the EU to stabilize before the
election, there’s a risk in mocking America’s closest allies.
“Obama should realize that Europeans actually listen to what
he’s saying in an election campaign,” says Risse. The
administration has been gently pushing  Germany  to relax its
austerity policies, hoping to goose demand in Europe and,
ultimately, in the U.S. “If Europe and Germany are now used by
the Democrats as an attack line against the Republicans,” says
Risse, “then the U.S. loses all the leverage it has on Europe
and on Germany. If Obama thinks he can gamble on this, not good.
Not good.”  Editor: Wes Kosova
