-- Ukraine Soccer Head Likens Political Boycotts to Cold War Era
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-07T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/ukraine-soccer-head-likens-political-boycotts-to-cold-war-era.html
The head of  Ukraine ’s soccer
federation said foreign governments’ boycotts of his country
during the European Championship go against the spirit of sport.  The U.K. yesterday joined action by France, Belgium, the
Netherlands and European Union commissioners in saying its
ministers won’t attend games in Ukraine because of human-rights
concerns. The nation is co-hosting the tournament with Poland.  The EU has called for opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko  to
be freed from prison. She was jailed for seven years over a gas
accord she signed with Russia while prime minister in 2009.  Speaking yesterday before the U.K. announcement, soccer
federation president Hryhoriy Surkis likened the situation to
the Cold War era when the U.S. led other nations in boycotting
the 1980 Olympic Games in Moscow. The  Soviet Union  and some
allies took similar action four years later when the games were
hosted in Los Angeles.  “Politicians should not do anything that separates
people,” Surkis said in an interview. “I think there are
enough instruments in our global new world to avoid boycotts and
pressure. Sport and politics should be divided into different
spheres.”  For now, the U.K. boycott covers the group stage, the
opening phase of the 16-nation tournament. England plays all
three of its group matches in Ukraine, starting against France
in Donetsk on June 11. It then meets  Sweden  in  Kiev  before
returning to Donetsk to play Ukraine.  ‘Under Review’  “The government fully supports England’s participation in
Euro 2012,” the U.K. Foreign Office said in an e-mailed
statement today. “No ministers will be attending group games at
Euro 2012. We are keeping attendance at later stages of the
tournament under review in the light of ministers’ busy
schedules ahead of the Olympics and widespread concerns about
selective justice and the rule of law in Ukraine.”  Four matches in the eight-team knockout stage, including
the July 1 final, will be played in Ukraine. The  Olympic Games 
start in London on July 27.  European soccer’s governing body has faced increasing
questions about the decision to award Ukraine hosting rights to
the competition, the most watched in sports after soccer’s  World
Cup  and the summer Olympics.  “It was very much welcomed by all the political leaders
when we started out four or five years ago,”  David Taylor ,
chief executive officer of the governing body’s commercial arm,
 UEFA  Events SA, said in an interview today. “If one month
before the tournament there are issues and some political
leaders don’t want to come, well, of course they’re free to
choose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Warsaw via the  London  newsroom at 
2284 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  