-- Lululemon Drops After Profit Forecast Trails Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-06-07T21:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/lululemon-projects-profit-sales-that-trail-estimates.html
Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , a
Vancouver-based yoga-wear retailer, declined the most in 10
months after projecting full-year earnings and sales that
trailed analysts’  estimates .  Lululemon  fell  8.8 percent to $63.84 at the close in New
York, the biggest drop since Aug. 8. The shares had soared 50
percent this year before today.  Lululemon has more than doubled  revenue  in the past two
years as its community-based marketing and stylish workout
apparel attracted customers willing to pay premium prices for
its products, such as $118 yoga pants. The company, which has
added running gear and men’s clothing, is focusing more on
innovation and creating new products for long-term growth at the
expense of second- and third-quarter sales.  “This is not a demand issue but rather a deliberate
strategy on the part of management to focus on long-term product
innovation at the expense of chasing every dollar of unmet in-
season demand,” Taposh Bari, an equity analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in  New York  with a hold rating on the stock, wrote in a note
today. “It may take the market one to two quarters to
completely digest this latest development,” he wrote.  Full-year profit will be as much as $1.60 per share, the
company said today in a statement. Analysts projected $1.63, the
average of 24 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue for the
year will total as much as $1.34 billion, trailing the $1.35
billion average of analysts’ estimates. In March, Lululemon had
projected full-year profit of as much as $1.57 a share on sales
of a maximum of $1.33 billion.  ‘Impatient Market’  “It would be a uniquely aggressive management team in a
slow-growth environment to get too aggressive in forward
guidance, and I think that is a big part of the pullback in the
stock today,”  Mark Schultz , who manages the $260 million
Wilmington Mid-Cap Growth Fund from Baltimore, said in a
telephone interview. “Nothing we’ve seen in this quarter
changes our investment thesis in the name,” said Schultz, who
said his fund bought Lululemon shares in 2008.  Lululemon’s production team is focusing on “innovation
versus chasing product,” Chief Executive Officer Christine Day
said in an earnings call with analysts today.  In the past, Lululemon would divert the attentions of its
product team and manufacturers by ordering products that had
sold well in a previous quarters, reducing their ability to work
on new fashions and products, and occasionally resulting in
apparel that didn’t mix well with the latest items, Day has
said.  ‘Great Story’  While that shift may cap the company’s second-quarter
sales, “we believe that management was attempting to say that
they would not simply chase back into prior product that may not
be ‘fresh,’” Adrienne Tennant, an analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC with a buy rating on the stock, wrote in a note today.
The company’s focus on offering unique and improved product for
the higher-volume fourth-quarter will offer “more benefit and
better return” for its efforts, she wrote.  Lululemon projected second-quarter sales of as much as $278
million, falling short of the average estimate for $289 million
from a Bloomberg survey of 21 analysts.  “This is not a demand issue but rather a deliberate
strategy on the part of management to focus on long-term product
innovation at the expense of chasing every dollar of unmet in-
season demand,” Taposh Bari, an equity analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in New York with a hold rating on the stock, wrote in a note
today. “It may take the market one to two quarters to
completely digest this latest development,” he wrote.  Revenue of as much as $1.34 billion this fiscal year would
compare with $1 billion in sales last year and $711.7 million in
the prior period.  Earnings Growth  “We are trying not to overreact in the short term because,
look, in this environment at the size we are, strong double
digit comp growth, we think is a great story with a healthy
margin,” Day said. “We really don’t feel the need to apologize
for that level of performance and growth track record that we
have.”  The company may be hurt by a slowdown in demand, said
 Edward Yruma , an analyst at Keybanc Capital Markets in New York.  “We do have some concerns that the U.S. luxury consumer
may be slowing,” Yruma, who recommends holding the shares,
wrote in a May 24 note to clients. “While we understand that
the demand dynamics between high-end jewelry and activewear are
not the same, we do believe that global economic issues do have
a more profound impact on the affluent U.S. consumer.”  Shares Rallied  Lululemon shares rallied 36 percent last year and more than
doubled in 2010, after ending 2009 at $15.05.  “What makes Lulu distinctive in the portfolio versus some
of our other retail names is the extent to which it is
disrupting and possibly redefining women’s athletic apparel and
the brand extensions out of its core yoga,” Schultz said.
“It’s the rippling out of the brand into related areas of the
athletic apparel marketplace.”  First-quarter  net income  rose 40 percent to $46.6 million,
or 32 cents a share, in the period ended April 29, from $33.4
million, or 23 cents, a year earlier, the company said today.
That compares with the average analyst  estimate  of 30 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 53 percent
to $285.7 million.  Same-store sales on a constant dollar basis in the first
quarter advanced 25 percent, Lululemon said.  The company’s online sales more than doubled to $38.4
million in the first quarter from $13.7 million a year earlier,
according to its quarterly  filing  today.  Lululemon had 180 stores in  North America ,  Australia  and
 New Zealand  at the end of the quarter. The company got 60
percent of its revenue from the U.S. in the quarter, according
to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  