-- UN Monitors Fired On Amid Debate Over Next Steps on Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-06-07T17:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/un-monitors-fired-on-amid-debate-over-next-steps-on-syria.html
United Nations monitors in  Syria  were
shot at when they tried to reach the scene of a reported
massacre in Hama province, as UN envoy Kofi Annan asked the
international community to help force President Bashar al-Assad
to abide by a cease-fire.  “Clearly, the time has come to determine what more can be
done to secure implementation of the plan -- and/or what other
options exist to address the crisis,” Annan told the General
Assembly today in New York. “If things do not change, the
future is likely to be one of brutal repression, massacres,
sectarian violence and even all-out civil war.”  The international community remains reluctant to intervene
militarily in Syria, the opposition remains divided, and  Russia 
now wants to include  Iran , a longtime Syrian ally, in efforts to
seek a possible successor to Assad, a move U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  rejected immediately.  The UN observers, some of about 300 unarmed military
monitors charged with overseeing the cease-fire, were fired at
en route to the village of Qubair to verify reports by the
opposition that at least 78 people were killed by army shelling
and attacks by Shabbiha militia. While no one was injured, one
of the vehicles was damaged, according to UN spokesman  Martin
Nesirky . He said at this stage it couldn’t be ascertained who
was responsible for the shooting.  Norwegian Major General Robert Mood, head of the mission,
said observers were halted at Syrian checkpoints and some were
turned back. Syrian state television blamed “terrorists” for
any atrocities and denied that the monitors were blocked, saying
a group of them had arrived at the village.  ‘Shocking, Sickening’  “The army shelled the village of Qubair with mortars,
artillery and tanks from around 1 p.m. (Syrian time),” the
opposition Syrian National Council said in a statement today.
“Shabbiha entered the village and proceeded to randomly shoot
men, women and children. Shabbiha raided houses, led a number of
men out of their houses and stabbed them to death.”  The reports are “shocking and sickening,” UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-Moon told the 193-member assembly.  “The  United States  strongly condemns the outrageous
targeted killings of civilians including women and children in
Al-Qubeir in Hama province as reported by multiple credible
sources,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said in a
statement today.  ‘Affront to Dignity’  “This, coupled with the Syrian regime’s refusal to let UN
observers into the area to verify these reports, is an affront
to human dignity and justice,” Carney said. “There is no
justification for this regime’s continued defiance of its
obligations under the Annan Plan, and Assad’s continued
abdication of responsibility for these horrific acts has no
credibility and only further underscores the illegitimate and
immoral nature of his rule.”  If confirmed, the massacre would be the second in less than
two weeks. On May 25, 108 people, including 49 children, were
killed in Houla in one of the worst atrocities in the 15-month
uprising against Assad’s government. The U.S., its Western
allies and other countries such as  Turkey , expelled Syrian
diplomats after the massacre, leading Syria to kick out the
envoys of those states.  The reports emerged hours before Annan’s arrival in  New
York , where he will ask the Security Council about ways to
revive his moribund plan, which has failed to end the bloodshed
in Syria.  Economic Lifelines  The Obama administration, still opposed to military
intervention in Syria, has been pressing for the UN Security
Council to cut the regime’s economic lifelines.  “The future of Syria will be determined by the Syrian
people, and the international community must come together in
support of their legitimate aspirations,” Carney said in the
statement. “We call once more on all nations to abandon support
for this brutal and illegitimate regime, and to join together to
support a political transition in Syria -- one that upholds the
promise of a future for which far too many have already died.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  invoked
yesterday the possibility of action against Syria under Chapter
7 of the UN Charter. That empowers the  Security Council  to
mandate sanctions or authorize military means to enforce its
will.  In an effort to salvage his initiative, Annan today will
propose forming an international group to advance discussions on
a political transition, according to three UN diplomats who
spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of
the issue. The details of his latest pitch remained vague.  Enlisting Iran  “The international community has united, but it now must
take that unity to a new level,” Annan told the General
Assembly. “We must also chart a clearer course for a peaceful
transition, if we are to help the Government and opposition.”  Russia, which along with  China  has protected the Assad
government from tougher UN sanctions, is seeking to enlist Iran,
Syria’s ally, in a bid to engineer a political transition.  “We hope this proposal will be examined today by United
Nations and Arab League envoy  Kofi Annan  and the UN secretary
general,” Alexander Lukashevich, a Foreign Ministry spokesman,
said in comments broadcast on state television today. “It is
our firm view that we can’t do without the participation of this
state as well as other countries in the region.”  Clinton said it’s hard to imagine that “a country working
so hard to keep Assad in power” could be a constructive
participant.  “We think it is important to give Kofi Annan and his plan
the last amount of support we can muster, because in order to
bring others into a frame of mind to take action in the Security
Council, there has to be a final recognition that it’s not
working,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  