-- Hungarian Industrial Output Plunges in April as Recession Looms
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-06-07T07:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/hungarian-industrial-output-plunges-in-april-as-recession-looms.html
Hungary’s industrial output
unexpectedly plunged in April as mobile phone and television
production continued to fall, boosting the chances that the
economy will enter its second recession in four years.  Output dropped a workday-adjusted 3.1 percent from a year
ago after a 0.6 percent increase in March, the Budapest-based
statistics office said today based on preliminary data. The
median estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for
0.5 percent growth. Production fell 2.4 percent from March.  The economy  contracted  1.3 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, preliminary data released May 15
showed, as the euro area’s debt crisis reduced demand for the
nation’s industrial exports.  “Essentially mobile phone and television production, which
for a long time accounted for a big increase in exports, have
been falling significantly for many months,” statistician
Miklos Schindele told reporters.  The economy shrank 0.7 percent from a year earlier after a
1.4 percent expansion in the last three months of 2011. The
statistics office will publish revised GDP data tomorrow.  The trend in industrial production and the first-quarter
figure contrasts with government optimism about the economy’s
outlook. Hungary’s economic ills are healing “surprisingly
fast” and the country is sticking to market financing for its
debt, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  wrote in an article for
Heti Valasz newspaper today.  The economy, which has the highest debt level among eastern
members of the European Union, asked for International Monetary
Fund aid in November. Talks on a loan have yet to start as the
Cabinet failed to amend a disputed central bank legislation to
guarantee the institution’s independence.  Hungary’s economic decline in the first quarter showed
signs of decoupling from  Germany ’s, its biggest export market.
The German economy grew 0.5 percent from the fourth quarter,
five times more than economists forecast, as exports to  emerging
markets  offset waning euro-area demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  