-- Egypt’s Military, Political Groups Negotiate on Constitution
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-07T14:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/muslim-brotherhood-oks-plan-for-egypt-constitutional-committee.html
Egypt ’s military rulers met with
political groups in a bid to secure the framework for a
committee that will draft the new constitution, ahead of next
week’s presidential runoff.  Earlier today, the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
Party signed off on a proposal for the committee’s composition,
the FJP’s spokesman Ahmed Sabei told the official Middle East
News Agency. He said other groups had walked out of the talks --
a claim that was denied by the parties said to have withdrawn
from the meeting.  Egypt heads toward the final round of presidential
elections starting June 16 with no constitution in place and the
powers of the incoming president yet to be determined. The
Brotherhood’s candidate, Mohamed Mursi, and Ahmed Shafik, the
last prime minister to serve under ousted President  Hosni Mubarak , are due to face each other in the runoff.  Sabei said the Free Egyptians Party, the Tagammu Party and
the Social Democrats pulled out of today’s meeting, though the
differences would likely be addressed later, MENA reported.  By contrast, the three parties said in an emailed statement
that the meeting ended in failure over the Muslim Brotherhood’s
insistence on rejecting the notion that any one group should
hold a majority that “allows it to impose its will” on others,
the statement said. The Brotherhood’s FJP hold the single
largest bloc in parliament.  The ruling military council warned the groups on June 5
that it would act unilaterally if they didn’t reach an agreement
within 48 hours. The parties had been wrestling with the
committee’s composition since a court shot down an earlier
version. Smaller groups have accused the FJP and other Islamists
of seeking to dominate the body.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltabalwy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  