-- Vicodin-Type Pain Pills May Face Stricter U.S. Regulation
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-07T20:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/vicodin-type-pain-pills-may-face-stricter-u-s-regulation.html
Vicodin and other hydrocodone-
combination painkillers may face tighter U.S. oversight
following repeated reports of misuse and addiction that have
been cited by the Drug Enforcement Administration.  Advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration , which
regulates pharmaceutical sales, will  meet  in October to discuss
the risks and benefits of hydrocodone preparations used as pain
relievers or cough suppressants, the agency said in a notice
today on its website. The DEA has been taking a closer look at
rules for hydrocodone combinations since 1999.  Prescription pain relievers are the  second-most  abused drug
in the U.S. after marijuana, with hydrocodone-related emergency
room visits more than doubling from 2004 to 2010, according to
the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
Consumers have easier access to hydrocodone through combination
drugs, such as the acetaminophen-mixed Vicodin, which have fewer
regulations than pure hydrocodone.  The DEA is seeking to change the drug classification in a
way that would require more interaction with doctors in order
for people to obtain those combination products.  “It has to do with penalties for trafficking,” Barbara
Carreno, a spokeswoman for the enforcement agency, said in a
telephone interview. “You have to go back to the doctor when
you run out of medicine. It’s more oversight by the doctor.”  If the FDA determines in October that the medicines should
have more oversight, the DEA will act to change its schedule
classification to match, Carreno said.  Zogenix’s Zohydro  A change in such classification may benefit companies
including  Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX) , which is developing a pure form of
hydrocodone that would have to compete with less controlled
substances such as  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Vicodin and the generic
equivalents. Zogenix  rose  3.8 percent to $1.93 at the close of
 New York  trading.  Zogenix submitted an application to the FDA for its
product, Zohydro, in May. The San Diego-based company has said
Zohydro doesn’t contain acetaminophen, which avoids the
potential for liver injury.  “We already understood that Zohydro will be regulated as a
DEA Schedule II product versus the currently marketed
hydrocodone combination products which are all Schedule III,”
Catherine O’Connor, a Zogenix spokeswoman said in an e-mail.
“We are supportive of measures to help with the responsible
prescribing of hydrocodone and other opioid products.”  Drug Classes  Hydrocodone is an opioid considered by the DEA to be a
Schedule II controlled substance, the second-highest level on a
five-stage scale that takes into account the potential for
addiction. Hydrocodone combinations are one class lower and as a
result have fewer restrictions on sales.  The DEA asked the FDA to review rescheduling hydrocodone in
2004, Morgan Liscinsky, an FDA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
The FDA responded in 2008 and didn’t make its response public.
The DEA asked again for a review in 2009, she said.  Senate legislation, S. 3187, passed May 24 that allows the
FDA to collect $6.4 billion in review fees includes a provision
to restrict access to hydrocodone products. A version passed by
the  House of Representatives , H.R. 5156, doesn’t contain
hydrocodone language. The two chambers are working out the
differences in the bills they must pass before the current user
fee programs expire Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  