-- Vietnam to Cut Deposit Rate Cap to Spur Economic Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-07T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/vietnam-to-cut-deposit-rate-cap-to-spur-economic-growth.html
Vietnam ’s central bank will cut the
dong deposit rate cap by two percentage points next week as
policy makers attempt to revive the economy and encourage more
lending to businesses.  The cap will be 9 percent from 11 percent currently and
will take effect June 11,  State Bank  of Vietnam Governor Nguyen
Van Binh told the National Assembly yesterday. The reduction
will support companies and is in line with easing  consumer price
gains  that are at their lowest since 2010, Binh said. Declines
in borrowing costs still don’t “meet the needs of businesses,”
he said.  A slowdown in the Vietnamese economy is hurting companies
amid a credit crunch after the central bank raised borrowing
costs last year to fight what was then the fastest inflation in
 Asia . Gross domestic product grew 4 percent in the first
quarter, the slowest since 2009, and the pace of expansion for
the full year may be as low as 5.2 percent, Deputy Minister of
Planning & Investment Cao Viet Sinh, said in an interview this
week.  “The central bank is trying to reduce the funding cost of
banks, hoping that banks will pass on the benefit to the
ultimate consumer,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based
economist at Barclays Plc. “The move will likely encourage more
consolidation in the banking sector, in line with what the
central bank wants, since weak banks may find it difficult to
source funding.”  Vietnam’s move to spur growth coincides with  China ’s cut
yesterday of its  interest rates  for the first time since 2008.  Access to Funds  Companies are still finding it hard to access cheap funds
from banks, Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan, deputy chairwoman of the
legislative body, said yesterday. Current lending rates are
currently as high as 18.5 percent, according to a central bank
statement on its website June 6.  The central bank lowered its refinancing rate, discount
rate and repurchase rate by one percentage point in each of the
last three months.  The Vietnamese government asked the central bank to speed
up lending-rate cuts after consumer-price gains eased, according
to a resolution on the government website May 10. Inflation
slowed to a 21-month low of 8.34 percent in May. Binh forecasts
consumer prices will rise 0.2 percent in June from May and the
year-end inflation rate will be 7 percent to 8 percent.  “If this is followed by cuts in other policy rates, it
might be interpreted that the government is over-concerned about
stimulating growth,” said Kevin Snowball, the Ho Chi Minh City-
based chief executive of PXP Vietnam Asset Management. “If this
is not followed by cuts in other policy rates, then it creates
more of a net interest margin, which may encourage banks to make
more loans.”  The central bank has injected about 180 trillion dong ($8.6
billion) into the economy, Binh said, calling it a “huge”
amount.  “Liquidity in the banking system has improved
significantly,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  