-- Virgin Mobile Users to Get iPhone in Second Prepaid Deal
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-06-07T20:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/virgin-mobile-will-offer-iphone-to-prepaid-customers-this-month.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone will be sold to
prepaid customers later this month through  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s
Virgin Mobile USA brand, marking the device’s second deal with a
U.S. pay-as-you-go carrier in the past two weeks.  The company will offer the phone with prepaid plans of $30
to $50 a month starting June 29, according to a statement today.
The iPhone 4S will cost $649, while the older iPhone 4 with 8
gigabytes will be priced at $549.  The agreement pushes the iPhone deeper into the prepaid
market, making it available to more customers who don’t want to
take on a two-year contract.  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) ,
another pay-as-you-go carrier, announced plans last week to
offer the phone on its network. While Virgin Mobile is selling
the phone for a higher price than Leap, which is offering the 4S
for about $500, it has lower-cost monthly rates.  Sprint already offers the iPhone to contract customers, and
the Virgin Mobile deal may help the company satisfy a $15.5
billion purchase agreement with Apple, said  Brian Marshall , an
analyst at ISI Group in San Francisco. The offer also may help
the company compete against  AT&T Inc. (T) , the carrier that sells
the most iPhones in the U.S.  Getting Traction?  “At $50 per month (versus comparable unlimited options
from AT&T at $100-plus per month), we believe this could gain
some traction among U.S. customers who are able to pay the
upfront costs,” Marshall said today in a report.  Virgin Mobile customers also will be able to use their
iPhone as a mobile hot spot for an additional $15 per month,
providing Internet access to nearby devices.  Sprint, which acquired Virgin Mobile in 2009, runs the
decade-old business as a separate brand. Virgin Group founder
 Richard Branson  still serves as the  public face  of the company.  Sprint sold 1.5 million iPhones last quarter, helped by a
$99.99-a-month unlimited calling-and-data plan that  Verizon
Wireless  and AT&T don’t offer. The sales topped analysts’
estimates and helped narrow losses at the Overland Park, Kansas-
based carrier.  The shares  rose 0.7 percent to close at $2.74 in New York.
Sprint’s stock has gained 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  