-- Vivendi Said to Discuss Activision Unit Sale on June 22
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-07T18:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/vivendi-said-to-discuss-activision-unit-sale-on-june-22.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  is set to decide on the
future of its video-game unit  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  at a
senior executive meeting this month as it considers options for
a reorganization, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The main scenario to be discussed is a sale of part or all
of Vivendi’s 61 percent stake in Activision, the maker of “Call
of Duty” with a market value of about $13 billion, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the meeting is
private. Vivendi has met with  investors  in the past weeks to
discuss options, one of them being a spinoff of pay-TV unit
 Canal Plus , which is 20 percent owned by  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , said one
person.  Vivendi jumped as much as 5.3 percent in Paris and
Activision fell as much as 6.2 percent in  New York . A sale of
Activision would be an attempt by Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou to
unlock value from  assets  he has said are at a discount because
of the holding structure at Vivendi, which also owns  Universal
Music Group  and phone operators in France, Morocco and  Brazil .
Fourtou will lead the weekend retreat in Corsica, which starts
June 22 and will be attended by top executives including Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy , as Paris-based Vivendi
looks for ways to reverse a 28-percent  slide  in its stock price
in the past 12 months through yesterday, the people said.  Annual Gathering  “A single sale is actionable, but it risks being a short-
term solution,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  London , who recommends holding the stock.
“Six to 12 months from now, questions will pop up again. What
happens next? Why does it makes sense to keep the rest of the
assets together? Is there any strategy?”  A Vivendi spokesman said the executive meeting is an annual
gathering that has taken place since 2005. He declined to
discuss specific scenarios, adding that nothing has been decided
and that the meeting is a forum of exchange and discussion, not
for quick-fix decisions or solutions.  Maryanne Lataif, a spokeswoman for Activision, declined to
comment.  “We will not stay idle,” Fourtou said at the company’s
shareholder meeting in April. “Members of the supervisory and
management  boards  as well as the main managers will spend three
days together soon, like every year. We will look over our
strategy, our perimeter and our image among investors.”  Vivendi jumped 3.7 percent to a six-week high of 13.59
euros at the close of trading in Paris. Activision fell 1.7
percent to $11.87 at 2:05 p.m. in New York. Bloomberg News first
reported on April 25 that the company was considering an
overhaul of its structure that may lead to its breakup. Vivendi
has a market value of 17.5 billion euros ($22 billion).  Shares Outperform  Activision, based in  Santa Monica ,  California , is Vivendi’s
fourth-biggest business, with sales of $4.76 billion last year.
Shares of the world’s largest video-game publisher have  gained 
4.5 percent in the past year before today, outperforming
 Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  and  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) ,
helped by demand for the “Call of Duty” shooter franchise.  Activision was Vivendi’s second-fastest growing unit last
year, after Brazilian phone operator GVT. The video-game
publisher reported 2011 earnings, excluding taxes, of $1.33
billion, or 28 percent of sales.  Bigger Overhaul  An exit from Activision would be another retreat from the
globe-trotting conglomerate structure Vivendi pioneered under
former CEO Jean-Marie Messier, who nearly bankrupted the
company with a $77 billion acquisition spree before he was
ousted in 2002. In 2009 Levy undid Messier’s signature deal by
selling Vivendi’s stake in  NBC Universal , the TV network and
Hollywood studio now owned by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , to General
Electric Co. for $5.8 billion.  Vivendi has yet to decide what it would do with proceeds
from any sale, the people said. The company may decide to return
the funds to shareholders through a share buyback or to reinvest
in its media and telecommunications businesses, they said.
Vivendi could also decide against a sale of Activision, the
people said.  The company has weighed a bigger overhaul of its structure,
though this option may have moved down its list of alternatives,
the people said.  Vivendi looked at splitting into two, with one part
consisting of media units Universal Music Group, Canal Plus and
Activision, and the other telecommunications and content-
distribution businesses SFR, GVT and Maroc Telecom, people
familiar with the matter said in April.  No Taboo  In a March 27 letter to shareholders, Fourtou and CEO Levy
said it’s a misconception that Vivendi’s various businesses have
no connection. Still, questions about whether units should be
sold or the company broken into pieces are “not taboo,” they
said.  The annual executive retreat is held at a different
location every year. This year’s venue, Corsica, is a
Mediterranean island popular with tourists because of its
coastlines and mountains.  Slowing sales and  earnings growth  at Vivendi’s businesses
have left the company’s shares hovering near a nine-year low.
The stock is down 34 percent since Levy announced his latest
deal -- the 7.95 billion-euro buyout of French wireless operator
SFR -- in April 2011.  Since then, SFR has come under pressure from new discounter
 Iliad SA. (ILD)  SFR has proposed cost-cutting plans and will give
details to unions in the coming weeks. Vivendi’s Levy hired
Vodafone executive  Michel Combes  to lead SFR and replace Frank Esser, who has stepped down after 11 years in the role.  Combes will bring “strategic vision” to the unit, which
accounts for 41 percent of Vivendi’s sales and 34 percent of
profit, Levy said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  