-- Vodafone, Telefonica to Set Up U.K. Mobile-Phone Venture
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-07T14:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/vodafone-telefonica-to-set-up-u-k-mobile-phone-venture.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  is considering more
deals to share parts of local mobile-phone networks following an
agreement to set up a 50-50 venture in the U.K. with  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Spain ’s biggest phone company, which operates in 25
countries and seeks to slash 57.1 billion euros ($71.8 billion)
in debt after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its rating last month,
targets these deals to cut costs and improve network quality,
the person said, asking not to be identified because the plans
aren’t public. A Telefonica spokesman declined to comment.  “Spain, Germany or Ireland could be other markets where
Telefonica could seek similar ventures,” said Giovanni Montalti, a London-based analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux.
While network quality is important, well-known operators such as
Telefonica can also lure clients and differentiate themselves
from rivals with prices and data services, he said.  The unraveling of takeovers and mergers in the past year,
including a sale of Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA business
and a combination of Vodafone’s Greek assets with a rival,
highlight the need for European carriers to find ways to boost
profitability as regulators from  Washington  to Brussels balk at
consolidation. Telefonica and Vodafone today agreed to operate
and manage a single network grid in the U.K. that will run two
competing nationwide mobile Internet and voice networks.  Telefonica doesn’t regard the U.K. agreement as an isolated
case and is already working on deals for other markets, the
person said. Vodafone U.K. CEO Guy Laurence told reporters in
London today that the deal doesn’t automatically pave the way
for agreements in other markets.  Fighting Back  Telefonica gained as much as 2 percent to 9.79 euros in
Madrid trading today and stood at 9.63 euros as of 1:36 p.m.
Vodafone was little changed at 169 pence in London.  The two companies are trying to lower costs as U.K.
competition intensifies with a group owned by  Deutsche Telekom  (DTE) 
and  France Telecom SA. (FTE)  While Vodafone and Telefonica will
continue to compete with each other, they’re deepening their
existing partnership as they prepare to roll out faster fourth-
generation services.  The U.K. venture follows a more extensive merger by
Deutsche Telekom and  France Telecom , which pooled their U.K.
wireless assets and brands into Everything Everywhere in 2010.
With more mobile phones than people in  Europe , the region’s
operators are increasingly relying on sharing and combining
networks to lower costs of expansion and offer faster data
downloads.  Germany Consolidation  Telefonica already has network-asset sharing arrangements
with T-Mobile in the  Czech Republic . In Spain, Telefonica and
Vodafone have a site sharing agreement.  A deal for Telefonica in  Germany  would depend on the
potential market consolidation in Europe’s biggest economy,
Montalti said.  Royal KPN NV and Telefonica are considering ways to merge
their German units, a move that would create the country’s top
mobile-phone operator by customers, two people with knowledge of
the matter said this month. The companies are evaluating a
variety of options, including a combination of Telefonica’s O2
Germany unit and KPN’s E-Plus, the smallest two of the nation’s
four operators, according to the people.  Telefonica said last month it will explore share sales for
O2 Germany and its Latin American businesses.  Failed Mergers  France Telecom merged its Orange network in the U.K. with
Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile in 2010, creating Everything
Everywhere in a bid to save more than 4 billion euros ($5
billion) in network, marketing and administrative costs by 2014.
That deal, creating the country’s biggest operator and cutting
the number of network companies in the country to four from
five, paved the way for joint procurement projects and network
sharing across all their markets.  The U.K. venture between Vodafone and Telefonica, which
will have a grid of 18,500 cellular sites, is targeting indoor
coverage of 98 percent of the U.K. population using second and
third-generation wireless technologies by 2015. Newbury,
England-based Vodafone and Madrid-based Telefonica said they
will continue to run their wireless spectrum independently.  “This is yet another step that reflects what’s going on in
the telecoms industry as well as part of Telefonica’s strategy
to rationalize costs,” Javier Mielgo, a Madrid-based analyst at
Mirabaud Finanzas said by phone today.  The average European operator will spend about 2 billion
euros to upgrade an existing network to 4G technology to cover
75 percent of a country with 50 million people, according to
Frederic Pujol, an analyst at researcher Idate.  Data Demand  “As demand for data services has evolved, this is a
natural evolution of our arrangement,” said Ronan Dunne, CEO of
Telefonica’s U.K. unit. “Individual markets will respond to
their particular regulatory environment and market environment
and certainly this model is very much focused on delivering the
right answer for U.K. customers.”  Dunne and Vodafone’s Laurence declined to provide financial
details on the venture, saying they don’t expect any synergies
in revenues and no job cuts. The venture shouldn’t create any
antitrust issues, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  