-- Voting-Rights Surprise at High Court May Foreshadow Health Care
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/voting-rights-surprise-at-high-court-may-foreshadow-health-care.html
When U.S.  Supreme Court  justices
picked apart the government’s arguments in defense of President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul, they buoyed the hopes of
the law’s opponents that it would be ruled unconstitutional.  A 2009 challenge to the landmark 1965 Voting Rights Act
offers a cautionary note.  In both cases, the justices repeatedly interrupted as the
administration made its case. They injected comments and posed
questions that pointed toward a court-ordered upheaval.  “It sounded like the justices were going to blow away
Section 5,” recalled  Theodore Olson , who was the top Supreme
Court lawyer for President  George W. Bush , referring to the part
of the Voting Rights Act that requires some states to get
federal clearance before changing their rules.  Two months later, the court left the law intact on an 8-1
vote. The justices struck a compromise that let them avoid a
direct ruling on the constitutional challenge to the measure.  As the high court prepares to rule by the end of this month
on health care, the voting rights case underscores the hazard of
predicting the outcome of Supreme Court cases.  Skeptical questions from Chief Justice John Roberts and
Justice  Anthony Kennedy , during arguments in March, suggested
they may cast pivotal votes against the health law, Obama’s
signature domestic achievement. The law would expand insurance
to at least 30 million people and transform an industry that
makes up 18 percent of the nation’s economy.  Veteran Supreme Court advocates say there are no
guarantees, citing previous cases involving professional golf
and cigarettes.  Can’t Predict  “There is no way to predict,” said Deanne Maynard, a
Washington lawyer at  Morrison & Foerster LLP  who has argued 13
Supreme Court cases.  Even if the courtroom questioning reflected the justices’
views at the time, much can change over the course of three
months of opinion writing and rewriting.  The justices have a range of options in the health-care
case. They could uphold the law, overturn it or strike down only
the requirement that people get insurance or pay a penalty,
along with connected provisions.  By one measure -- one Roberts himself has used -- the court
is set to invalidate at least the insurance requirement.  During two hours of debate on that rule on March 27, the
justices directed the bulk of their questions at U.S. Solicitor
General Donald Verrilli, the administration’s top Supreme Court
lawyer. The justices interrupted Verrilli during his
presentation 102 times, compared with 88 times for the two
lawyers arguing against the law, the court’s official transcript
shows.  Roberts Study  That data may be significant, according to a small-scale
study Roberts conducted in 2004, when he was a federal appeals
court judge. Roberts, who argued 39 Supreme Court cases before
he became a judge, looked at 28 arguments from two high court
terms and found that in 24 of them, or 86 percent, the side that
was asked more questions lost the case.  “The secret to successful advocacy is simply to get the
court to ask your opponent more questions,” Roberts wrote in a
law review  article  adapted from a speech he gave on Supreme
Court arguments. More comprehensive studies have reached similar
conclusions.  The chief justice himself was one-sided in the health-care
case, interjecting 23 times during Verrilli’s hour on the
insurance requirement and only seven times as opponents of the
law made their arguments. Kennedy interrupted Verrilli six
times, compared with four times during the other side’s time.  Repelling Elephants  Roberts told Verrilli the health plan would “require
people who are never going to need pediatric or maternity
services to participate in that market” by getting insurance to
cover that type of care. Kennedy said the law “changes the
relationship of the federal government to the individual in a
very fundamental way” by forcing people to buy a product.  Similarly, the voting rights case looked bad for the
administration after the April 2009 argument. Roberts questioned
whether the so-called preclearance requirement still made sense
after 44 years, given that only 0.05 percent of proposed voting
changes failed to win Justice Department approval.  When  Neal Katyal , the administration’s lawyer, said those
numbers showed that Section 5 was deterring discrimination,
Roberts likened the argument to a whistle designed to keep away
elephants.  “Well, there are no elephants, so it must work,” Roberts
said.  ‘What Happened?’  In the end, Roberts wrote the court’s opinion leaving the
Voting Rights Act intact even as he pointed to “serious
constitutional questions” about it. The court ducked the
primary issue by saying the Texas utility district involved in
the case could seek an exemption from the preclearance
requirement.  The decision was a stunner, according to Olson, now a
lawyer at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington. “Everybody
was saying, ‘Wow, what happened there?’” he said.  It was hardly the first time court watchers were confounded
by a ruling that didn’t track what had taken place in the
courtroom. Roy Englert, who has argued 20 Supreme Court cases,
points to one in 2001 that tested whether the U.S.  PGA Tour 
could be forced to let Casey Martin, a disabled golfer, use a
cart during tournaments.  “I and I think lots of other people counted seven votes
for the PGA Tour” after the argument, said Englert, a lawyer at
Robbins Russell Englert Orseck Untereiner & Sauber LLP. “When
the dust had settled, there were seven votes for Casey Martin
and only two for the PGA Tour.”  ‘Light’ Cigarettes  In a 2008 case, the justices suggested during arguments
that they were going to bar smokers from suing over the
marketing of “light” cigarettes. Kennedy and Justice David Souter both hinted that they read a federal cigarette-labeling
law as precluding such suits.  “Most people thought that we were going to lose after the
argument,” said  David Frederick , a Washington lawyer at Kellogg
Huber Hansen Todd Evans & Figel PLLC who argued on behalf of
Maine smokers seeking to sue under a state consumer-protection
law.  The court instead ruled 5-4, with Kennedy and Souter in the
majority, that smoker suits could go forward.  “We were rather shocked because we did not see a 5-4
decision against us coming after that argument,” said Olson,
who argued against the lawsuits on behalf of  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s
Philip Morris USA unit.  With health care, traders on the online prediction market
Intrade see a greater than 60 percent  chance  the court will
strike down the mandate. That’s up from less than 40 percent in
the days before the argument.  Those numbers reflect the uncertainties that flow even from
an argument that may have leaned toward one side.  “Saying that one outcome or another is likely because of
what happened at the argument would be the equivalent of
predicting a jury’s verdict based solely on the closing
arguments,” said Andrew Pincus, a lawyer at Mayer Brown LLP who
has argued 23 Supreme Court cases. “There are many more
important ingredients in the court’s decision-making process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  