-- Walker Bets on Brats to Heal Wisconsin as Praise Pours In
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/walker-bets-on-brats-to-heal-wisconsin-as-praise-pours-in.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker ’s
triumph in a June 5 recall election brought him praise as a
Republican standard-bearer unafraid to defy Democrats and their
union allies and brave the consequences.  Now, after a 15-month fight over union restrictions that
became a national test of ideology and money, the Republican
governor is inviting the Legislature over for a healing cookout
-- “brats and burgers and maybe a little bit of Wisconsin
beer” to “kind of break the ice and figure out how we can get
past this,” he told reporters after a speech yesterday in
suburban Milwaukee.  The question is whether it’s too late and the wounds are
too deep.  The recall efforts begun when a polarized Legislature
passed restrictions on unions that Walker supported prompted
more than $100 million in spending as well as feuds played out
in front of television cameras and even fistfights. Walker’s
tactics, which brought acclaim yesterday from Republicans around
the nation -- and Democrats’ insistence on trying to remove him
-- were at odds with a political culture that for decades
thrived on compromise.  “I do believe that this recall election was looked upon by
both sides as something that they wished had not happened,”
said former  Wisconsin  Governor Martin Schreiber, a 73-year-old
Democrat.  States of Rage  Schreiber, who served from 1977 to 1979, said 15 months of
arguments over whether Walker and his supporters should continue
in office have been “cataclysmic” for Republicans and
Democrats alike.  Wisconsin has joined a list of states where politics has
been defined by confrontation and disdain of compromise -- just
as in  Washington , D.C.  The inability of Minnesota Republicans and Democrats to
work together forced a government shutdown last year. In  Ohio ,
Governor  John Kasich  and Republicans controlling the Legislature
enacted a labor bill similar to Wisconsin’s that prompted unions
and Democrats to seek a ballot issue repealing the measure.  Indiana has been similarly torn. This year, Democratic
lawmakers boycotted the  House of Representatives  to try to block
passage of so-called right-to-work legislation. Such a measure
prohibits union membership or payment of dues as a condition of
employment.  No Quarter  Six-term incumbent U.S. Senator  Richard Lugar  lost a May 8
primary to Indiana Treasurer  Richard Mourdock , who criticized
him for working too much with Democrats. Mourdock said he wanted
a Republican majority so as not to be forced into compromise.  “I don’t want to see the  Republican Party  having to work
with Democrats,” Mourdock said in an interview on May 3. “For
those who call for bipartisanship, it is bipartisanship that has
taken us to the brink of bankruptcy.”  Evan Bayh, a Democrat who represented  Indiana  as a U.S.
senator from 1999 to 2011, has said lack of bipartisanship in
Washington was the main reason he retired. He said he hopes
Wisconsin’s bitter episode leads to a new sense of comity.  Leaders may conclude that, having “gone over the abyss,”
compromise is the best course, Bayh said.  “Having scorched the earth, perhaps the political leaders
in Wisconsin will realize they have to live off the land,” Bayh
said in a telephone interview.  The recall efforts were provoked in February 2011 when the
governor used Republican legislative majorities to restrict
bargaining for most public-employee unions. Walker held his
ground, protesters swarmed the capital and Democrats and unions
organized ouster efforts.  Tossed Out  Last year, nine recall elections for senators were held --
six against Republicans and three against Democrats -- and two
were thrown out, both from Walker’s party. Yesterday, the
lieutenant governor and three Republican senators escaped
recalls. Walker beat Milwaukee Mayor  Tom Barrett  53 percent to
46 percent.  One Senate recall remained undecided; the Democratic
challenger was leading by 779 votes out of 71,731 cast. A loss
for the Republican incumbent would give Democrats the chamber.  Walker took a victory lap yesterday, appearing on national
television and drawing plaudits from New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , who called it an “impressive win.” Presumptive
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  said the win showed
that “citizens and taxpayers can fight back -- and prevail --
against the runaway government costs imposed by labor bosses.”  Let’s Talk  Even so, Walker said yesterday that he has bridges to mend.  “As we take on big issues in the future, there’s no doubt
that we’re going to hone in on what we need to do to fix things,
but we’re also going to spend the time talking to people,”
Walker told reporters.  The president of the state’s largest public employee union
said Walker needs to prove his sincerity.  “Wisconsin needs to heal, but trust has to be earned,”
Mary Bell, president of the Wisconsin Education Association
Council, said in a telephone interview.  The election validated what Walker set out to accomplish,
including getting a deficit under control without raising taxes,
said state Senator Alberta Darling, a Republican who survived a
recall attempt last summer.  Just Business  “Why should that be a partisan idea, to be in good fiscal
condition and good fiscal shape?” Darling said in an interview
at Walker’s election night victory party in Waukesha. “What is
partisan about that?”  The campaign has left the residue of bitterness for some
voters. Walker’s television ads attacked  Milwaukee , the state’s
largest city, as crime-ridden and badly run.  Paula Lorant of nearby Whitefish Bay said she was offended
by the attempt to pit the rest of Wisconsin against the city.  “Those ads portrayed Milwaukee as a cesspool with horrible
schools, high unemployment and outrageous crime statistics,”
Lorant said. “The message was that if you elect Tom Barrett,
that’s what will happen to the rest of the state. How do we heal
from that kind of fear-mongering?”  Wisconsin’s heritage of progressivism and bipartisanship
suffered, said Jerald Podair, a history professor at Lawrence
University in Appleton.  “We’re well past the road of no return,” Podair said in a
telephone interview. “There’s no possible way that we go back
to the old, civil, gracious Wisconsin.”  Mark Miller , the Democratic Senate leader, said he welcomes
the governor’s “pledge to govern in a new way” and will take
up his offer of bratwurst.  “I want to give him the benefit of hospitality that has
been extended,” Miller said. “We will see what happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Jones in Waukesha, Wisconsin at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Waukesha, Wisconsin at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  