-- Wall Street’s Share of New York Jobs Hits Low: Chart of the Day
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-06-07T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/wall-street-s-share-of-new-york-jobs-hits-low-chart-of-the-day.html
New York is relying less and less on
Wall Street.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows finance jobs fell to 7.8 percent
of private employment in  New York City  in April, matching the
record lows set in May 2010, according to data from the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics. In mid-2006, finance employment
accounted for more than 9 percent of the private workforce in
New York, and it was almost 11 percent in 1990.  The city’s economy has become less dependent on Wall Street
and is “doing quite well,” Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said May 30. Other industries
including tourism have helped boost the city’s economy, he said
at the district bank’s regional economic briefing in New York.  Banks have continued to cut costs and jobs in the aftermath
of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  trimmed pay and reduced positions this year. More
cuts may come as the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe dims the
industry’s prospects, according to Michael Karp, managing
partner of executive-search firm Options Group.  While the share of finance jobs has continued to diminish
since the credit crisis began in 2007, New York’s private
workforce has recovered faster than the nation’s. Since the end
of the recession, private employment in New York City has
increased by 5.6 percent, while the national level of employment
has climbed by 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexandre Tanzi at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  