-- Why Nigeria Plane Lost Power Before Crash Still Mystery
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-06-07T23:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/why-nigeria-plane-lost-power-before-crash-still-mystery.html
Nigeria ’s chief aviation regulator,
recommended for suspension after the nation’s deadliest accident
in almost 40 years, defended his record as several safety
advocates said he may become a scapegoat.  “Would you please wait for the accident investigation to
complete, to have seen the black boxes, before we start
judging?” Harold Demuren, director general of the Nigerian
 Civil Aviation Authority , asked in a phone interview yesterday.  Demuren appealed for patience during the investigation into
the Dana Airlines Ltd. crash on June 3. All 153 people on board
and an unknown number on the ground were killed when the  Boeing
Co. (BA)  MD-83 jetliner crashed and burst into flames in a Lagos
suburb while approaching the airport on a domestic flight.  Nigeria’s aviation industry had one of the world’s worst
safety records in 2006, a year after Demuren took his job. Four
years later, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration gave
 Africa ’s largest oil producer a  Category 1  rating, which allowed
its domestic carriers to fly to the U.S.  “We have become one of the safest places in Africa,”
Demuren said, speaking from Nigeria.  Nigeria’s Senate voted June 5 to recommend that Demuren be
suspended. The minister of aviation, Princess Stella Adaeze
Oduah, will convene a panel June 11 to review the nation’s
aviation oversight system, according to an e-mailed press
release.  Chaotic System  Demuren has come under criticism for an aviation system
that he said can be chaotic at times, with flights postponed and
carriers not always adhering to schedules. Part of the reason
for delays, he said, was that his authority has imposed stricter
safety standards that prohibit departures in bad weather.  The Flight Safety Foundation, a U.S. non-profit advocacy
group, issued a  statement  this week calling on Nigeria’s leaders
to “not compound this tragedy” by targeting Demuren.  “You can’t let a leader go down in Africa if you want to
make any change,”  Bill Voss , president of the Alexandria,
Virginia-based foundation, said in an interview June 6.  Tony Tyler , director general and CEO of the  International
Air Transport Association , a Geneva-based trade group, also
backed Demuren.  “Safety is a constant challenge everywhere in the world,”
Tyler said in a statement. “In Nigeria, as elsewhere, this
important work must continue without political interference.”  Safety Improvements  In 2005 and 2006, airlines in Nigeria had three fatal
crashes and three others serious enough to destroy the aircraft,
according to the  AviationSafetyNetwork , a Netherlands-based
website that tracks aviation safety statistics. Those accidents
killed a total of 322.  From that stretch until the Dana Air crash, there was one
accident that claimed three lives, according to the group’s
data.  A plane operated by a Nigerian cargo airline, Allied Air,
skidded off a runway in Accra-Kotoka Airport in  Ghana  on June 2,
striking a van on an adjacent road, according to the safety
network’s website. The collision killed 12 people in the van.  The Dana flight crew’s final radio broadcasts included
“Mayday. Losing two engines” and “Throttle not responding.
Not responding,” Demuren said in the interview, emphasizing he
was speaking from memory.  The pilot didn’t mention hitting birds, which has caused
simultaneous loss of power in two engines in other incidents, or
any other reason for the failures, he said.  The crash-proof recorders on the jetliner, known as black
boxes, have been found and will be flown to the U.S. for
analysis by the Washington-based  National Transportation Safety
Board , which is assisting in the investigation, Demuren said.  Fueling, Maintenance  The jet took on what Demuren characterized as a routine
fuel load before departing Abuja, the capital. The crew added
12,125 pounds (5,500 kilos) of  jet fuel  before the fatal flight,
he said.  Other aircraft had refueled in Abuja without reports of
engine failure, which suggests the fuel wasn’t contaminated, he
said.  Nigeria imposes maintenance requirements similar to those
in the U.S. and  Europe .  Dana  had performed maintenance in a
facility in Istanbul, he said.  Investigators combing the charred wreckage, which was
partially lodged in an apartment building, have found all major
pieces of the plane, he said. It remained pointed toward the
airport when it struck the ground a few miles short of the
runway, he said.  Engine Failures  Accident investigators can tell from the pattern of damage
in engines whether they were under power when they struck the
ground. No determination has been made on the Dana engines,
Demuren said.  Today’s jet engines are so  reliable  that it’s very unlikely
two would fail at once, John Cox, a former airline pilot who is
a consultant at Washington-based Safety Operating Systems, said
in an interview.  Pilots have inadvertently closed fuel switches or shut
engines down, mechanics have botched repairs on multiple
engines, and engines have quit during extreme maneuvers,
according to files at the U.S. NTSB and the
AviationSafetyNetwork.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  