-- Woolworths CEO Moir Targets Africa to Drive Sales Growth
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-06-07T18:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/woolworths-ceo-moir-targets-africa-to-drive-sales-growth.html
South African food and clothing
retailer  Woolworths Holdings Ltd. (WHL)  expects to more than triple
the proportion of sales it derives from other African countries
within seven years as it taps a growing middle and upper class.  The rest of  Africa  isn’t currently “a huge part of our
business,” Woolworths Chief Executive Officer Ian Moir said in
an interview at the company’s Cape Town headquarters yesterday.
“It’s about 3 percent now. It will get to 10 percent but not
for five to seven years.”  Consumer spending  in Africa rose at a compound rate of 16
percent between 2005 and 2008 and the continent has more
families with an income exceeding $20,000 a year than  India , New
York-based McKinsey & Co. said a June 2010 report. Woolworths
operated 57 stores in 12 African countries outside of its home
market at the end of last year and plans to have between 80 and
104 within two years.  Two stores opened recently in  Nigeria  and one in Mauritius
are performing well and four or five outlets will be operating
in each country soon, while expansion into  Angola  is being
explored, he said.  Woolworths’  net income  surged to 1.03 billion rand ($125
million) in the six months ended December from 775 million rand
a year earlier, as sales gained 11 percent to 14.2 billion rand.
Conditions in  South Africa  were constrained and getting tougher,
Moir said on Feb. 16 when the results were released.  Slowing Economy  The growth rate in Africa’s largest economy slowed to an
annualized 2.7 percent in the first quarter of this year from
3.2 percent in the previous three months, according to
government data. Expansion in the wholesale and retail
industries eased to 3 percent from 5.2 percent.  “It hasn’t necessarily gotten any tougher for us,” Moir
said yesterday. “The overall market is pretty much where it was
in the first six months of the financial year. Our foods
business continues to trade well,” while some problems in the
clothing business have been resolved.  The company’s concerns about spiraling prices haven’t
materialized, with food price  inflation  currently at around 8
percent and clothing inflation between 5 percent and 6 percent,
he said.  Biggest Store  In April, Woolworths opened its biggest store, a 2,440
square-meter (26,263 square feet) outlet on William Nicol Drive,
a road linking northern and western Johannesburg to the economic
hub of Sandton. The supermarket, which houses a butcher counter,
bakery and coffee shop and sells an extended range of luxury
food, kitchenware and baby products, targets a market dominated
by  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP)  and  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. , South
Africa’s biggest grocery chains.  “We reached good levels of sales almost immediately,”
Moir said. “We see the possibility for many more of these
stores,” targeting three or four within 12 months and more than
10 in the next four to five years.  While Woolworths plans to expand its trading space by 6
percent to 7 percent annually over the next three to four years,
expansion at its Australian unit, Country Road, will be limited,
with a net six new stores planned by mid-2014. The unit boosted
pretax profit by 7.7 percent in the fiscal first half by cutting
costs, yet sales slipped 2.7 percent in Australian dollar terms.  Australian Turnaround  “The Australian market is extremely tough at the moment,”
Moir said. “It’s going to turn. Most economic commentators are
saying it’s going to be the fastest-growing developed economy in
the world in the next 10 years. We will be able to grow that
business again, and materially, sooner rather than later.”  Moir succeeded Simon Susman as CEO in November 2010 after a
decade as head of Country Road. The retailer’s share price has
gained 82 percent since his appointment, while the 10-member
FTSE/JSE Africa General Retailers Index has gained 35 percent.  The  shares  gained 90 cents, or 1.8 percent, to 50.90 rand
at 2:45 p.m. in Johannesburg today, bringing the company’s
market value to 42.5 billion rand.  The retailer isn’t related to London-based Woolworths Group
Plc, which collapsed in 2008, or Woolworths Ltd., located in
Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  