-- World Champion All Blacks Remodel Team; Wallabies Change 9
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-07T09:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/world-champion-all-blacks-remodel-team-wallabies-make-8-changes.html
New Zealand  picked three rookies in a
remodeled team for the first of three rugby Tests against
Ireland, retaining just seven of the starting lineup from last
year’s World Cup final victory.  Lock Brodie Retallick, scrum-half Aaron Smith and wing
Julian Savea will make their debuts in two days at Auckland’s
Eden Park in the All Blacks’ first match since beating France 8-
7 in October to win their first world title since 1987.  “We picked them in the squad because they have all shown
that they have special qualities which they now get the
opportunity to show on the international stage,” All Blacks
coach Steve Hansen said in an e-mailed statement.  Hansen’s starting team has a combined 527 Test appearances,
down on the 708 amassed by  Graham Henry ’s selection against the
French eight months ago. Captain Richie McCaw, Israel Dagg,
Conrad Smith, Kieran Read, Sam Whitelock, Owen Franks and Tony Woodcock are the survivors from the World Cup final.  Henry stepped down as head coach in November and is
currently working with Argentina to help prepare the Pumas for
their entry into the southern hemisphere rugby championship
later this year.  Ireland, which failed to beat the All Blacks in 24 previous
Tests, named wing Simon Zebo and prop Declan Fitzpatrick to make
their debuts.  Wallabies Changes  Australia earlier made eight changes to the team that
started the 9-6 upset loss to Scotland two days ago for its
series opener against European champion Wales in Brisbane on
June 9. Wing Joe Tomane was later ruled out after injuring his
ankle in training and replaced by Cooper Vuna.  Prop Benn Robinson was chosen for his first Test since
November 2010 after missing the 2011 international season
because of a knee injury.  Wales goes into the first of three Tests against Australia
with 11 of the starting lineup that sealed a Six Nations Grand
Slam sweep by beating  France  in March. Flanker Sam Warburton
returns as captain following an 11-week break since leaving the
field at halftime in the 16-9 win against the French.  The Wallabies, the  No. 2 team  in the International Rugby
Board’s world rankings, have won eight of the nine Tests played
between the two teams in Australia. Wales’s sole win was 43
years ago in Sydney.  “Australia will be disappointed after their defeat to
Scotland, but that will make them all the more dangerous for
us,” Wales caretaker coach Rob Howley said. “We all appreciate
the enormity of the task ahead of us. The long term stats don’t
make happy reading for the Welsh against the Wallabies.”  ALL BLACKS: Israel Dagg, Zac Guildford, Conrad Smith, Sonny
Bill Williams, Julian Savea, Daniel Carter, Aaron Smith, Kieran
Read, Richie McCaw (captain), Victor Vito, Sam Whitelock, Brodie
Retallick, Owen Franks, Andrew Hore, Tony Woodcock.  Reserves: Hikawera Elliot, Ben Franks,  Ali Williams ,  Adam
Thomson , Piri Weepu, Aaron Cruden,  Ben Smith .  IRELAND: Rob Kearney, Fergus McFadden,  Brian O’Driscoll ,
Keith Earls, Simon Zebo, Jonathan Sexton, Conor Murray, Jamie
Heaslip, Sean O’Brien, Peter O’Mahony, Donnacha Ryan, Dan Tuohy,
Declan Fitzpatrick, Rory Best, Cian Healy.  Reserves: Sean Cronin, Ronan Loughney, Donncha O’Callaghan,
Kevin McLaughlin,  Eoin Reddan ,  Ronan O’Gara , Darren Cave.  AUSTRALIA: Adam Ashley-Cooper, Cooper Vuna, Rob Horne, Pat
McCabe, Digby Ioane, Berrick Barnes, Will Genia, Wycliff Palu,
David Pocock (captain), Scott Higginbotham, Nathan Sharpe, Rob
Simmons, Sekope Kepu, Tatafu Polota-Nau, Benn Robinson.  Reserves: Stephen Moore,  Ben Alexander , Dave Dennis,
Michael Hooper, Nic White, Anthony Faingaa, Mike Harris.  WALES: Leigh Halfpenny, George North, Jonathan Davies,
Scott Williams, Alex Cuthbert, Rhys Priestland, Mike Phillips,
Toby Faletau, Sam Warburton (captain), Dan Lydiate, Bradley
Davies, Luke Charteris, Gethin Jenkins, Ken Owens, Adam Jones.  Reserves: Matthew Rees,  Paul James , Alun Wyn Jones,  Ryan
Jones ,  Lloyd Williams , James Hook, Ashley Beck.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  