-- Xavi’s 89% Passing Rate Drives Coaches to Study Spanish Soccer
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-06-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/xavi-s-89-passing-rate-drives-coaches-to-study-spanish-soccer.html
Xavi Hernandez , one of soccer’s most
accurate passers, will display his technique in Spain’s European
Championship title defense starting this weekend. Foreign
coaches are signing up to discover how he got so good.  Enrollments for coaching courses at the Spanish soccer
federation’s Ciudad del Futbol, or Soccer City, near Madrid rose
15 percent since Spain won the 2010  World Cup , said Inigo de
Zayas Mariscal, a member of the federation’s finance department.
A six-day course costs 1,200 euros ($1,500) per person and
students have come from as far as  Australia  and  Saudi Arabia .  Barcelona’s Xavi completed a tournament-high 89 percent of
passes at the World Cup in  South Africa . That rate of success by
the 32-year-old is down to grassroots coaching in  Spain  that’s
unmatched in most other countries, according to Andy Roxburgh,
technical director at Nyon, Switzerland-based European soccer
governing body  UEFA .  “The way the style has evolved is from the way the youth
teams were trained,” Roxburgh said in an interview. “It has
taken a long, long time to come to fruition.”  Spain’s style is based on a short-passing, technical game
that favors finesse over physicality and has been instilled by
federation coaches since 1995, according to technical director
Gines Melendez. Its 3,547 passes in seven matches at the 2010
World Cup were the most by any team since tracking began in
1966, according to statistician Opta Ltd.  At the European Championship two years earlier, Xavi was
selected as the tournament’s best player by UEFA’s nine-man
technical team as Spain secured its first major title since
1964. The country’s national squads from juniors upward have
used the $55 million Soccer City complex in the upscale Madrid
suburb of Las Rozas since 2003.  Italy Opener  Spain opens its championship defense June 10 against  Italy 
in Gdansk,  Poland , before facing the Republic of Ireland and
Croatia in the same city. Spain is the 11-4 favorite to win Euro
2012 according to bookmaker  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) , meaning a successful
$4 bet would yield an $11 return plus the original stake. No
team has so far managed to retain the trophy.  The Spanish approach has had success at youth level. The
nation won the Under-20 World Cup in 1999, was runner-up in the
Under-17 category in 2003 and 2007, and won the last European
Under-21 championship in 2011. The Iberian nation has almost
30,000 qualified soccer coaches, about 10 times the number in
 England . With the national team  ranked No. 1  by world governing
body FIFA, foreign coaches are beating a trail to Soccer City.  “People come from everywhere just to look at our
facilities,” De Zayas Mariscal said. “They are looking to
learn our way.”  ‘Every Corner’  Less than 2 percent of the Spanish federation’s 131.3
million euro sales in 2010 came from hosting coaching courses,
according to its latest published accounts.  Most of the income came from selling TV rights to Spain’s
games, World Cup prize money and sponsorship from companies
including Adidas AG -- which paid a 10 million euro win bonus,
the accounts show.  The not-for-profit federation’s 6 million euro net income
for the year will be used to further develop Spanish soccer,
according to the filings.  Spanish soccer federation president Angel Maria Villar said
that while the organization relies on clubs like  Barcelona  to
mold players, it has improved the selection process with a
pyramid of competitions at all age groups.  Long Process  “Every weekend, there are games at every age group in
every corner of Spain,” Villar told UEFA’s website in May last
year. “This allows a compilation of data that isn’t available
in some other countries.”  To be sure, while coaches may take away some useful tips
from Soccer City, they won’t be able to copy Spain’s success
anytime soon, Roxburgh says.  AS Roma (ASR)  fired Luis Enrique Martinez last month after Xavi’s
former Barcelona teammate couldn’t replicate the Spanish club’s
winning model in Italy’s Serie A championship in under a year.
Roma finished seventh, one place lower than the previous
campaign.  “The idea you can suddenly say, ‘Right, we’re going to
play like Spain,’ I don’t think that works,” Roxburgh said.
“You don’t do what they have done overnight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Warsaw via the London sports desk at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 duff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  