-- Yen Gains as Stock Losses, German Data Spur Refuge Demand
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-06-08T06:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/yen-heads-for-decline-versus-major-peers-on-china-easing.html
The yen gained versus all its major
counterparts as data showed German exports fell in April amid
concern the European debt crisis is hurting the region’s
economy, boosting demand for haven currencies.  The  Dollar Index  rebounded from a near one-week low as
Asian stocks dropped even after  China  cut  interest rates  for the
first time since 2008 to stimulate growth. The yen maintained a
weekly loss versus the dollar on speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
will debate overhauling its asset-buying program next week.
 Australia ’s dollar fell after data showed the nation posted a
trade deficit for a fourth month.  “China’s rate cut wasn’t enough to boost risk appetite,”
said Masakazu Sato, a foreign exchange adviser for Gaitame
Online Co., a foreign exchange margin company in  Tokyo . “The
situation in  Europe  hasn’t changed. The yen and dollar are being
bought in a bid for safety.”  The yen gained 1 percent to 99.07 per euro as of 7:03 a.m.
in  London  from the close yesterday in  New York . The Japanese
currency added 0.5 percent to 79.22 per dollar, still set to
lose 1.5 percent this week. The 17-nation euro declined 0.4
percent to $1.2506.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, gained 0.3 percent to 82.513. It touched
81.911 on June 7, the lowest level since May 28. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of shares lost 1.3 percent.  German Exports  German  exports , adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, fell 1.7 percent from March, when they gained 0.8
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a drop of 0.7 percent, according to the
median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports
plunged 4.8 percent.  “The ground in Europe is still shaking and there are still
problems there,” said Alex Sinton, director for institutional
foreign exchange at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
“The euro has had a corrective rally. It should come under
further pressure.”  The euro may fall in the coming days to $1.2464, its 200-
hour moving average, Sinton said, citing trading patterns.  The euro has declined 3.7 percent over the past six months,
making it the worst performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 3.5 percent and the yen appreciated 1.3
percent.  China’s one-year deposit rate and one-year lending rate
will both drop by a quarter percentage point effective today,
the People’s Bank of China said in a statement yesterday.  Chinese Economy  Industrial output  in China in the first five months of the
year probably grew 10.8 percent from a year earlier, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
ahead of a report tomorrow. That would be the slowest growth in
year-to-date output since November 2009. Consumer prices are
projected to have risen by 3.2 percent in May from a year
earlier, smaller than the 3.4 percent increase reported in April
and below the government’s 2012 target of 4 percent.  “China is cutting interest rates not because it wants to,
but because it has to,” said ANZ’s Sinton. “The economic
landscape there is such that they need to cut those rates. There
will be further cuts to come.”  In  South Korea , the won slid after the central bank held
off from altering borrowing costs for a 12th-straight month.
Governor Kim Choong Soo said that while today’s rate decision
was “unanimous,” the board discussed various follow-up
measures in preparation for changes in the economic situation.  The won slipped 0.3 percent to 1,175.30 per dollar.  BOJ Bond Purchases  Gains in the yen were limited against the dollar as BOJ
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board prepare to meet June
14-15 after the central bank missed targets for bond purchases
twice in May. The disruptions to the central bank’s program
coincide with increasing pressure from Japanese lawmakers for
Shirakawa to step up efforts to support the economy, which is
forecast to slow after it strengthened last quarter.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  refrained from
signaling additional steps the U.S. central bank might take to
spur growth, when he testified before Congress yesterday. The
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  meets June 19-20.  “If the Fed or the BOJ does make a notable change then it
would be for the BOJ to ease policy further,” said  Sean Callow ,
a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney.
It would help “underpin the dollar versus the yen,” he said.  The so-called Aussie weakened against 13 of its 16 most-
traded peers after a government report today that showed the
nation’s imports outpaced exports by A$203 million ($200
million), from a revised A$1.28 billion deficit in March.  The Australian dollar fell 0.5 percent to 98.44 U.S. cents,
and lost 1 percent to 77.97 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  