-- Yields May Retest Record Lows, JPMorgan’s Belton Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-07T15:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/yields-may-retest-record-lows-jpmorgan-s-belton-says-tom-keene.html
Treasury yields are likely to fall to
record lows if the debt crisis in  Europe  escalates, driving
investors to the relative safety of U.S. government securities,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Terry Belton.  Treasury “10-year notes have been very highly correlated
with the yield spreads of Spain, Italy and France,” Belton, the
firm’s global head of fixed-income and foreign-exchange research,
said in a radio interview on Bloomberg Surveillance with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  If those markets stay “under stress,
it’s easy for 10-year notes to go as low as 1.4 percent or even
1.3 percent.”  Europe’s escalating fiscal crisis has prompted investors to
flee other global investments for the safety of U.S.  government
bonds , pushing 10-year yields to a record low 1.4387 percent on
June 1. The yield touched the highest level in a week today
after China cut  interest rates  for the first time since 2008,
stepping up efforts to combat a deepening economic slowdown as
Europe’s worsening debt crisis threatens global growth.  Spanish borrowing costs approached 7 percent last week, the
level that prompted Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
bailouts. Spain is struggling to avoid an international loan
that would add to its debt burden and wants any aid to go
directly to its financial industry.  Germany , which is backed by
AAA rated Finland in its stance, argues any aid must come with
austerity strings attached.  Market Barometer  Spanish government bonds advanced today after the nation
exceeded its maximum target at a debt sale, easing concern about
financing the region’s third-biggest budget deficit.  Spain ’s 10-
year securities fell to 6.15 percent as investors bought 2.07
billion euros of Spanish securities, the central bank said,
surpassing its maximum target of 2 billion euros.  “The barometer we are watching are yields on 10-year
Spanish debt,” Belton said in the interview. “If they were to
reach the 7 percent level -- get as high as 7.5 percent -- and
the  European Central Bank  doesn’t step in, that would be a
catalyst for 10-year notes to go through the 1.4 level.”  European stocks and U.S. shares extended gains as China’s
move added to an Australian rate cut this week and expressions
of concern from European and U.S. central bank officials that
fanned expectations for more stimulus.  China ’s “rate cut is a positive that should help global
growth and help stabilize risky assets,” said Belton. “We,
like most other participants, have been downgrading our growth
on China. We are not overly pessimistic.”  Chinese Growth  JPMorgan has cut its full-year economic growth forecast for
China twice in a month and now estimates an expansion of 7.7
percent, down from 9.2 percent in 2011.  China’s benchmark one-year lending rate  will drop  to 6.31
percent from 6.56 percent effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank
of China said on its website today.  China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at the
slowest pace in more than a year, as export orders declined and
weakness in real estate countered strength in retailing and
leasing. The  purchasing managers’ index  fell to 55.2 in May from
56.1 in April, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on June 3 in Beijing.  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy
is at risk from Europe’s debt crisis and the prospect of fiscal
tightening in the U.S., while refraining from discussing steps
the central bank might take to protect the expansion.  “The situation in Europe poses significant risks to the U.S.
financial system and economy and must be monitored closely,”
Bernanke said today in testimony to the Joint Economic Committee
in  Washington . “As always, the Federal Reserve remains prepared
to take action as needed to protect the U.S. financial system
and economy in the event that financial stresses escalate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  