-- Zimbabwe Cotton-Subsidy Plan a Step Backward, Aico CEO Says
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2012-06-07T10:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/zimbabwe-cotton-subsidy-plan-a-step-backward-aico-ceo-says.html
Aico Africa Ltd. (AICO) , sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s biggest cotton merchant and ginner, said Zimbabwe’s
cotton subsidy plan is a “backward step” for the industry.  “History is littered with examples of price controls that
have not worked,” Chief Executive Officer Patrick Devenish said
in an interview yesterday in Harare, the capital. “They will be
good for the industry as a whole but I am not sure how
sustainable they would be for government. We producers need to
absorb the hard times.”  Aico gained 4.4 percent on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange the
day after Agriculture Minister Joseph Made on May 30 told the
state-controlled Chronicle newspaper the government will be the
sole buyer of cotton. The stock was unchanged at $0.12 at the
close today.  The subsidy will support farmers, Made said. Merchants
“want to milk the cotton farmers,” he said by phone yesterday.
“Some of them have increased their input costs by 20 percent,”  Made wouldn’t say what the subsidized price will be. “We
are still working on the policy,” he said.  Cotton merchants are offering $0.35 to $0.50 a kilogram
(2.2 pounds), while farmers want $0.85 to $1.20, the Bulawayo-
based Chronicle said.  “Last year when the prices were very high I didn’t see
government intervening,” Devenish said. “When you trade in a
commodity you take the world price, you are price taker not a
price maker.”  Prices for the commodity have plunged 69 percent from a
record $2.197 a pound in March 2011 as output grew and demand
from textile mills declined for three of the past four seasons.  The prospect of weakening economic growth made cotton the
biggest loser in the past year among the 24 commodities tracked
by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index, which touched an 18-
month low on June 4.  Business as Usual  Zimbabwe produced 250,000 metric tons of cotton last year
and this is expected to rise to 265,000 tons to 280,000 tons in
the 2012 marketing season, according to the  Agriculture
Ministry .  Aico will continue to do business with  Olam International
Ltd. (OLAM) , even though it halted talks with the Singapore-based
commodity supplier on a possible acquisition, Devenish said.  Aico sold Olam 10,000 tons to 20,000 tons of lint a year
and they are “a very good and reliable business partners,” he
said. “We think highly of them and I think they think highly of
us.”  The company will explore other options to fund expansion in
Tanzania and  Kenya  after shareholders voted against a $50
million rights issue, Devenish said.  “We’ve also dipped our toes into West Africa; the plan is
by 2014 is to have  Seed Co (SEEDCO)  in  Nigeria ,” he said of the
company’s seed-production unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  