-- 
AMR May Be Nearing Decision to Spin Off Eagle, Union Says

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-13T06:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/amr-may-be-nearing-decision-to-spin-off-american-eagle-pilot-union-says.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) 
may be nearing a decision to divest its American Eagle regional
carrier and a spinoff remains the most likely outcome, Eagle’s
pilot union said.  Leaders of the  Air Line Pilots Association  unit at Eagle
met last week with Eagle Chief Executive Officer Dan Garton and
their own financial analysts as AMR examines options for the
carrier.  AMR has been studying a possible divestiture of Eagle since
June as a way to reduce the cost of ferrying passengers to
American’s hubs from smaller airports. A separation also would
allow Eagle to seek work from other airlines.  “All signs point to American Eagle Airlines being divested
through a spinoff,” 12 leaders of the Eagle pilot union told
members in an e-mailed letter yesterday.  American, which earlier hired investment bank  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as advisers, has developed
“detailed business plans for a separate Eagle,” the letter
said. AMR also has reiterated its plan to put some of Eagle’s
flying up for bid by other airlines, it said.  Tony Gutierrez, union chairman, also told Eagle pilots in a
Feb. 4 message that a spinoff, with AMR shares split between the
parent company and the new Eagle, seemed to be “the most likely
scenario” for the unit’s future.  1,500 Daily Flights  AMR, which hasn’t indicated when it may make a decision,
confirmed Garton’s meeting with the Eagle pilots. The company
declined to comment on the nature of the talks, said Roger Frizzell, an AMR spokesman. AMR has a board meeting later this
month.  American, which also hired consultant Bain & Co., studied
an Eagle divestiture on at least one other occasion before
pulling the business off the market in July 2008.  AMR doesn’t break out complete financial data on Eagle,
such as debt or whether the unit is profitable. Revenue from
regional operations rose 16 percent in 2010 to $2.33 billion.
That was more than 10 percent of AMR’s $22.2 billion total.
Eagle’s traffic, or miles flown by paying passengers, rose 6.7
percent last year.  Eagle operates more than 1,500 daily flights to more than
170 cities in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Mexico  and the Caribbean.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  