-- 
Manchester United Beats Arsenal 2-0 in Quarterfinals of English F.A. Cup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-12T20:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/manchester-united-beats-arsenal-2-0-in-quarterfinals-of-english-f-a-cup.html
  Manchester United  defeated Arsenal
2-0 in the quarterfinals of English soccer’s F.A. Cup, while
Bolton scored in the final minute to beat Birmingham 3-2.  Fabio da Silva and  Wayne Rooney  each scored as United
advanced to the semifinals for a record 29th time, one more than
Arsenal. Lee Chung-Yong’s goal in the 90th minute sent Bolton
into the semifinals for the first time since 2000.  “Both teams went all-out to book their place in the
semifinal and we showed great character and determination to
claim the victory,” Bolton manager Owen Coyle said on the
club’s website.  Manchester United rebounded from two consecutive Premier
League losses to knock Arsenal out of its third competition in
the past 13 days. The Gunners lost to Birmingham in the Carling
Cup final on Feb. 27 and fell to Barcelona in the Champions
League four days ago.  “Thing don’t go our way at the moment,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger , whose team trails United by three points at the
top of the Premier League, said at a news conference. “We have
to get over this period. It’s a good test for us now to show we
can regroup.”  Da Silva opened the scoring in the 28th minute when he
knocked in a loose ball after Arsenal goalkeeper Manuel Almunia
could only get a hand on  Javier Hernandez ’s header.  Rooney scored four minutes into the second half by heading
in the ball after Arsenal’s Johan Djourou blocked a pass
intended for Hernandez.  Separated Shoulder  Djourou separated his shoulder colliding with teammate
Bacary Sagna late in the game and will miss the rest of the
season, Arsenal said on its website.  Lee, who came on as a substitute in the second half, scored
with a last-minute header to give Bolton the win at  St. Andrews 
in Birmingham.  Johan Elmander scored for Bolton after 21 minutes, but
Cameron Jerome answered for Birmingham seven minutes before
halftime.  Kevin Davies , who earlier had a goal disallowed for
being offside, put Bolton back on top in the 66th minute with a
penalty kick after being taken down by Curtis Davies.  Kevin Phillips drew Birmingham even in the 80th minute when
he turned and looped a shot from outside the area over
goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen. With time winding down, Bolton
sent a long ball into the area which Davies headed into the
center for Lee to nod past  Ben Foster .  Bolton last played in the semifinals in 2000 when it lost
to  Aston Villa  on penalty kicks. Stoke hosts West Ham and
Reading visits  Manchester City  tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  