-- 
Arab League Gathers in Cairo to Discuss ‘Several Options’ to Libya Crisis

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 
2011-03-12T14:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/arab-league-gathers-in-cairo-to-discuss-libyan-crisis-options-.html
The  Arab League  will discuss
“several options” to halt the burgeoning civil war in  Libya 
including a proposed no-fly zone.  “The dangers are plenty and the Arab League has to bear
its responsibility to avoid the decent into civil war or
unneeded foreign intervention” in Libya, Yusuf bin Alawi,
Oman’s foreign minister said ahead of the league’s meeting in
Cairo today. “An Arab intervention is needed using the tools of
the Arab League and within the confines of international
legitimacy.”  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he’s
sending a special envoy to Tripoli to try to stop the violence
and seek access for humanitarian aid. A majority of leaders at a
European Union summit in Brussels were “very reluctant” to
launch military action sought by the rebels and agreed a no-fly
zone would need UN and Arab support, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has strengthened his control
in and around the capital, Tripoli, as his forces fought rebels
reported to be still dug in at oil installations in Ras Lanuf.  Tens of protesters gathered outside the Arab League
headquarters in Cairo today, raising the flags of Yemen and
Libya’s revolutionaries. They demanded the league recognize
Libya’s transitional council and back a no-fly zone.  Representatives from the Libyan opposition met with the
Arab League Secretary General Amr Moussa to ask that their
demands be heard.  “The league can’t close its eyes or abandon its
responsibility towards the Libyan people,” bin Alawi, whose
country is heading the Arab League, said. “What is happening to
the Libyan people represents a threat to the stability and
security of the Arab countries and endangers the interest of the
Middle East and countries on the Mediterranean.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  