-- 
Arab League Asks United Nations for No-Fly Zone on Libya, Egypt TV Reports

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 
2011-03-12T17:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/arab-league-asks-united-nations-for-no-fly-zone-on-libya-egypt-tv-reports.html
The Arab League called on the  United Nations  Security Council to impose a no-fly zone over  Libya  to stop air attacks by forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi ,
Egyptian state television reported.  The appeal was made during a meeting today in Cairo,
according to the channel, as Arab leaders gathered to discuss
options to halt the burgeoning civil war in neighboring Libya.
Syria, Yemen and Algeria opposed the proposal, Al-Jazeera
television reported, citing unidentified diplomats.  “The dangers are plenty and the Arab League has to bear
its responsibility to avoid the descent into civil war or
unneeded foreign intervention” in Libya, Yusuf bin Alawi,
Oman’s foreign minister, said before the Cairo meeting. “An
Arab intervention is needed using the tools of the  Arab League 
and within the confines of international legitimacy.”  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he’s dispatching a
special envoy to Tripoli this weekend in an effort to stop the
violence and seek access for humanitarian aid. The European
Union will assess the “efficiency” of economic sanctions on
individuals and entities in Libya before deciding on further
measures such as a no-fly zone, the bloc’s foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said today.  Ashton will fly to Cairo tomorrow to meet with Arab League
leaders and discuss the situation, she said after an informal
meeting of EU foreign ministers in Hungary. A majority of
leaders at a European Union summit in Brussels yesterday were
“very reluctant” to launch military action sought by rebels
and agreed that a no-fly zone would need UN and Arab support,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters.  Tens of protesters gathered outside the Arab League
headquarters in Cairo today, demanding the league recognize
Libya’s transitional council and back a no-fly zone. Libyan
opposition representatives met with Arab League Secretary
General Amr Moussa to ask that their demands be heard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 