-- 
Australia Sends Sniffer Dogs, New Zealand Offers Help to Japan After Quake

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-03-12T00:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/australia-sends-sniffer-dogs-new-zealand-offers-help-to-japan-after-quake.html
  Australia  will send sniffer dogs
and emergency workers to Japan and New Zealand offered
assistance after the Asian nation was struck by an 8.9-magnitude
earthquake, its worst on record.  A team of Australian dogs trained to help find survivors,
as well as search and rescue specialists, will depart later
today on a military aircraft, Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  told
reporters in Canberra today. New Zealand will help in “whatever
way we can,” Prime Minister John Key said in an e-mailed
statement.  The quake shook buildings across Tokyo and unleashed a
tsunami as high as seven meters (23 feet), engulfing towns along
the northern coast of Japan. Australia has more than 11,000
citizens living in the country while  New Zealand  is recovering
from a magnitude 6.3 earthquake that hit the city of
Christchurch on Feb. 22 killing more than 160 people.  “The Australian government stands ready to throw anything
and everything at this as is required,” Rudd said today.  While there are 54 Australians registered as living in
Sendai, which is located about 130 kilometers (81 miles) from
the earthquake’s epicenter, the actual number of people may be
in the “hundreds,” Rudd said.  Japan sent rescue workers to Christchurch last month to
help recovery efforts at the Canterbury Television building,
where a number of Japanese students attended the King’s
Education school.  “Japan responded to New Zealand’s own tragic earthquake
with enormous support, and we are ready to help our friends in
Japan,” Key said in the statement. “Our deepest sympathies are
with those who have been caught up in this most terrible
event.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  