-- 
BHP Billiton Wins U.S. Deep-Water Drilling Permit as Oil Surges

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-03-12T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/bhp-billiton-wins-second-u-s-deep-water-oil-drilling-permit.html
  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  won the second
U.S. deep-water permit to drill in the Gulf of Mexico since  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s oil spill last year, after lawmakers criticized the Obama
administration for delaying domestic exploration.  BHP will be able to resume work halted after BP’s disaster
on April 20. The Melbourne-based company,  Australia ’s biggest
oil and gas producer, will use equipment from  Helix Energy
Solutions Group Inc. (HLX)  in case of a blow out, Melissa Schwartz, a
spokeswoman for the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement, said yesterday in an e-mail.    Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  won the first deep-water drilling permit
in the Gulf on Feb. 28. Rising oil prices following political
unrest in North Africa and the Middle East intensified calls
from Republicans in Congress and  oil companies  to let energy
producers resume work in the region.  “We are encouraging offshore exploration and production,”
President  Barack Obama  said during a press conference at the
White House yesterday. “We’re just doing it responsibly.”  Crude oil in  New York  has climbed 23 percent in the past
year. Futures have surged 11 percent since Jan. 14, when the
president of Tunisia was ousted as protests rocked the Middle
East and North Africa, including Saudi Arabia’s neighbors Yemen,
Oman and Bahrain. Prices touched a 29-month high of $106.95 a
barrel in during trading on March 7.  Helix, which provided vessels that responded to the BP
disaster, is able to collect 10,000 barrels of oil a day and cap
a well in water as deep as 5,600 feet (1,706 meters), Cameron
Wallace, a Helix spokesman, said at the time Noble won its
permit.  ‘Working Together’  “This second permit approval is another example of
regulators and industry working together to restore domestic
energy production in the  Gulf of Mexico  in a responsible
manner,” Wallace said in a statement yesterday.  Oil production in federal waters of the Gulf, the largest
domestic source of U.S. crude, reached a record high in 2010,
Obama said yesterday. The administration had stopped deep-water
drilling after the BP blow out to assess safety and spill-
response plans of the companies. The moratorium was lifted on
Oct. 12.  Producing oil is a time-consuming process and the
administration should issue more permits and open new areas for
energy exploration, Erik Milito, director of upstream and
industry operations at the  American Petroleum Institute , a
Washington-based trade association, said during a conference
call with reporters yesterday.  Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman for  BHP Billiton , didn’t
respond to an e-mail and voicemail message left on her mobile
phone outside of normal office hours.  ‘Major Constraint’  BHP said on Feb. 15 that the lack of permits in the Gulf
“was a major constraint on our business” and resulted in
deferring “drilling of high volume production wells.”  Production for the 2011 financial year will be in line with
the 2010 financial year, the company said in a statement.  BP’s Macondo well blew out off the Louisiana coast, killing
11 rig workers and spewing more than 4 million barrels of crude
into the sea. BP made several attempts to cap the well, located
in 5,000 feet of water, before shutting the leak after 87 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  