-- 
Canadian Currency Touches Strongest Level in 3 Years on Oil, Risk Appetite

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-12T05:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/canadian-dollar-gains-from-two-week-low-as-north-american-equities-advance.html
  Canada ’s dollar reached the
strongest level against its U.S. counterpart since 2007 as crude
oil, the nation’s biggest export, touched a 29-month high and
investor appetite for riskier assets recovered.  The currency, also known as the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, reversed losses yesterday as North
American stocks rose. It also gained after retail sales in the
U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner, increased the most in
February in four months. Canadian consumer prices held steady
last month, data next week may show.  “The equity markets have turned into positive territory,
and it indicates a bit more confidence in the markets,” said  George Davis , Toronto-based chief technical analyst for fixed
income and currency strategy at Royal  Bank of Canada . “The
Canadian dollar tends to benefit from risk-on types of trades.”  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.02 percent to 97.32 cents
per  U.S. dollar  yesterday in Toronto, from 97.34 on March 4. It
has gained 2.6 percent this year, and reached 96.68 cents on
March 9, the strongest level since Nov. 15, 2007. One Canadian
dollar purchases $1.0275.  The loonie’s 0.3 percent gain yesterday, after the currency
declined earlier as much as 0.4 percent, prevented a loss for
the week as it pared a drop posted on March 10 after weaker-
than-forecast economic data.  Japanese Quake  The currency depreciated earlier yesterday as crude oil
fell below $100 a barrel after the strongest earthquake on
record in Japan, the world’s third-largest consumer of the
commodity. Crude for April delivery touched $106.95 a barrel in
New York March 7, the highest level since Sept. 26, 2008, amid
concern turmoil in  Libya  and the Mideast would disrupt supplies.  U.S. stocks rose yesterday for the first time in three
days, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advancing 0.7
percent. The S&P/TSX Composite Index, the Canadian equity
benchmark, gained 0.3 percent in its first rise this week.  “We moved away from  risk aversion ,” said  David Watt ,
senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit in Toronto. “There are other things going on that
are taking a bit of pressure off oil markets and taking pressure
off risk sentiment.”  The loonie pared early losses yesterday after Commerce
Department data showed U.S. retail sales rose 1 percent in
February, spurred by job gains and more seasonable temperatures.
The increase followed a revised 0.7 percent rise in January that
was more than double the previous estimate.  Bonds Gain  Canada’s government bonds rose this week, pushing the yield
on the two-year note down 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage
point, to 1.75 percent. It touched 1.73 percent, the lowest
level since Feb. 2. The price of the 1.75 percent security due
in March 2013 rose 19 cents to C$100.01. The benchmark 10-year
note yield declined six basis points to 3.27 percent.  The gain in the Canadian dollar was limited by government
data on employment and international trade that were weaker than
economists estimated.  The nation’s trade surplus narrowed in January to C$116
million ($119 million), Statistics Canada said on March 10,
compared with the C$2.6 billion surplus forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The figures backed up the Bank of Canada’s position that
the loonie’s strength is a “headwind ” to economic growth, said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage.  Benchmark Rate  The central bank left its benchmark interest rate at 1
percent on March 1 as policy makers reiterated that a strong
currency poses challenges to the nation’s exporters.  Canadian employers added a net 15,100 jobs last month after
a gain of 69,200 in January, the government said yesterday. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for an increase of
25,000. The  unemployment rate  stayed at 7.8 percent.  “With two numbers like that, it leaves the Bank of Canada
hawks wondering about interest-rate hikes,” said  John Curran , a
senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange dealer.  The nation’s net international debt increased to the
highest level since the first quarter of 1999 as the global
financial crisis spurred demand for Canadian bonds,  Statistics
Canada  said yesterday. The shortfall rose by C$35.4 billion to
C$254.3 billion in the fourth quarter, the data showed.  Inflation Steady  Canada’s consumer price index rose 2.3 percent in February
from a year earlier, unchanged from the previous month,
according to the median forecast of 22 economists before
Statistics Canada reports the data on March 18. It accelerated
2.4 percent in December.  “People are more focused on inflation numbers because of
what’s going on with inflation in the world,” Royal Bank of
Canada’s Davis said. “That data is going to be a relevant data
point to assess. It’s whether we see the Bank of Canada become
more aggressive or not.”  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.6 percent to C$1.3531
versus the euro, from 1.3616 on March 4, as European leaders
faced a March 25 deadline to approve a comprehensive package of
measures to cope with the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  