-- 
Chile Lifts Tsunami Alerts After Japan Quake Spawns Waves

-- B y   J a m e s   A t t w o o d   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-03-12T19:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/chile-maintains-tsunami-warning-no-major-damage-reported-1-.html
Chile canceled tsunami warnings
from the northern Atacama Desert to Antarctica after the
earthquake in  Japan  spawned 2-meter (6.6 feet) waves along the
South American country’s Pacific Ocean coast.  The government’s emergency service, Onemi, lifted the
warnings after evacuating 700,000 people from coastal
communities and closing ports. Chile, the world’s biggest
copper-producing nation, imposed the warnings yesterday as a
precaution for tsunamis triggered by the 8.9-magnitude
earthquake that killed hundreds in Japan.  “Now is the moment to evaluate the damage,” Ena von Baer,
the government spokeswoman, told reporters. “Our primary
concern was to assure the safety and calm of all Chileans. Now,
people can return home.”  Television images showed seawater and debris flowed up the
Maule River in the southern town of Dichato, while fishing boats
slammed into piers farther north. Some areas lost electricity
and water services, Interior Minister Rodrigo Hinzpeter said in
remarks transmitted by CNN  Chile . There were no reports of major
damage or injuries.  “The ocean has been very unstable, but the good thing is
there has been little damage and no one got hurt,” Carlos
Zuniga, mayor of Curanipe, a southern fishing village, told
television Channel 13.  Ports Reopen  A tsunami that struck Chile following an earthquake on Feb.
27 of last year was responsible for most of the about 500 deaths
during the disaster.  Ports in northern and central Chile were scheduled to
reopen today. State copper company Codelco ordered personnel to
leave its Ventanas smelter on the central coast, a company
official said.  “The programmed suspension of port activities may cause a
minor delay to shipments, but will not impact sales,” Emily Russell, a spokeswoman for  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , said via e-mail
yesterday. Xstrata and Anglo American Plc own the  Collahuasi 
copper mine, the world’s third biggest, in northern Chile.  All ports used by Codelco were closed yesterday, according
to a company official. The closures will affect only a few
vessels as Codelco had little shipping activity scheduled, the
official, who declined to be named citing company policy, said
by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  