-- 
China Will Hold Local Governments More Responsible in Reducing Pollution

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-12T08:09:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/china-will-hold-local-governments-more-responsible-in-reducing-pollution.html
  China  wants local governments to be
more responsible for environmental protection as the world’s
fastest-growing major economy seeks to reduce pollution, said
Zhang Lijun, vice minister for environmental protection.  The  Ministry of Environmental Protection  has issued carbon
dioxide emissions quotas to provincial governments for the five
years through 2015 and will focus on preventing pollution from
heavy metals, non bio-degradable waste and hazardous chemicals,
Zhang said at a briefing today held as part of the National
People’s Congress in Beijing.  “Grasping the balance between economic growth and
environmental protection is the responsibility of all levels of
government, especially local governments,” Zhang said.  China, the world’s biggest polluter, set a lower growth
target for the period from 2011 through 2015 as compared with
the previous five-year period to help reduce pollution, with
Premier  Wen Jiabao  saying last month that the nation could no
longer sacrifice the environment in return for economic
expansion. The nation failed to meet its energy conservation
goal for the five years through 2010.    China’s economy  surpassed Japan’s to become the world’s
second largest last year as the nation posted annual growth of
10.3 percent and expansion at a 9.8 percent pace in the fourth
quarter. The Chinese economy passed  Germany ’s in 2007 and those
of the U.K. and  France  in 2005. It also surpassed the U.S.
during that period to become the world’s biggest energy consumer
and its biggest emitter of  greenhouse gases .  Energy Targets  The government has set a target for slashing energy use per
unit of gross domestic product by as much as 17 percent in the
five years ending 2015, Premier Wen said on Feb. 27. China
missed a target to cut consumption by 20 percent between 2006
and 2010, even after shutting at least 7,000 factories and
banning discounts on electricity to high-consumption businesses.  Reaching China’s energy consumption targets depends mainly
on efforts at the provincial level, Zhang said.  From 2006 through 2010, the environmental protection
ministry halted the start of 3.18 trillion yuan ($484 billion)
worth of polluting and energy-wasting projects, according to a
statement distributed before today’s briefing.  China’s targets and measures for environmental protection
during the so-called 12th Five-Year Plan starting 2011 are still
under review and haven’t received final approval from the State
Council, Zhang said.  Emissions Reductions  The nation will reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide,
nitrogen oxide and ammonia nitrogen, and cut chemical oxygen
demand by 1.5 percent this year compared with the previous year,
according to today’s statement. China cut sulfur dioxide
emissions by 14 percent between 2005 and 2010 and chemical
oxygen demand by 13 percent in the period, the statement said.  Nitrogen oxide and ammonia nitrogen targets are new to
China and are being introduced for the first time in the Five-
Year plan, Zhang said. The government will issue curbs on
nitrogen oxide emissions for the cement and power-generation
industries, and introduce preferential electricity rates for
power plants with denitrification units, he said.  For the Chinese capital, the country plans to implement the
use of less-polluting China V motor fuel grades in Beijing by
2012, Zhang said. China V is the Chinese equivalent of the  Euro
V fuel grade .  China is also drafting an environmental protection law for
the Beijing-Tianjin-Jinan region, Zhang said without giving
further details.  --Chua Baizhen. Editors:  John Liu , Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7561 or
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  