-- 
Ethiopia to Start Work on Nile Hydropower Plant, Zenawi Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-12T16:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/ethiopia-to-start-work-on-nile-hydropower-plant-zenawi-says.html
Ethiopia will start work on a
hydropower plant in its Nile basin within the next few weeks,
Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi  said.  The plant will be 40 kilometers from the Sudan border in
Benishangul Gumuz region and generate 6,000 megawatts of power,
Addis Ababa-based Fortune newspaper reported last month.  “We are planning to carry out a number of important
projects, including a major project in the Nile basin,” Zenawi
said today. “It will be inaugurated in the next few weeks.”  Burundi became the sixth nation to sign an agreement on
usage from the Nile River last month, enabling ratification of
an accord that may strip  Egypt  of its veto power over projects
using water from world’s longest river.  The Horn of Africa nation’s current generating capacity is
2,000 megawatts, according to state-owned monopoly provider
Ethiopian Electric Power Corp. It has a potential hydropower
capacity of 45,000 megawatts, the second-highest in  Africa  after
the Democratic Republic of Congo, according to the  World Bank .  There are plans to export power to neighbors Kenya, Sudan
and Djibouti. Ethiopia has faced criticism from international
rights groups for ignoring environmental concerns over the
under-construction 1,870 megawatts Gibe III project.  Africa’s second-most populous nation has suffered frequent
power outages even as three  power plants  came online in the past
two years. Demand for power is expected to increase by 32
percent annually, EEPCo said on Dec. 7, while generating
capacity is planned to be at least 8,000 megawatts in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  