-- 
Euro Declines Before Leaders Set Stage to Address Debt Crisis in Region

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-03-12T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/euro-declines-before-leaders-set-stage-to-address-debt-crisis-in-region.html
The euro dropped against most of
its major counterparts before leaders of the 17 euro nations
agreed to tighten economic cooperation, clearing the way for a
comprehensive package to counter the region’s debt crisis.  The shared currency fell versus the dollar this week for
the first time in a month, before the pact was reached, on
credit-rating cuts for  Spain  and  Greece . The yen rose against
all of its peers after the worst earthquake in at least a
century struck Japan, increasing speculation insurance companies
and investors will buy back yen to pay for damages. The  Federal
Reserve  is forecast to retain its zero to 0.25 percent short-
term interest rate target when it meets March 15.  “If they are able to come up with a solution on paper that
everybody can agree on, it’s a very positive thing,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York. “We had a huge selloff and a lot of it was
attributed to focusing again on the euro and its crisis.”  The euro dropped 0.6 percent to $1.3909, the biggest
decline since the five days ending Jan. 7, from $1.3987 on March
4. It weakened 1.2 percent to 113.76 yen, from 115.13. The
Japanese currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 81.84 per dollar,
from 82.32 last week.  Euro Talks  Leaders of the 17 euro nations backed a plan to tighten
economic cooperation, clearing German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
condition for completing a comprehensive package to counter the
debt crisis. The blueprint, intended to boost competitiveness by
curbing deficits and reducing labor costs, sets goals rather
than binding targets, helping to overcome objections to the
version proposed last month.  Euro-area leaders reached an agreement “in principle on
the pact for the euro,” European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a statement issued as the officials met in
Brussels yesterday. The leaders are “still discussing the other
elements of the package.”  The efforts aim to stop a worsening of the region’s debt
crisis and lower borrowing costs enough for Portugal and Spain
to avoid having to seek emergency aid. The leaders have set a
March 25 deadline to approve a comprehensive package.  Portuguese five-year notes slid yesterday, sending the
yield to 7.9 percent, the highest since before the euro was
introduced in 1999. It surpassed the 7.36 percent yield on the
nation’s 10-year bonds. The nation was forced to pay more at a
debt auction this week than it has in the past.  Merkel’s Role  “Merkel is showing some willingness to cooperate on the
expansion of the European Financial Stability Facility
program,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.  The Japanese currency appreciated after the 8.9-magnitude
temblor and as a tsunami of seven meters (23 feet) engulfed
towns along the northern coast, increasing speculation insurance
companies and investors will buy back yen to pay for damages.  “The rebuilding process in general is perceived as
positive for the yen,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-
of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.
“The market’s focus has been on the prospects for repatriation
of funds,”  The yen strengthened about 20 percent versus the dollar in
three months after the 6.9 magnitude Kobe earthquake in January
1995, which claimed more than 6,000 lives.  Impact Comparison  Yesterday’s earthquake may not have the same affect on the
currency and growth as the 1995 earthquake did, according to
Mamoru Arai, a senior currency trader at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York.  “At that time, the yen went higher to a historical level,
but we had a very strong trade war between the U.S. and Japan,”
Arai said. “There is no economic disturbance between the U.S.
and Japan, so I doubt this will lead to severe appreciation in
the yen.”  Japan’s monthly global  trade surplus  plunged after the Kobe
earthquake prevented exports from being shipped from the city’s
damaged port in January 1995. The trade surplus recovered amid
continued threats from the Clinton administration that U.S.
officials were considering trade sanctions if talks regarding
the  auto industry  broke down.  The  Bank of England  left its benchmark interest rate at 0.5
percent March 10. The central bank also maintained its asset-
purchase program at 200 billion pounds ($322 billion).  The pound weakened 1.2 percent to $1.6082 and dropped 0.6
percent to 86.46 pence per euro, the worst performance among the
major currencies.  The  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand  cut its overnight lending
rate to match a record low of 2.5 percent March 9 to help the
nation’s economy recover from the deadliest earthquake in 80
years.  The kiwi, as the currency is known, depreciated 0.6 percent
to 1.3650 per Australian dollar. It added 0.6 percent to 74.27
U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  