-- 
Europe Boosts Bailout Fund With ‘Firewall’ Bond Purchases, Eases Greek Aid

-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-03-12T13:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/europe-boosts-bailout-fund-with-firewall-bond-purchases-eases-greek-aid.html
European leaders widened the scope
of the euro’s rescue fund, authorized it to buy  government bonds 
and eased the terms of Greek bailout loans as they unexpectedly
pushed through fresh measures to end the bloc’s debt crisis.  Under a pact struck at 1:30 a.m. in Brussels after eight
hours of talks, the bailout facility will now be able to spend
its full 440 billion-euro capacity ($611 billion) and to buy
bonds directly from governments. In a blow to European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , it won’t be allowed to
purchase debt in the open market or to finance debt buybacks.  The agreement is part of a push by governments to draw a
line under the crisis, which has raged for more than a year
despite a series of remedies by European governments. Investors
had expected a deal to be delayed until a March 24-25 summit,
with the yields on Greek and Portuguese bonds this week rising
to euro-era records on concern officials would again fall short.  “I’m positively surprised, for a change,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , a money manager at Pacific Investment Management Co.
in Munich and former ECB economist. “The agreement contains
important elements of a firewall” that could stop the crisis
worsening.  Allowing the fund to buy bonds in the primary market
would help other indebted nations by acting as a backstop
should a Greek restructuring spook markets and threaten to
derail government bond auctions, he said.  Morning Accord  While Greece was told it would have the cost of its loans
pared and the repayment period extended, officials rejected
Ireland’s bid for relief as recently elected Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  refused to yield to calls to raise its 12.5 percent
company tax rate.  The accord came at the end of a session that began after 5
p.m. following daylong talks among the 27 European Union heads
on the Libyan crisis. German and French officials this week said
they didn’t expect a comprehensive pact until the end of month
even as the debt ratings of Greece and Spain were cut and the
euro posted its biggest weekly drop since the start of 2011.  “This is an important message on the political pledge of
the euro members to fight for the euro’s stability,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters. “Everyone had to make
a contribution. I hope that this will also be a good message to
the world in terms of the euro as a major currency.”  An initial deal last night on a plan to tighten economic
cooperation and boost competitiveness committed nations to enact
budget rules into law, a core German demand, and paved the way
for the final agreement by the end of the month.  Merkel Politics  By reaching an agreement now, Merkel avoided having to deal
with it in the run up to a March 27 regional election in Baden
Wurttemberg as her voters complain about having to bailout other
countries.  In return for acceptance of her conditions on controlling
debt, Merkel swung  Europe ’s biggest economy behind plans to
allow greater flexibility and firepower in the EU rescue fund,
the European Financial Stability Facility.  “This should go down well with the markets for now and
lead to an easing of the euro-zone’s sovereign debt crisis in
the near term at least,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . “The leaders will
hope this is taken as evidence of their determination to do
whatever is necessary to hold the eurozone together.”  The EFSF had been limited to spending about 250 billion
euros due to reserves it had to hold for its AAA rating. The
commitment wasn’t matched with detail as Merkel indicated states
will increase their guarantees.  Trichet Tone  The provision to allow primary-market bond purchases will
offer a lifeline to aid recipients in return for austerity
commitments. A basic accord was also reached on the permanent
safety net from 2013, the European Stability Mechanism, with a
mix of guarantees and capital, she said.  Trichet resisted giving the deal a full-blown endorsement,
saying it “goes in the right direction.” That signals
disappointment in the refusal of governments to let the rescue
facility buy bonds in the open market and take pressure off the
ECB, which has bought 77 billion euros of assets in the past
year.  Adding urgency to the talks, the leaders met amid
speculation that  Greece  would be forced to restructure its debt
and  Portugal  would soon be the third euro nation to need help.  Greek 10-year yields rose 6 basis points yesterday to 12.81
percent and similar-maturity Irish yields jumped 14 basis points
to 9.65 percent. Greek securities plunged this week after
Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s rating, already at
junk, by another three levels, saying the probability of default
had increased. Credit-default swaps on Greek government debt
rose 8 basis points to a record 1,048 basis points.  Lower Greek Rates  Leaders made a provisional agreement to lower Greece’s
interest rates of about 5 percent for aid by 100 basis points,
and extend the repayment period of the loans to 7 1/2 years from
three years.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said the moves would
save about 6 billion euros over the life of the loans.  “Greece has made major efforts, just look at the size of
their privatization program,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said. “We’re not asking Ireland to put up their corporate taxes
to the European average, but to make some effort.”  With two weeks to the summit endgame, Merkel and Sarkozy
clashed with Kenny over corporate taxes. They had insisted on a
common corporate tax base as the condition for agreeing to ease
the terms of Ireland’s 85 billion-euro bailout. Kenny rejected
that position, calling it “harmonization of taxes through the
back door.”  Irish Opposition  Ireland’s main corporate tax rate is 12.5 percent, compared
with an EU average of about 23 percent and even higher rates in
Germany and France, which it has used to lure companies such as
Hewlett-Packard Co.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive body, will
present a proposal on a common corporate tax base in the coming
weeks, the agency said. Ireland will think it over and come back
to the rest of the EU within two weeks, Merkel said.  Talks on a deal for Ireland “will be difficult and
detailed but I am convinced and remain convinced that there will
be that we can find a way forward,” Kenny said.  With the debt crisis lapping at Portugal’s shores, Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates ’s government yesterday announced new
commitments on deficit reduction amounting to 0.8 percent of
gross domestic product for this year.  The yield on Portugal’s five-year debt surged to a euro-era
record of 8 percent on speculation that would soon be forced to
seek a bailout. Portugal’s 10-year bond yields reached 7.70
percent on March 9, the highest since at least 1997.  Questions have also been raised about  Spain , which was cut
to Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service on March 10 on concern about
the cost of shoring up its banking system. Spain’s 10-year
government bond yield was at 5.4 percent yesterday.  Trichet said the “credibility” of the  Portuguese
government  “seems to me considerably re-enforced by these
measures, which are of substance. When you go through all the
measures, you see they are very substantial.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford in Brussels at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Brussels at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net 
Simon Kennedy in London 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  