-- 
Euro Leaders Retool Aid Fund, Cut Greek Rescue-Loan Rates

-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-03-12T09:59:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/euro-leaders-cut-interest-rates-on-greek-bailout-reject-ireland-requests.html
Euro-area leaders widened the scope
of their rescue fund to stamp out the debt crisis, authorizing
officials to buy debt in primary markets, while cutting the cost
of bailout loans to Greece.  The officials rejected Ireland’s bid for relief as Prime
Minister  Enda Kenny  refused to yield to calls to raise its 12.5
percent company tax rate. Leaders will allow the facility to
spend its 440 billion-euro ($611 billion) capacity, though it
won’t be used to finance bond buybacks of debt-strapped states.
A final agreement is slated for a summit on March 24-25.  “This is an important message on the political pledge of
the euro members to fight for the euro’s stability,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in Brussels after the summit ended
at about 1:30 a.m. today. “Everyone had to make a contribution.
I hope that this will also be a good message to the world in
terms of the euro as a major currency.”  The agreement broke a deadlock as European policy makers
sought to extinguish a crisis that has raged for more than a
year and frustrated unprecedented efforts to contain it. Bond
yields in  Greece  and Portugal touched euro-era records this
week, debt ratings of Greece and Spain were cut, and the euro
recorded its biggest weekly drop since the first week of 2011.  The accord was unexpected, coming at the end of a session
that began after 5 p.m. following daylong talks among the 27
European Union heads on a response to the uprising in  Libya .
Officials in Germany and France this week said they didn’t
expect a comprehensive pact until the end of month summit.  Firewall  “I’m positively surprised, for a change,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , a money manager at Pacific Investment Management Co.
While the fund would not be large enough to fund bailouts should
the turmoil spread to Italy and  Belgium , “the agreement
contains important elements of a firewall” that could stop the
crisis worsening.  The new bond facility would help other indebted nations by
acting as a backstop should a Greek restructuring spook markets
and threaten to derail government bond auctions, he said.  An initial deal last night on a plan to tighten economic
cooperation and boost competitiveness committed nations to enact
budget rules into law, a core German demand, and paved the way
for the final agreement at the end-of-month summit.  In return for the euro region acceptance of her conditions
on controlling debt, Merkel swung  Europe ’s biggest economy
behind plans to allow greater flexibility and firepower in the
EU rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.  Rating  The EFSF had been limited to spending about 250 billion
euros due to reserves it had to hold for its AAA rating. The
commitment wasn’t matched with detail as Merkel indicated states
will increase their guarantees.  The provision to allow primary-market bond purchases will
offer a lifeline to aid recipients in return for austerity
commitments.  A basic accord was also reached on the permanent
safety net from 2013, the European Stability Mechanism, with a
mix of guarantees and capital, she said.  Adding urgency to the talks, the leaders met amid
speculation that Greece would be forced to restructure its debt
and  Portugal  would soon be the third euro nation to need help.  Greek 10-year yields rose 6 basis points yesterday to 12.81
percent and similar-maturity Irish yields jumped 14 basis points
to 9.65 percent. Greek securities plunged this week after
Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s rating, already at
junk, by another three levels, saying the probability of default
had increased. Credit-default swaps on Greek government debt
rose 8 basis points to a record 1,048 basis points.  Lower Greek Rates  Leaders made a provisional agreement to lower Greece’s
interest rates of about 5 percent for aid by 100 basis points,
and extend the repayment period of the loans to 7 1/2 years from
three years.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said the moves would
save about 6 billion euros over the life of the loans.  “Greece has made major efforts, just look at the size of
their privatization program,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said. “We’re not asking Ireland to put up their corporate taxes
to the European average, but to make some effort.”  With two weeks to the summit endgame, Merkel and Sarkozy
clashed with Kenny over corporate taxes. They had insisted on a
common corporate tax base as the condition for agreeing to ease
the terms of Ireland’s 85 billion-euro bailout. Kenny rejected
that position, calling it “harmonization of taxes through the
back door.”  Irish Tax  Ireland’s main corporate tax rate is 12.5 percent, compared
with an EU average of about 23 percent and even higher rates in
Germany and  France , which it has used to lure companies such as
Hewlett-Packard Co.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive body, will
present a proposal on a common corporate tax base in the coming
weeks, the agency said. Ireland will think it over and come back
to the rest of the EU within two weeks, Merkel said.  Talks on a deal for Ireland “will be difficult and
detailed but I am convinced and remain convinced that there will
be that we can find a way forward,” Kenny said.  With the debt crisis lapping at Portugal’s shores, Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates ’s government yesterday announced new
commitments on  deficit reduction  amounting to 0.8 percent of
gross domestic product for this year.  The yield on Portugal’s five-year debt surged to a euro-era
record of 8 percent on speculation that would soon be forced to
seek a bailout. Portugal’s 10-year bond yields reached 7.70
percent on March 9, the highest since at least 1997.  Questions have also been raised about  Spain , which was cut
to Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service on March 10 on concern about
the cost of shoring up its banking system. Spain’s 10-year
government bond yield was at 5.4 percent yesterday.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who
also attended the talks, said the “credibility” of the  Portuguese government  “seems to me considerably re-enforced by
these measures, which are of substance. When you go through all
the measures, you see they are very substantial.”  The euro-area accord as a whole “goes in the right
direction,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford in Brussels at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Brussels at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  