-- 
Tokyo Electric Tries to Cool Unstable Atomic Reactor; Thousands Evacuated

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-12T15:10:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/explosion-destroys-walls-of-japan-reactor-building-nhk-reports.html
Japanese officials battling to
prevent a meltdown at a nuclear power station after yesterday’s
record earthquake are using seawater to try and cool a reactor
and prevent damage to the chamber holding its radioactive core.    Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said an explosion near the No. 1
reactor at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station
destroyed the walls of the reactor building and injured four
people. A hydrogen leak caused the blast, which didn’t damage
the steel chamber, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  Radiation levels in the area dropped after the blast and
have “now settled at a low level,” Edano said at a briefing in
Tokyo today.  Asia ’s biggest utility “has decided to fill the
containment with seawater.”  Thousands were evacuated as workers vented radioactive gas
from the plant in Fukushima, 220 kilometers (140 miles) north of
Tokyo, and three people were hospitalized after being exposed to
radiation. The death toll from a tsunami that swept over the
northern coastline after the quake topped 600 and an estimated
4,000 were stranded in evacuation centers.  Global Impact  “If they cannot get the nuclear reactor back under control
during the day, this may end up being the biggest problem of
all,” said Ken Courtis, former vice chairman of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  in Asia. “A meltdown, which would cause massive
immediate damage, would also set the nuclear industry back
decades. This would have vast implications for the global energy
equation and perforce the world economy.”  Japan’s central bank yesterday pledged to ensure financial
stability after the temblor forced Toyota Motor Corp. to shut
some plants, shut down oil refineries and sparked a plunge in
stocks.  The disaster may curb Japan’s recovery from an economic
slump in the fourth quarter as Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
struggles to convince investors about his ability to tackle the
world’s largest public-debt burden. While the  Finance Ministry 
said it’s too soon to gauge the quake’s economic impact, the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 1.7 percent yesterday.  Tokyo Electric took almost two years to restart power
generation at the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant in the
country’s northwest after a 6.8 magnitude temblor on July 16,
2007, caused a fire and radiation leaks at the world’s biggest
atomic energy station.  Fukushima Dai-Ichi  The reactor at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant may remain shut
for a year, Seth Grae, chief executive officer of Lightbridge
Corp., a nuclear energy consulting firm whose staff previously
inspected the Fukushima plant, said March 11 in an interview
with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s “Taking Stock.”  “If they do lose several of those plants for a few months
it could have a significant effect on  Japan ’s economy,” he
said. “A trickle down could hit factories, slowing down Japan’s
production.”  Nuclear energy provides almost 30 percent of Japan’s
electricity, with total capacity of about 47,000 megawatts, with
plans to increase that to 40 percent by 2017, according to the  World Nuclear Association . The nation’s first reactor began
operating in 1966 and there are 54 reactors in the country. A
nuclear plant traditionally operates as many as 8 reactors.  Japan’s nuclear companies have been in talks to sell
technology abroad, while Toshiba Corp. controls Westinghouse
Electric Co., a U.S. maker of light-water nuclear reactors,
which also has orders from  China . Toshiba is bidding to build  Turkey ’s second nuclear power plant. A Japanese group in October
also won a contract to build a nuclear plant in  Vietnam .  Fuel Rods  Fuel rods at the reactor may be melting after radioactive
Cesium material left by atomic fission was detected near the
site, Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency spokesman Yuji
Kakizaki said by phone earlier today.  “If the fuel rods are melting and this continues, a
reactor meltdown is possible,” Kakizaki said. A meltdown refers
to a heat buildup in the core of such intensity it melts the
floor of the reactor containment housing.  Tokyo Electric started releasing radioactive gas and steam
into the atmosphere about 9 a.m. local time to reduce pressure
in the containment housing after yesterday’s magnitude 8.9
earthquake, company spokesman Akitsuka Kobayashi said. The
utility has also started preparing to vent gas from containment
areas of four reactors at the nearby Fukushima Dai-Ni nuclear
plant, he said.  Evacuation Zone  Winds  in the area of the Fukushima plant are blowing at
less than 18 kilometers per hour mostly in an offshore
direction, according to a 4 p.m. update from the  Japan
Meteorological Agency .  The government earlier today widened the evacuation zone
around the reactor to 10 kilometers from 3 kilometers, affecting
thousands of people. The evacuation zone will be maintained at
10 kilometers from Dai-Ni plant and will be extended to 20
kilometers from Dai-Ichi plant, said Toshihiro Murakami,
spokesman for the Fukushima prefecture government.  “When the pressure starts building up, the emergency
procedure is to start venting,” Dave Lochbaum, director of the
nuclear safety project at the Union for Concerned Scientists,
said in a telephone interview. “They’ve essentially entered a
beat the clock game. As long as there is no fuel damage, there
will be radioactivity, but it will be very low.”  The plant’s operators need to connect to the electricity
grid, fix emergency diesel generators or bring in more batteries
to power a backup system that pumps the water needed to cool the
reactor, said Lochbaum, a nuclear engineer who has worked at
nuclear  power plants  for 17 years.  Nuclear Meltdown  The air cooling system in the containment building probably
failed due to the power loss, allowing pressure to increase
inside, Lochbaum said.  Lack of adequate cooling for a reactor may cause a core
meltdown, the most dangerous kind of nuclear power accident,
according to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  A meltdown could potentially breach a reactor’s containment
building, releasing massive amounts of radiation, according to
information on the agency’s  website . The 1979 accident at the
Three Mile Island reactor in  Pennsylvania  resulted in a partial
meltdown, without a breach in the containment building,
according to the commission.  The 1986 Chernobyl accident in Ukraine caused the release
of at least 5 percent of the radioactive reactor core, according
to the  World Nuclear Association , which represents the industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  