-- 
Facebook Will Introduce New Service That Sells Discount Deals

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-03-12T03:34:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/facebook-will-introduce-new-service-that-sells-discount-deals.html
  Facebook  Inc. is planning to test a
service that will let consumers buy discounted one-time offers
as it looks for new ways to boost sales and attract local
business customers.  The service will let people share discounted offers with
their friends, Facebook said in an e-mailed statement. Part of
the company’s Deals program, the service will be introduced
first in five cities, including Atlanta, San Francisco, San
Diego,  Dallas  and Austin,  Texas .  “Local businesses will be able to sign up to use this
feature soon, and people will be able to find Deals in the
coming weeks,” the Palo Alto, California-based company said in
the statement.  With the service, Facebook is seeking to expand in the
fast-growing U.S. market for daily online coupons made popular
by sites such as  Groupon Inc.  and LivingSocial. That industry
will grow to $3.93 billion in 2015 from $873 million last year,
according to a projection from BIA/Kelsey, a Chantilly,
Virginia-based consulting firm.  Facebook’s discount offers will be sold to businesses by
its own staff. Users also will be able to buy discount deals
through the service from partners including ReachLocal, Gilt
City, Tippr, HomeRun.com, PopSugar City, KGB Deals, Plum
District and Zozi.  With more than 500 million users, Facebook seeks to attract
more companies that want to do business with its growing user
base. Recent advertisers include Starbucks Corp. and JetBlue
Airways Corp.  The company said in January that it raised $1.5 billion
from investors led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., placing a $50
billion valuation on the entire company. Facebook may have
reached $2 billion in sales last year, three people familiar
with the matter said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 