-- 
SEC Notifies Fannie Mae Ex-CEO Mudd He May Face Civil Claims

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/fannie-mae-ex-ceo-may-face-sec-claims-in-subprime-probe.html
  Daniel Mudd , the former head of  Fannie Mae , became the latest target in a probe by U.S.
regulators of whether financial institutions were honest with
investors about their exposure to subprime loans.  Mudd, now chief executive officer of  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG) , confirmed in a statement to Bloomberg News that the
Securities and Exchange Commission notified him yesterday the
agency intends to pursue civil claims against him.  Mudd, who was ousted when Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  were
seized by regulators in September 2008, said he plans to submit
a written rebuttal to the allegations.  The SEC’s investigation involves several people who were
executives at Fannie Mae as the housing crisis deepened in 2007,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the
investigation who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
matter isn’t public. It focuses on the firm’s disclosures to
investors as the financial crisis gathered steam in 2007 and
2008, the people said.  The SEC previously notified one current and one former
executive of Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae’s smaller competitor, that
the agency may file similar allegations against them. Donald Bisenius, Freddie Mac’s executive vice-president for single-
family credit guarantee, will leave the company April 1,
according to a regulatory filing. Anthony “Buddy” Piszel, who
served as CFO from November 2006 to September 2008, resigned as
CFO of  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  last month.  “I have the highest respect for the commission.
Nevertheless, I could not disagree more with this turn of
events,” Mudd said in the statement. “The disclosures and
procedures that are the subject of the staff’s investigation
were accurate and complete. These disclosures were previewed by
federal regulators, and have been issued in the same form since
the company went into government conservatorship.”  Soured Loans  Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac were seized and placed under U.S. control in 2008 as
losses on soured loans pushed them to the brink of insolvency.
The two government-sponsored enterprises have been sustained by
more than $150 billion in U.S. aid. Congress and the Obama
administration are examining plans for winding down the firms
and building a new system for financing housing debt.  Mudd, 52, took over from Franklin Raines as CEO of Fannie
Mae in 2004, four years after he had joined the company as chief
operating officer and as the company tried to recover from an
$11 billion accounting restatement and securities fraud charges.  Fortress  He was appointed CEO of Fortress in August 2009, almost a
year after he was ousted from Fannie Mae. He will remain CEO of
the New York-based buyout and hedge-fund firm, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the matter who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the discussions were private.  Gordon Runte, head of  investor relations  at Fortress,
declined to comment. A phone call and e-mail to Fannie Mae
spokeswoman Amy Bonitatibus after normal business hours
yesterday were not immediately returned.  The SEC’s probe echoes the agency’s July case against
Citigroup Inc. The bank agreed to pay $75 million after the SEC
accused the bank and two executives of failing to disclose $40
billion in subprime assets before losses surged. U.S. District
Judge  Ellen Huvelle  faulted the agency for only sanctioning two
executives for their roles in the matter.  In 2008, Freddie Mac was informed that the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of  Virginia  was investigating
“accounting, disclosure, and corporate governance matters,”
according to a regulatory filing. The SEC informed the company
that it was under investigation for possible securities
violations, and employees were interviewed.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were created by Congress to
encourage homeownership by making it easier for people to get
loans. The firms now own or guarantee more than half of all U.S.
mortgage debt, most of which they pool and sell on the secondary
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 