-- 
Netanyahu Seeks Palestinian Condemnation for Murder of 5 Israeli Settlers

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-03-12T19:48:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/five-israelis-killed-in-attack-on-family-s-house-in-west-bank-settlement.html
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
urged the international community and  Palestinian Authority  to
issue “strong, unequivocal condemnations” of a West Bank
settlement attack that killed five members of an Israeli family.  Dismissing Palestinian statements as “stuttering and
weak,” Netanyahu said today in Tel Aviv that he wouldn’t
“allow acts of terror to determine the map of Jewish
settlement” in the West Bank.  The violence, the first fatal attack since August 2010,
came as the Middle East Quartet, which is made up of the  United
States , the  United Nations , the European Union and  Russia , sent
representatives to try and get Israel and the Palestinians to
resume peace talks that stalled in September.  Negotiations halted when Netanyahu refused to extend a
partial 10-month construction freeze in the  West Bank 
settlements and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
said he wouldn’t continue talks unless the building was halted.  “I expect the international community to make a strong,
unequivocal condemnation of this murder, the murder of infants.
I have seen countries rush to the  Security Council  to condemn
Israel because it plans a home or lays a tile,” in the West
Bank, Netanyahu said. “I expect them to condemn this attack
immediately.”  Abbas issued a condemnation today against “all acts of
violence against civilians” and called for an acceleration of
talks to find a “just solution to the conflict.”  Al-Aksa Martyrs  The Palestinian leader also called Netanyahu to express his
regret, Netanyahu’s  office  said. The prime minister told Abbas
that his condemnation was insufficient and must be followed by
acts to stop anti  Israel  incitement in schools and mosques,
according to the office statement.  Soldiers were searching for at least one Palestinian after
the Al-Aksa Martyrs Brigade, the armed wing of the Palestinian
Fatah movement, claimed responsibility for the killings in a
statement that called the violence “the natural response to the
massacres of the fascist occupation against our people.”  Defense Minister Ehud Barak urged the army to use all means
to find those who carried out the attack.  Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  instructed the country’s UN delegation to file
a “strong complaint” with the international body.  The parents of the family from the West Bank settlement of
Itamar were stabbed to death along with three of their children
aged 11, 4, and 4 months, Netanyahu said. Three other children
survived including the oldest, 14, who was at a youth group
meeting at the time of the attack.  Restraint Calls  Itamar is a settlement of about 1,000 residents that was
founded in 1984. It is about 60 kilometers (37 miles) northeast
of  Tel Aviv .  Statements from the White House press secretary and the
United Nations condemned the attack. The UN statement urged
“all to act with restraint.” Quartet representative  Tony Blair 
called the killings “shocking and deplorable.”  The stabbings came three days after Netanyahu warned Jewish
settlers against reacting violently to the dismantling of
illegal outposts. Israel has said it plans to demolish all
settler outposts built illegally on private Palestinian land by
the end of 2011.  Danny Danon, a lawmaker from Netanyahu’s Likud party and
deputy speaker parliament, blamed the attack on Barak’s “lax
security policies” and lifting of roadblocks in the West Bank
to ease Palestinian travel.  “I call on the defense minister to deal with the security
of Israeli citizens instead of delusional political
initiatives,” Danon said in a phone interview. “If we have to
choose between the comfort of the Palestinians and Jewish lives,
I will choose Jewish lives.”  The Itamar attack was the first since August 2010, when
gunmen fired from a vehicle and killed four Israelis, an army
spokeswoman said, speaking anonymously according to regulation.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built without government
authorization during the past decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  