-- 
Global Reinsurers May Sidestep Costs as Japan Faces Most Losses

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-12T00:30:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/global-insurers-may-sidestep-most-claims-as-earthquake-costs-stay-in-japan.html
European and U.S. reinsurers may
sidestep costs tied to Japan’s strongest earthquake in a century
as the country’s government, its carriers and uninsured property
owners absorb most of the losses.  Global reinsurers may face losses “somewhere in the
$10 billion range” after Japan’s primary insurers and a
reinsurance program backed by the government pay their share,
said Meyer Shields, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
Commercial and industrial lines risks are “significantly
underinsured” in Japan, according to a statement from Newark,
California-based  Risk Management Solutions Inc.   The 8.9 magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of
Sendai, a city of 1 million in the northeast, and caused a
tsunami that killed hundreds.  Munich Re  and Swiss Reinsurance
Co. fell in European trading yesterday, while some reinsurance
stocks in the U.S. were little changed. Reinsurers, which
provide financial backing to insurance companies, already paid
claims on a Chilean earthquake last year and face losses tied to
a February temblor in  New Zealand .  “A larger share of losses are likely to be retained by
domestic Japanese insurers and reinsurers than was the case with
recent earthquakes in  Chile  and New Zealand,” Robert Hartwig,
president of the  Insurance Information Institute , said in a
statement.  Munich Re shares dropped 4.3 percent to 111.75 euros ($155)
in Frankfurt electronic trading. Swiss Re declined 1.9 Swiss
francs, or 3.5 percent, to 51.7 francs in Zurich trading.  XL
Group Plc (XL)  slipped 1 cent to $22.22 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. Class A shares rose 0.2 percent to $128,000.  Wide Damage  The earthquake and tsunami damaged “broad areas” of
northern Japan, according to RMS. The country had $107 billion
of non-life insurance premiums written in 2009, third only to
the U.S. and  Germany , according to Hartwig. Japan backs a
reinsurance program for homeowners,  according  to the U.S.
Congressional Budget Office.  “The Japanese markets are dominated by Japanese
companies,” Shields said of primary insurance coverage. The
Baltimore-based analyst said his loss estimate for private
reinsurers is likely to change as he gets more information, and
that for now it’s not higher “because there’s so much
residential exposure and government participation. That’s why
we’re sort of dialing it down.”  Lost Power  Television showed footage of waves sweeping away buildings
and vehicles. Airports were closed and bullet train services
suspended. More than 4 million homes are without power, Tokyo
Electric Power Co. said.  “Since the communication lines are all down and access is
very limited, it’s very hard to know exactly what’s happened to
our clients,” said Ken Davey, senior vice president at
commercial insurer FM Global. “It’ll be a couple of days before
we actually make contact with clients in the immediate area.”  An earthquake in Japan is one of catastrophe insurers’ four
“peak zones,” along with a San Francisco earthquake, U.S.
hurricanes and Gulf of Mexico hurricanes, so costs will probably
be spread equally among the biggest reinsurers, according to Joy Ferneyhough, a London-based insurance analyst at Banco Espirito
Santo de Investimento SA.  “My initial sense is this isn’t going to be a huge
industry loss,” she said. “This will be something smaller and
manageable, which will impact 2011 earnings, but not ‘the big
one’ that we’ve been waiting for to turn pricing.”  Northridge Quake  The  insurance industry  may have to pay about $10 billion in
claims, according to James Shuck, a London-based insurance
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. That would make the
disaster the second-most costly temblor on record, after the
$15.3 billion quake that struck Northridge in the U.S. in 1994,
according to data compiled by Zurich-based Swiss Re.  Before this earthquake, the most destructive temblor to hit
Japan struck Kobe, Osaka and Kyoto in 1995, costing insurers
about $3 billion, not taking inflation into account. The quake
caused $100 billion in total economic losses, much higher than
the amount covered by insurers because infrastructure such as
roads and bridges were rarely insured due to the high cost of
insurance in earthquake-prone areas.  “Insurance penetration and density is very low when
compared to leading Western markets, particularly in commercial
and industrial lines,” RMS said of Japan in an e-mailed
statement. “Many small- to medium-sized businesses are
completely uninsured.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  