-- 
Icahn Investment Lawson Software Gets Golden Gate, Infor Takeover Offer

-- B y   J e r a n   W i t t e n s t e i n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-03-12T04:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/icahn-investment-lawson-software-gets-golden-gate-infor-takeover-offer.html
  Lawson Software Inc. (LWSN) , a maker of  business software  which counts  Carl Icahn  among its largest
investors, received an unsolicited $11.25 per share cash buyout
offer from Infor and Golden Gate Capital, it said in a
statement.  “The parties are engaged in discussions regarding this
proposal; however, there can be no assurance that any agreement
will be reached,” St Paul, Minnesota-based Lawson said in the
statement, sent via  Business Wire . Lawson hired Barclays Capital
Inc. to advise it on the proposal, it said.  Lawson, which provides software for health-care, food and
retail companies, surged 15 percent last week in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading to close at $11.55 yesterday, the highest in nine
years. A deal at $11.25 per share would value the company at
$1.84 billion according to Bloomberg calculations based on the
number of shares outstanding.  Infor and  Golden Gate ’s offer is a 19 percent premium to
Lawson’s $9.46 average closing price over the past 90 days,
according to Bloomberg calculations. The average premium for
completed software acquisitions in the past three years is 30.3
percent, Bloomberg data on deals over $1 billion show.  Golden Gate Capital, based in  San Francisco , is a private
equity company with $9 billion in capital under management,
according to its  website . Its investments have included software
maker Infor, restaurant chain Romano’s Macaroni Grill, and
network-marketing company Herbalife, according to the website.  Icahn, 74, increased his holdings in Lawson by 7 percent
between Oct. 1 and Jan. 25 to 17.8 million shares at prices
between $8.16 and $9.18, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on insider transactions posted on the company’s investor
relations  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeran Wittenstein at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net 
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 