-- 
IMF May Decide on Tranche to Ukraine in April, Tigipko Says

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-03-12T14:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/imf-may-decide-on-tranche-to-ukraine-in-april-tigipko-says-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  may
rule on its next tranche to Ukraine in April and the nation must
adopt a pension law, Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said.  The IMF and investors “are watching how we proceed with
the decision on pension reform,” Tigipko told reporters today
at a press conference in Kiev. Should Ukraine fail to pass the
overhaul, “it will mean that we cannot fight the state budget
deficit and we will continue to increase our debts.”  The IMF agreed in July to provide Ukraine with $15.6
billion, the country’s second bailout loan in two years. The
fund already released $3.4 billion in two tranches last year,
helping the government to cover the state budget deficit and to
increase foreign currency-reserves.  The Washington-based lender’s mission visited Kiev in
February to check the government’s economic policies and said
then that more talks were needed to open the way for the payment
of around $1.55 billion. Ukraine’s government initially expected
the IMF to make the final decision on the installment by the end
of March.  Tigipko said yesterday that parliament will vote next week
on the pension law, which would raise women’s retirement age to
60 from 55 and men’s retirement age to 62 from 60. He said today
that the increase in women’s retirement age may start in May.  Payments under the first program, approved to Ukraine in
late 2008, were frozen in November 2009 after the previous
government failed to cut spending before presidential elections
in January last year. The IMF has asked Ukraine to keep its
budget gap at 3.5 percent of gross domestic product this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  