-- 
LinkedIn Says It Swung to Profit, Doubled Revenue in '10 as It Readies IPO

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-03-12T00:42:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/linkedin-says-it-swung-to-profit-doubled-revenue-in-10-as-it-readies-ipo.html
LinkedIn Corp. the largest
professional social-networking site, more than doubled revenue
and swung to a profit last year as it readied for an initial
public offering.  LinkedIn had revenue of $243 million in 2010, up from $120
million in the previous year, according to a regulatory filing
today. The company had net income of $15.4 million compared with
a loss of $4 million for the year-ago period.  The IPO could raise as much as $175 million in what will
likely be the first public offering of a major U.S. social-
networking site. LinkedIn hired  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to lead the sale.  LinkedIn is among a growing number of dot-com companies
that have filed to go public. Last month Pandora Media Inc., the
biggest Internet-radio company, registered with the SEC in
August to sell shares to the public. Skype Technologies SA, an
online video-and-voice service, filed to go public in August.  LinkedIn’s profit came after two years of losses of more
than $8 million. Revenue more than tripled from 2008 to 2010.
The company on Jan. 27 filed to go public with a statement that
gave only financial results through the first three quarters of
last year.  The company has more than 1,000 employees and 90 million
users in more than 200 countries. Members use the site to search
for jobs, recruit employees and find industry experts.  While users can create personal profiles for free, LinkedIn
introduced paid subscriptions in 2005, giving recruiters more
access to job candidates and providing business professionals
ways to communicate with one another. The company also makes
money by selling ads on the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  