-- 
Ireland Bid for EU Relief Rejected as Kenny Holds Line on Increasing Taxes

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-03-12T01:47:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/ireland-bid-for-eu-relief-rejected-as-kenny-holds-line-on-increasing-taxes.html
Euro-area leaders rebuffed Irish
Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s bid for easier bailout terms,
demanding that Ireland raise tax rates in return, as they
rewarded Greece with a cut in its rescue-loan costs.  “We weren’t really satisfied yet today with what Ireland
pledged,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said after a summit
that ended about 1:30 a.m. in Brussels. “We can only offer the
interest-rate cut when we have something in return.”  Kenny, arriving for his first summit as Ireland’s leader,
refused to buckle under pressure from Merkel and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  as he pushed for relief on the 5.8
percent interest rate the country pays on the 85 billion-euro
($115 billion) rescue package it received in November.  On raising the  tax rate , “I made it perfectly clear on
many occasions that this is not something that I could or would
contemplate and didn’t this evening,” Kenny said. He said talks
would continue through a summit scheduled for March 24-25.  Ireland’s main corporate tax rate is 12.5 percent, compared
with an EU average of about 23 percent and even higher rates in
Germany and  France , which it has used to lure companies such as
Hewlett-Packard Co. to set up in the country.  “We’re not asking Ireland to put up their corporate taxes
to the European average, but to make some effort,” Sarkozy
said.  As for Greece, which now pays about 5 percent on loans in
its 110 billion-euro rescue program, euro-area leaders agreed to
cut the rate by 1 percentage point and extend the maturity to 7
½ from three years.    Greece  has made major efforts, just look at the size of
their privatization program,” Sarkozy said. “But you can’t ask
others to contribute for you, when you won’t make an effort on
your tax receipts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Brussels at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Brussels at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  