-- 
Japan Plans Spending Package as Quake Slams World's Most Indebted Economy

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y
-- 
2011-03-13T14:02:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/japan-faces-another-leg-down-in-its-fiscal-health-after-quake.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , battling
what he called Japan’s worst crisis since the end of World War
II, plans a post-earthquake rebuilding package, a step that may
worsen the challenge of curbing the world’s biggest public debt.  Policy makers will need to compile a spending bill “over
the medium to long-term” to cope with the aftermath of the 8.9-
magnitude earthquake and the tsunami it triggered, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano told NHK Television. For now, officials
will use about 200 billion yen ($2.4 billion) left over from the
budget for the fiscal year ending March 31, he said.  To maintain financial stability, Bank of Japan Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa said the central bank will provide “massive”
liquidity. The northern Tohoku region most affected by the
disaster makes up about 8 percent of gross domestic product, and
is host to factories making products from cars to beer. It also
has a nuclear power plant the government said is at risk of a
meltdown after an explosion.  Factory shutdowns, power cuts and the impact on  consumer
confidence  may hurt Japan’s GDP for a period of months, while
contributing to growth later as reconstruction occurs,
economists said. The additional public spending risks hurting
demand for Japanese  government bonds , said analyst Alicia Ogawa.  ‘Leg Down’  “A supplementary budget is like the last thing that people
watching the JGB market want to hear,” said Ogawa, adjunct
professor at Columbia University’s School of International and
Public Affairs in  New York , and a former Japanese banking
analyst who lived in the nation for 15 years. The prospect of
rebuilding “signals another leg down in Japan’s fiscal health.
So I’m concerned that in the short to medium run, there’s going
to have to be more borrowing,” she said.  The leader of the largest opposition party,  Sadakazu Tanigaki , told Kan that he would support a temporary tax to help
fund relief spending after Japan’s strongest earthquake on
record. Edano said later he couldn’t rule out such a measure.  “The prime minister must consider seriously whether
funding can be secured by issuing government bonds alone,”
Tanigaki told reporters today in  Tokyo . He added that the
secretaries general of his and Kan’s party will discuss the
matter further.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in Tokyo
that it will be “difficult” to compile the extra spending
package before month-end.  Debt Load  The Ministry of Finance projected in January that
government debt will increase 5.8 percent to a record 997.7
trillion yen ($12.2 trillion) in the year starting April 1. That
signaled Kan would break his past pledge to limit bond sales to
44.3 trillion yen a year.  U.S. government debt  held by the
public is less than $10 trillion.  For Kan, the task of assembling a reconstruction plan adds
to a burden that includes his failure so far to persuade
opposition lawmakers to enact bills allowing the government to
sell deficit-financing bonds in the coming fiscal year.    Japan ’s bond market has so far failed to signal concern at
the fiscal outlook, with more than 90 percent of government debt
held by domestic investors led by financial companies. The yield
on the benchmark security due in 2021 was 1.27 percent late
March 11 in Tokyo, compared with an average of 1.39 percent over
the past decade.  Risk to Yields  “Considering that Japan’s sovereign debt was recently
downgraded, financial markets may become more wary of even an
incremental increase in  government borrowing  and bond
issuance,” Dan Ryan, an economist at Lexington, Massachusetts-
based IHS Global Insight.  Japan’s rating outlook was lowered to negative from stable
by Moody’s Investors Service Feb. 22 on concern that political
gridlock will constrain efforts to tackle the debt burden. The
ranking is Aa2, the company’s third highest.  Standard & Poor’s 
cut its grade in January to fourth highest.  Stocks already began to respond to the quake, with the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average tumbling 1.7 percent by the close March
11, which came 14 minutes after the 2:46 p.m. strike of the main
earthquake. Abroad, investors took the quake in stride, with the
U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rising 0.7 percent.  Companies from Sony Corp., Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor
Co. and Nissan Motor Co. to beermaker Sapporo Holdings Ltd. and
refiner JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. shut down facilities in
northern Japan. Cosmo Oil Co. suffered a fire at a refinery in
Chiba, outside Tokyo, while Tokyo Electric Power Co. battled to
avert a meltdown to a nuclear power station 220 kilometers north
of Tokyo after cooling systems failed.  Human Toll  The devastation has caused the death of more than 800
people, according to the  National Police Agency . The number in
Miyagi Prefecture could rise to 10,000, NHK reported, citing the
Miyagi police department. Kan, returning from an inspection of
the devastated area around Sendai said he would mobilize 50,000
Self Defense Force personnel to aid the relief effort.  In Tokyo, residents emptied supermarket shelves and steeled
themselves for power outages that Kan said in a news conference
will start tomorrow.  “The quake and the tsunami are a tragic devastation, but
they will have only minimal impact on the Japanese economy
overall,” said Michael Boskin, a Stanford University economics
professor in Stanford,  California , and former head of the White
House Council of Economic Advisers. “When there are natural
disasters, there’s a big disruption of capital and, tragically,
life as well that will require capital to rebuild and so on. But
it’s not widespread enough to disrupt” GDP very much, he said.  Economic Outlook  Provided the danger to the nuclear reactor is defused,
“something several magnitudes lower than the 1.9 percent GDP
impact” of the January 1995 Kobe earthquake is likely, London-
based ING Financial Markets analysts Rob Carnell and Tom Levinson wrote in a note. “One potential fly in the ointment,
is that in 1995, although seriously challenged, Japan’s fiscal
situation was not in such a parlous state as it is today.”  For its part, the  Bank of Japan  pledged to ensure financial
stability, setting up an emergency task force and saying it will
do everything to provide liquidity. Tomorrow, the central bank
holds a meeting, bringing its scheduled policy announcement
forward one day to speed its reaction to the temblor.  Meantime, the Ministry of Finance may be prompted to
intervene in the foreign exchange market should the nation’s
currency climb and risk worsening deflationary pressures and
undermining export competitiveness, analysts said.  Yen Gain  The yen advanced 1.4 percent to 81.84 per dollar March 11,
bringing its appreciation over the past year to about 10 percent.
The yen typically climbs during crises because Japan’s current-
account surplus means it doesn’t need foreign funding and
because of the likelihood of Japanese investors repatriating
assets. Japan holds $882.3 billion of Treasuries, the highest
tally after  China , according to the  U.S. Treasury .  “Insurance companies are unlikely to buy overseas assets
aggressively while they worry about pending claims” stemming
from the earthquake, Mansoor Mohi-uddin, the head of global
currency strategy at UBS AG who was in Tokyo for visits with
clients and present for the earthquake, wrote in a note. He
predicted that the yen won’t strengthen past 80, citing the
likelihood of authorities selling the currency to stem gains.  The earthquake hit at a point when the economy was pulling
out of a contraction in the fourth quarter. Recent data showed
factory orders increased 4.2 percent from December, the biggest
jump in five months, industrial production rose in January and
the  unemployment rate  held that month at 4.9 percent, matching
the lowest level since March 2009.  “This is a Keynesian stimulus program that nobody can
argue with: just rebuilding the city of Sendai,” said Marcus Noland, deputy director of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington , co-author of the 2001
book “No More Bashing: Building a New Japan-United States
Economic Relationship.” “Rebuilding Sendai could actually be
an opportunity to try to create a growth pole in northern
Japan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  