-- 
Japan Sends 50,000 Rescuers to Quake Area; Death Toll Rises

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k
-- 
2011-03-12T23:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/japan-quake-death-toll-nears-500-radioactive-gas-released-from-reactors.html
  Japan  sent thousands of rescue
workers to the northeastern coastal area devastated by the
country’s strongest  earthquake  on record as officials at a
nuclear power station battled to prevent a meltdown after an
explosion near a reactor.  The confirmed death toll from the 8.9-magnitude temblor and
the ensuing tsunami that swept away buildings and cars reached
680 and may rise to more than 1,000, according to Japanese
public broadcaster NHK. Miyagi prefecture said 10,000 residents,
more than half the population of the town of Minamisanriku,
couldn’t be located since the March 11 quake, NHK said.  An estimated 4,000 people were stranded in evacuation
centers in Sendai, 310 kilometers (193 miles) north of  Tokyo ,
without food, water or heat, awaiting rescue by helicopter.
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , returning yesterday from an inspection
of the ravaged area around Sendai, a city of 1 million people,
said he would mobilize 50,000 Self Defense Force personnel to
aid the relief effort.    Australia  said it was sending search-and-rescue teams with
dogs that can detect bodies trapped in rubble. The teams will
carry 22 tons of equipment and supplies, Attorney General Robert McClelland said in a statement. The  U.S. Agency for
International Development  said today it is sending urban search-
and-rescue teams from  California  and the Washington area at the
request of the Japanese government.  U.S. Navy  The aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan arrived off the
Japanese coast yesterday to support relief efforts by rescue
services, Leslie Hull-Ryde, a U.S. Defense Department
spokeswoman, said. The carrier will be joined by the USS Essex
and both vessels “can be used for helicopter operations and
humanitarian assistance and disaster relief,” Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said in Bahrain yesterday.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said an explosion near the No. 1
reactor at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station
destroyed the walls of the reactor building and injured four
people. Officials were using seawater to cool a reactor and
prevent damage to the chamber holding its radioactive core.  A hydrogen leak caused the blast, which didn’t damage the
steel chamber, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said. Japan’s
Nuclear Safety Agency couldn’t confirm a meltdown at the plant,
and monitoring around the reactor is showing that radiation is
falling, a spokesman, Shinji Kinjyo, said today.  Strong Aftershocks  There have been at least 109 aftershocks since the quake,
the  U.S. Geological Survey  said. They include a 6.3-magnitude
temblor that occurred today off the coast 115 kilometers
southeast of Sendai, the USGS said. More than a dozen greater
than magnitude 6 have rocked the region, Dave Applegate, a
senior adviser at USGS, told reporters on a conference call.  “They will continue for not just days, weeks but months
and potentially years,” Applegate said.  The quake was the world’s strongest since a December 2004
temblor in  Indonesia  that left about 220,000 people dead or
missing in 12 countries around the  Indian Ocean . The Japan
earthquake triggered tsunami warnings around the Pacific Rim as
far away as Mexico, Chile and Antarctica. Those were lifted
yesterday.  It was the biggest within the boundaries of the North
American and Pacific tectonic plates in 1,200 years, Applegate
said. The temblor unleashed a 7-meter-high tsunami that engulfed
towns on the northern coast, washing away buildings, vehicles
and boats.  Wall of Water  The wall of water reached as far as 20 kilometers inland,
according NHK. Drinking water supplies were disrupted for tens
of thousands of homes in Tokyo and along the east coast,
agencies said.  Some of the nation’s largest manufacturers shut down
operations.  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  reported closure of a plant that makes
sensors for the cameras in its mobile phones.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
the world’s biggest carmaker, said it will suspend production at
all factories in Japan tomorrow to confirm the safety of its
employees.  The earthquake forced the suspension of bullet-train and
subway services around Tokyo and the cancellations of
international and domestic flights.  Tokyo’s  subway system , the world’s busiest with about 8
million riders a day, returned to normal yesterday.  Narita Airport , the city’s main international gateway, also
began operating normally. Flights stopped landing March 11,
stranding 13,800 passengers at the airport. They were given
water and food, Ryoko Yabe, a spokeswoman for the airport, said
by phone. Haneda airport,  Asia ’s second-busiest by passengers,
resumed flights, the transport ministry said.  ‘Only Japan’  The quake hit 13 minutes before Mana Nakazora’s flight from  New York  was scheduled to land. She was diverted to Nagoya’s
airport, where she spent the night before getting on a bullet
train to Tokyo.  “The train was working already and was punctual,”
Nakazora said. “Only Japan can do this.”  The Ministry of Finance said earlier it was too soon to
gauge the economic impact of the temblor.  The  Bank of Japan , the central bank, set up an emergency
task force and said it would do everything it could to provide
ample liquidity. The BOJ, which has already cut its benchmark
rate to zero to end deflation, said last month the economy was
poised to recover from a contraction in the fourth quarter.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average tumbled 1.7 percent, led
by insurers, as the earthquake struck less than half an hour
before the market closed. The yen strengthened 1.3 percent
against the dollar.  Tossed Like Toys  Within an hour of the earthquake, tsunami waves swept
inland, buffeting Japan’s coast from Erimo in the northern
island of Hokkaido to Oarai, Fukushima, about 670 kilometers to
the south, according to the  Japan Meteorological Agency .  Boats smashed into walls as the tsunami struck, inundating
buildings and flyovers with black water full of debris across
stretches of coast north of Tokyo, television images showed.
Hundreds of cars were washed around like toys, and one large
building was lifted off its foundations and dragged into the
ocean.  Farmland was flooded with burning debris in some other
areas as the tidal surge swept inland. Large boats were left
stranded after the water surged back to sea.  A fire burned at Cosmo Oil Co.’s refinery in Chiba, outside
Tokyo, and JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. shut refineries in
Sendai, Kashima and Negishi.  ‘Ring of Fire’  Japan lies on the so-called “Ring of Fire,” an arc of
volcanoes and fault lines surrounding the Pacific Basin. A 6.9-
magnitude earthquake in Kobe, western Japan, killed more than
6,000 people in 1995, while the 7.9-magnitude Great Kanto Quake
of 1923 destroyed 576,262 structures and killed an estimated
140,000.  “Japan has a rigorous earthquake building code and
excellent tsunami-warning system and evacuation plans -- this
event will likely provide a severe test for all of them,” James Goff, co-director of the  Australian Tsunami Research Centre and
Natural Hazards Research Lab  at the University of New South
Wales, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 Sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  