-- 
Japan Reactor Fuel Rods May Have Begun to Melt, Atomic Safety Agency Says

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-03-12T08:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/japan-reactor-fuel-rods-may-have-begun-to-melt-atomic-safety-agency-says.html
A nuclear reactor in the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power station about 220 kilometers (140 miles) north of  Tokyo  may be starting to melt down after Japan’s biggest
earthquake on record hit the area yesterday.  Fuel rods at the No. 1 reactor at the plant run by Tokyo
Electric Power Co. may be melting after radioactive Cesium
material left by atomic fission was detected near the site,
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, spokesman Yuji Kakizaki
said by phone today.  “If the fuel rods are melting and this continues, a
reactor meltdown is possible,” Kakizaki said. A meltdown refers
to a heat buildup in the core of such an intensity it melts the
floor of the reactor containment housing.  Tokyo Electric,  Asia ’s biggest power company, started
releasing radioactive gas and steam into the atmosphere to
reduce pressure in the containment housing after yesterday’s
magnitude 8.9 earthquake, Akitsuka Kobayashi, a company
spokesman, said by phone today. Pressure has started to fall in
the containment housing, said Yoshihiro Sugiyama, a spokesman at
the country’s nuclear safety agency.  Winds  in the area of the Fukushima plant are blowing at
less than 18 kilometers per hour mostly in an offshore
direction, according to a 4 p.m. update from the  Japan 
Meteorological Association.  The government earlier today widened the evacuation zone
around the reactor to 10 kilometers from 3 kilometers, affecting
thousands of people. The quake and the tsunami that followed is
estimated to have killed at least 500 people with hundreds more
missing, the  National Police Agency  said.  Low Radiation  “When the pressure starts building up, the emergency
procedure is to start venting,” Dave Lochbaum, director of the
nuclear safety project at the Union for Concerned Scientists,
said in a telephone interview. “They’ve essentially entered a
beat the clock game. As long as there is no fuel damage, there
will be radioactivity, but it will be very low.”  Radiation spread by the venting won’t be at a level
dangerous to health, said Ryohei Shiomi, a spokesman at the
government’s nuclear agency said earlier.  Tokyo Electric started venting gas from a containment
section of the No. 1 reactor at Fukushima Dai-ichi at about 9
a.m. local time. The company is preparing to do the same at the
Dai-Ni nuclear plant nearby, a spokesman said.  Tokyo Electric earlier said it had lost control of pressure
building up in three reactors at the Dai-Ichi power plant.
Temperatures in the control room rose to higher than 100 Celsius
(212 Fahrenheit), said Naoki Tsunoda, a company spokesman.  Main Barrier  The plant’s operators need to connect to the electricity
grid, fix emergency diesel generators or bring in more batteries
to power a backup system that pumps the water needed to cool the
reactor, said Lochbaum, a nuclear engineer who has worked at
nuclear  power plants  for 17 years.  The air cooling system in the containment building probably
failed due to the power loss, allowing pressure to increase
inside, Lochbaum said.  The main barrier between a reactor and outside areas is the
containment building, Lochbaum said. Without an air cooling
system the air heats, causing pressure to rise inside the
building, with the risk that radioactive air will escape.  Tokyo Electric has also started preparing to vent gas from
the containment areas of four reactors at the Fukushima Dai-ni
nuclear plant, Kobayashi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aaron Sheldrick at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net  