-- 
NFL Shuts Down After Players Sue Owners on How to Split $9 Billion Income

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-03-12T14:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/nfl-shuts-down-after-players-sue-owners-on-how-to-split-9-billion-income.html
The  National Football League , the
most-watched and richest sport in the U.S., shut down after
players rejected management’s proposal to split $9 billion in
annual income.  The National Football League Players Association, behind
Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady  and  Peyton Manning  and
incoming rookies such as linebacker Von Miller of  Texas A&M
University , filed suit yesterday in U.S. District Court in
Minneapolis. They accused the league and its teams of a
“patently unlawful group boycott” by fixing wages or
restricting free-agent movement.  “The NFL has a long history of violating federal antitrust
law in an effort to minimize its labor costs,” according to the
players’ complaint. “The owners’ collective purpose in imposing
the ‘lockout’ is to force the non-unionized NFL players to agree
to the massive wage reductions and anticompetitive restrictions,
which the NFL defendants are seeking from the players.”  The league declared a lockout after the old
collective bargaining agreement expired at midnight. It came
less than five weeks after the NFL’s Super Bowl championship
game produced the biggest audience in U.S. television history.  “The union’s abandonment of bargaining has forced the
clubs to take action they very much wanted to avoid,” the NFL
said in a news release today. “At the recommendation of the
Management Council Executive Committee under the authority it
has been delegated by the clubs, the league has informed the
union that it is taking the difficult but necessary step of
exercising its right under federal labor law to impose a lockout
of the union.”  Paychecks Stop  The league’s declaration means the NFL’s offseason is on
hold. Players won’t be paid. Teams can’t practice, sign new
players or make trades. The league’s draft of college players is
still scheduled to begin April 28.  The players’ lawsuit was filed after negotiations overseen
by the  Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service  in Washington
failed to yield an agreement. The union said owners refused to
show financial records to support their position, and the
lawsuit said management “conspired to deny plaintiffs the
ability to provide and/or market their services in the major
league market for professional football services.”  NFL management said players never wanted to reach a
negotiated settlement.  ‘Take It, Leave It’  “The union’s position has been take it or leave it, and
has had the same position since last September,” New York
Giants co-owner John Mara said. “We made an offer today to
split the difference between the two sides. They came back and
said it was insufficient. Their objective was to go the
litigation route.”  NFL owners voted in 2008 to end the league’s collective
bargaining agreement with players on March 3, saying it didn’t
account for costs such as building stadiums. That deadline was
extended until yesterday as owners and players met with the
mediator.  Areas of dispute also include expansion of the season to 18
games from 16, a rookie salary cap and health care for players.  Owners want to double the amount set aside from the
league’s $9 billion in revenue -- the most for any sports league
-- for expenses before paying players, according to the players
association. Under the old agreement, about $1 billion was
deducted before player payrolls are calculated, for costs
related to stadiums, marketing, NFL.com and the NFL Network,
according to  DeMaurice Smith , the association’s executive
director.  Financial Data  Smith said yesterday before the association announced its
action that any further extension of talks would have to be
accompanied by the owners turning over 10 years of audited
financial records.  George H. Cohen, head of the federal mediation service,
said in a prepared statement that the players and management
retained “strongly held, competing views that separated them on
core issues.”  “No useful purpose would be served by requesting the
parties to continue the mediation process at this time,” he
said. Cohen said his office was ready to step back into the
talks at any time.  NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said the quickest way to a
resolution is through discussions, not litigation.  “We do believe that mediation is the fairest and fastest
way to reach an agreement,” Goodell said in  Washington . “We
believe that ultimately this is going to be negotiated at the
negotiation table. We will be prepared to negotiate again.”  Split Difference  The NFL said in a statement that its offer split the
difference between the sides’ stands on financial issues and
would have no adverse monetary impact on veteran players in the
early years and meet their demands for the latter years.  Jim Quinn, outside counsel for the players’ association,
said the owners offered a proposal that effectively would have
rolled back salaries to 2007 levels.  “They wanted the players over the course of the next few
years to give them a $5 billion gift,” Quinn told reporters at
union headquarters in Washington. “They have forced us into a
situation where we could not agree to a $5 billion giveback.”  The union decertified two years after a 1987 strike that
was broken by replacement players. The move triggered about 20
lawsuits, including one that helped create free agency in 1993.  The players association will continue to assist members in
financing, litigation and other activities, without
participating in collective bargaining, according to a fact
sheet on the union’s website.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-639, U.S. District Court,
District of Minnesota   Minneapolis ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  