-- 
Niger Voters Choose New President in Election to Restore Civilian-Led Rule

-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u
-- 
2011-03-12T13:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/niger-voters-choose-new-president-in-election-to-restore-civilian-led-rule.html
Voters in  Niger  cast their ballots
today in a runoff election to choose a new president and restore
civilian rule in  Africa ’s second-biggest uranium producer.  General Djibo Salou, head of the military junta that ousted
President Mamadou Tandja last year, was the first to vote at 8
a.m. local time at a polling station in Niamey, the capital.  “It’s a great day today,” he told reporters after he
voted. “The process of restoring democracy, which is the
junta’s credo, is completed. I call on Nigeriens to vote
massively and I urge both candidates to recognize the vote
results.”  The West African nation’s 6.7 million registered voters are
choosing between former Prime Minister Mahamadou Issoufou and
Seini Oumarou, leader of Tandja’s party. Provisional results may
be published by March 14, said Abdoulaye Mamoudou, a spokesman
for the country’s election commission.  The new leader will face a challenge of aiding the nation’s
recovery from a 2009-10 drought that left one in five children
under the age of 5 suffering from malnutrition, according to the  World Food Programme . Niger must also deal with an al-Qaeda-
linked group that has stepped up attacks targeting foreigners in
the country of 16 million.  No Incidents  Voting is proceeding “normally in all parts of the
country,” said Ghousmane Abdourahamane, president of the
election commission. “No incidents were reported. Electoral
materials are available,” he told reporters in Niamey.  Both candidates said they were satisfied with the electoral
process in Niger and promised to accept defeat if they lose.  “I have great support and I’m sure the vote will be
favorable,” said Issoufou after he cast his ballot. Oumarou
congratulated “the junta that has kept its commitment to hold
elections and restore civilian rule” after he voted.  Voting began peacefully, said Santiago Fisas Ayxe, head of
the European Union’s election-observer mission, in an interview
in Niamey. “We hope that Niger will pass this vote to restore
its democracy,” he said.  Issoufou, a former technical director at one of  Areva SA (CEI) ’s
Nigerien units Societe des Mines de l’Air, was prime minister
from 1993 to 1994 and was jailed in 2009 after he and other
opposition leaders called for a general strike to protest
Tandja’s attempts to extend his rule. He has promised
“continuity” in the  mining industry  and has vowed to increase
defense spending to combat threats from al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb. He received 36.1 percent of votes in the Jan. 31 first
round.  Development  Issoufou “knows our problems and his program includes
solutions to boost the development of our country,” said 31-
year-old Hadiza Djibo, a teacher, as she cast her ballot in the
Niamey neighborhood of Yantala.  Oumarou, a prime minister under Tandja from 2007 to 2009,
was detained briefly by the junta in July over allegations of
embezzlement. He got 23.2 percent of votes in the first round.  Garba Bourey, a 46-year-old businessman, said as he voted
today that he supported Oumarou’s pledge to “continue major
projects launched by Tandja.”  Both men have vowed to improve education and bolster
agriculture in a country where just 15 percent of women are
literate and 82 percent of the population relies on farming and
animal herding, according to data from the WFP and the CIA’s
World Fact Book.  Niger ranks ahead of just  Zimbabwe  and the Democratic
Republic of Congo on the  United Nations ’ 169-country  Human
Development Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Djibril Saidou  via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 