-- 
Obama Says U.S. Still Has Steps to Take for Women’s Equality

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-12T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/obama-says-u-s-still-has-steps-to-take-for-women-s-equality.html
President  Barack Obama  said women
have made great strides toward full equality with men over the
past 50 years, yet more progress is needed to close an economic
gender gap.  In his weekly radio and Internet  address , Obama said women
are still more likely than men to live in poverty, are
underrepresented in math and engineering education, and earn, on
average, 75 percent as much as men.  “We have to work even harder to close the gaps that still
exist, and to uphold that simple American ideal: We are all
equal and deserving of the chance to pursue our own version of
happiness,” he said.  The White House on March 1 released a report highlighting
gains made by women since the last comprehensive federal report
on women was published by the government in 1963.  The report found that women in the U.S. attend college at
the same rate as men, and the number of women in the workforce
is almost equal. Still, the gains in education and employment
over the last several decades haven’t translated into income
equality.  Legislation intended to address the wage discrepancy is
stalled in the Senate. The bill, which would lift the cap on
damages in pay-discrimination suits and restrict how employers
can fight such complaints, was passed in the House in July 2008
and again in January 2009.  “I’m going to keep up the fight to pass the reforms in
that bill,” Obama said.  Republican Address  In the Republican  address , Alaska Senator  Lisa Murkowski 
focused on energy, saying there are steps the government can
take to help lower gasoline prices, such as allowing more
exploration in the  Gulf of Mexico  and in Western states and
reducing regulations on energy production.  The cost of oil has surged 23 percent over the past year,
and gasoline prices are at their highest in more than two years
on concern that the unrest in the Middle East and North Africa
will spread to major oil-producing countries. Oil for April
delivery settled at $101.16 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  yesterday.  “When gasoline prices go up, families and businesses are
stretched thin,” Murkowski  said . “If energy prices keep
climbing, our nation could slip back into recession, just as
we’re finally emerging from the last one.”  She said Republicans support both new domestic production
and alternatives to reduce consumption of fossil fuels. Greater
U.S. oil production would create jobs and make the country more
secure, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  