-- 
Radioactive Gas Released From Nuclear Plant Damaged by Japan's EarthQuake

-- B y   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-03-12T04:04:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/tokyo-electric-starts-venting-reactor-gas-to-relieve-atomic-plant-pressure.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. started
releasing radioactive gas from one of the reactors at a nuclear
plant north of Tokyo and is preparing to conduct a similar
operation at a second station after yesterday’s quake.  Tokyo Electric,  Asia ’s biggest power company, started
venting gas from a containment section of the No. 1 reactor of
its Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant north of Tokyo at about 9
a.m. local time, Akitsuka Kobayashi, a company spokesman, said
by phone today.  Japan’s government ordered the utility to begin releasing
gas to reduce a rise in pressure in the reactor containment
housing. Radiation spread by the release won’t be at a level
dangerous to health, said Ryohei Shiomi, a spokesman at the
government’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency. The company
is preparing to release gas at the Dai-Ni nuclear plant nearby,
a spokesman said.  “You don’t want to have that containment pressurized. When
the pressure starts building up, the emergency procedure is to
start venting,” Dave Lochbaum, director of the nuclear safety
project at the Union for Concerned Scientists, said in a
telephone interview. “They’ve essentially entered a beat the
clock game. As long as there is no fuel damage, there will be
radioactivity, but it will be very low.”  The government widened the evacuation zone around the
reactor to 10 kilometers (6 miles) from 3 kilometers. Residents
near another reactor at the plant were also told to evacuate.  Pressure Builds  Tokyo Electric earlier said it had lost control of pressure
building up in three reactors at the power plant in Fukushima
prefecture after the 8.9-magnitude earthquake struck yesterday.
Temperatures in the control room rose to higher than 100 Celsius
(212 Fahrenheit), said Naoki Tsunoda, a company spokesman.  The plant’s operators need to connect to the electricity
grid, fix emergency diesel generators or bring in more batteries
to power a backup system that pumps the water needed to cool the
reactor, said Lochbaum, a nuclear engineer who has worked at
nuclear  power plants  for 17 years.  The air cooling system in the containment building probably
failed due to the power loss, allowing pressure to increase
inside, Lochbaum said.  The main barrier between a reactor and outside areas is the
containment building, Lochbaum said. Without an air cooling
system the air heats, causing pressure to rise inside the
building, which the risk that radioactive air will escape.  Tokyo Electric has also started preparing to vent gas from
the containment areas of four reactors at the Fukushima Dai-ni
nuclear plant, spokesman Naoyuki Matsumoto said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  