-- 
Second Blast Possible at Japan Atomic Power Plant Even as Radiation Falls

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-03-13T12:45:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/tokyo-electric-tries-to-cool-unstable-reactors-avert-three-mile-island-.html
Japanese officials battling to
prevent a potential meltdown at a nuclear power station said an
explosion was possible at a second reactor building after the
plant’s cooling system failed.  Water levels temporarily fell at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s
No. 3 reactor at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant 135 miles north of
Tokyo, raising the possibility of a hydrogen explosion, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said in Tokyo today.    Asia ’s largest utility is seeking to avoid a meltdown of
two reactors at the nuclear power station by flooding them with
water and boric acid to eliminate the potential for a
catastrophic release of radiation into the atmosphere. The
station lost power to keep the reactor core cool after the March
11 earthquake, the largest ever recorded in  Japan .  The “likelihood of success should be fairly high,” Dale Klein, a professor of nuclear engineering at the  University of
Texas  at Austin and former chairman of the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, said of the seawater flooding. “This
should have been part of their overall strategy to keep the core
covered and cooled.”  Radiation rose yesterday after a hydrogen leak caused a
blast that destroyed the walls of the No. 1 reactor. Four
workers were injured in the explosion, while no damage was
reported to the container holding the reactor’s radioactive
core, according to Tokyo Electric.  Radiation levels peaked at 13:52 p.m. local time and have
declined since, Tokyo Electric spokesman Naoki Tsunoda said.  Wind Directions  Winds in the area of the Fukushima plant are blowing at
less than 18 kilometers (11 miles) per hour generally in an
easterly direction, according to a 12 p.m.  update  from the  Japan
Meteorological Agency .  The  International Atomic Energy Agency , in partnership with
the  World Meteorological Organization , forecasts that winds will
blow any atmospheric radiation northeast over the next three
days, according to an IAEA statement.  Tokyo Electric is preparing to vent gas from containment
areas at neighboring nuclear power station, Fukushima Dai-Ni,
spokesman Akitsuka Kobayashi said yesterday. The station has
four reactors.  The IAEA said Japan has informed the Vienna-based agency
that casualties have risen among workers at the reactor site. A
crane worker was killed at the Fukushima Dai-Ni plant and seven
emergency response workers have been injured, including four
hurt in yesterday’s explosion, the IAEA said in a statement on
its website.  Tokyo Electric will start power outages in parts of the
greater Tokyo area from tomorrow, according to a company
statement.  Nuclear Meltdown  Inadequate cooling of the reactor core may lead to a
meltdown, the most dangerous kind of nuclear power accident
because of the threat of radiation releases, according to the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission . The 1979 partial meltdown at the
Three Mile Island reactor in  Pennsylvania  failed to breach the
containment building, according to the commission.  “Only a small amount of active particles made it outside
and were released into the atmosphere, so there were no
consequences for the population,” Rafael Arutyunyan, first
deputy director of Institute for Safety of Nuclear Energy at the
Russian Academy of Sciences, said on Russian television over the
weekend in reference to Three Mile Island. “That’s the way
we’re heading at the moment” in Fukushima, he said.  ‘Station Blackout’  The Fukushima complex lost power after the earthquake when
its reactors shut automatically and a backup generator failed,
making it difficult to circulate cooling water,  Tokyo Electric 
has said. Without circulation, water within the reactor can boil
away, exposing the hot fuel rods and starting a meltdown, Klein
said. Three Mile Island operators exposed the core by mistake,
the U.S. concluded.  “The difference here is that people understand what’s
happening,” Klein said. “They are just having difficulty
getting the equipment to work because of the very adverse
conditions of both an earthquake and a tsunami.”  The type of accident that involves the loss of both the
electrical grid and backup power on site is known as a “station
blackout,” said Ken Bergeron, a physicist and former staff
member at Sandia National Laboratories, where he worked on
nuclear reactor accident simulation.  “It’s considered to be extremely unlikely, but the station
blackout has been one of the great concerns for decades,” he
told reporters on a conference call. “We are in uncharted
territory. We are in the land where probability says we
shouldn’t be and we are hoping that all of the barriers to
release of radioactivity will not fail.”  Chernobyl Meltdown  There are six reactors at the Dai-Ichi site. The unit being
flooded, No. 1, is a  General Electric Co. (GE)  boiling-water reactor
model that is capable of generating 439 megawatts of power and
began commercial operation in 1971, according to the
 International Atomic Energy Agency .  If the seawater-flooding attempt fails, engineers may have
to pump in sand and cement to entomb the reactor, Peter
Bradford, another former member of the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, said on the press conference call.  That ended contamination from the 1986 Chernobyl accident
in  Ukraine , where the meltdown of a reactor without a
containment building killed at least 28 workers, the United
Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation
said in a 2011  report .  Death Toll  Thousands were evacuated in Japan as workers vented
radioactive gas yesterday from the Fukushima plant. The death
toll from the quake and the tsunami that followed topped 970,
with more than 700 missing, 1,683 injured and 350,000 in
emergency shelters. The death toll may reach 10,000, national
broadcaster NHK reported, citing local police.  Tokyo Electric took almost two years to restart power
generation at the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant in the
country’s northwest after a 6.8 magnitude temblor on July 16,
2007, caused a fire and radiation leaks at the world’s biggest
atomic energy station.  Nuclear energy provides almost 30 percent of Japan’s
electricity, with total capacity of about 47,000 megawatts, with
plans to increase that to 40 percent by 2017, according to the  World Nuclear Association . The nation’s first reactor began
operating in 1966 and there are 54 reactors in the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  