-- 
Tokyo Electric Tries to Cool Unstable Reactor, Avert ‘Three Mile Island’

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-12T16:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/tokyo-electric-tries-to-cool-unstable-reactor-avert-three-mile-island-.html
Japanese officials battling to
prevent a meltdown at a nuclear power station after Friday’s
record earthquake are using seawater to try and cool a reactor
and prevent damage to the chamber holding its radioactive core.  An explosion at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear power station yesterday destroyed the walls of its
No. 1 reactor building and injured four people. A hydrogen leak
caused the blast, which didn’t damage the steel chamber, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said at a briefing yesterday.    Asia ’s biggest utility “has decided to fill the
containment with seawater,” Edano said. Japan’s Nuclear Safety
Agency couldn’t confirm a meltdown at the plant and monitoring
around the reactor is showing that radiation is falling,
spokesman Shinji Kinjyo said today.  Lack of adequate cooling for a reactor may cause a core
meltdown, the most dangerous kind of nuclear power accident,
releasing massive amounts of radiation, according to the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The 1979 accident at the Three
Mile Island reactor in  Pennsylvania  resulted in a partial
meltdown, without a breach in the containment building,
according to the commission.  “This case is quite difficult, it would be closer to what
happened in 1979 at  Three Mile Island ,” Rafael Arutyunyan,
first deputy director of Institute for Safety of Nuclear Energy,
Russian Academy of Sciences, said on Russian television. “Only
a small amount of active particles made it outside and were
released into the atmosphere, so there were no consequences for
the population. That’s the way we’re heading at the moment.”  Fuel Rods  Fuel rods at the reactor may be melting after radioactive
Cesium material left by atomic fission was detected near the
site,  Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency  spokesman Yuji
Kakizaki said yesterday.  “If the fuel rods are melting and this continues, a
reactor meltdown is possible,” Kakizaki said. A meltdown refers
to a heat buildup in the core of such intensity it melts the
floor of the reactor containment housing.  Thousands were evacuated as workers vented radioactive gas
from the plant in Fukushima, 220 kilometers (140 miles) north of
Tokyo, and three people were hospitalized after being exposed to
radiation. The death toll from a tsunami that swept over the
northern coastline after the quake topped 600 and an estimated
4,000 were stranded in evacuation centers.  The 8.9 magnitude temblor forced Toyota Motor Corp. to shut
some plants, shut down oil refineries and sparked a plunge in
stocks. While the  Finance Ministry  said it’s too soon to gauge
the quake’s economic impact, the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
dropped 1.7 percent March 11.  Fukushima Dai-Ichi  The reactor at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant may remain shut
for a year, Seth Grae, chief executive officer of Lightbridge
Corp., a nuclear energy consulting firm whose staff previously
inspected the Fukushima plant, said March 11 in an interview
with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s “Taking Stock.”  “If they do lose several of those plants for a few months
it could have a significant effect on Japan’s economy,” he
said. “A trickle down could hit factories, slowing down Japan’s
production.”  Tokyo Electric took almost two years to restart power
generation at the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant in the
country’s northwest after a 6.8 magnitude temblor on July 16,
2007, caused a fire and radiation leaks at the world’s biggest
atomic energy station.  Japanese Reactors  Nuclear energy provides almost 30 percent of Japan’s
electricity, with total capacity of about 47,000 megawatts, with
plans to increase that to 40 percent by 2017, according to the  World Nuclear Association . The nation’s first reactor began
operating in 1966 and there are 54 reactors in the country. A
nuclear plant traditionally operates as many as 8 reactors.  Japan’s nuclear companies have been in talks to sell
technology abroad, while Toshiba Corp. controls Westinghouse
Electric Co., a U.S. maker of light-water nuclear reactors,
which also has orders from  China . Toshiba is bidding to build  Turkey ’s second nuclear power plant. A Japanese group in October
also won a contract to build a nuclear plant in  Vietnam .  Tokyo Electric started releasing radioactive gas and steam
into the atmosphere about 9 a.m. local time yesterday to reduce
pressure in the containment housing of the No. 1 reactor,
company spokesman Akitsuka Kobayashi said. The utility has also
started preparing to vent gas from containment areas of four
reactors at the nearby Fukushima Dai-Ni nuclear plant, he said
yesterday.  Evacuation Zone  Winds  in the area of the Fukushima plant are blowing at
less than 18 kilometers per hour mostly in an offshore
direction, according to a 4 p.m. update from the  Japan
Meteorological Agency  yesterday.  The government widened the evacuation zone around the
damaged reactor to 20 kilometers from 10 kilometers, affecting
thousands of people.  “When the pressure starts building up, the emergency
procedure is to start venting,” Dave Lochbaum, director of the
nuclear safety project at the Union for Concerned Scientists,
said in a telephone interview. “They’ve essentially entered a
beat the clock game. As long as there is no fuel damage, there
will be radioactivity, but it will be very low.”  The plant’s operators need to connect to the electricity
grid, fix emergency diesel generators or bring in more batteries
to power a backup system that pumps the water needed to cool the
reactor, said Lochbaum, a nuclear engineer who has worked at
nuclear  power plants  for 17 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  