-- 
Tokyo Transport System Returns to Normal After Disruption From Earthquake

-- B y   B r e t   O k e s o n
-- 
2011-03-12T05:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/tokyo-transport-system-returns-to-normal-after-disruption-from-earthquake.html
Tokyo’s transport system returned
to normal after Japan’s worst earthquake in a century halted
subways and commuter lines yesterday, forcing people to walk for
hours to their suburban homes or find makeshift beds at their
desks, building lobbies or train stations.  Tokyo Metro was running eight of nine lines normally, with
limited service on the last.  East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , which 
operates commuter lines in the nation’s capital, restarted full 
service on the Chuo line and partial service on the Yamanote 
line.  The 8.9-magnitude quake yesterday crippled the world’s
busiest  subway  network. More than 8 million passengers use the
system on a normal weekday, and the shutdown highlighted the
city’s daily dependence on its transportation infrastructure.  The sidewalk that encircles the Imperial Palace was packed
with businessmen at 9:30 last night instead of the usual joggers.
Walking was still faster than driving as cars in the city’s
center stood bumper to bumper, inching along.  The shelves of  convenience stores , normally full with
ready-to-eat rice balls and sandwiches, were stripped bare by
hungry office workers. Once the subways started running, they
kept going all night to get people home. At 1 a.m., the
Marunouchi line to Shinjuku was so jammed full of people, most
travelers couldn’t even grab an overhead strap.  Office buildings distributed mats and blankets for people
camping out in the foyers. Other people spread newspapers on the
floor to sit on.  No Blanket  Ai Yonezawa had come to Tokyo from Sendai to attend a pop
concert and had planned to take an overnight bus home. After the
bus was canceled, the 22-year-old made her way to Tokyo station
and spent the night in an adjacent office building. There were
so many people, she couldn’t get a blanket.  “I was so cold,” said Yonezawa. “I don’t know when I can
go home.”  Parents were unable to pick up their children from school.
At Seibi Gauken School in northern Tokyo, 219 students and 109
staff spent the night in classrooms.  “We had to stay overnight because of the traffic
problem,” said Manami Sato, a teacher at the school.  Narita Airport, the city’s main international gateway, also
began operating normally today. Flights stopped landing
yesterday, stranding 13,800 passengers at the airport. Flights
were diverted including that of Mana Nakazora, who was returning
from a business trip in  New York .  The quake hit 13 minutes before she was scheduled to land.
She was diverted to Nagoya’s Central Japan International Airport,
where she spent the night. This morning, she got on a bullet
train to Tokyo.  “The train was working already and was punctual,”
Nakazora said. “Only Japan can do this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bret Okeson in Tokyo at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson in Tokyo at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  