-- 
Morgan Stanley Unit Probed by U.S. on Military Foreclosures

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-03-12T23:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/morgan-stanley-unit-saxon-investigated-by-u-s-over-military-foreclosures.html
A unit of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the
sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, and other lenders are being
investigated by the Justice Department for overcharging members
of the military and foreclosing on their homes without court
orders.  “The Civil Rights Division has an ongoing investigation
into Saxon mortgage and other lenders as well as authorized
lawsuits against lenders for violations of the Servicemembers
Civil Relief Act, specifically for overcharging and foreclosing
against the homes of Servicemembers without court orders,”
Xochitl Hinojosa, a department spokeswoman, said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The investigation was revealed in a court document filed
this week in a lawsuit brought in federal court in Grand Rapids,  Michigan , by U.S. Army Sergeant James Hurley. He served in
Operation Iraqi Freedom starting in 2004, and lost his home
through an eviction proceeding in 2005 while he was still in
Iraq.  The Morgan Stanley unit, Saxon Mortgage Services Inc., and
a unit of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  were responding in court papers to an
effort by Hurley’s lawyers to subpoena Saxon’s general counsel
to learn more about a Justice Department probe.  Introducing evidence of the investigation would result in a
“monumental waste of time,” the companies said in a March 8
filing. “The Department of Justice investigation is merely a
preliminary investigation based on unproven allegations, for
which no liability or wrongdoing has been found.”  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on the federal probe.  The New York Times reported on Hurley’s lawsuit and the DOJ
investigation yesterday.  The case is James B. Hurley v. Deutsche Bank Trust Company
Americas, 08-cv-00361, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Michigan   Grand Rapids ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  