-- 
HP Probe of Hurd’s Departure Needs More Time, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-03-12T02:15:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/hp-requests-more-time-to-finish-independent-probe-of-mark-hurd-s-departure.html
The outside lawyer conducting  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s independent probe of  Mark Hurd ’s departure
as chief executive officer last year said he needs additional
time to interview company directors to complete his report.  Andrew J. Levander, in a letter filed in federal court in  San Jose ,  California , said he has interviewed seven HP board
members and several company employees, and that he needs more
time to question another three current board members and do
follow-up inquiries.  The investigation stems from a shareholder lawsuit that
alleges directors at the largest maker of computers wasted
company money by awarding Hurd as much as $53 million in
severance pay when he resigned in August. Levander, a partner in
the New York office of law firm Dechert LLP, is conducting the
investigation to help resolve claims made in related shareholder
suits, including one filed in Delaware.  Levander represents an independent committee, including HP
board members  Ray Lane  and Gary Reiner, which has reviewed
documents “concerning, among other things, allegations of
sexual harassment made against Mr. Hurd by Ms. Jodie Fisher, and
other documents related to the circumstances surrounding Mr.
Hurd’s departure,” according to the letter. The letter, sent to
lawyers for HP and Hurd, is dated March 1 and was filed in court
today.  Hurd, now co-president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , quit
after an internal investigation by  Palo Alto , California-based
HP found that he violated business conduct standards in trying
to conceal a personal relationship with Fisher, a marketing
contractor.  ‘Informed Decision’  Hurd, who argues the cases should be dismissed, declined to
agree to the delay HP seeks because the company refuses to
provide him with “information that he considers necessary to
make an informed decision,” according to a filing submitted to
the court today along with Levander’s letter.  The filing today didn’t explain what documents Hurd seeks.  A January court filing said Hurd wanted a copy of a
shareholder “demand” that triggered the planned investigation,
as well as documents under seal in a related shareholder suit
filed in  Delaware  Chancery Court.  “HP has flatly refused to provide this information, even
though HP has provided some of the requested information to lead
plaintiffs’ counsel,” Hurd’s lawyers argued in today’s filing.  HP repeated an earlier argument that Hurd, as a potential
subject of the inquiry, isn’t entitled to the documents. “HP
continues to believe it is inappropriate for Mr. Hurd to be
provided with the materials that he requested,” HP said in its
filing today.  Mylene Mangalindan, an HP spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Lawrence Lewis, a lawyer representing Hurd, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is Levine v. Andreessen, 10-3608, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose). The Delaware
case is Espinoza v. Hewlett-Packard Co., CA6000, Delaware Court
of Chancery (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  