-- 
Portuguese Bonds Slump on Bets Government Will Request Bailout

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-12T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/portuguese-bonds-slump-on-bets-government-will-request-bailout.html
Portuguese 10-year bonds had their
biggest weekly slump in four while Greek and Irish debt of
similar maturity also fell on speculation European leaders won’t
prevent a worsening of the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  The yield on Portugal’s five and 10-year bonds reached
euro-era records this week on bets the nation is nearing a
request for financial aid from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . The declines widened the premium,
or spread, that investors demand to hold five-year Portuguese
notes instead of benchmark German bunds, by 66 basis points in
the week to 548 percentage points. Spanish 10-year bonds fell
after the nation’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors
Service.  “Portugal is clearly the most vulnerable of the peripheral
nations in Europe at the moment -- there’s no doubt about it,”
said  Nick Stamenkovic , an Edinburgh-based fixed-income
strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and
investors. “Some of these smaller peripheral nations are paying
punitive rates, and the rates are going up.”  Yields on 10-year Portuguese bonds surged 12 basis points
in the week to 7.60 percent as of 5 p.m. in  London , 10 basis
points lower than the euro-era record reached March 9. The five-
year yield climbed 23 basis points to 8 percent.  Concern that Europe’s most indebted nations will be unable
to make bond repayments has driven borrowing costs to record
highs. European Union leaders are working to expand their
bailout efforts in time for the conclusion of a meeting on March
24-25, which German Chancellor Angela Merkel has said will
produce a comprehensive package of measures.  ‘Chronic Problems’  “These are chronic problems that are going to take many
years to resolve,”  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who predicted
the global financial crisis, told Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown” in London. “The idea that they are
going to be resolving them in March with an agreement is far-
fetched.”  When asked by reporters in Lisbon yesterday whether his
country was preparing to request a European Union bailout  Portugal ’s finance minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said
that the region’s leaders must understand the “seriousness” of
the debt crisis.  The country may need to raise funds by issuing a new two-
year note as early as next month to curb its borrowing costs as
yields on longer-dated bonds have “become unsustainable,” UBS
AG said in an e-mailed note.  Bunds Advance  Spanish bonds fell this past week after Moody’s lowered the
country’s credit rating by one step to Aa2 and said it may make
further downgrades, citing costs to shore up the nation’s banks.
The 10-year yield on Spanish bonds rose four basis points in the
week to 5.43 percent.  German bonds advanced in the week, lowering the yield on
the 10-year bund,  Europe ’s benchmark government security, by six
basis points to 3.21 percent. Two-year note yields fell 11 basis
points to 1.65 percent, the first decline in three weeks.  Italian 10-year bond yields dropped two basis points to
4.87 percent, after breaching 5 percent on March 9 for the first
time in more than two years.  Spanish bonds may decline next week before a sale of bonds
maturing in 2021 and 2041 on March 17. Investors bid for 1.54
times the 10-year securities on offer at a sale of the debt on
Feb. 16, the lowest bid-to-cover ratio for the securities since
September 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  German bonds have handed investors a 1.9 percent loss this
year, compared with 4.4 percent for Portuguese securities,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish debt has
returned a 1.2 percent profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Daniel Tilles
at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  