-- 
Pound Drops as Investors Pare Back Bets on BOE Rate Increases

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-12T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/pound-drops-as-investors-pare-back-bets-on-boe-rate-increases.html
The pound posted its biggest weekly
decline in three months against the dollar as the Bank of
England left borrowing costs at a record low and investors pared
bets that  interest rates  will rise.  Britain’s currency weakened for a third week against the
euro. The Bank of England kept borrowing costs at 0.5 percent on
March 9 as policy makers chose supporting the economic recovery
over battling inflation. Short-sterling futures advanced
signaling investors cut wagers on higher borrowing costs.  “There’s been less certainty that the bank might move on
rates in the very near-term and there’s been some paring back of
rate-hike expectations,” said Michael Derks, head of currency
strategy at FXPro Financial Services in London. That is
“weighing” on the pound, which may fall to $1.56 within the
next three months, he said.  The pound weakened 1.5 percent against the dollar in the
week to $1.6030 as of 5:06 p.m. p.m. in London yesterday, the
biggest decline since the five trading days ending Dec. 17.
Sterling depreciated 0.7 percent to 86.54 pence per euro  Investors are predicting the  Bank of England  will boost
borrowing costs by 25 basis points in August and the same again
in November, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia. On March 4, the same data
showed bets for a 25 basis-point increase in June.  Short Sterling  The implied yield on the short-sterling contract maturing
in June fell to 0.99 percent from 1.08 percent on March 7.
Higher yields show investors increased bets on higher central
bank rates.  Ten-year  government bonds  rose for the third week in four,
pushing the yield down eight basis points to 3.55 percent. Two-
year yields fell 10 basis points to 1.29 percent, for a fourth-
straight decline.  U.K. unemployment claims are forecast to rise by 1,500 in
February, fewer than the 2,400 increase posted in January,
according to the median estimate of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before data next week. The report, due March 16,
will show the jobless rate was 7.9 percent in the three months
to January, unchanged from final quarter of last year, the
survey predicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 