-- 
Qaddafi’s Plane, Firepower Advantage Puts Libyan Rebels on the Defensive

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-03-12T01:14:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/qaddafi-s-plane-firepower-advantage-puts-libyan-rebels-on-the-defensive.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
strengthened his control in and around Tripoli, the capital, as
his forces fought the small number of rebels reported to be
still dug in at oil installations in Ras Lanuf.  Pro-Qaddafi demonstrators were shown on state television
celebrating in the main square of Zawiyah, a coastal city 30
miles (50 kilometers) west of Tripoli where rebels finally
yielded this week after intense attacks by Qaddafi’s forces. The
government brought foreign journalists to the city yesterday to
discredit rebels’ claims that fighting was continuing. Libyan
forces are besieging another strategic rebel-held town, Misrata,
about 90 miles (145 kilometers) east of Tripoli, according to
residents, as the momentum in the conflict has shifted in
Qaddafi’s favor.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in  New York  that he
is dispatching a special envoy to Tripoli this weekend in an
effort to stop the violence and seek access for humanitarian
aid. At a European Union summit in Brussels, a majority of the
leaders were “very reluctant” to launch military action sought
by the rebels and agreed a no-fly zone would need United Nations
and Arab support, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker 
told reporters.  “It needs to be clear that this is the only remaining
option to protect civilians from the Qaddafi regime,” he said
of a no-fly zone.  Oil Slides  Oil, which has risen about 20 percent in three weeks of
fighting in Libya, fell yesterday in New York, bringing the
week’s decline to 3.1 percent. Oil for April delivery tumbled
$1.54 to $101.16 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the lowest settlement since March 1.  The civil war in Libya is the deadliest conflict to emerge
from popular protests across the Middle East inspired by the
overthrow of longtime leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . Saudi
Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, deployed police in  Riyadh  yesterday to prevent the wave of unrest from affecting
the kingdom. In Bahrain, clashes erupted near the compounds of
the ruling family between security forces and protesters, the  Associated Press  reported, citing witnesses.  Oil Installations  Libyan fighting yesterday raged around Ras Lanuf, which has
a tanker terminal, storage depot and the country’s largest
refinery, said Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, a spokesman for the
opposition’s transitional national council. He said opposition
forces were in control of the oil installations, some of which
were on fire. At least eight rebels were killed in fighting
there, Al Arabiya television reported. Libyan government forces
used warplanes, tanks and artillery against the rebels.  Qaddafi loyalists won control of the city’s center March
10, and have directed airstrikes and artillery against rebel
holdouts near the oil facilities. Qaddafi is engaged in “a
desperate attempt to get his hands on the oil,” said Ghoga,
urging foreign powers to impose a no-fly zone “very quickly.”  President  Barack Obama , speaking to reporters at the White
House, said U.S. and NATO allies continue to consider a “wide
range of options” as they are “slowly tightening the noose on
Qaddafi” and those around him with economic sanctions and other
measures. He said that his administration is assigning an envoy
to work with the Libyan opposition and that NATO will consider a
no-fly zone at a meeting March 15.  Assets Freeze  The U.S. Treasury Department announced steps to freeze the
assets and block business dealings of Qaddafi’s immediate family
members and top security advisers, including Qaddafi’s most
trusted aide, Abdullah Al-Senussi, the director of Military
Intelligence, who the Treasury statement said organized mass
killings in Benghazi early in the uprising and recruited foreign
mercenaries fighting for Qaddafi.  The Libyan rebels may be seeking control over oil regions
to help finance their fight against Qaddafi’s better-equipped
conventional forces, said Shashank Joshi, an associate fellow at
the  Royal United Services Institute  in  London .  “If the rebels can harness oil revenues, it would
certainly reinforce abilities and possibly buy arms on the
international market,” he said. The Arabian Gulf Oil Co.,  Libya ’s second-largest state-owned oil company, is trying to
raise funds for the uprising, the Financial Times reported on
its website, citing an unidentified company official. The
company, wholly owned by the National Oil Co. of Libya, is based
in rebel-held Benghazi.  Humanitarian Needs  In  Washington , Ali Aujali, who had been Qaddafi’s
ambassador to the U.S., said he met yesterday with senior
officials at the Treasury and State Departments to urge that
Libyan assets frozen by the U.S. be released for use obtaining
humanitarian aid in rebel areas. “Anything that can help, we
are ready to accept” other than foreign troops, he said.  Abdel Rahman Shalgam, who was Qaddafi’s envoy to the UN and
now represents the opposition’s National Transitional Council,
said they also appealed to Assistant Secretary of State Jeffrey Feltman to have the U.S. press for a NATO-run no-fly zone.  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, who has emerged as the
regime’s top spokesman, vowed March 10 to regain lost
territories with a full-scale offensive against the rebellion.  “We fight here in Libya, we die here in Libya,” he said
at a press conference broadcast on Sky television. “The Libyan
people will never ever welcome NATO, they will never ever
welcome the Americans.”  Mortar Attack  Qaddafi’s forces March 10 fired mortars on the western city
of Misrata, home of the  Libyan Iron and Steel Company , which
remains under rebel control. Around 54 people have been killed
and another 122 have gone missing or been kidnapped, said Reda
Almountasser in a phone interview from Misrata yesterday.  “Qaddafi’s forces have surrounded the city,” said
Almountasser, who comes from one of the biggest families in
western Libya. “In general morale is strong and high, shops and
restaurants are open.”  The  Red Cross  reported a “sharp increase” in casualties
in recent days.  The U.S. and its allies have pledged measures to protect
Libyan civilians from the violence while displaying divisions
over steps such as the imposition of a no-fly zone. NATO can’t
impose one without a mandate from the  United Nations  Security
Council, NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said March
10.  The  Arab League  plans to hold an emergency meeting today to
consider supporting a no-fly zone. Iraq’s representative to the
Arab League, Qais el-Azzawy, said his country supports
imposition of a no-fly zone, according to Egypt’s Middle East
News Agency. The  African Union  has rejected foreign intervention
and said five African heads of state will try to start talks
among Libyan factions.  Diplomatic Recognition  Rebel leaders March 10 won French diplomatic recognition
for their Interim Transitional National Council, and a promise
of talks with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  when she
visits the region next week.  Elsewhere in the region, protesters in  Saudi Arabia  stayed
away from a “Day of Rage” after police were deployed in force
to deter political activists. Police in Riyadh, the capital,
manned checkpoints yesterday around the Al-Rajhi mosque. Police
were positioned on every block along Olaya, a main street in the
center of the city. On the eastern city of Al-Hofuf, several
hundred people calling for Shiite Muslim prisoners to be
released, according to two activists who declined to be
identified for security reasons. Saudi Arabia, an absolute
monarchy, prohibits protest demonstrations.  Appeal to Abdullah  Saudi academics, writers and representatives of the
minority Shiite Muslim population have called on  King Abdullah ,
the sixth monarch in the Arab world’s largest economy, to move
the country toward a constitutional monarchy.  In Bahrain, the Associated Press reported clashes between
protesters and security forces, who used tear gas and fired
rubber bullets at tens of thousands of protesters who gathered
near the offices and compounds of the royal family in the
capital, Manama.  Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states March 10 announced a
plan to provide Bahrain and Oman, which has also faced popular
protests, with $10 billion each over a decade. The aid would be
aimed at developing infrastructure and housing, Bahraini Foreign
Minister Sheikh Khalid bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa said on his Twitter
account.  In Yemen, police opened fire to disperse a protest in the
port city of Aden demanding the departure of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, and four people were injured.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in London at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  