-- 
Qaddafi Pushes East Toward Rebel Base as U.S. Mulls Action

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l ,   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-14T19:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/qaddafi-s-warplane-firepower-advantages-puts-libyan-rebels-on-defensive.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s forces carried
out air strikes against rebels in the town of Ajdabiya, as the
U.S. and its allies grapple with measures that would halt the
Libyan leader’s eastward advance.  Ajdabiya, about 100 miles (160 kilometers) from the rebel
base in Benghazi, came under bombardment today as insurgents
prepare to defend it, a resident said. Rebel troops fled Brega
under heavy attack throughout yesterday, though there was
renewed fighting around the town as rebels said they re-entered,
the  Associated Press  reported. State television showed footage
of what it said was Brega “after it was purged of armed
terrorist gangs.”  Momentum in the monthlong conflict has shifted toward
Qaddafi, who has recaptured the oil port of Ras Lanuf, the
nearby town of Bin Jawad and the western city of Zawiyah. His
forces have used armor and planes to drive back the insurgents,
who are calling for Western support to end Qaddafi’s four-decade
rule. Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, in a speech on state television
today, said his father’s forces will prevail, as the diplomats
at the United Nations debated whether to authorize a NATO-run
no-fly zone to help the rebels.  “We are coming,” he said, addressing the rebels in the
east. “By God, victory is coming.”  Oil, Shares Decline  Crude, which rose to a 2 1/2-year high on the fighting in
Libya, holder of Africa’s largest oil reserves, pared gains on
traders’ anticipation the earthquake in  Japan  will reduce
demand. Persian Gulf shares fell, sending Dubai’s index down the
most in almost two weeks. The decline reflected concerns that
share gains this month are overdone amid renewed unrest in
Bahrain, which called in security forces from  Saudi Arabia  and
other Sunni-run Gulf nations to help protect the Sunni monarchy
from protests by the island’s Shiite majority.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  arrived in Paris
where she is due to meet Libyan opposition leaders and hold
talks with European allies and other members of the G8 group of
the main industrial nations. The U.S. and allies are still
reviewing possible actions, including imposition of a no-fly
zone, White House press sectary  Jay Carney  said today in  Washington .  “We are not letting up on our pressure” on Qaddafi, he
said. “We are moving with a great deal of haste” in organizing
an international response.  The Sooner, the Better  The U.K. has backed a no-fly zone to ground Qaddafi’s
planes. “The sooner it is done the better because the effect it
will have will be so much the greater,” U.K. Prime Minister
David Cameron told lawmakers in the House of Commons today.  “We will be letting down ourselves and the Libyan people
if we do nothing,” he said.  The  Arab League  also backed a no-fly zone, and NATO, which
would likely be responsible for enforcing it, said would want  United Nations  authorization for such action.  With Arab support, “the U.S. and Britain are now capable
of going to the Security Council,” said  Dirk J. Vandewalle ,
professor of government at Dartmouth College. The U.S. is
constrained by “a fear of engaging in a third war in a Muslim
country,” he said.  The Security Council discussed Libya today.  France ’s
ambassador to the UN,  Gerard Araud , told reporters before the
meeting that he hoped the Arab League’s stance “is a game-
changer for the other members of the council and that these
consultations will allow us later this week to work on a
resolution.”  No-Fly Resolution  Lebanon’s UN ambassador, Nawaf Salam, briefed the council
on the Arab League’s position and told reporters that he will
present a draft resolution authorizing a no-fly zone in the
coming days. France and Britain have prepared such a text.  A no-fly zone over  Libya  can’t be quickly authorized by the
council unless the air forces and strategy for enforcing it are
clearly defined,  Vitaly Churkin ,  Russia ’s ambassador to the
world body, told reporters today after a three-hour closed-door
council meeting in  New York . Russian support is critical because
it is a permanent member of the council with veto power.  China ’s
ambassador, who may also veto the proposal, made no public
statement.  “You need to be sure any decision the council takes is not
going to exacerbate the military-political situation in Libya,”
Churkin said.  ‘We Are Coming’  Libya’s rebel forces regained control of Brega by night and
are sending professional troops who defected from the Libyan
army to reinforce the inexperienced fighters at the front line,
said Mustafa Gheriani, a spokesman for the insurgents, by phone
from Benghazi. He said the government troops will suffer from
overextended supply lines, while the rebels are seeking
alternative sources of weapons, including from outside Libya.  Mustafa Abdul-Jalil, the head of the opposition’s interim
governing council, told the Associated Press in an interview
that “we will have a catastrophe in Libya” if a no-fly zone
isn’t imposed.  In a sign that Qaddafi’s forces are preparing to push
further east, a military camp in Ajdabiya, about 50 miles (80
kilometers) east of Brega, was targeted by an air strike today,
though there were no casualties, said Mohamed El Megaryef, a
resident of the town, by phone today.  Misrata ‘Expecting Attack’  Misrata, the largest city in western Libya still held by
the rebels, is “almost surrounded from all directions,” said
Reda Almountasser, a resident, by phone today from the city. He
said government forces fired shells around Misrata yesterday,
causing injuries though no deaths, and there were clashes near
an air academy about 5 kilometers from the city center.  “We are expecting an attack tonight as there are troop
movements,” Almountasser said.  Qaddafi’s forces also shelled Zwara near the Tunisian
border, according to AP, and al-Jazeera reported government
tanks entered the rebel-held town late in the day.  Oil, which rose more than 20 percent in three weeks of
fighting in Libya, settled little changed today. Crude oil
futures for April delivery rose 3 cents to settle at $101.19 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Qaddafi met with ambassadors from China,  India  and Russia
yesterday and discussed plans to invite their companies to the
North African nation, the state-run Libyan Broadcasting Corp.
said on its website. Western companies with interests in Libya
include Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  and France’s  Total SA. (FP)   Deadliest Conflict  The civil war in Libya is the deadliest conflict to emerge
from popular protests across the Middle East calling for more
democracy and higher living standards, inspired by the overthrow
of longtime leaders in Tunisia and Egypt.  There have been anti-government demonstrations in Bahrain,
Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Iran, Algeria, Jordan and Oman.  A force of Persian Gulf forces, including from Saudi
Arabia, today arrived in Bahrain, where protests have escalated
in recent days, to help maintain security, said Jamal Fakhro, a
senior Bahraini lawmaker.  Bahrain’s mostly Shiite Muslim opposition groups have led
the anti-government demonstrations, saying they face
discrimination by the kingdom’s hereditary Sunni rulers.
Protesters seeking to block access to the country’s financial
center fought with police yesterday, leaving more than 100
people injured, and a group of legislators today called for the
imposition of martial law.  Bahrain, Yemen  Bahrain’s 10-year dollar bond dropped for the second day,
and the cost of insuring the sovereign debt of Bahrain rose 25
basis points to 313, according to CMA prices for credit-default
swaps. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) , which has surged
17 percent since ending a 13-day losing streak March 2, dropped
1.3 percent today.  In Yemen, as many as 100 people were injured after security
forces opened fire at protesters in the capital, Sana’a,
yesterday, according to opposition website Sahwa.  Bahrain’s benchmark stock index fell 1.6 percent, yields on
its dollar bonds climbed 19 basis points to 6.5 percent, and the
cost of insuring its debt jumped 25 basis points to 313. The
main Saudi share index fell 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Benghazi at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  