-- 
Treasuries Gain as Mideast, Libya Turmoil Bolsters Demand at Debt Auctions

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-03-12T05:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/treasuries-gain-as-mideast-libya-turmoil-bolsters-demand-at-debt-auctions.html
Treasuries gained, pushing the 10-
year note yield to a one-month low, as fighting in  Libya  over
control of oil installations and  Saudi Arabia ’s deployment of
police to stem protests renewed the refuge appeal of  U.S. debt .  Two-year notes rose for a fourth week in the longest
stretch of gains since October before the March 15 meeting of
the  Federal Reserve . The Treasury’s sale of $13 billon of 30-
year bonds drew the most demand since 2000. U.S. debt pared
weekly advances yesterday on speculation claims related to
Japan’s strongest earthquake on record may force insurers to
sell Treasuries.  “What’s going on overseas is driving oil, which is making
people reassess whether the self-sustaining recovery that we
thought was coming is going to be affected,” said  Thomas Roth ,
senior trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc.
“We really didn’t even affirm that the economy was on solid
footing, and now you throw this at it.”  Benchmark 10-year note yields fell nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 3.40 percent this week, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.625 percent security
maturing in February 2021 increased 3/4, or $7.50 per $1,000
face amount, to 102 6/32.  The 10-year note yield touched 3.33 percent yesterday, the
lowest level since Jan. 31. The 30-year bond yield slid five
basis points to 4.55 percent. The two-year note yield dropped
four basis points to 0.64 percent after touching 0.59 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since Feb. 1. It rose on Feb. 15 to
0.88 percent, the highest level since May.  U.S. Auctions  Turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East helped push
demand for 30-year bonds at the $13 billion auction on March 10
to the highest since August 2000. The government also sold $32
billion of three-year debt on March 8 and $21 billion of 10-year
notes the following day.  Bonds also rose this week as the Labor Department reported
that U.S. jobless claims increased last week more than
economists forecast, Moody’s Investors Service cut  Spain ’s
credit rating and  China ’s export growth slowed.  “There’s a bit of a reappraisal of what’s going on in the
global economy,” said  Chris Ahrens , head interest-rate
strategist in Greenwich,  Connecticut , at UBS AG, one of the 20
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “I’m hearing from
customers that people are thinking about perhaps shaving their
estimates for global growth. The thematic currents are shifting
to a more subdued trajectory of economic growth, which I think
has favored fixed income this week.”  People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said this
week the government will use  interest rates  to control
inflation, which rose at a faster-than-forecast 4.9 percent
annual rate in February.  Decline in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.3 percent, while
the Shanghai Composite Index decreased 0.3 percent. Crude oil
for April delivery in  New York  slid 3.1 percent to $101.16 as
barrel as Japan’s earthquake shut refineries, paring the gain
over the past year to 23 percent.  After initial demand for the safety of  U.S. government
debt , investors now expect many insurance companies will sell
Treasuries to help pay earthquake claims, according to  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York.  “You have a situation where assets have to be sold to pay
claims,” he said. “It’s going to take a swath of international
buyers out of the equation.”  Even as investors focus on the possibility insurance
companies may need to sell Treasuries, the  Bank of Japan  may buy
the debt to support exports by weakening the yen, according to
Tom di Galoma, head of U.S. rates trading at Guggenheim Partners
LLC, a New-York based brokerage for institutional investors.  Outlook for Japan  “They’ll buy Treasuries and drive the exchange value of
the yen down to stimulate the economy and help exports,” di
Galoma said. “One of the problems in Japan is production
facilities have been damaged, and they’re an export-driven
economy. Things are going to slow down over there.”  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said yesterday that
while the labor market will pick up, he reiterated his remarks
from Feb. 28 that “sustained strong employment growth” is
needed to assure the recovery, echoing recent comments from Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  The Fed is about halfway through with its plan to buy $600
billion of Treasuries through June under the second round of
quantitative easing. The  Fed  expects to buy $18.5 billion to
$25.5 billion of Treasuries next week.  All of the 101 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
expected the Fed next week to hold its target rate for overnight
lending at zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been since
December 2008.  Gross’s View  Investors aren’t being compensated enough for owning U.S.
Treasuries, said Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross ,
who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, in an interview
yesterday with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness.”  Gross eliminated government-related debt from his main fund
last month as the U.S. projected record budget deficits. Pimco’s
$237 billion Total Return Fund last held zero government-related
debt in January 2009.  While the U.S. will retain its AAA credit rating for some
time, yields on Treasuries are about 1.50 percentage points
lower than they normally are, Gross said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  