-- 
Bus Crash on N.Y. Thruway Kills 14, Shuts Interstate 95; Truck Is Sought

-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-03-12T22:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/runaway-truck-strikes-bus-killing-13-on-n-y-thruway-interstate-95-shut.html
Fourteen people aboard a tour bus
headed to  Manhattan  died early this morning when the vehicle
overturned on Interstate 95, hitting a pole and cutting the
vehicle in half, authorities said.  The 32 passengers were traveling to Chinatown from
Connecticut when the bus flipped over about 5:30 a.m. local
time, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s office said in an e-mailed
statement. The injured are being treated at Jacobi Medical
Center and St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx.  A stretch of the interstate, which is also called the  New
England Thruway  at this location, remained closed as of late
afternoon because of the accident, the New York State Police
said. It wasn’t known when the roadway would open. The accident
happened on the border of Westchester County and the Bronx.  World Wide Travel, a family-owned business based out of  Brooklyn , said in a statement the bus flipped onto its side and
hit a sign post. Erin Tracy, an outside spokeswoman with Regan
Communications for World Wide, declined to comment further on
the accident or the investigation.  New York Police Department Commissioner Ray Kelly said in
a televised press conference that state police are searching for
a truck involved in the crash.  Kelly said the truck was traveling in the left lane and the
bus in the middle lane when the two vehicles made contact. The
bus swerved to the right and hit a guardrail before flipping
over and hitting the sign post. Kelly said the post pole cut the
bus in half.  Driver Survives  TV station NY1 said the driver survived the accident and is
helping authorities piece the accident together.  The accident occurred near Exit 14, the interchange with
the Hutchinson River Parkway, just north of Pelham Bay Park, the
Times said, citing the New York Fire Department. The bus was
returning from the Mohegan Sun Casino in Uncasville,  Connecticut , the company said.  The  New York State Police  are leading the investigation,
the mayor’s statement said. The U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board also said it will conduct an inquiry into the
accident.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  