-- 
Russia Says Gazprom May Boost LNG Supplies to Quake-Hit Japan

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-03-12T21:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/russia-says-gazprom-may-boost-lng-supplies-to-quake-hit-japan.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government asked OAO Gazprom to consider increasing
liquefied natural gas shipments to Japan after an earthquake
shut some of the Asian country’s nuclear power plants,
curtailing electricity supplies.  Putin urged the government to consider aid to Japan, hit by
its strongest earthquake on record, at a meeting with his deputy
in charge of energy,  Igor Sechin , and other officials in Moscow
yesterday.  Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, has “asked
Gazprom to consider a possible increase in supplies of LNG,”
Sechin said in televised remarks from the meeting.  Japan is also the world’s biggest buyer of LNG and may need
to import an additional 2.1 billion cubic feet a day of gas
following the earthquake damage of the nuclear power generators,
ICAP Energy said in a note on March 11. LNG is gas chilled to a
liquid for transport by ship.  Nuclear energy provides almost 30 percent of Japan’s
electricity from total generating capacity of about 47,000
megawatts, according to the    World Nuclear Association . Before
the earthquake, Japan had plans to increase that to 40 percent
by 2017, the association said.    Russia ’s only LNG plant, operated by state-run gas exporter
Gazprom on Sakhalin Island to the north off Japan’s Hokkaido, is
running at full capacity, producing about 9.6 million metric
tons of the liquid gas annually.  Sakhalin-2 , as the project is
known, meets about 7 percent of Japan’s fuel imports needs.  May Divert Tankers  “We are looking for ways to divert two tankers that are en
route under other contracts, towards Japan for supplies in April
and May,” Sechin told Putin. “It’s two 100,000 metric ton
vessels.”  Japanese utilities, including Tokyo Electric Power Co., are
Sakhalin-2’s biggest customers, with contracts for about 65
percent of the LNG produced by the venture.  Gazprom owns 50 percent plus one share of Sakhalin Energy,
the Sakhalin-2 operator.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  holds 27.5
percent and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Mitsui & Co. also have stakes.  Japan imported a total of 85.9 billion cubic meters of the
fuel in 2009, or 35 percent of the world’s production. The
biggest suppliers were Indonesia, Malaysia and  Australia ,
according to BP’s 2010 Statistical Review of World Energy.  Sechin also said Russia is ready to increase coal supplies
to Japan, which he said account for 22 percent of the Asian
country’s energy balance.  Russia may increase coal deliveries to Japan by 3 million
to 4 million metrics tons “quite quickly,” Sechin said.  A delegation from Siberian Coal Energy Co. will travel to
Japan next week, and OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  may also join, he said.  Long-term, Russia may consider laying an underwater cable
from Sakhalin to Japan to supply power to Japan, the deputy
prime minister said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Anna
Shiryaevskaya at   ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  