-- 
Saudi Stocks Advance After ‘Day of Rage’ Fails to Occur, Led by Al Rajhi

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-03-12T13:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/saudi-stocks-climb-on-no-protests-longest-streak-in-two-months.html
Saudi stocks rose for a sixth day
as investors looked for bargains after the world’s biggest oil
producer survived a so-called Day of Rage.    Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemical maker, climbed 1 percent, and  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the
kingdom’s biggest lender, jumped 3.3 percent. The  Tadawul All
Share Index (SASEIDX)  climbed 3 percent, the steepest gain since March 7,
to 6,297.  “Investors are realizing that the March 11th Day of Rage
was overly exaggerated and turned out to be a Day of Unity,”
said John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi,
in Riyadh. “Common sense is quickly replacing panic as macro
fundamentals are solid and very healthy.”  Police and anti-riot vehicles patrolled most Saudi cities
yesterday, thwarting activists’ plans to rally for political and
economic changes. More than two months of protests have rocked
the Middle East and North Africa as citizens demand civil
rights, better living standards and the ouster of entrenched
autocratic regimes.  Oil declined 1.5 percent yesterday to the lowest settlement
since March 1. Crude for April delivery tumbled to $101.16 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Saudi Arabia  holds
about 20 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves.  “Saudi Arabia is proving to be more robust against
political turmoil than many other Arab nations,” said Amro Halwani, a senior trader at  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  in Riyadh.
“Investors are increasingly willing to put their money back
into the market to take advantage of low-priced stocks.”  Relative Strength  Saudi Basic, also known as Sabic, advanced to 102.5 riyals.
The relative strength index for the stock closed last week at
14. A reading below 30 indicates a stock will rise, according to
some technical analysts.  “The valuations looked very attractive and investors have
returned as the government funds provided important support
early last week,” said Sfakianakis. On March 9, Saudi
billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal said he embarked on a plan
to invest more than 500 million riyals ($133 million) in Saudi
stocks after political unrest in the Middle East pushed down
equity prices.    Al Rajhi , the kingdom’s biggest publicly traded lender by
market value, rose to 78 riyals, the highest level since Feb.
16.  Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC) , the second-biggest phone company by
market value, climbed 4.64 percent, to 50.75 riyals.    Saudi Industrial Investment Group (SIIG)  rose 9.8 percent, the
maximum fluctuation allowed in a trading session, to 20.8 riyals
after the company said estimated profit jumped in February to
106 million riyals from 27 million riyals a year earlier.    Saudi Telecom Co. (STC) , the largest phone operator by market
value, rose 1.4 percent to 37.3 riyals after it raised its stake
in Indonesia’s NTS, known as Axis, to 80.1 percent from 51
percent. STC will also offer an $81 million loan and is
committed to offering another $290 million when necessary.  “Risk appetite has widened and fundamentals are expected
to be back in play,” said Shuaa’s Halwani.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in  Riyadh  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  