-- 
South Sudan Studies Routes Other Than North for Oil Exports

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-12T14:56:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/south-sudan-studies-routes-other-than-north-for-oil-exports-1-.html
Southern Sudan  President Salva Kiir
is studying other ways of exporting oil pumped in  Sudan ’s south
after July, accusing the north Sudanese government of arming
rebel militias in the south to overthrow his government, a
Southern Sudan minister said.  Kiir “has directed me to the possibility of stopping the
export of oil from the south through the north after July,”
when Southern Sudan would be declared independent from the rest
of Sudan, Pagan Amum told reporters today in Khartoum, the
Sudanese capital.  The Southern Sudan government has “detailed evidence”
that Sudan’s current President Umar al-Bashir’s  National
Congress Party  is arming, funding and training militias in the
south to topple the southern government before July, said Amum,
who is also the Secretary General of Southern Sudan’s ruling
party, the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement.  “If they want to stop the oil, it is their decision and
they should look to other solutions,” Rabie Abel Ati, a senior
member of the NCP said by phone today. The militia accusations
are “not true,” he said, adding “we respect the will of the
south.”  Southern Sudan holds about three-quarters of Sudan’s
current oil production of 490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly
by China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. and  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had 5 billion
barrels of proven oil reserves as of January 2010, according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Land-Locked  While most of the crude is in the land-locked south,
Sudan’s only oil refineries and the only export route run north
from oilfields to  Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea  in northern Sudan.  The Southern Sudan government requested the  United Nations ’
Security Council to investigate “the conspiracy” aiming to
topple it, Amum said.  South Sudan has also declared it will suspend talks with
the north over all post-independence arrangements between the
north and the south “until it stops its policy for obstructing
stability in South Sudan, and until after the  Security Council ’s
investigation is concluded,” Amum said.  The two sides are discussing issues including citizenship
rights, responsibility for Sudan’s $38 billion of foreign debt
and security arrangements.  Fighting Intensified  Fighting has intensified in the south since almost 99
percent of southern Sudanese voters chose to secede from the
rest of Sudan in a January referendum.  Fighting on Feb. 9-10 between the Southern Sudanese army
and forces loyal to renegade General George Athor killed 197
people in Jonglei state, according to the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement.  The Southern Sudanese army today repelled an attack by
another militia in Malakal, the capital of Upper Nile state,
army spokesman Philip Aguer said by phone today from Juba, the
capital of  Southern Sudan . He had no information on whether
there were casualties in the clashes.  The referendum was the centerpiece of a 2005 peace accord
that ended a civil war which lasted almost 50 years, except for
a cease-fire from 1972 to 1983, between the Muslim north and the
south, where Christianity and traditional religions dominate.
About two million people died in the second phase of the
conflict.  The two sides currently split oil proceeds, and they
haven’t reached an agreement on how to share oil revenue after
Southern Sudan’s independence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net  