-- 
Yemeni Security Forces Fire on Protesters Demanding President Saleh Ouster

-- B y   M o h a m e d   H a t e m   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-03-12T13:22:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-12/yemeni-security-forces-fire-bullets-as-protesters-demand-ouster.html
Yemeni security forces killed a
child in the southern province of Hadramaut and two protesters
in Sana’a, the capital, as people rallied across the country to
demand the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  Fifty people were wounded by gunfire today by Yemeni
troops, who also used gas to put down a peaceful rally in
Sana’a’s Taghyeer Square, said Mohamed al-Obahi, who is running
a team of medical volunteers there. One protester was shot dead,
according to Al Jazeera television, while the opposition Al-
Sahwa opposition reported a second person had also been killed.  “Hundreds are suffocating and dozens of the cases are
serious,” said al-Obahi. “People affected by the gas are
suffering from headaches, hallucinations and are trembling.
Gases used on protesters are lethal and are not tear gas.”  Protesters are rejecting Saleh’s promises of a new
constitution as he seeks to stop protests sweeping the Arab
world from toppling his own regime. Saleh, 68, a U.S. ally in
the fight against al-Qaeda, became leader of North Yemen in 1978
and has ruled the Republic of Yemen since the north and south
merged in 1990. Yemen is the Arabian peninsula’s poorest nation.  Gas Attacks  Health Minister Abdulkareem Yahya Rase’ denied that the gas
used in Sana’a was lethal, state-run news agency reported. State
forces used smoke and tear gas, the same employed in riots
around the world, the agency cited the minister as saying.  The U.S. ambassador to Yemen,  Gerald Feierstein , denied
that mustard or nerve gas had been used. “Based on our best
estimates, we believe that probably what was used was tear gas
and smoke,” he said.  A child was killed and five people were wounded today when
troops opened fire on a rally in the southern city of Mukhalla,
according to an eyewitness, Saeed Mohamed. Fifteen students were
wounded in Taiz City, south of the capital, when thousands
turned out to condemn the Sana’a violence, according to Salah
al-Dakak, a demonstration organizer. Three people were reported
to have been wounded in Aden.  Protesters continued streaming into Taghyeer Square in
solidarity with the wounded, shouting “shame on you” and
“down with the president” as they clashed with troops deployed
to block access to the area.  “Protesters are demanding the prosecution of the
attackers,” said Nabeel Mohammed, a protester in Sana’a. “This
is a heinous crime against us. We will continue the protests in
spite of this excessive use of force. We want the immediate
trial of these criminals.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 