-- 
Macau Billionaire Ho Says Dispute Ends, Driving Up SJM Stock

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-03-11T09:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/macau-casino-magnate-stanley-ho-says-family-dispute-resolved.html
Billionaire Stanley Ho said his
legal dispute with family members over ownership of their Macau
gambling business has been resolved, and he has withdrawn his
lawsuit, driving up  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) ’s shares.  A settlement agreement was executed on March 8 among all
branches of Ho’s family on the basis of “mutual understanding
and mutual accommodation,” according to an e-mailed statement
from the casino tycoon’s office.  Ho’s privately held Sociedade de Turismo e Diversoes de
Macau SA invests in construction, hotels and Macau’s airline,
and also owns a controlling stake in SJM,  Asia ’s biggest casino
company. Ho earlier said daughters Pansy Ho and Daisy Ho seized
his 31.7 percent SJM stake, worth HK$12.4 billion ($1.6 billion)
based on today’s share price.  “We have agreed that we shall work together and continue
to develop the gambling business in Macau founded by Dr. Ho and
operated by the Ho family to enable it to flourish,”  Stanley Ho 
and his family wrote in the statement. Ho, who has honorary
doctorate degrees, said he withdrew a  writ  filed Feb. 16 against
the daughters.  SJM, which operates most of the  casinos  in Macau, advanced
5.8 percent to HK$12.80 at the 4 p.m. close on the Hong Kong
stock exchange, the highest level since Feb. 7. The city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell 1.6 percent. Before today, the
stock had lost 7.3 percent since Jan. 24, when SJM said Ho’s
holdings had been transferred to family members.  ‘Best Interests’  “This should remove the overhang for SJM shares, which
have been very weak since the dispute began,” said Aaron Fischer, a casino analyst at CLSA Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “It is in
the best interests of all Ho family members that this matter is
finalized.”  The Ho family members agreed to discharge their duties to
the family companies, closely held STDM and publicly traded SJM,
according to yesterday’s statement. The dispute was resolved
“amicably,” the family said.  “We all have balanced participation in SJM and STDM,”
Angela Leong, the executive director of the Hong Kong-listed
casino operator and mother of Ho’s five youngest children, said
in an interview with Cable TV, without disclosing details. “We
have understanding and courtliness to each other, and we are
satisfied with this result.”  The structure of SJM’s board of directors won’t change, she
said.  Asset Transfer  “Three weeks of negotiation is always preferable to years
of litigation,” Ho’s lawyer, Gordon Oldham, of Oldham, Li &
Nie, said today in a text message. “We were tasked with
bringing a resolution to this family dispute and I’m glad we
were able to be part of achieving such.”  Ho’s secretary, Janet Wong, declined to comment on the
contents of the settlement and Crystal Chan, an external
spokeswoman for the family’s Lanceford Co. at Brunswick Group,
said she couldn’t immediately provide further information.  The Feb. 16 lawsuit sought an order declaring that the
transfer of 99.98 percent of the shares in Lanceford, which owns
31.7 percent of closely held STDM, was made without Stanley Ho’s
approval.    Pansy Ho  and Daisy Ho “improperly and/or illegally”
transferred the Lanceford stake to a company they control along
with their siblings and another controlled by Chan Un-chan, whom
Ho refers to as his third wife, according to the writ.  Gambling Monopoly  SJM, which has the biggest share of Macau’s casino market,
“welcomes the reported settlement of the dispute and is of the
view that there will be no material change in management or
strategic direction,” it said in a statement today.  Ho built his fortune over five decades after Macau’s
colonial government granted him and his partners a gambling
monopoly in 1962. The monopoly wasn’t renewed after 2001 and
Macau eventually allowed rivals, including  Sheldon Adelson ’s Las
Vegas Sands Corp. and Wynn Resorts Ltd., founded by billionaire  Steve Wynn .  Ho and his family still take in more than 50 cents of every
dollar bet in the Chinese enclave. The 89-year-old was released
from the hospital in March 2010 after a seven-month stay, and he
was readmitted briefly Jan. 31.  He received honorary doctorate degrees from educational 
institutions including the University of Hong Kong, the 
University of Macau, the Hong Kong Polytechnic University and 
the Open University of Hong Kong.  The case was Dr. Stanley Ho v. Ho Chiu King, Pansy et al,
HCA268/2011 in the  High Court  of Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  