-- 
Madagascar's Rajoelina Starts to Form New Government After Raodmap Signed

-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-03-10T16:44:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/madagascar-s-rajoelina-starts-process-of-forming-government-mediator-says.html
Madagascar’s President Andry Rajoelina started the process of forming a new government after
most parties in the country signed an agreement to end a
political crisis.  Prime Minister Camille Vital and his ministers stepped down
at a Cabinet meeting after the roadmap was agreed to by eight of
11 opposition parties, Rajoelina told reporters today in
Antananarivo, the capital. They can now nominate candidates for
government posts, he said.  “Time is pressing, we must not stay in this situation,”
he said.  The  Southern African Development Community  has mandated a
team led by Leonardo Simao to negotiate an end to the political
and economic crisis in the country that started in 2009 when
Rajoelina, then mayor of the capital, seized power from  Marc Ravalomanana  with the help of the military. That led to
Madagascar’s suspension from SADC and the  African Union  and
foreign donors stopping aid. The agreement is still to be
approved by the leaders of the grouping of regional governments.  A party headed by Ravalomanana won’t sign the agreement
before early next week, said spokesman Mamy Rakotoarivelo by
phone from Antananarivo today. The party wants to pick the prime
minister in the government, he said.  Ravalomanana has been in exile in  South Africa  for the past
two years.  Two other groups, led by former presidents Didier Ratsiraka
and Albert Zafy, have “decided to go their own way,” Simao
told reporters in Antananarivo. Zafy said on March 2 the
opposition parties will form a rival government.  The transitional government should stay in place until
elections are held, Simao said. The final version of the
agreement removes a November deadline for elections to allow
more time to prepare, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Johannesburg at 
 hmcneish@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  