-- 
Maersk Line Won't Cut Ship Speeds as Oil Costs Jump, CEO Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-03-11T09:23:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/maersk-line-won-t-cut-ship-speeds-as-oil-costs-jump-ceo-says.html
  Maersk Line , the world’s largest
container shipping company, won’t cut sailing speeds further to
reduce fuel costs, even after oil prices jumped 15 percent this
year, Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding said.  “If we sail much slower, our customers may not be happy
with the transit time,” Kolding, 51, said in a March 7
interview at Maersk Line’s Copenhagen headquarters. “The higher
oil price has not made it more likely for us to increase slow-
steaming.”  Nippon Yusen K.K.,  Asia ’s largest listed container line,
may slow its vessels by an extra 10 percent after bunker prices
jumped to the highest in more than two years, the Tokyo-based
company said this week. Maersk Line, owned by A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S, will pass on fuel costs to clients and consider
cutting speeds only under “extreme” conditions that would have
to match the freight market collapse of 2009, Kolding said.  “We’re making sure that our higher oil costs are being
covered by the bunker fuel charges that we add to the freight
rates,” he said. “As long as we’re covered via the surcharge,
we won’t slow down any further.”  Container vessels traveled at average speeds of 11.02 knots
in February, 15 percent slower than two years earlier, according
to global data compiled by Bloomberg. Maersk Line, which began
slow-steaming in 2009, said on Feb. 23 that slower sailing
reduced fuel consumption by 10 percent last year.  ‘Watershed’ Moment  “It’s a watershed saying we can’t slow down more,” said
Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in
Oslo. “It will just lead to the customers paying the fuel that
Maersk uses, even if the price goes higher.”  Crude oil prices jumped to more than $100 a barrel this
month on concern turmoil in  Libya  may spread to other oil-
producing nations in North Africa and the Middle East. The price
of 380 Centistoke marine bunker fuel, used by ships, rose to
$611.50 a metric ton on March 8 in Rotterdam, the highest since
Sept. 3, 2008, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  Reducing speeds helped the industry boost profit in 2010 as
it trimmed the supply of transporters. An index of container
shipping rates from the Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association more
than doubled last year to 555 points, and has advanced another
23 percent in 2011.  ‘Top Speed’  “With the slow speeds of today container lines are out at
the end of the margin curve where going even slower gives fewer
cost benefits,” said  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst with Aabenraa,
Denmark-based Sydbank A/S. “The container industry is getting
close to the point where slow-steaming has more to do with the
freight market rates than with the fuel price.”  Ron Widdows, CEO of Singapore-based Neptune Orient Lines
Ltd. said Feb. 16 the container industry may be able to slow
more vessels to curb capacity amid weaker growth this year.  The U.S. Federal Maritime Commission said Feb. 7 it has
started an inquiry into how slower container ship speeds are
affecting freight rates and supply chains.  The biggest  container ships  use about 300 metric tons of
fuel a day at top speed and sailing 10 percent slower cuts fuel
use by about 27 percent, according to London-based Drewry
Shipping Consultants Ltd.  Maersk Line won’t increase speeds next time there’s a
shortage of capacity in the market, Kolding said.  “That would send costs higher and ruin the environmental
profile we have,” he said. “So on average, we’re on our top
speed now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net . 