-- 
UN Ready to Impose Sanctions on Gbagbo After AU Backs Ouattara

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T19:50:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/africa-union-sends-representative-to-ivory-coast-to-spur-government-talks.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
said it’s ready to impose sanctions against incumbent Ivory
Coast leader Laurent Gbagbo, his family and top aides after the  African Union  said  Alassane Ouattara  is the legal president of
the world’s leading cocoa producer.  The UN council welcomed an African Union statement that
Ouattara won the Nov. 28 election and stated its “readiness to
impose measures, including targeted sanctions, against all
parties who obstruct the attempts of a speedy and peaceful
solution of the crisis,” Ambassador Li Baodong of  China , the  Security Council ’s president this month, told reporters in  New
York  today.  The African Union and Security Council positions may revive
a bid by the U.S., the U.K and  France  to impose sanctions on
Gbagbo, his wife and three top aides. Russia resisted the move,
first proposed in February, saying African Union mediation
should be given more time to resolve the conflict. The proposed
sanctions require the unanimous consent of all 15 members of the
Security Council.  The U.S. and its European allies targeted Gbagbo, his wife,
Simone, Chief of Staff Desire Tagro, Foreign Minister Ilahiri
Djedje and Pascal Affi N’Guessan, head of the Ivorian Popular
Front. They would be subject to an asset freeze and travel ban.  The African Union said yesterday it plans to send a
representative to Ivory Coast to spur the creation of a national
unity government headed by Ouattara, the internationally
recognized winner of the Nov. 28 election.  The 53-member regional bloc has already sent Kenyan Prime
Minister Raila Odinga and a delegation of five presidents,
including  South Africa ’s Jacob Zuma, to mediate a solution with
Gbagbo, who refuses to cede power.  AU Seeks Solution  “We will not take no for an answer,” the group’s Peace
and Security Commissioner Ramtane Lamamra told reporters late
yesterday in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia , where the organization has
its headquarters.    Ivory Coast  is on the brink of civil war, with at least 365
people killed since the disputed elections, according to the UN.
Gbagbo retains the loyalty of the armed forces, while Ouattara
has set up a rival administration in the  Golf Hotel  in the
commercial capital, Abidjan, protected by UN peacekeepers.  Cocoa fell for a fourth day in New York, on course for the
biggest weekly drop in more than a year, as Gbagbo threatened to
seize inventories. Cocoa for May delivery fell $45, or 1.3
percent, to $3,400 a metric ton at 11:43 a.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. Prices are down 7 percent this week, the most
since the week ended Jan. 29, 2010. Cocoa for May delivery lost
1.3 percent to 2,214 pounds ($3,547) a ton on NYSE Liffe in  London .  Violence Predicted  If no solution is found, “Ivory Coast is likely to sink
into widespread violence, with incalculable consequences for the
country, as well as for the region and the continent as a
whole,” the AU said in a statement to reporters yesterday.  A representative of Gbagbo said the AU should “look
again” at its decision, Lamamra said.  The proposal was welcomed by Ouattara, who told reporters
in Addis Ababa yesterday that an “honorable exit” will be
devised for Gbagbo.  Anne Ouloto, a spokeswoman for Ouattara, declined to say
how he left Ivory Coast in order to attend the meeting in Addis
Ababa.  “He did not need the agreement of  Laurent Gbagbo  to leave
the country, he won’t need it to come back,” she said by phone
yesterday.  On March 9, Gbagbo banned planes from the UN and French
peacekeeping forces from landing in the West African nation. The
UN mission said it would continue its flight operations.  South Africa Position  South Africa, which previously said the election result was
“inconclusive” and declined to back either of the rival
leaders, today came out in support of Ouattara being appointed
president.  “That’s what the AU has pronounced,” International
Relations Ministry spokesman Clayson Monyela said by telephone
from Pretoria. “South Africa fully supports that position.”  The UN mission in Ivory Coast is documenting   war crimes ”
committed in post-election violence, Young-jin Choi, the
mission’s chief, told reporters today in Abidjan.  “Don’t think that you can commit human rights abuses in
impunity,” Choi said. “The moment that you will be judged is
approaching fast.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net  