-- 
Lagardere Wants Market, Not Vivendi, to Value Its Canal Plus France Stake

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-10T10:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/lagardere-wants-market-not-vivendi-to-value-canal-plus-stake.html
  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  will look to the
market to value its 20 percent stake in Canal Plus France,
rather than leave it up to  Vivendi SA (VIV) , which owns the rest.  France’s largest publisher will follow the planned initial
public offering of its stake in the country’s biggest pay-
television operator “to the end,” Chief Executive Officer  Arnaud Lagardere  said yesterday. If Vivendi makes a last-minute
offer, Lagardere might sell only a part of the stake in an IPO,
he said.  “Arnaud doesn’t want to be bullied by Vivendi, and wants
to show he has options,” said  Conor O’Shea , an analyst with
Kepler Capital Markets in Paris. “The strength of that hand
will only become apparent in the next few weeks.”  Lagardere and Vivendi, which has said it wants to own 100
percent of Canal Plus  France , last year failed to reach an
accord on the stake’s value. An IPO may raise more than 1.35
billion euros ($1.87 billion) for Lagardere, two people familiar
with the matter said last month. The Paris-based company carries
the stake at 1.5 billion euros on its balance sheet, and may
seek to ride the rebound in global stock markets. France’s
benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  has risen 4.2 percent this year.  For the publisher of Elle magazine and Paris Match,
“what’s certain is that there will be an IPO,” CEO Arnaud
Lagardere said at a press conference outside Paris last night.  Vivendi, the owner of the world’s largest music and video-
games publishers, wants to take full control of  Canal Plus , CEO
Jean-Bernard Levy reiterated this month, and refused to rule out
a last-minute deal.  Lagardere shares traded 0.9 percent lower at 32.50 euros as
of 10:56 a.m. in Paris. Vivendi fell 0.4 percent to 19.99 euros.  Asset Sales  Lagardere is selling assets to focus on domestic publishing
and a push into sports marketing favored by its CEO. The company
in January announced an agreement to sell the international
editions of magazines including Car and Driver for 651 million
euros to New York-based Hearst Corp.  Arnaud Lagardere has promoted a push into sports rights and
athlete representation through a new unit, Lagardere Unlimited.
In May, the company announced the acquisition of Best, a U.S.
sports agency with clients including basketball player Rafer Alston. It also took a minority stake in the Saddlebrook sports
academy in  Florida .  Lagardere faces legal trouble after French investigators
re-opened a probe into alleged  insider trading  connected to the
2006 sale of part of its stake in European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. The company, which was cleared in 2009 in a similar
investigation by the French market regulator, denies any
wrongdoing.  Earnings  Separately, the publisher yesterday reported 2010 net
income rose 19 percent to 163 million euros, short of the 237
million-euro average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The company, whose brands include Paris’s Journal de
Dimanche newspaper and the Hachette publishing group, said it
expects earnings before interest and taxes from its media
activities to rise about 10 percent this year at constant
exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 