-- 
AIB’s Hodgkinson Expects Job Cuts in ‘Radical’ Bank Overhaul

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-10T15:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/aib-s-hodgkinson-expects-job-cuts-in-radical-ovehaul-of-lender.html
  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  Executive
Chairman David Hodgkinson said jobs will go as part of the most
“radical” overhaul in the history of the nation’s second-
largest lender.  “While there will be job losses, most will be brought
about on a phased basis throughout the organization” Hodgkinson
said in an e-mail sent to staff today. “Our preferred approach
is that most redundancies will be achieved on a voluntary
basis.”  Catherine Burke , a spokeswoman for Dublin-based Allied
Irish, confirmed the contents of the e-mail.  Formed in 1966 from the merger of three lenders in Ireland,
Dublin-based Allied Irish has received a 7.2 billion-euro ($9.9
billion) bail out from the government over the past two years,
ceding a 93 percent stake in return. Hodgkinson, a former chief
operating officer at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , was hired in October to
oversee a restructuring of the bank. Irish lenders are grappling
with loan losses after the collapse of a domestic property
bubble.  Allied Irish, which is undergoing stress tests along with
the country’s other lenders this month, is in the final stages
of a strategic review, Hodgkinson said in the e-mail. He
previously signaled that the bank was setting up a non-core unit
or “dedicated restructuring function” for businesses that “do
not meet the future risk and/or return profile” of the group.  A report on the review’s findings have been submitted to
the bank’s board, he said in today’s e-mail, adding that it will
also be discussed with the Irish authorities and the government.  For the plan to succeed, “it will require change of a
magnitude never before undertaken by AIB,” he said.  Hodgkinson said the group is now “selecting the top team
that will lead AIB into the future,” following an evaluation
process. Burke declined to comment beyond the contents of the
review’s findings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  