-- 
AIG Offers $15.7 Billion to Buy Morgage Securities From Fed Rescue Fund

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-10T23:28:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/aig-offers-15-7-billion-to-buy-morgage-securities-from-fed-rescue-fund.html
  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
offered to pay $15.7 billion to repurchase mortgage-backed
securities the insurer was forced to turn over to a Federal
Reserve rescue fund amid a liquidity squeeze in 2008. The
company advanced in extended trading.  “AIG believes this offer is in the best interest of the
U.S. taxpayers, the U.S. government and AIG itself,” the
insurer said in a letter today to the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York .  The facility was created in 2008 to hold mortgage-linked
assets that AIG had purchased with collateral turned over by
Wall Street banks through securities-lending deals. When the
housing market collapsed, AIG was unable to reimburse banks that
wanted their collateral back, prompting the Fed to make about
$22.5 billion available to a fund called  Maiden Lane II  to take
the assets off the New York-based company’s balance sheet.  “It certainly does strike me as an unexpected use of AIG’s
cash,” said  Clark Troy , a senior analyst based in  Chapel Hill ,  North Carolina , for Aite Group. “AIG wouldn’t be doing this if
the valuation wasn’t conservative.”  The value of some of the securities subsequently rebounded
and the bonds have paid coupons, reducing the Fed’s investment
in the facility. At the same time, AIG has lowered its
obligations under a $182.3 billion bailout by selling units
including non-U.S. life insurers and a consumer lender.  “The conditions that necessitated Maiden Lane II in the
first place have been resolved,” AIG said in the letter, which
was included in a regulatory filing. The company is more stable
and is able to match the assets with “appropriate longer-term
insurance liabilities, not shorter-term liabilities.”  ‘Unexpected Use’  AIG jumped 2.7 percent to $37.49 at 5:58 p.m. in  New York .
The company has dropped 24 percent this year on the New York
Stock Exchange.  The Fed made $30 billion available for a second facility,
Maiden Lane III, to buy mortgage-linked assets backed by AIG’s
Financial Products division. AIG made smaller contributions than
the Fed in 2008 to set up the Maiden Lane funds. Jeffrey Smith,
a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to comment.  AIG didn’t say where it would get the funds. Its
obligations to the U.S. would shrink by about $13 billion to $26
billion, the insurer said in the letter. Mark Herr, a spokesman
for the company, declined to comment on which subsidiaries would
provide the money.  The U.S. Treasury Department, which committed up to $69.8
billion in assistance, holds a 92 percent of the company’s
common stock after exchanging its preferred stake this year. The
Treasury plans to sell its holding to private investors.  AIG’s rescue also included a $60 billion Federal Reserve
credit line that the insurer has repaid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  