-- 
Taiwan Bonds Advance on Interest-Rate Outlook; Currency Falls

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-03-10T09:48:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/taiwan-bonds-advance-on-interest-rate-outlook-currency-falls.html
  Taiwan ’s five-year bonds gained the
most in two weeks on speculation the central bank won’t hasten
the pace of its interest-rate increases.  The government “should tackle inflation through the supply
side, such as tariff cuts, which can lower the cost of imported
products,” the Central Bank of the Republic of  China  (Taiwan)
wrote in a report to lawmakers yesterday. Policy makers are due
to meet on March 31 after raising the benchmark rate three times
last year to 1.625 percent. The island’s currency weakened after
China announced a surprise trade deficit.  “The market thinks the central bank may not raise rates”
aggressively, said Ivy Liao, an assistant manager at Polaris
Securities Co. in Taipei. “So bond yields are down.”  The yield on the 1 percent note due January 2016 declined
1.9 basis points to 1.086 percent in Taipei, according to Gretai
Securities Market. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Local-currency debt sold by Taiwan has handed investors a
return of 1.5 percent this year, the best performance in the
region excluding Japan, according to local-debt indexes tracked
by HSBC Holdings Plc. Taiwan has the slowest inflation rate in  Asia  excluding Japan, at 1.3 percent in February from a year
earlier.  China Trade Deficit  Taiwan’s dollar dropped the most in two weeks as  oil prices 
gained, raising the cost of imports. China, the world’s second-
largest economy, announced a $7.3 billion trade deficit for
February, compared with the median estimate of a surplus of $4.9
billion in a Bloomberg survey.  “Oil prices remain high,” said Ho Woei Chen, an economist
at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in  Singapore . “China’s surprise
trade deficit suggests the appreciation pressure on the yuan
could ease. Asian currencies have been tracking the yuan.”  Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.4 percent to NT$29.506 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The
currency reached NT$29.522, the weakest level since March 4.  Oil rose as much as 0.7 percent to $105.06 per barrel in  New York  as escalating violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest
producer, renewed concern that supply disruptions will spread to
the Middle East.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 