-- 
MALAYSIA DAYBOOK: Rate Decision, LRT Extension, KL Kepong Bond

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-03-10T21:37:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/malaysia-daybook-rate-decision-lrt-extension-kl-kepong-bond.html
  Malaysia ’s central bank will keep
benchmark interest rates on hold at 2.75 percent when policy
makers meet today, according to 16 out of 20 economists surveyed
in a Bloomberg poll. Four expect the overnight rate to rise to 3
percent.  Bank Negara Malaysia, the central bank, may ask lenders to
set aside more funds as reserves this week rather than raise
interest rates, Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. said
in reports on March 9. It may increase the statutory reserve
requirement ratio by 1 percentage point to 2 percent, Credit
Suisse analyst Kun Lung Wu said.  WHAT TO WATCH:
* The central bank will announce the outcome of its monetary
policy meeting at 6 p.m.
* Syarikat Prasarana Negara Bhd. will hold a briefing on its
proposed extension to Kuala Lumpur’s light railway at 10 a.m.  EQUITY PREVIEW:
*  Gefung Holdings Bhd. (GFHB)  : The marble and granite
products maker said it will jointly undertake a mixed property
development in Indonesia with PT Greenworld Development. This
will be on a 50.7-acre site east of Jakarta, Gefung said in a
statement, without giving any financial details.
*  Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd. (KLK)  : The palm oil planter said
it scrapped plans for a proposed $300 million bond issue. The
current financial condition of the company means the note sale
is no longer required, it said in an exchange filing.
*  MTD Capital Bhd. (MTD)  : The builder said its shares would
be suspended after five market days from March 10 after a group
seeking to take over the company acquired 96.2 percent of its
shares.
*  Selangor Dredging Bhd. (SDR)  : The property developer will
jointly buy a building in London for 9.8 million pounds ($16
million), according to an exchange filing.
*  Theta Edge Bhd. (THETA)  : The telecommunications services
company said it holds 97.1 percent of TH Computers Sdn.’s shares
after its takeover offer closed yesterday.
*  Tiger Synergy Bhd. (TIG)  : The manufacturer and developer is
planning a private placement to raise as much as 5.3 million
ringgit ($1.8 million), according to a company statement.  MARKETS:
* Malaysia’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index fell 0.4 percent.
* The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 1.6 percent.
* The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 1.9 percent.
* Palm oil May-delivery futures fell 3.5 percent to 3,459
ringgit ($1,140) a metric ton.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  