-- 
Amcor, Visy Agree to Biggest Price-Fixing Settlement in Australia

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-03-10T01:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/amcor-visy-agree-to-biggest-price-fixing-settlement-in-australia.html
Amcor Ltd. and  Visy  agreed to pay
A$95 million ($96 million) in  Australia 's biggest price-fixing 
settlement, according to lawyers for the customers who sued them.  The settlement announced today in Sydney Federal Court is
three times higher than the previous record, Bernard Murphy, 
chairman of  Maurice Blackburn  Lawyers, told reporters after the 
hearing.  Amcor, Australia's biggest packaging company, agreed to pay 
A$63.3 million, while closely held packager Visy will pay A$31.7
million under the settlement. About 4,500 customers, led by Jarra 
Creek Central Packing Shed Ltd., sought to recoup overpayments for 
corrugated fiberboard packaging accrued from July 2000 to June 2009. 
They had initially sought more than A$1 billion in damages. The
settlement must still be approved by a federal court judge.  “This is the highest payout for victims of price-fixing in
Australia’s legal history,” Murphy said.    Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,  BASF SE (BAS)  and Aventis SA agreed to pay
A$30.5 million in 2006 to settle allegations they fixed prices
of animal vitamins in the 1990s, according to Maurice Blackburn.  Amcor confirmed today’s settlement in a statement. Visy
spokesman Tony Gray didn’t immediately respond to phone or e-
mail messages.  Amcor, Visy and the plaintiffs agreed to settle the suit
March 8 as opening statements in the trial were set to begin.  Legal Costs  Amcor and Visy also agreed to pay the legal costs in the
case, which Murphy declined to specify. He said the costs were
“very substantial.”  The Federal Court fined Visy A$36 million in November 2007
after its late owner Richard Pratt and his companies admitted to
69 counts of breaching Australia’s Trade and Practices Act.  Amcor was granted immunity from prosecution for cooperating
with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission in the
agency’s suit against Visy and didn’t admit any wrongdoing.  Jarra sued on behalf of itself and other customers in April
2006.  The case is: Jarra Creek Central Packing Shed Ltd. v. Amcor
Ltd. NSD 702/2006. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  