-- 
Americans in Poll Show Scant Confidence as Plurality See Decline

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-03-10T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/americans-in-poll-show-little-confidence-with-plurality-perceiving-decline.html
Only 1 American in 7 has faith a
lasting economic recovery has taken hold and a plurality say
they are personally worse off than they were two years ago.  Almost half of the respondents in a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted March 4-7 believe the U.S. is in a “fragile” rebound
and could fall back into recession. More than a third of the
country believes the U.S. never emerged from recession.  Sixty-three percent of Americans say the nation is on the
wrong track, compared with 66 percent who said so in December,
which was the lowest in the national mood in the one and a half
years the Bloomberg poll has been conducted.  The gloomy outlook contradicts economic data showing an
economy on the mend, including six quarters of economic growth,
a 95 percent rise in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index over the
past two years and job growth last month of 192,000. The
 National Bureau of Economic Research  officially dated the end of
the recession to June 2009.  Almost half of poll respondents say they are personally
worse off than they were two years ago, when the country was
losing 796,000 jobs a month and the economy was shrinking at a
4.9 percent annual rate. The stock market hit its post-financial
crisis low two years ago yesterday.  “There seems to be something of a disconnect between what
people are feeling and what people are doing,” says J. Ann Selzer, whose  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm,  Selzer & Co. ,
conducted the poll. “While admitting a recovery has at least
started, the public still feels crummy. They may not feel it has
started for them.”  Bearish Tea Party  Tea Party supporters are even more bearish. A majority of
them say the country is still in recession. Only 3 percent of
Tea Party supporters see a recovery gathering strength.  The survey was conducted as two potential threats to the
economic recovery emerged: a dispute in Congress over the
federal budget that could lead to a government shutdown and a
surge in  oil prices  since the beginning of unrest in  Libya .
Through March 4, the first day of the poll, gasoline prices
posted their steepest two-week gain since  Hurricane Katrina 
disrupted oil production in the  Gulf of Mexico  in September
2005, according to the Lundberg Survey of fuel prices.  A year ago, the  U.S. economy  showed strengthening growth
and rising job gains only to slow as the European debt crisis
intensified and the impact of the $814 billion in federal
stimulus spending faded.  Lost Jobs  While the 8.9 percent unemployment rate in February is the
lowest in 22 months, American workers have been slow to make up
lost ground. Only 1.3 million U.S. jobs have been regained of
the more than 8.7 million lost since January 2008.  “I don’t think it’s going to get much better,” says poll
respondent Robert Lockhart, an 85-year-old retiree in Luray,
Virginia. “Most of our jobs are overseas. They send the parts
back here to put together. But your refrigerators, your TVs are
produced overseas.”  The Bloomberg poll results portray an American public
pulled by economic crosscurrents as it comes out of a
recessionary crouch.  “Companies seem to be sitting on excess cash,” says poll
respondent Brett Gora, 23, a financial analyst in Reston,
Virginia. “They’re holding onto it because these are still
uncertain times.”  Consumer Behavior  The poll also shows that in some cases, consumers’ actions
belie the discontent they express about the direction of the
economy. Almost 4 of 10 respondents say they are spending more
on purchases, entertainment or vacations they had put off,
though more say they are concentrating on amassing savings or
paying down debt. Even among those who say they are now worse
off than they were two years ago, 22 percent are loosening the
purse strings.  This disconnect shows up in economic data, too: Even with
the increase in gas prices, U.S. automobile sales in February
grew at the fastest pace since the Obama administration’s
“cash-for-clunkers” program expired in August 2009.  While a 49 percent plurality say they are worse off than
two years ago, the portion who say their situation has improved
is rising, to 39 percent from 35 percent in December. Among
people under 35, a 55 percent majority believes their personal
situation is better than two years ago.  Concern over unemployment receded to 43 percent from 50
percent in December, though it remains the public’s top
priority, ahead of the federal deficit.  Housing Market  Assessments of the housing market are mixed, with 4 out of
10 Americans believing home values in their neighborhood are
declining while about the same number believe prices have
stabilized. Another 17 percent believe  home prices  are rising.
The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities fell 2.4
percent during the 12 months ended in December, the most recent
month for which data is available.  The poll shows the public isn’t sympathetic as financial
industry executives and Republican members of Congress say that
new banking regulations are hampering lending and interfering
with the recovery.  Fewer than 1 in 5 Americans say stricter regulation is
preventing banks from lending to businesses and homebuyers. They
are twice as likely to believe banks aren’t regulated enough and
endangering the economy with risky acts.  Antipathy toward Wall Street hasn’t changed since the
immediate aftermath of the financial crisis. Only 30 percent of
Americans hold a favorable view of  Wall Street , compared with 31
percent who said so in September 2009.  The poll of 1,001 adults has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  