-- 
AMR’s Seventh 2011 Fare Rise Matches Last Two-Year Total

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-10T20:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/amr-s-seventh-fare-rise-in-2011-matches-total-of-last-two-years.html
  American Airlines  boosted domestic
round-trip fares by $10 for the seventh broad increase of 2011,
matching the total among major carriers in the past two years
combined, to blunt higher jet fuel costs.  Round-trip fares for Canada and Hawaii were raised $20,  Tim Smith , a spokesman for  Fort Worth , Texas-based American, said in
an e-mail today.  Jet fuel, one of the industry’s biggest costs along with
labor, soared 27 percent this year through yesterday. Major U.S.
airlines raised fares four times last year and three times in
2009, putting them on pace to pass those totals in the first
quarter of 2011, Rick Seaney, chief executive officer of Dallas-
based FareCompare, said today in an e-mail.  “If history repeats itself, we should see weekly hike
attempts of at least $10 round-trip through the end of April, as
we did in 2008 where oil closed at $115 a barrel that month,”
Seaney said.  Other airlines hadn’t matched the increase by a 1 p.m. New
York time deadline to change published fares, Seaney said. If
others fail to follow the increase, American may decide to
rescind it to avoid a competitive disadvantage.    Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  is monitoring the American fare
increase, said Trebor Banstetter, a spokesman for the Atlanta-
based carrier.    AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American, Delta and  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)  have scaled back plans to expand seating capacity this year
to help hold down spending for fuel.  Carriers also use fees for optional goods and services to
boost revenue from sources other than tickets. American this
week increased the cost to make a flight reservation by phone to
$25 from $20, matching the amount charged by competitors.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  on March 2 raised the fee to check a
second bag to $35 from $30, according to its website. The New
York-based carrier doesn’t charge for a first checked bag.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  