-- 
AOL Will Cut Up to 900 Jobs as CEO Armstrong Integrates Huffington Post

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-03-10T21:13:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/aol-to-cut-up-to-900-jobs-as-ceo-armstrong-integrates-huffington-post.html
  AOL Inc. (AOL) , the  Internet company  that
agreed to buy the Huffington Post last month, said it will
eliminate as many as 900 jobs as the company integrates the news
website and restructures to try to return to revenue growth.  The company will cut as many as 700 jobs in  India  and 200
in the U.S., Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  wrote in a
memo to employees today. In India, 300 of the affected employees
will move to outsourcing partners and continue to do work for
AOL, he said.  “The changes for me today are very personal,” said
Armstrong at the Bloomberg Media Summit in New York. “AOL
employees deserve a tremendous amount of credit because I don’t
think it’s easy to go from managing decline to managing
growth.”  Armstrong said he would discuss the job cuts with employees
later today.  “Our strategy remains clear: create high quality content
experiences for consumers, at scale,” Armstrong wrote in the
memo. “Today, we are announcing an organizational structure
that will significantly improve AOL’s ability to focus on
growth.”  The company had 5,860 employees at the end of last year,
according to regulatory filings. If the company sheds 900 jobs,
that would be 15 percent of the total.  Declining Revenue  AOL, whose sales have declined for four straight quarters,
agreed to buy the  Huffington Post  for $315 million, aiming to
increase online content to help boost advertising revenue. In
India, the company is outsourcing back-office work to cut costs
and focus on increasing consumer product sales.    Arianna Huffington , co-founder of the Huffington Post,
joined AOL as president and editor-in-chief of a newly formed
media group, which includes other AOL content. Her website will
serve as the model for other journalism efforts, Armstrong said
in the memo.  “AOL will invest more heavily in our in-house editorial
team and transition away from a reliance on freelance
journalists,” he said. “Journalists are the heart and soul of
a media company.”  Armstrong said he recently made a personal purchase of $10
million in AOL stock. In May, the former Google executive, who
became AOL’s CEO in 2009, bought $11.1 million worth of stock.  “AOL will turn around,” he said. “I have no doubt about
that.”  AOL, based in  New York , fell 34 cents, or 1.8 percent, to
$19 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have fallen 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 