-- 
IPad 2’s Tweaks Mean Apple Laps Tablet Field: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-03-10T02:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/apple-laps-the-tablet-field-with-enhanced-ipad-2-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
The iPad wasn’t slow before. Now
it’s faster. It wasn’t bulky before. Now it’s thinner. It wasn’t
heavy before. Now it’s lighter.  That, plus a couple of new cameras, sums up the difference
between  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s first tablet and the  iPad 2 , which goes on
sale in the U.S. tomorrow. Taken together, the changes are
unremarkable. What’s remarkable is that Apple didn’t really need
to do more to maintain its position as the class of the field.  Here’s something even more remarkable: The iPad is the
value-price leader in the market. Trust me, it isn’t often you
can say that about an Apple product.  The new version, which is available in black or white,
maintains the same 9.7-inch diagonal touchscreen display, and
1024-by-768-pixels resolution, as its predecessor. It’s when you
pick it up that you notice the changes. The iPad 2 is almost
startlingly thinner than the first model: .34 of an inch (8.8
millimeters), which is a third less -- and even thinner than
Apple’s iPhone 4.  The weight has been shaved as well, to 1.33 pounds (601
grams) from 1.5 for the Wi-Fi-only editions, and 1.35 pounds
from 1.6 for models that add 3G service from either  AT&T Inc. (T)  or  Verizon Wireless . If you go the 3G route, by the way, you’ll
have to select your carrier at the outset; as with the iPhone 4,
you can’t switch from one to the other on the same device. On
the other hand, both Verizon and AT&T will offer service on a
no-contract, month-to-month basis.  Under the Hood  Under the hood, the principal change is a new, custom
Apple-designed processor, called the A5, and graphics that the
company says are up to nine times faster. That seems like a lot,
and it is, but the differences only become evident upon a direct
comparison with the older model. Yes, the new one renders Web
pages faster and launches apps more smoothly, but the previous
edition was good enough that the improvements feel more
incremental than transformative.  If you’re looking to do something on the iPad you couldn’t
do before, you’ll gravitate toward the two cameras, front and
rear, which make it possible to send and receive video calls
over Wi-Fi with other iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch and Macintosh
computer users with Apple’s  FaceTime   service . You can also use
the cameras to shoot still photos, and video that you can edit
using a new, $4.99 iPad version of iMovie, the editing software
that comes pre-loaded on Macs.  No Great Shakes  Making video calls is fun, and the iMovie app is flexible
and easy to use. At the same time, the cameras are no great
shakes. Apple won’t discuss their specifications except to say
that the rear one will shoot 720p high-definition video, while
the front one offers  VGA  quality. While I found the video to be
acceptable, still photos were grainy and barely adequate; if
you’ve got an iPhone, you’ll be much better off using it for
snapshots.  It’s also worth noting that the iPad 2’s new, tapered case
makes it harder to hook up its docking and other cables,
including the one that now connects it to a high-definition port
on your big-screen TV. And pay attention if you spend the extra
$39 or $69 for Apple’s new “ smart cover ,” which attaches to
the iPad magnetically and automatically puts it to sleep when
closed. Tossing the iPad into my computer bag, or even onto the
seat of my car, jostled the cover enough to wake it back up by
accident.  Battery Life  The most important things about the iPad 2 may be what
haven’t changed much. Battery life, for instance, remains very
good. As part of my testing, I wanted to run the battery down to
zero through routine use; I finally gave up the effort because
it wasn’t draining quickly enough. Instead, I ran back-to-back
videos -- with both Wi-Fi and 3G turned on and the screen
brightness and audio cranked up -- until it finally conked out
after almost nine hours of continuous use.  That isn’t quite as good as what I achieved on the original
iPad, but it suggests that the new version should be able to
attain Apple’s promised 10 hours of playback time when it’s used
under normal conditions.  The most important thing that hasn’t changed with the iPad
2 is the price. Like its predecessor, it starts at $499 for a
Wi-Fi-only model with 16 gigabytes of storage, with 32 gigabytes
for $599 and $699 for 64 gigabytes; the 3G-and-Wi-Fi-equipped
versions each cost $130 more.  By way of comparison, the best iPad competitor out there,
the new Xoom from Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and Verizon,
is heavier, thicker and costs $799 for 32 gigabytes of storage,
making it $70 more expensive than the comparable Apple model.  65,000 Apps  In addition, only a handful of applications so far take
advantage of the Xoom’s operating system, a new tablet-optimized
version of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software; Apple Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Jobs  claims more than 65,000 apps specifically for
the iPad. Other Android tablets, such as the Galaxy S Tab from
Samsung Electronics Co. and  Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s Streak, trail even
further behind on price, performance and capabilities.  So for anyone in the market for their first tablet, the
discussion begins -- and for the moment probably ends -- with
the iPad. For existing iPad users, the question is whether to
upgrade. Unless you truly need the video capabilities, the
answer is: Not really.  But let’s face it: Many of you are going to anyway. So go
ahead, and pass your first-generation model to a family member.
There’ll soon be a lot more happy spouses, siblings and kids in
the Apple orbit.    Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 