-- 
March Madness Threatened by Dollar Dementia: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-03-10T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/march-madness-threatened-by-dollar-dementia-scott-soshnick.html
One thought came to mind while
watching DePaul face  Connecticut  in the opening game of the Big
East tournament the other day: What is UConn coach Jim Calhoun
doing here?  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association , the governing
body for college sports, last month imposed a three-game
suspension against Calhoun for his failure to monitor recruiting
violations that included more than $6,000 in improper benefits
given to a former player. Only three games, but that’s another
story. This isn’t about the what, but the when.  Calhoun, a hall of fame coach who led UConn to national
championships in 1999 and 2004, will serve his suspension next
season. Caught today, punished tomorrow -- in other words, when
really important games, the kind that networks pay billions to
televise, aren’t being played.  The NCAA, mind you, last year announced a 14-year
television, Internet and wireless rights agreement with CBS and
Turner Broadcasting to present its marquee men’s basketball
tournament. The networks paid almost $11 billion for the right
to televise what’s known as March Madness.  For that amount of money, CBS Sports Chairman Sean McManus
and Turner Sports President David Levy said the other day, the
network bosses each should be allowed to hand-pick a Final Four
team beforehand. They were joking, of course, but you can’t
ignore just how much influence television executives have over
sports decision-makers these days. Those doling out punishments
included.  Premier Program  After all, UConn is a premier program. And Calhoun is its
face. Network bosses want him and the Huskies around for the
long haul. Just like they want Mike Krzyzewski and his
tradition-rich Duke Blue Devils, who, because they’re loved and
loathed, deliver huge audiences. For TV folks, the first two
rounds of the tournament are about upsets. The Final Four,
however, is about big-name coaches and dominant teams.  Higher ratings mean higher prices for commercials and
Internet ad rates, which in turn let the networks enrich the
NCAA.  Besides Calhoun’s punishment, if you can even call it that,
UConn will forfeit a total of three scholarships, one each year
through the 2012-13 season, and serve a three-year probation
period when it will face recruiting restrictions.  “The head coach is responsible for what’s going on in his
program,” said Dennis Thomas, chairman of the NCAA’s Division I
Committee on Infractions.  This isn’t about UConn. It’s about the NCAA and how it
deals, or doesn’t, with punishment. The NCAA, because of money,
is fond of practicing deferred discipline, which is why too many
coaches haven’t taken the necessary steps to rid their programs
of rules-breaking shenanigans.  High Time  The time has come for the caretakers of college athletics
to once and for all send a message that coaches, many of them
the highest-paid employees at their universities, will pay a
hefty price when their program runs afoul of regulations.  The NCAA has a funny habit of letting star players and
coaches pay for their mistakes on layaway.  Take, for example, the five Ohio State football players --
including quarterback Terrelle Pryor -- who last season received
five-game suspensions for selling awards, gifts and university
apparel.  Only the punishments didn’t begin immediately. All of the
players were allowed to participate in the Sugar Bowl, where a
game with no stars means no interest, no tickets and no ratings.
The players will serve their suspension at the outset of the
2011 season, missing games against Akron, Toledo, Miami
  Florida ),  Colorado  and Michigan State.  Sanctions Needed  This is the same football program that two days ago
 suspended  coach Jim Tressel for the first two games of this
year’s season and fined him $250,000 for failing to notify the
school of the players’ involvement in the rules-breaking
practice of selling memorabilia.  Next up is the NCAA, which can -- and must -- add
sanctions.  Remember what Thomas, the NCAA infractions committee
chairman, said: The head coach is responsible for what’s going
on in his program.  Tressel can’t argue, as other coaches have, that it’s
impossible to police a roster of young men. This isn’t about
what some teenager did. This is about the coach covering up what
he had to know would result in suspensions to some of his best
players.  Ohio State is a heavyweight program. Tressel is the face.
He single handedly made the  sweater vest  cool around the
university’s hometown of Columbus.  Any penalty has to hurt. Shame can be a powerful motivator.
Just ask Calhoun, who in the Big East opener removed Alex
Oriakhi from the starting lineup. The kid responded with 25
points and a team-best 19 rebounds off the bench for the
Huskies, who then beat Georgetown for the right to face top-
seeded Pittsburgh today.  That’s a lesson for the NCAA.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  