-- 
Marijuana IPOs Provide Investors With Gateway to Cannabis Boom

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/marijuana-technology-ipos-give-investors-gateway-into-cannabis-economy.html
In an industrial section of
Oakland,  California , former Morgan Stanley investment banker
Derek Peterson hops into a trailer being outfitted with shower
drains, lights and humidifiers, all used for growing marijuana.  “This is one we’re finishing up, what we call our bloom
room,” he said. Peterson, 36, sells the trailers for $30,000 to
$80,000 as “plug-and-play” facilities for cultivating pot.
Customers don’t need to buy hydroponic equipment or even stay
on-site -- lighting, temperature, nutrients, water and humidity
can be operated remotely via an iPhone app.  The legalization of medical marijuana -- permitted in at
least 15 states -- has kicked off a booming economy in ancillary
goods. Startups such as Peterson’s  GrowOp Technology Ltd.  and  General Cannabis Inc. (CANA)  compare the phenomenon to the California
gold rush, when the people making the real money were the ones
selling pick axes and shovels. Both companies are planning
initial public offerings, part of an effort to remove the stigma
from what’s seen as a multibillion-dollar industry.  “We’re better off by being in the public arena and showing
a face of professionalism,” said Jim Pakulis, chief executive
officer of  General Cannabis , who says medical marijuana could be
a $60 billion industry nationwide. “The market will just
continue to expand.”  Growing marijuana violates federal law, and recreational
use of the drug remains illegal at the state level. That puts
related businesses at risk of getting shut down by  law
enforcement . By focusing on equipment, services and technology,
Pakulis and Peterson aim to sidestep the legal pitfalls of the
trade while reaping the benefits of its expansion.  Dispensary Map  General Cannabis operates several businesses, including
WeedMaps.com, which directs users to more than 800 pot
dispensaries nationally; a company that handles administrative
tasks for more than a dozen medical marijuana clinics in
California; and a payment-processing service for dispensaries.  “We are a technology company with an affinity toward
medicinal cannabis,” Pakulis said in an interview.  General Cannabis, based in  Costa Mesa , California, seeks to
raise $10.5 million in an IPO, according to documents filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1. The company
posted net income of $1.2 million in 2010 on revenue of $7.7
million, according to the filing.  Pakulis, 47, has been involved with managing and consulting
startups in various industries for more than 15 years. The
company also brought on a former Silicon Valley Bank executive
in January to lead  General Cannabis ’s strategic efforts.    Morgan Stanley (MS)   GrowOp’s Peterson spent almost a decade managing investment
portfolios before starting his current company. After stints at
Wachovia and Morgan Stanley, where he managed a $100 million
fund, he went out on his own, taking some clients with him. In
addition to GrowOp, he oversees a $48 million portfolio with a
partner.  GrowOp sold its first trailer in May, and by the end of the
year posted $800,000 in revenue, Peterson said. It made $250,000
more in January alone, he said.  The business has mainly grown from word of mouth. Peterson
is rolling out a catalog, which he expects to generate 90
percent of sales. It will offer hundreds of products for
cultivating pot -- everything from special light bulbs and
nutrients to something called “hydroponic grow medium.”  Pillow Stuffing  “It’s pillow stuffing,” Peterson said, as he digs his
hand through a box of chunky blocks of white foam material.
“But apparently plants grow phenomenal in it.”  Peterson wants to undercut distributors of these products
to the retail hydroponic shops, where growers buy materials for
cultivating plants. Distributors typically mark up their goods
100 percent, he said.  “We can operate a thriving business and do so with 60 to
70 percent margins,” Peterson said.  His goal is sales of $2.5 million this year, then $5
million to $8 million next year. While GrowOp hasn’t filed
paperwork to go public -- and its revenue is smaller than
General Cannabis’s -- it plans to have an IPO in 2011. GrowOp is
currently in the audit stage of its offering plan and working
with  Network 1 Financial Securities Inc. , Peterson said.  Peterson always wanted to take a company public, though he
never found the right specialty. That changed when he learned
how much medical marijuana growers were making, he said.  “The few dispensaries in my neighborhood -- I started
talking to them and found out they were doing $10 million to $14
million in business a year,” Peterson said. “I just started to
see the economics.”  Medical Uses  Marijuana, produced from the cannabis plant, can be smoked
or ingested. Advocates of medical use say marijuana can ease
cancer patients’ nausea from chemotherapy, help treat glaucoma,
stimulate AIDS patients’ appetites and ease pain for multiple
sclerosis sufferers.  While law enforcement has taken a hands-off approach to
General Cannabis and GrowOp, the federal marijuana ban could
mean the companies are targeted for aiding and abetting a crime.  “Under United States federal law, the possession, use,
cultivation and transfer of cannabis is illegal,” General
Cannabis said in the “risk factors” portion of its filing.
“We provide services to customers that are engaged in those
businesses. As a result, law enforcement authorities may seek to
bring an action or actions against us.”  California Initiative  California voters approved a  ballot initiative  in 1996
permitting people with a doctor’s recommendation to possess the
drug, though they rejected a proposition last year that would
have legalized it for recreational purposes. Other states have
followed California’s lead with their own medical-pot laws.  Not everyone thinks the industry is poised for growth. Dale
Gieringer,  who runs  the California office for the National
Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or NORML, said
the value of medical pot has started to contract as more growers
add supply to the market and reduce prices.  “There’s a glut on the market, a general retrenchment and
it’s not clear to me how much the market can expand unless laws
change,” Gieringer said.  In the past few years, prices have dropped by half to
$1,800 a pound for marijuana grown outdoors, he said. Pot grown
indoors fetches a higher price -- $3,000 a pound -- though it’s
seeing a pullback as well, Gieringer said.  Peterson says customers are interested in his trailers and
products for various reasons. One buyer in  Colorado  uses his to
grow mushrooms for culinary use. Another wanted to get into the
business because making a profit in his other profession as a
porn-film director was getting difficult.  “They see the green rush -- and like the gold rush back in
the day -- are getting picks and shovels,” Peterson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  