-- 
ARM Shares Drop Most Since 2008 on Valuation, Tablet Concern

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-03-10T17:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/arm-shares-decline-in-london-on-valuation-concerns-tablet-computer-sales.html
  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the U.K. designer
of chips that help power  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, retreated the most
in more than two years in  London  trading on concern the stock
may be too expensive and as analysts said sales of some tablet
computers may fail to meet expectations.  ARM tumbled 9 percent to 522.5 pence in London, the
steepest decline since Oct. 6, 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The shares had gained 151 percent in the past 12 months
through yesterday, double the next best performance in the MSCI
World Information Technology Index, as demand surged for
semiconductors in mobile devices such as iPhones. The stock was
also boosted by speculation that Apple, Oracle Corp. or  Intel
Corp . may try to buy the Cambridge, England-based company.  “It’s an overvalued stock,” said James Crawshaw, a
London-based analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research.
“They get pushed up too far with people chasing the momentum.
Then the bubble reaches its peak.”  While increasing shipments of mobile handsets have helped
push ARM’s gross margin to the highest level of any global
semiconductor company, a takeover would now cost at least $11.3
billion, in line with the combined total spent in all chip
acquisitions in the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Even as technology companies sit on $276 billion in cash, ARM’s
Chief Executive Officer Warren East has said any deal would
destroy  shareholder value  because the chip designer’s success
stems from its neutrality.  ARM’s stock may drop if tablet sales in the second half of
2011 from manufacturers other than Apple disappoint, JP Morgan
Cazenove analysts including Sandeep Deshpande said in a note
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 