-- 
Arqaam of Dubai to Help Indonesian Banks Find Gulf Investors

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-03-10T10:43:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/arqaam-of-dubai-to-help-indonesian-banks-find-gulf-investors.html
Arqaam Capital Ltd., a Dubai-based
investment bank, wants to help other Indonesian lenders find
investors in the Gulf Arab region after advising PT Bank Kesawan
on the sale of a stake in itself to  Qatar National Bank SAQ. (QNBK)   “There is active interest from a number” of mid-tier
Indonesian banks to do deals such as the Qatar National Bank
investment, Tamer Nazih Makary, Arqaam’s executive director,
said in an interview in Dubai yesterday. About “four to five
conventional banks, and two to three Islamic banks” may be
looking to sell stakes to help raise money for growth, he said.  Doha-based Qatar National Bank, the Persian Gulf country’s
biggest lender by assets, took a 70 percent holding in
Indonesia’s PT Bank Kesawan after becoming the standby buyer in
its rights offer in January. Indonesia has more than 100 banks
and the country’s central bank has prodded them to combine and
boost capital after it spent 450 trillion rupiah ($37 billion)
on bailouts following the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis.    AlBaraka Banking Group (BARKA) , Bahrain’s biggest publicly traded
Islamic lender, was also interested in acquiring a stake in PT
Bank Kesawan, abandoning the plan amid the financial crisis,
according to an official at Indonesia’s central bank. Other Gulf
Arab banks that own shares in Indonesian lenders are  Jeddah ,
Saudi Arabia-based Islamic Development and  Kuwait ’s  Boubyan Bank
KSC (BOUBYAN) , which is partially owned by PT Bank Muamalat Indonesia.  Arqaam was set up in 2007 and its businesses include an
equities brokerage, equity derivatives and corporate finance.
Its mandates include being the adviser to Jordan-based cement
trading company CTI Group Inc.’s acquisition of PT Semen Batam,
one of Indonesia’s largest cement producers.  Indonesia Buyout  Many Gulf Arab lenders have looked at buying big banks in  Indonesia , where there was a difference between what the lenders
were prepared to pay and the valuations, said Makary, 31. Qatar
National Bank followed a different strategy by acquiring its
stake through a rights offer at par, which doubled the lender’s
capital, said Makary, who has worked at ABN Amro Bank NV in the
U.S. and Egyptian investment bank EFG-Hermes Holdings SAE.  “There are a lot of people hunting in Indonesia,” Makary
said. Arqaam will look for buyers not just from the Middle East
because, he said, “the Japanese are looking, the Indians are
looking, the Koreans are looking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  