-- 
Harvard, MIT Ranked Most Prestigious Universities, Study Reports

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-03-10T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/harvard-mit-ranked-most-prestigious-universities-study-reports.html
Harvard University  and
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  were ranked the world’s
most prestigious universities, according to a  survey  compiled
for London-based Times Higher Education  magazine .  The U.S. took seven of the top 10 places and 45 of the top
100, the magazine said in its first study of academic
reputation.  Cambridge  and Oxford along with the  University of
Tokyo  were also among the top 10, according to the poll by  Ipsos (IPS) 
Media CT for  Thomson Reuters , the magazine’s data supplier.  “In an ever more competitive global market for students,
academics and university administrators, and at a time when the
answers to the world’s most pressing problems will come from
putting together the best brains wherever in the world they may
be based, a university’s reputation for academic excellence is
crucial,” Phil Baty, editor of the magazine’s annual rankings,
said in a statement.  The U.K. had 12 universities in the top 100, followed by
Japan with five, and Canada, Australia,  Germany  and the
Netherlands with four each, the magazine said.  Harvard and  Princeton University , ranked seventh on the
list, last month said they will resume early-admissions programs
they dropped in 2007 due to demand.  Harvard is the world’s richest university. The University
of Cambridge, third on the magazine’s list, is Britain’s
richest, followed by Oxford, sixth in the ranking, according to
a report by the Financial Times in September.  The survey of 13,388 academics in 131 countries, conducted
last year, uses data compiled for Times Higher Education’s most
recent annual September ranking of the world’s best
universities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  