-- 
Jones Lang Unit Raises $780 Million for European Property Deals

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-03-10T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/lasalle-unit-raises-780-million-for-european-property-purchases.html
LaSalle Investment Management Inc.,
the property-fund unit of the world’s second-largest commercial
real estate brokerage, raised about 560 million euros ($780
million) from investors to buy properties in  Europe .  German mutual-insurance companies representing doctors,
dentists and veterinarians committed about half the money, with
the rest coming from a major U.K.-based institution, said Andrew
Watson, LaSalle’s European head of  core funds and separate
accounts . He declined to identify the British investor because
the information is private.  LaSalle, a unit of Chicago-based  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) ,
has about 800 million euros, including debt, to invest in core
commercial buildings, or those in high-quality locations that
generate consistent rental income. LaSalle will target office
properties in the Paris region, which is Europe’s largest market
by floor space, and retail properties in  Germany , Watson said.  “We will probably deploy the funds over the next two
years,” he said in an interview at the  Mipim trade fair  in
Cannes,  France . “There’s no hurry -- these are long-term
investors who are prepared to wait.”  Watson said buying opportunities may arise as some property
owners struggle to refinance loans that mature in the next
couple of years. Some German mutual real estate funds may need
to sell assets to return money to their investors, he said.  LaSalle obtained a government license to manage funds for
German investors in January and has since established two
investment vehicles for the mutual insurers representing medical
practitioners. It has already agreed to purchase four properties
in Germany for about 100 million euros.  Main Street Retail  Three of the acquisitions are main street retail buildings,
including one in the Bavarian town of Garmisch, as well as an
office building, Watson said, declining to be more specific.  Watson said investments may mirror the geographic spread of
those by the 600 million-euro Luxembourg-based Encore+ mutual
fund, which generated a rental income return of 5.7 percent last
year. The Encore+ fund, which LaSalle manages in a venture with
Aviva Plc, also owns properties in  Sweden ,  Italy  and the
Netherlands. For the two German funds, acquisitions may also
include the U.K., Watson said.  LaSalle managed about $43 billion of real estate at the end
of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  