-- 
Ashford Venture Acquires Highland Hotels in $1.28 Billion Foreclosure Deal

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/ashford-hospitality-venture-pays-1-28-billion-for-highland-hospitality.html
  Ashford Hospitality Trust Inc. (AHT) 
formed a joint venture to take over the 28-property Highland
Hospitality portfolio, including the Ritz-Carlton Atlanta and
the Churchill and Melrose hotels in  Washington .  The acquisition and restructuring were completed through a
$1.28 billion consensual foreclosure, the Dallas-based real
estate investment trust said yesterday in a statement. Ashford
will own 71.7 percent of the venture, which also includes an
institutional partner the REIT didn’t name.  The takeover of the portfolio, with 8,084 hotel rooms, is
“strategic and accretive,” Chief Executive Officer Monty Bennett said in the statement. “It would be hard to match the
many benefits of this investment. We believe there is a
substantial opportunity to improve the hotels’ performance with
an aggressive asset management strategy.”  High-end hotels, such as the Hyatt and Ritz-Carlton
properties in the Highland portfolio, have shown the biggest
increases during the recovery of the last year. Occupancy at
luxury hotels in the U.S. climbed to 66 percent in 2010 from 61
percent in 2009, according to Smith Travel Research Inc. The
upswing is boosting hotel sales, which are expected to jump as
much as 25 percent in the Americas this year,  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL) ’s hotel investment-services unit said on Jan. 4.  The purchase price for the Highland portfolio comes to
$158,000 per room, Ashford said.  Default on Debt  Highland defaulted on $868 million of junior debt in
August, the Wall Street Journal reported Jan. 21. Highland owner
JER Partners, the investment firm controlled by investor Joseph
E. Robert Jr., had been negotiating with creditors including
Ashford and Prudential Financial Inc., the newspaper said.  The Journal said Prudential and Ashford were the creditors
that would lead the buying group.  Ashford is investing $150 million cash and assuming $786
million of debt in the hotels, according to its statement
yesterday. The REIT’s stake in part reflects its previous
investments in the portfolio, the company said.  Senior lenders will provide $530 million of three-year
financing with two one-year extensions on 25 of the hotels,
Ashford said. The venture assumed first mortgages of $146
million on three hotels. Those loans mature in about two years.  Lenders that Ashford didn’t name are providing $419 million
of high-interest mezzanine financing for all 28 hotels, the
company said.  The hotels, which are in 13 states and the  District of
Columbia , include the Hilton Boston Back Bay, the Hyatt Regency
Savannah in  Georgia , the Nashville Renaissance in  Tennessee  and
the Renaissance Palm Springs in  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  