-- 
Asia Property Commitments Jump 45% as `Great Wall of Money' Targets China

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-03-10T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/asia-real-estate-commitments-jump-45-as-chinese-economy-draws-investors.html
The money earmarked for property
investments in the Asia-Pacific region rose 45 percent in the
second half as  China ’s expanding economy made them more
attractive, according to estimates compiled by DTZ Group Plc.  Real-estate funds and companies had about $104 billion
available for investments in the region, up from $71 billion a
year earlier, the London-based property broker said in a report
today. Local funds and companies accounted for 92 percent of the
total, according to DTZ’s “Great Wall of Money” study.  “China and  Australia  remain the most popular target
countries in the region,” said David Green-Morgan, head of
research for the Asia-Pacific countries.  The region accounted for almost 32 percent of the $329
billion set aside for real-estate acquisitions at the end of
2010, up from 24 percent a year earlier, DTZ’s study showed.  China attracted the most real-estate investment in the
world for a second straight year in 2010, New York-based  Real
Capital Analytics Inc . said in January. Most of the $197 billion
spent in the country was used to buy development sites, the
property-research firm said.    China’s economy  expanded by 10.3 percent last year, the
fastest in three years, while Australia had growth of 2.7
percent.  “We expect to see greater competition for investment
opportunities,” said Hans Vrensen, DTZ’s global head of
research. That may push up prices in some countries to a level
that makes real estate unattractive, he said.  More Money  Money earmarked for property investment worldwide climbed
17 percent in the six-month period. Investments were spread
equally between the Americas, Asia-Pacific and  Europe  regions.
That’s a change from 2008, when about half the money was
invested in Europe.  Europe registered a 2 percent increase in money targeting
real estate to $114 billion, while in the Americas there was a
14 percent gain to $111 billion, DTZ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 