-- 
Stocks Drop on Spanish Downgrade, Oil Increase; U.S. Index Futures Decline

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-10T08:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/asian-stocks-fall-most-in-week-as-rising-rates-oil-offset-merger-optimism.html
Asian and European stocks slid
and U.S. index futures dropped as violence in  Libya  drove up  oil prices ,  South Korea  raised interest rates and Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded  Spain .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 1.5 percent to
136.33 as of 5 p.m. in Tokyo, the most in two weeks. The
Stoxx Europe 600 decreased 0.5 percent as Moody’s cut Spain
one level to Aa2. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures lost
0.7 percent. Oil for April delivery climbed for the first time
in three days, to $104.84 a barrel from $104.38 yesterday.  The decline in stocks erased this year’s Asian gains as
Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi’s forces carried out air and
artillery strikes on central oil facilities, while South  Korea ’s central bank joined Vietnam and  Thailand  in raising
interest rates to combat quickening inflation. Moody’s said
the cost of shoring up Spain’s banking industry will be more
than the government expects.  “Libya is chaotic and a sense of uncertainty for the
future is increasing even in countries surrounding Libya,”
said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million in
Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “It’s hard to
know how high oil prices will go and how much that will
damage the economy.”  About four times as many stocks dropped as gained on the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index, with all 10 industry groups
declining, led by materials companies. The Nikkei 225 sank
1.5 percent in Tokyo after the Cabinet Office said Japan’s
gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 1.3 percent
rate in the three months ended Dec. 31. The median forecast
of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 1.2
percent contraction.  Australian Jobs  The S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 1.4 percent in Sydney after a
report showed Australian employers unexpectedly cut workers
in February for the first time in 18 months.  Chiyoda Corp., the Japanese contractor that gets almost
half of its revenue from the Middle East, slumped 4.6 percent
in Tokyo. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker,
slipped 1.8 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest
mining company and Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, retreated
3 percent in Sydney after copper futures fell on concern
demand will wane as higher energy costs slow growth.  FAW Car Co. and Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co. led
declines among Chinese automakers after the  China Association
of Automobile Manufacturers  said domestic sales grew at the
slowest pace in more than two years. FAW Car, which makes
passenger cars in China with Volkswagen AG, dropped 2.3
percent to 17.90 yuan. Anhui Jianghuai, a unit of China’s
biggest light-truck exporter, slid 3.6 percent to 13.26 yuan.  Mining Offer  At the same time, confidence in the resilience of the
global economy is spurring mergers and acquisitions. Tokyo
Stock Exchange Group Inc. said it plans to hold merger talks
with Osaka Securities Exchange Co., while  Rio Tinto  Group,
the world’s second-largest mining company, raised its bid for
Riversdale Mining Ltd.  Rio Tinto increased its offer by 3 percent to A$3.9
billion ($3.9 billion) as share purchases by steelmakers
threaten to scuttle the deal. Tokyo Stock Exchange President
Atsushi Saito said in an interview that the company, which
runs the main venue in the world’s second-largest equity
market, plans to hold merger talks with Osaka Securities,
which operates a derivatives trading platform that features  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average futures as its main product.  U.S. stocks fell yesterday in  New York , sending the  S&P
500 Index  lower for a third time in four days, as escalating
violence in Libya tempered optimism that the biggest equity
rally since 1955 will extend into a third year.  Korean Rates  The Bank of Korea’s decision to raise the benchmark
interest rate today was forecast by all 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Bank of Thailand raised its
one-day bond repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage
point yesterday.  The People’s Bank of China raised the yield on three-
month bills for the second consecutive week, increasing
speculation that policy makers will increase benchmark
interest rates to cool inflation.  The central bank sold 32 billion yuan ($4.9 billion) of
91-day bills at a yield of 2.7944 percent in open-market
operations today, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. That’s higher than the
2.6314 percent yield on debt it sold on March 3, according to
data provided by the People’s Bank.  “We would read the rise in the three-month yield, based
on historical precedence, as an indication that the central
bank is looking to push up interest rates,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . He said a rate increase may take place in April.  Libya Fighting  Brent crude oil climbed after Qaddafi stepped up attacks
on rebels, increasing concern civil unrest may spread and
disrupt production in North Africa and the Middle East. It
rose 0.2 percent to $116.11 a barrel.  “The Libya situation is the biggest market concern,”
said Naoteru Teraoka, general manager at Tokyo-based Chuo
Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion.
“We can’t know if this unrest will spill over to  Saudi
Arabia , or if Libyan exports will stop. Those would certainly
have a negative impact on the global economy.”  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of credit-default swaps rose
1 basis point to 107.5 basis points, Credit Agricole CIB
prices show. The risk benchmark is heading for its biggest
daily increase since Feb. 22 after the cost of contracts on
European governments climbed yesterday, according to data
provider CMA in New York.  Ireland Swaps  Five-year swaps on  Greece  rose 6 basis points to 1,034
basis points yesterday, the highest since Jan 10, after
Moody’s Investors Service lowered the sovereign’s ratings
three steps.  Swaps on Ireland, which became the second nation to
request an EU bailout after the government was nearly sunk by
the weight of guaranteeing its banking system’s debt in
November, rose 6 basis points to 587 and imply an almost 40
percent likelihood of default within five years, according to
CMA.  The  U.S. dollar  was at $1.3815 per euro from $1.3909
yesterday, when it reached $1.3856, the strongest since March
3. The euro traded at 114.45 yen from 115.08 yen.  Gains in the euro were tempered before European Union
leaders meet to discuss the crisis that caused Greece and
Ireland to request financial aid.  EU Talks  “Event risk for the euro is building with European
leaders meeting on March 11 to start talks on producing a
more robust response to the sovereign-debt crisis,”  John Kyriakopoulos , Sydney-based head of currency strategy at
National  Australia  Bank Ltd., wrote in a note to clients
today. “Initial support is at $1.3850.”    New Zealand ’s currency was close to the weakest level in
five months after the central bank cut the benchmark interest
rate to match a record low to help the economy recover from
its deadliest earthquake in 80 years. Australia’s dollar fell
against all its major counterparts on the data showing
employers unexpectedly cut jobs in February.  New Zealand’s dollar was at 73.48 U.S. cents from 73.66
cents yesterday, when it touched 73.36 cents, the lowest
since Oct. 1. Australia’s currency slipped to $1.0039 from
$1.0108 in New York yesterday after falling to $1.0054 on
March 8, the weakest since Feb. 24.  Yuan forwards weakened after  China  reported a surprise
trade deficit for February. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards were 0.09 percent lower at 6.4245 per dollar as of
11:16 a.m. in Hong Kong, having traded at 6.4170 before the
data were published.  China reported a $7.3 billion trade deficit for February
after the Lunar New Year holiday disrupted exports. That
compares with a $6.5 billion surplus for January and the
median $4.9 billion surplus estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Exports increased 2.4 percent from a year
earlier and imports climbed 19.4 percent, the customs bureau
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  