-- 
Massachusetts Accuses Hedge Fund of Using Inside Information

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-03-10T00:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/massachusetts-accuses-hedge-fund-of-using-inside-information-2-.html
Hedge-fund manager James A.
Silverman was accused by Massachusetts officials of using inside
information on clinical trials to generate profits for his
Cambridge-based firm.  Silverman, 43, who started RRC Bio Fund LP in 2007, used
Guidepoint Global LLC, a so-called expert-network company with
an office in  Boston , to obtain the information, according to a
civil  complaint  filed today by Secretary of the Commonwealth
William Galvin’s office.  Silverman’s fund, which focused on biotechnology stocks,
returned 52 percent in 2010 and 55 percent in 2009 after losing
17 percent in 2008, according to the e-mailed statement from
Galvin’s office. The fund had about $24 million in assets as of
November, said Brian McNiff, a spokesman for Galvin.  “With access to Guidepoint, the Fund began a dramatic
resurgence,” the complaint said. “These returns were
generated, at least in part, upon Silverman’s receipt of
material non-public information he received through Guidepoint
consultations.”  Ariad Trials  Silverman received nonpublic information through unnamed
Guidepoint consultants on Cambridge-based  Ariad Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (ARIA)  and  Questcor Pharmaceuticals Inc. (QCOR) , according to the
complaint. Firms such as Guidepoint, which provide research and
connect industry experts with investors, have come under
scrutiny amid a U.S. investigation into  insider trading .  Phone calls to Silverman seeking comment weren’t returned.  Silverman, who hired Guidepoint for $80,000 in early 2008,
used the firm’s consultants to get information on clinical
trials conducted by Ariad into an experimental cancer treatment
called AP24524, also known as ponatinib, according to the
complaint. He bought a “significant” number of the biotech
company’s shares, which jumped 30 percent the day information of
the trials was made public in July 2009, the complaint said.  “Despite their confidentiality obligations, each
investigator provided Silverman material, nonpublic information
regarding how the trial was progressing,” the complaint said.
“In return, the investigators received anywhere between $400
and $1,000 an hour through Guidepoint.”  Shares Tripled  Guidepoint’s compliance policies "conform to the highest
industry standards," and the firm has "cooperated fully" with
Galvin’s investigation,  Mark Semer , a spokesman for Guidepoint
said in an e-mailed statement. “That investigation has resulted
in no action being brought against Guidepoint Global or any of
its employees, and the Secretary’s complaint does not assert
that Guidepoint Global knew of, or participated in, any of the
misconduct alleged."  Ariad was aware of Galvin’s investigation and is ‘‘firmly
opposed to outside clinical investigators who are under
confidentiality agreements with the company providing nonpublic
information to investors or their consultants,” said Maria
Cantor, a spokeswoman for the firm.  Ponatinib, a treatment for hematological cancers, is
currently in a trial designed to provide data for regulatory
approval. Ariad’s shares have more than tripled since the July
2009 data were released.  Silverman also got nonpublic statistical data from a case
study on Union City, California-based Questcor’s primary
product, a treatment for nephrotic syndrome, according to the
complaint. He bought 58,800 Questcor shares before the results
were published in a medical journal, the complaint said.  Deleted Notes  “Silverman apparently also knew that he should not have
received this information, as he deleted his notes containing
the study results prior to producing them to the (Securities)
Division in response to its subpoena,” the complaint said.  Janine McCargo, a spokeswoman for Questcor, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Silverman is also charged with failing to maintain records
and submitting multiple false filings with the securities
division.  The complaint seeks to revoke Silverman’s registration as
an  investment adviser  as well as the registration of Risk Reward
Capital Management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  