-- 
AstraZeneca to Pay $68.5 Million to U.S. States Over Seroquel Marketing

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-03-10T18:41:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/astrazeneca-to-pay-68-5-million-to-states-over-seroquel-marketing-claims.html
  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  agreed to pay
$68.5 million to 37 U.S. states and the District of Columbia to
resolve allegations that the company deceptively marketed its
anti-psychotic drug Seroquel.  The settlement, announced today, is separate from a $520
million agreement London-based AstraZeneca reached with the U.S.
last year over the marketing of Seroquel, said  Tony Jewell , a
company spokesman.  “While we deny the allegations, AstraZeneca believes it is
important to bring these matters to a close and move forward
with our business of providing medicines to patients,” Jewell
said. The company intends to “vigorously defend ourselves” in
remaining lawsuits, he said.  AstraZeneca didn’t admit wrongdoing, and the settlement
doesn’t resolve lawsuits brought by about seven states,
including  South Carolina  and Mississippi, Jewell said today in
an interview.  The company marketed Seroquel for uses that weren’t
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the federal
and state governments claimed. AstraZeneca promoted the drug,
approved for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, for dementia,
depression and anxiety in violation of federal drug rules,
according to the states.  While doctors can prescribe medicines for other diseases,
companies aren’t allowed to market drugs beyond approved uses.  Side Effects  The states also claimed AstraZeneca failed to adequately
disclose Seroquel’s side effects, minimizing the risk of high
blood sugar and diabetes.  The office of New Jersey Attorney General Paula Dow
announced the settlement.  “This case sends a message that we take seriously the duty
pharmaceutical companies have to supply clear, accurate and
complete information about their products to health care
providers, and to market their products without deception or
misleading claims,” Dow said in a statement.  In addition to paying the $68.5 million, AstraZeneca
officials agreed to ban financial incentives tied to off-label
marketing, instruct salespeople not to market Seroquel to
doctors who are unlikely to prescribe it for an approved use,
and post payments to doctors on a website, according to the
statement.  The settlement provides payments to individual states
including $5.2 million to  California , $3.8 million to Texas,
$3.1 million to  New York , $2.6 million to Ohio, $1.85 million to  New Jersey  and $1.4 million to Colorado, according to attorneys
general in those states.  The New Jersey lawsuit is Dow v. AstraZeneca, MER-C-24-11,
New Jersey Superior Court, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 