-- 
Australian Dollar Erases Earlier Gains After Japan Is Struck by Earthquake

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-03-11T17:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/aussie-set-for-biggest-weekly-loss-since-january-on-global-economy-concern.html
  Australia ’s dollar touched the
lowest level against the Japanese yen in two weeks after an 8.9
magnitude temblor struck northeast of Tokyo, damping demand for
higher-yielding assets.  New Zealand’s currency also weakened as Asian equities
dropped, led by a 1.7 percent fall in the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average. Investors sold riskier assets after the quake shook
buildings across Japan and unleashed a seven-meter-high (22
feet) tsunami that killed hundreds as it engulfed towns on the
northern coast.  “The market remains nervous,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in an interview from
Sydney. “The  U.S. dollar  was bid across the board and equity
markets and futures sold off sharply.”  Australia’s currency fell 0.2 percent to 82.91 yen, after
touching 81.96, the lowest since Feb. 24.  New Zealand ’s dollar
fell 0.1 percent to 60.95 yen from 61.03 yen.  The Aussie dollar climbed after industrial production and
fixed-asset investment increased in  China , Australia’s largest
trading partner.  “The data showed the Chinese economy remains resilient and
eased concern that it may face a slowdown,” supporting
commodity currencies, said Masahide Tanaka, a senior strategist
in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s
second-largest bank.  Chinese consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in February from a
year earlier, matching January’s gain, the statistics bureau
said today. Industrial output expanded 14.9 percent in February
from a year ago, retail sales climbed 11.6 percent, and
investment in fixed assets increased 24.9 percent in the first
two months of 2011 from a year earlier, the data also showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  