-- 
Australian Employers Unexpectedly Cut Workers as Floods Disrupted Hiring

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-10T03:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/australian-employers-unexpectedly-cut-workers-unemployment-rate-stays-5-.html
Australian employers unexpectedly
cut workers in February for the first time in 18 months as
floods and a cyclone disrupted hiring in the nation’s northeast.  The number of people employed fell by 10,100 from January,
led by a drop in part-time jobs, the statistics bureau said in
Sydney today. That compares with the median forecast for a
20,000 increase in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists. The
jobless rate held at 5 percent.    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said last
month a deluge in January and cyclone in February in Queensland
may cut 1 percentage point from growth this quarter. Recent
reports showed building approvals declined by the most in eight
years,  consumer confidence  slid and retail sales are slower,
suggesting the central bank may have scope to extend a pause in
interest-rate increases.  “Today’s weaker than expected labor market report means”
rate increases “could be slightly later in the year than
previously anticipated,” said Paul Bloxham, chief economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former RBA official. “The key
issue of timing will depend not only on the dataflow but also on
the extent to which the RBA seeks to move ahead of this, versus
waiting for further evidence of building inflationary
pressures.”  The Australian dollar fell after the report before
rebounding as a surge in full-time employment signaled setbacks
in the job market may be temporary. It traded at $1.0100 as of
1:36 p.m. in Sydney, from $1.0110 before the data.  Full-Time Jobs  The number of full-time jobs advanced by 47,600 in February
and part-time employment fell by 57,700, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, which measures the  labor force 
as a percentage of the population over 15 years old, dropped to
65.7 percent in February from 65.8 percent a month earlier, it
showed.  Queensland, where torrential rains in January and December
affected about 30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut rail
lines and damaged crops, shed 22,100 jobs last month, today’s
report showed. The state’s unemployment rate held at 5.6 percent
as fewer workers sought jobs, cutting the participation rate 0.7
percentage point to 67. Queensland was hit early last month by a
cyclone stronger than  Hurricane Katrina .  No ‘Smoking Gun’  “Floods may have distorted the numbers,” said  Adam Carr  a
senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney, referring to
the reduction in total employment even as full-time jobs surged.
“But the data is probably not a smoking gun for the RBA.”    Australia ’s labor market, which had record job creation
last year, has gone through its worst three-month period since
mid-2009. The economy has lost a net 2,300 jobs from December
through February after gaining 362,800 during the first 11
months of 2010, according to statistics bureau figures.  The local currency last year surpassed parity with its U.S.
counterpart and on Dec. 31 touched the highest level since being
floated in 1983.  The RBA this month kept rates unchanged at 4.75 percent for
a third straight meeting after increasing it by 175 basis points
since the global financial crisis. In contrast, the U.S. Federal
Reserve has held its benchmark rate near zero since December
2008. That divergence contributed to a 10.5 percent increase in
the local dollar versus the U.S. currency in the past 12 months.  Traders are betting there is a better-than-even chance
Stevens will keep rates on hold until October, according to
Bloomberg News calculations based on interbank futures on the  Sydney Futures Exchange .  Hiring  Australian job advertisements rose in February for a 10th
straight month, advancing 1.2 percent from January, when they
increased a revised 3 percent, according to an Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. report released in  Melbourne  this
week.    Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-biggest lender,
said today it will create as many as 800 jobs in Victoria when
it revives its Bank of Melbourne unit in the southern state.  The RBA said in its Feb. 4 policy statement that “a
gradual increase in wage growth is expected as the labor market
tightens further.”  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  