-- 
Australia Turns to Ex-Captains Waugh, Taylor, Border for Cricket Review

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-10T06:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/australia-turns-to-ex-captains-waugh-taylor-border-for-cricket-review.html
Former  Australia  cricket captains
Allan Border, Mark Taylor and Steve Waugh were appointed to a
panel that will review the national team’s performance following
the 3-1 Ashes loss to England.  Former BHP Billiton chairman Don Argus will chair the
review team, while Malcolm Speed, ex-chief executive officer of
the  International Cricket Council , will be his deputy, Cricket
Australia said today in an e-mailed statement.  The group will be tasked with identifying “the causes of
the Australian team’s recent performance decline in Test matches
and recommend changes to deliver sustained success,” the
governing body said. Australia has slipped from first to fifth
in the ICC’s Test rankings.  The review panel has been asked to report in the second
half of 2011 in time for recommendations to be considered before
the 2011-12 Australian international cricket season, Melbourne-
based  Cricket Australia  added.  “The caliber of the cricket people who have agreed to be
involved in the review is outstanding and means the total review
group will be well placed to conduct a rigorous and independent
review that results in fact-based recommendations to the
board,” Cricket Australia Chairman Jack Clarke said.  Cricket Australia also commissioned an independent review
of the governance of the sport in the country and last month
appointed former Australian Football League commissioner Colin Carter and David Crawford, who led an inquiry into soccer in
Australia in 2002 that led to the game’s restructure, to assist.  The move mirrors that made by the England and Wales Cricket
Board in 2007 after  England  lost an Ashes series 5-0 for the
first time in 86 years.  Australia’s 3-1 Ashes defeat was its first home loss to
England for 24 years and worst series reverse since 1988-89. The
touring team only had to bat once in Adelaide, Melbourne and
Sydney as Australia lost three matches in a series by more than
an innings for the first time in 134 years of Test cricket.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  