-- 
Bank Swaps Climb After Shooting in Saudi Arabia, Economic Data

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-03-10T22:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/bank-swaps-climb-after-shooting-in-saudi-arabia-economic-data.html
The cost to protect bank debt from
default climbed after violence escalated in the Middle East and
data indicated pockets of weakness in the global economy.  Credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley jumped 6 basis
points to 147.5 and those on Bank of America Corp. increased 5.2
basis points to 144.2, according to data provider CMA. Contracts
on Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added 4.5 basis points to 116.5 and
those on Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch & Co. climbed 5.5 basis
points to 147.9, the data show. Swaps on Citigroup Inc. climbed
5.1 basis points to 135.6.  “You can never underemphasize the extent to which the
market fears uncertainty,” said Stephen Antczak, head of U.S.
credit strategy at Societe Generale SA in  New York . “It just
can’t be positive.”  Saudi Arabian police fired into a crowd of protesters,
according to a report by the  Associated Press . Economic reports
cast doubt on the strength of the global recovery. First-time
U.S. jobless claims rose last week from an almost three-year
low.  China ’s year-to-year export growth in February was the
least since 2009. Moody’s Investors Service cut  Spain ’s rating
by one level to Aa2, saying the government underestimated the
cost of shoring up its banks.  “In the event of a slowdown in global growth, which in
turn will put pressure on risk assets, financials will feel the
impact on the earnings front as well as their huge balance
sheets,”  Adrian Miller , fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak
Roberts Securities LLC in New York, said in an e-mail.  Jobless Claims  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. climbed as jobless claims and the trade deficit increased
more than forecast.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 2.5 basis points to a mid-
price of 87.3 basis points as of 5:12 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Applications for first-time  unemployment benefits  jumped by
26,000 to 397,000 in the week ended March 5, Labor Department
figures showed, compared with economists’ forecast of 376,000 in
a Bloomberg survey. The trade deficit increased 15 percent to
$46.3 billion, the Commerce Department said in  Washington .
Moody’s Investors Service cut Spain’s credit rating, increasing
concern that the global economic recovery may falter.  February Low  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has increased
from as low as 79.2 basis points on Feb. 17.  Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index, which drops as
investor confidence worsens, fell 0.5 percentage point to 103.1
percent of face value, according to Markit.  The investment-grade CDX index will roll to a new series on
March 21 and the High Yield Index on March 28. New versions of
the index are created every six months. Companies are replaced
if they no longer have appropriate credit grades, are no longer
among the most actively traded in the $25 trillion credit swaps
market, or fail to meet other index criteria.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  