-- 
Spanish Banks Begin Search for Investors to Plug $21 Billion Capital Hole

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-03-11T15:14:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/bank-of-spain-says-12-lenders-need-21-billion-more-to-meet-capital-rules.html
Spanish banks that together need as
much as 15.2 billion euros ($21 billion) to meet minimum capital
levels now must persuade investors that their battered balance
sheets offer the potential return to match the risk.  Twelve lenders, including eight savings banks and the
Spanish units of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , are among
the lenders that fell short of government-set capital
requirements, the Bank of  Spain  said yesterday. The institutions
whose levels are furthest from the required minimums include
Bankia, which needs 5.8 billion euros, Novacaixagalicia, which
requires 2.6 billion euros, CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim.  Yesterday’s announcement sets in motion a timetable that
gives lenders as long as a year to raise funds or risk being
taken over by a government bailout fund. Investors may be
skeptical that the Bank of Spain’s estimates of how much capital
the banks need fully reflect losses hidden on balance sheets,
putting the onus on them find investors quickly, said Inigo Lecubarri, a  fund manager  at Abaco Financials Fund in London.  “At this stage, I don’t think anyone will be really
convinced by anything,” said Lecubarri, who helps manage about
$200 million at Abaco. “People will only be convinced when
someone credible comes and puts some money on the table to
invest.”  Rating Cut  Spain’s credit rating was cut yesterday to Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said lenders may need as much as 50
billion euros to meet the new rules. The Bank of Spain said its
estimate of 15.2 billion euros may end up lower as some savings
banks opt for stock listings that will reduce the amount of
capital they need under Spain’s new rules imposed last month.  “In our baseline we see potential losses of 80 billion
euros-plus, in an extreme scenario it could be twice as much,”  Nouriel Roubini , founder of Roubini Global Economics, told
Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” in London
today. “The fiscal costs of backstopping the financial system
are going to be larger than the government is suggesting.”  The  Bank of Spain  previously estimated the overall capital
shortfall wouldn’t exceed 20 billion euros, or 2 percent of
gross domestic product. The government, fighting to rein in the
euro region’s third-largest  budget deficit , wants most of that
to be raised privately even as central bank Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said Feb. 21 that some lenders will ask
the state-rescue fund FROB for help.  ‘Underwhelming’  “This is underwhelming and certainly will be criticized:
we calculate 40 billion to 50 billion euros,” said Arturo de Frias, head of banks research at Evolution Securities. “The
difference is that the Bank of Spain calculates the deficit as
of today whilst we add future impairment losses.”  The lenders have until September to meet new core capital
requirements of 8 percent for listed lenders or 10 percent for
banks without shareholders that also depend on wholesale
financing. They can seek an extension until 2012 if they commit
to listing shares.  The capital analysis carried out by the Bank of Spain shows
that the banking system as a whole is “solvent,”  Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, told shareholders in a speech today
in Bilbao, Spain. “It’s vital to complete the process of
restructuring the savings banks with rigor and speed,” he said.  Contagion Struggle  Spain is trying to stem contagion as investors raise bets
that  Portugal  will need a bailout and Greece and Ireland lobby
to renegotiate rescue deals. Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s government is seeking to show that lenders can
weather a fourth year of economic slump and a jobless rate of 20
percent, as bond yields on peripheral euro-area nations surge.  While Spain’s public-debt burden is lower than that of
France or  Germany , the gap between Spanish and German borrowing
costs is 15 times as wide as it was in the first decade of
monetary union. The government needs to rein in the budget
deficit and restore the economy to growth as private debt built
up during a decade-long housing boom slows the recovery.  The government approved the new  capital requirements  on
Feb. 18 and said lenders that fail to meet them risk partial
nationalization via the purchase of ordinary shares by the FROB.
That facility, which can take on as much as 90 billion euros of
debt, has already committed about 11 billion euros through the
purchase of preferred shares.  Clarity Call  “My opinion is that capital needs are not the main
issue,” said Luis de Guindos, a former deputy finance minister
in the government of Jose Maria Aznar and a professor at IE
business school in  Madrid . “I think the best way to convince
investors is to have full clarity and transparency on real-
estate exposure of the savings banks.”  Spain’s two biggest savings banks,  La Caixa  and Bankia have
already announced plans to become listed lenders. Bankia’s
capital shortfall of 5.8 billion euros will fall to 1.8 billion
euros as it lists shares and qualifies for the lower capital
threshold. Mare Nostrum, which needs 637 million euros in
capital, and Banca Civica, which needs 847 million euros, have
also said they will sell shares.  Banks’ Reactions  Some lenders published statements in response to the Bank
of Spain’s announcement. Unnim, a grouping of savings banks that
needs 568 million euros to bridge its 3.3 percentage-point
capital gap, said in a statement it would consider “different
alternatives,” including taking money from the FROB.  Novacaixagalicia, whose core capital ratio is 5.2 percent
compared with the 10 percent it needs, didn’t have any immediate
comment, a spokesman said in a phone interview. Banca Civica
said in a statement senior executives had met with 32 potential
investors in meetings in  New York  and  London  in recent weeks.  Core capital as defined under Spain’s new banking  law 
includes reserves, preference shares owned by the FROB rescue
fund, and bonds that are mandatorily convertible into shares by
2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  