-- 
Bank of Korea Raises Rate to 3% From 2.75% After Inflation Breached Target

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-03-10T05:11:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/bank-of-korea-raises-key-interest-rate-to-3-as-inflation-exceeds-target.html
The  Bank of Korea  raised interest
rates for the second time this year after inflation exceeded its
target ceiling for two consecutive months.  Governor Kim Choong Soo boosted the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, the central bank
said in a statement in Seoul today. The decision was predicted
by all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  South  Korea  joined  Thailand  and  Vietnam  in raising
borrowing costs this week as a surge in oil prices threatens the
exacerbate inflation pressures throughout the region. In South
Korea, the BOK faces the challenge of taming inflation without
choking off an export-led recovery that has bolstered profits at
automakers including Hyundai Motor Co.  “The question is how aggressive the BOK would be to raise
rates further in a fight against inflation,” said Lee Sang Jae,
an economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul. “It depends on
how much higher oil prices would affect the global economy,
especially the U.S. and other advanced countries.”  The won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,121.35 per dollar as of
1:08 p.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
while the Kospi benchmark index fell 1 percent.  “There are two kinds of tools to fight inflation, the
currency and interest rates,” said Sam Hong, a currency dealer
at  Shinhan Bank  in Seoul. “Some think that as the government is
using higher interest rates to fight inflation, so they will not
rely too much on a stronger won.”  Steady Increases  Governor Kim signaled that the bank wouldn’t raise rates
abruptly and that inflation pressures, which have largely been
driven by oil prices, may ease in coming months. He said the
economy will remain on a “solid growth track” due to stronger-
than-expected expansion in the U.S.  “Steady increases in interest rates are better than big
moves as the so-called baby-steps can help ease market
concerns,” Kim told reporters after the decision. “Inflation may
get worse than expected in the first half of this year before
stabilizing in the second half as  oil prices  will likely stop
rising at some point.”  Inflation has accelerated since rates were increased in
January, with consumer price gains reaching a two-year high and
Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun warning this week that the
economy would be “seriously” affected by elevated price
expectations.  Quickening Inflation  Consumer prices climbed 4.5 percent in February from a year
earlier, breaching the central bank’s target of average
inflation between 2 percent to 4 percent through 2012. The
monetary authority predicts inflation will accelerate to 3.5
percent this year from 2.9 percent in 2010.  Producer prices climbed 6.6 percent in February from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in 27 months, the central bank said
earlier today, fanned by oil prices approaching a peak set in
2008.  “I certainly wouldn’t rule out a hike in April, but I
don’t think the BOK needs to panic. They can do a measured
tightening,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan economist at
Societe Generale SA in Tokyo, who forecasts the bank will raise
the rate by 25 basis points in May. “I don’t think taking
aggressive action is warranted now especially with some negative
risk events that may occur in the second half” depending on
developments in the Middle East, he said.  An increase in oil prices is exacerbating price pressures
for Korea, which imports most of its oil, robbing monetary
authorities of the ability to pause on rate increases to gauge
how they are affecting the economy, according to economist Erik Lueth.  ‘No Scope’  “While the BOK has a record of pausing in the face of
global uncertainty, read oil price spike, the inflation figure
confirms that there is no scope to maneuver,” said Lueth, a
Hong Kong-based senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc.  Price expectations are climbing in the  Asia ’s fourth-
largest economy, adding to signs the BOK is behind in raising
the rate from a record low. President  Lee Myung Bak  has declared
“war” on inflation, saying it must be contained at 3 percent,
a level exceeded in each of the past six months.  Vietnam this week boosted borrowing costs after the
government last month shifted its policy focus toward containing
inflation and Thailand increased its main interest rate for the
second time in three months yesterday.  “The  Bank of Korea , along with other central banks in the
region, will remain on a tightening trajectory throughout this
year,” said  David Cohen , head of Asian forecasting at Action
Economics LLC in  Singapore .  The central bank today also boosted the interest rate for
loans extended to small-sized companies through commercial banks
to 1.5 percent from 1.25 percent. It raised the benchmark rate
by 25 basis points each in July, November and January from a
record-low 2 percent.    South Korea ’s economy expanded 0.5 percent in the three
months through December from the previous quarter, when it grew
0.7 percent. For the whole of 2010, gross domestic product
increased 6.1 percent, the fastest pace since 2002. The Bank of
Korea forecasts 4.5 percent economic expansion in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  