-- 
Bank of China Lent Citic Pacific Funds Before Losses Disclosed

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-03-10T05:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/bank-of-china-lent-citic-pacific-funds-before-losses-known.html
  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ,  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. lent Citic Pacific Ltd. a total of HK$1.75 billion ($225
million) before the steelmaker and property developer reported
the biggest currency loss by a Chinese company, a lawyer said.  “Whilst they kept that information secret from the
shareholders, from the public, and from the exchange, they went
to the banks,” Charlotte Draycott, a lawyer for  Hong Kong ’s  Justice Department  told the city’s  High Court  today.  Citic Pacific sought a total of HK$2.55 billion ($327
million) from the three lenders and  Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd. (601288)  without disclosing its derivatives losses.  “They wanted to raise money and they wanted to do that
without disclosing their true financial position,” she said.
“This is a conspiracy to defraud.”  Agricultural Bank didn’t grant a loan after Citic Pacific
announced HK$14.7 billion of potential losses from the foreign
exchange trades on Oct. 20, 2008, she had told the court
yesterday. Citic Pacific said its board learned on Sept. 7, 2008,
of the company’s bets that the Australian dollar would gain
against the  U.S. dollar .  Citic Pacific directors acted properly, Paul Shieh, a
lawyer for the Hong Kong-based company, told the court yesterday
at the start of a hearing where Citic Pacific is trying to
prevent the police from seeing privileged documents between the
company and its lawyers.  “The company was investigating the matter and looking for
solutions,” he said. “Simply being able to articulate a
conspiracy theory is not enough to satisfy a prima facie case.”  ‘Inconceivable’  Draycott said today it’s “inconceivable” that legal
advice to the board contained in six documents that Citic
Pacific says is protected by legal privilege wouldn’t relate to
ways for the board to delay disclosing the losses.  Judge Alan Wright will hear arguments on whether
communications between Citic Pacific and its lawyers were for a
criminal purpose before determining if they could be exempt from
legal privilege.  Bank of  China  lent HK$1 billion, ICBC HK$500 million and
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi HK$250 million between Sept. 25 and Oct.
14, Draycott said.  Wang Zhenning, a press official at ICBC in Beijing, said he
had no knowledge of the matter. Ding Yuan, a press official at
Agricultural Bank in Beijing, declined to immediately comment.
Bank of China press official Zhang Jianping didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  “The matter is before the court,” Citic Pacific said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday through its public-relations
firm, Brunswick Group Ltd. “The company will not comment beyond
what its counsel has said and will say in the court.”  The case is  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267)  and Secretary of Justice,
Commissioner of Police, HCMP 767/2010 in Hong Kong’s Court of
First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  