-- 
Berlusconi Approves Italian Justice Overhaul as Prostitution Trial Looms

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-03-10T11:54:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/berlusconi-passes-italian-justice-overhaul-as-sex-trial-looms.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
government passed an overhaul of  Italy ’s justice system aimed at
making judges more independent from prosecutors, whom he has
accused of trying to destroy him politically.  The measure seeks to separate the career paths of
prosecutors and judges, who will be overseen by different
governing bodies, Justice Minister Angelino Alfano said at a
news conference in Rome today. Berlusconi, currently a defendant
in four criminal trials, has said that judges, who often begin
their careers as prosecutors, are too influenced by them.  The measure isn’t linked to his current legal problems,
Berlusconi said. Had it been approved 20 years ago, “we would
have avoided the prosecutors’ meddling in politics, including
the current attempt by them to put an end to this government,”
he told reporters after the Cabinet approved the measure.  Berlusconi has also pledged measures to shorten the length
of trials and clamp down on the use of wiretaps. Newspapers have
been filled with details of parties with young women that have
been leaked from a probe alleging he paid an underage prostitute
for sex. The premier, 74, is also accused of abuse of power to
cover his tracks in the case, for which he stands trial on April
6 in Milan.  Sex Trial  The overhaul will require changes to the Constitution and
therefore need a double approval by both houses of parliament,
said Alfano, who drafted the bill that will make prosecutors
personally responsible for alleged malpractice, as are doctors.  Pier Luigi Bersani, leader of the main opposition party,
called the overhaul “a maneuver to give Berlusconi political
and constitutional cover” from his legal woes, newspaper La
Stampa reported today.  Alfano said the measure won’t apply to trials, such as
Berlusconi’s, that began before its passage. The government,
which on Dec. 14 survived a no-confidence motion by three votes
in parliament’s lower house, has the support to get the overhaul
approved by the current legislature by the end of its term in
2013, Berlusconi said.  The premier reiterated that he expects to be acquitted in
all four trials, which he will personally attend. “I think I
will get some satisfaction and explain how things really are,”
the premier said.  Berlusconi said on Feb. 28 that he’s “the biggest legal
defendant in the history of the universe.” He told business
leaders in Milan that he’s spent roughly $430 million to defend
himself and his companies against legal action since entering
politics in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  