-- 
Big Retailers, Banks Try to Sway Congress on Debit-Card Fees

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-03-10T15:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/big-retailers-banks-try-to-sway-congress-on-debit-card-fees.html
Thousands of credit-union members
visited  Capitol Hill  on March 3 to warn that a Federal Reserve
proposal limiting swipe fees collected on debit-card purchases
is anti-consumer. A cap on fees banks collect from merchants
will force card-issuing  credit unions  and banks to cancel reward
programs, eliminate free checking, and impose annual fees, they
told lawmakers.  A week later, about 170 small business owners flew into
town with the opposite message. The Fed plan is pro-consumer,
they said, because it will help lower retail prices while
preventing card issuers from profiting at their expense, money
that goes to fatten bankers’ bonuses.  Framing brawls about money as essentially consumer issues
is a time-honored tactic in Washington. However, the debit-card
fee issue is primarily a conflict between big business and big
banks, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March 14 issue. Up
for grabs is $16 billion in annual revenue. That’s the amount
merchants collect, based on an average of 44 cents per debit-
card swipe, and turn over to banks. Retailers have been
complaining for years about the hefty fees.  The fight is reaching a crescendo as an April deadline
nears for the Fed to decide what is a “reasonable” fee, as
required under last year’s Dodd-Frank financial regulation law.  “This is a battle between the large retailers and the large
banks,” said Clifford Rossi, executive-in-residence at the
University of Maryland’s Center for Financial Policy, who has
done financial industry-sponsored research on swipe fees. “The
voice lost in the shuffle is the consumer’s.”  Payment Caps  The central bank in December proposed capping the payment
at 12 cents, causing banks to seek a legislative fix. Fed
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said at a February congressional hearing
that “it’s certainly possible” the Fed plan could result in
higher bank fees for consumers. The Fed chief said his hands
were tied unless the law is changed.  Retailers in early March released radio spots targeting one
of the fee cap’s most vocal opponents, Senator Jon Tester, a
Democrat from Montana, who is up for re-election next year.  “Millions of dollars leave Montana’s main street to line
the pockets of fat cats on  Wall Street ,” said the ad, paid for
by the Montana retail and convenience store associations.  The prospect of choosing sides has given pause to even the
most seasoned lawmakers, given the political clout both banks
and retailers wield back home. Six-term Senator  Carl Levin , a
Democrat from  Michigan , said he’s reconsidering his vote for the
fee cap, named for its author, Senator  Dick Durbin , a Democrat
from  Illinois .  Up for Review  “I voted for Durbin but I promised some folks I’d review
the matter and that’s what I’m doing right now,” said Levin.  A small group of senators from both parties is preparing a
measure that would postpone the rule. House Republicans also are
looking to delay the rule for two years while the government
studies the potential economic effects.  Retailers such as  Target Corp. (TGT) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , and
Best Buy Co. have the most to gain under the Fed proposal. They
say they’ll pass the savings to customers through reduced
prices. On a February earnings call, a  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  executive
said the rule would save the company $35 million a year. A  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  analyst on the call sent the comment to
financial lobbyists to use in their campaign, said one lobbyist
involved who requested anonymity to discuss industry strategy.
Home Depot told the Fed it would use the money to benefit
consumers.  Banks Are Opposed  Major banks such as  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
and Bank of America are leading the opposition, said Durbin,
while publicly keeping quiet.  “There’s a lot of money on the table,” Durbin said. “The
big banks and big credit-card companies are keeping as low a
profile as humanly possible,” using the small lenders “as their
beards.”  The Fed rule could cause the banks to lose more than
$12 billion in fee revenue. The card-issuer lobbying arm, the
Electronic Payments Coalition, has pledged to spend $11 million
to lobby Congress to change the plan. Even small banks, which
Durbin’s provision excluded, are upset. The exemption could hurt
them if retailers hesitate to accept cards charging higher swipe
fees.  In case they lose in Congress, JPMorgan, Bank of America,
and other lenders already are moving to eliminate popular
rewards programs and add new checking-account fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paula Dwyer at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 