-- 
Big East TV Contract May Double to $460 Million

-- B y   M i c h e l e   S t e e l e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-03-10T18:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/big-east-tv-contract-may-double-to-460-million.html
(Corrects percentage increase in second paragraph, Berke’s
affiliation in eighth of story published yesterday.)  The  Big East Conference  may get as
much as $460 million for multiyear television contracts to its
college basketball and football games, media analysts said.  The conference, which has 16 members for basketball, may
get an increase close to the 130 percent that the Atlantic Coast
Conference received when  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
ESPN got in a bidding war, RBC Capital’s  David Bank  said.  The Big East’s six-year, $200 million contract with
Disney’s ESPN network runs through the end of the 2012 season.
Commissioner John Marinatto said in December that boosting
television fees is a priority for the conference, which has
hired former National Football League Commissioner Paul Tagliabue to help. Interest from ESPN and other broadcasters,
including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Versus and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Turner
network, may increase the league’s income, analysts said.  “They are going to see a substantial increase, having
additional bidders bids up the rights fees,” Bank said. “It’s
conceivable that they could they see the kind of increase that
the ACC saw.”  The ACC increased its annual rights fees to $155 million
from almost $67 million a year in a contract with ESPN.  The Big East, which includes Villanova University,  Rutgers
University ,  St. John’s University ,  Georgetown University  and the
University of Connecticut, is playing its men’s basketball
tournament this week in New York.  “It’s a seller’s market for major college conference
sports content and for major sports content in general,”
Westchester, New York-based media consultant Lee Berke said.
“If the Big East is able to offer up its programming to a very
competitive marketplace that now includes Comcast/NBC, Turner
and Fox as well as ESPN, the conference should generate a
healthy gain for its next TV deal.”  ACC Example  Berke does consulting work with schools, including the
University of Oklahoma in the Big 12 and the University of
Pittsburgh in the Big East. Both he and Bank said their
projections were based on what happened with the ACC, a
basketball-heavy conference like the Big East, and not on any
specific knowledge
of what networks intend to do regarding rights bids.  The Big East has eight member schools for football. While
the league is one of six affiliated with the Bowl Championship
Series for football, its strength is in basketball. Its members
have won 10 national titles.  The Big East this season has 10 teams with 20 or more wins
and will likely break its own record of eight berths in the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament. While the
Big East’s last national champion in basketball was  Connecticut 
in 2004, it’s the only conference to have at least one team
reach the final eight of the NCAA tournament every year since
2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Michele Steele in New York at 
 msteele10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 