-- 
Eike Batista's MPX Plans $780 Million Bond Sale to Hedge Fund Gavea, BNDES

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-03-10T17:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/billionaire-batista-s-mpx-planning-780-million-bond-sale-to-fund-projects.html
  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , the energy company
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , said it plans
to issue as much as 1.3 billion reais ($780 million) in bonds to
finance coal and natural-gas projects in  Colombia  and Brazil.  Brazil’s national development bank, known as BNDES, Batista
and Gavea Investimentos will buy a combined 1 billion reais of
the three-year convertible bonds in a private placement, MPX
said today in a regulatory filing. Minority shareholders will
also have the right to buy as much as 333 million reais in the
offering, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said.  Proceeds from the sale will be used to finance MPX’s coal
investment in Colombia and in natural-gas production and power
generation in the Parnaiba Basin, in  Brazil ’s Northeast. The
bonds, paying an annual interest rate of 4 percentage points
above inflation, are convertible at any time until the maturity
at a fixed price of 43 reais a share, the company said.  Batista is raising funds to finance the expansion of his
group of companies in the mining, oil and gas and energy
industries. MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the Brazilian
billionaire’s mining unit, is seeking as much as $1.5 billion in
loans to develop an iron-ore project, Chief Executive Officer
Roger Downey said in an interview on Feb. 14.  Colombia Railway  BNDES agreed to subscribe 600 million reais from the MPX
issuance, with Batista and Gavea Investimentos, an investment
firm founded by former Brazilian central banker  Arminio Fraga ,
each subscribing 200 million reais, the company said in the
filing. BNDES and Gavea will each have the right to appoint a
board member to MPX after the completion of the deal, it said.  In Colombia, MPX is aiming to produce 35 million metric
tons of coal by 2012 and will have a 150-kilometer (93-mile)
railway link to its own port. Batista said Feb. 9 that he aims
to raise as much as $1.5 billion in an initial share offering of
the unit, which will be named CCX, as early as the end of this
year.  MPX fell 70 centavos, or 1.8 percent, to 38.45 reais in Sao
Paulo trading at 12:52 a.m. New York time after earlier losing
as much as 2.5 percent, the most since Feb. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  