-- 
Blavatnik Seeks to Dismiss Accusations in Lyondell Case

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-10T20:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/blavatnik-seeks-to-dismiss-accusations-in-lyondell-case-1-.html
Billionaire Len Blavatnik is
seeking to dismiss half of the accusations made in a lawsuit
claiming that he and board members benefited from the $22
billion merger of Lyondell Chemical Co. and Basell AF SCA that
drove it into bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber in  Manhattan  is holding
a hearing today on whether the claims should be dismissed, as a
lawyer for Blavatnik argued in court this morning. Allegations
of fraud against creditors and claims that require judges to
interpret foreign law are among those being challenged,
according to court filings.  Creditors claim the buyout enriched advisers by about $1
billion and profited management, including Blavatnik, while
leaving Lyondell with too much debt. Assets transferred in the
merger left Lyondell insolvent and thus defrauded creditors,
according to the complaint. The company’s 2009 bankruptcy was a
“direct consequence of the merger,” creditors alleged.  Summonses filed in Manhattan in August listed Blavatnik,
chairman of  Access Industries , and 41 other people and companies
that allegedly played a role in Lyondell’s takeover by
Luxembourg-based Basell.  Instructing lawyers as the hearing started, Gerber said
they should address the issue of whether creditors were
defrauded, and how ideas of aiding a fraud were handled under
foreign law.  Lending Covenants  Blavatnik, accused of failing to advance promised funds to
a cash-strapped Lyondell, may not be liable depending on the
wording of the lending agreement, Gerber said. Covenants in such
documents often protect lenders from advancing funds if there’s
an “adverse material change” in the condition of the borrower,
Gerber said.  Dan F. Smith, chairman of Lyondell’s board, approved the
merger by which Lyondell was bought by Basell, and every dollar
of the $12.5 billion paid to shareholders to acquire their stock
for the merger and every dollar of the $1 billion in transaction
fees charged by advisers on the merger came out of the Lyondell
estate, the trustee representing creditors said in an amended
lawsuit filed in July.  Investment banks that funded the acquisition did so with
the expectation that they could earn $260 million in transaction
fees and then “in accordance with the then prevailing practice,
quickly syndicate virtually all of the ‘junk’ obligations being
incurred and unload them off their own books,” lawyers for
Edward S. Weisfelner, the litigation trustee representing
creditors, wrote in the complaint.  Deutsche Bank Settlement  Separately today,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which advised Lyondell
on the 2007 merger, said in court that it settled all claims
against it. Terms weren’t disclosed.  A year ago, allegations against Lyondell’s bank lenders
were settled by a $450 million payment to creditors.  Blavatnik, 53, is worth $10.1 billion, Forbes magazine
calculated this month.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lyondell Chemical Co., 09-
10023, and the adversary case is Official Committee of Unsecured
Creditors v.  Citibank NA , 09-01375,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  