-- 
Blockbuster to Auction Assets With Revised $290 Million Bid

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-11T00:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/blockbuster-said-to-be-in-talks-with-studios-to-support-bankruptcy-auction.html
Bankrupt  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) , once the
world’s largest movie-rental chain, can auction itself with a
newly revised $290 million bid from  hedge funds  and avoid
immediate liquidation, a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in Manhattan said in
court today he will approve the sale proposal to a group of
lenders including  Monarch Alternative Capital LP , even as he
said the company is so deeply insolvent it may not be able to
repay its highest priority creditors. The company said the deal
will save 22,000 jobs.  The ruling came after a hearing was delayed six hours as at
least 50 lawyers for movie studios, hedge funds and other
creditors clustered in groups outside his courtroom trying to
reach a last-minute agreement on the terms of the sale.  “The parties have come to an accord and presented us with
a more palatable situation,” Lifland said, praising a
resolution that he said resolved his criticisms of a prior offer
he had called “garbage.”  Separately, Lifland said  Carl Icahn  and his funds can bid
for Blockbuster in an auction that will test the so-called
“stalking horse,” or leading, bid from Monarch. Lifland has
yet to set a date for the auction, after Blockbuster proposed
one for April 4, with bids needing to be submitted by March 31.  ‘Deep Pockets’  “If you’ve got deep pockets, empty them out at the
auction,” Lifland told lawyers for Icahn, noting that he hadn’t
made a finding on whether the billionaire was an insider. Junior
creditor Lyme Regis Partners LLC said in court papers that
Icahn, who owns the bankrupt movie-rental company’s senior debt,
shouldn’t be allowed to bid because as a former board member of
the company, he’s had insider information.  Blockbuster, based in  Dallas , filed for bankruptcy on Sept.
23 and has been locked in dispute with movie studios and other
unsecured creditors about whether it can sell its assets to a
group of hedge funds who have lent the company money to keep
operating in bankruptcy.  Some creditors called for immediate liquidation of
Blockbuster, as did the U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice
Department  that oversees bankruptcies. Brian Matsumoto, a lawyer
for the U.S. Trustee’s office, told Lifland today that he still
supports a liquidation despite the revised sale proposal.  Lifland had rejected a prior offer from Monarch, and
adjourned a March 2 hearing on it.  Stalking Horse Agreement  The new stalking horse agreement removes the ability of
Blockbuster’s prospective owners to force it into a Chapter 7
bankruptcy to liquidate, Stephen Karotkin, a lawyer for
Blockbuster, told Lifland today.  It also calls for $40 million in administrative claims to
get $3.5 million from Blockbuster’s cash, and for movie studios
to support Blockbuster’s digital distribution model, while
shipping new titles on a cash-in-advance basis, lawyers told
Lifland.  Jeffery Stegenga, Blockuster’s chief restructuring officer,
testified in court today that about $100 million in
administrative claims from movie studios would be frozen under
the new agreement. He said a sale is preferable to a
liquidation, as it saves jobs, and preserves more value for
creditors.  Lifland said Blockbuster still appears to be
“administratively insolvent,” or unable to pay its priority
claims and cost of its bankruptcy.  Unsecured creditors still have little hope of a recovery
unless a more attractive bid is submitted at an auction, said
Richard Kanowitz, a lawyer for the committee of unsecured
creditors.  Creditors Object  Forty-five creditors had objected to Blockbuster’s initial
deal, including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , Universal Studios, Yahoo! Inc.,
the U.S. Trustee’s office, landlords and unsecured creditors.  At a March 2 hearing on the initial bid, Lifland said it
was “the most aggressive document I have seen in 35 years on
the bench.” He added; “If anything is going to fly, this
garbage truck better sprout wings.”  Key objections came from large movie studios, who tried to
bar Blockbuster from distributing titles to their movies. Dennis McGill, Blockbuster’s chief financial officer, said in an
interview today that the studios are “important partners.”  Negotiations leading up to the hearing were to “talk about
their ongoing relationships with blockbuster,” he said.  Claims for Movies  Studios are instrumental to the company’s survival, and
have claims for movies distributed to the DVD renter after it
filed for bankruptcy that should have priority over other
creditors,  Universal Studios , Sony Pictures Home Entertainment
Inc., Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment, and others said
in court papers.  Fox said it had effectively helped finance the bankruptcy
by continuing to make shipments to Blockbuster, and asked in
court papers that Blockbuster either sequester revenue it got
from renting its titles and return the money to Fox, give Fox a
“superpriority” to be repaid over other creditors, or stop
distributing its titles and return them.  “Fox wants to get paid for the product that it has
leased,” Fox lawyers wrote. “ The only way that Fox sees that
happening is if a sale happens through chapter 11.”  Sony also said in court papers that a liquidation would
“depress proceeds, potentially do considerable damage to the
intellectual property and contract rights of all of debtors
movie and game suppliers, destroy jobs, diminish competition,
deprive all of debtors suppliers with a future.”  Blockbuster began reorganizing in September with 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S. The bankruptcy petition
listed assets of $1.02 billion and debt of $1.47 billion.  Lifland said today that sales like that of Blockbuster’s
are becoming more aggressive in bankruptcy, and that the
original sale proposal shouldn’t have tried to cut off
enforcement of “pertinent environmental law.”  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 