-- 
Bond Market Too Slow to Force Government Deficit Cuts, BOJ Nominee Warned

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-10T02:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/bond-market-too-slow-to-force-government-deficit-cuts-boj-nominee-warned.html
Sayuri Shirai, nominated to the  Bank of Japan ’s board this week, warned as a scholar that
governments shouldn’t be fooled into confidence in their debt
levels by a lack of stress in the  bond market , which can react
too slowly to emerging crises.  “The problem with using market indicators is that they
don’t rise enough until an economic crisis hits, making it
difficult to say they are effectively preventing an expansion
of deficits and debt levels,” Shirai, 48, an economics professor
at  Keio University  in Tokyo, wrote in a June 2009 paper that
discusses the importance of fiscal rules in Europe.  In Japan, which has the world’s lowest bond yields even
with the biggest public debt, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has
failed to convince lawmakers to endorse higher taxes to rein in
borrowing. Shirai also warned in 2009 that central banks’
credibility can be hurt by rescuing governments in a fiscal
crisis if the liquidity injections cause inflation to soar.  “The Bank of Japan knows very well that at some point,
it’s going to have to bail out the government,” said  Martin Schulz , a former researcher at the central bank and now senior
economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo. “It’s
certainly a relief for the bank that a candidate proposed by the
government is not entirely on the dovish side, that the
candidate has a strong position toward the debt situation.”  Low Yields  Japan’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  yielded 1.295
percent as of 11:19 a.m. in Tokyo, compared with their average
of about 1.39 percent over the past decade. By comparison,  U.S.
Treasuries  with a similar maturity yield 3.48 percent, while
German bunds are at 3.28 percent.  Shirai, nominated on March 8 to replace retiring BOJ board
member  Miyako Suda , didn’t answer a call to her office, or
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment. Her
office at Keio University said it was unable to comment on her
current views.  Shirai voiced concern specifically about Japan’s fiscal
health in a July 2010 interview with Nikkei Business Online.
Japan’s domestic investors, currently holding more than 90
percent of outstanding debt, may soon be unable sustain the
nation’s borrowing needs as the population ages, she said,
according to the report.  “The respite won’t last for long -- if the current fiscal
situation continues, we’ll eventually need foreign investors to
take on a massive amount of the bonds,” she said, according to
Nikkei Business Online. “Then, we won’t have the luxury to be
complacent. The world understands the abnormal nature of the
current situation better than the Japanese people do.”  Rating Cut  Standard & Poor’s cut Japan’s credit rating to the fourth-
highest level in January, citing the lack of a strategy by Kan
to curb deficits. Public debt is forecast to reach 210 percent
of gross domestic in 2012, the highest among countries tracked
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook on Japan’s
rating to “negative” last month as political gridlock clouded
prospects for budget negotiations and tax changes.  Shirai’s inclusion on the BOJ board may reinforce the
prevailing consensus at the Bank of Japan that it must do all it
can to avoid the appearance of financing public outlays.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa on Feb. 7 said that the
central bank’s purchases of government bonds aren’t intended to
finance deficit spending. The bank is purchasing so-called JGBs
as part of its “comprehensive” monetary easing aimed at
defeating deflation.  Credibility Risk  “Excessive deficits make it harder for countries to pay
off their debts, forcing the central bank to bail out the
nation,” Shirai, who is a former International Monetary Fund
economist, wrote in the  June 2009 paper . “If the government
rescue leads to growth in  money supply , the central bank’s
inflation-fighting policies will lose credibility.”  The decision to pick Shirai was made by a committee meeting
of lawmakers from both chambers of the Diet. That they chose
someone likely to reinforce Shirakawa’s views on avoiding debt
monetization suggests the government agrees that would be unwise,
according to former BOJ official Masamichi Adachi.  “The nomination shows that the relationship between the
BOJ and the government is very favorable right now,” said
Adachi, now a senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.  Shirai earned her doctorate in economics from  Columbia
University  in 1993, where she studied international trade, and
has published books on the IMF,  Asia ’s financial crisis and  Europe ’s sovereign debt turmoil. If approved by the full
parliament, she would succeed board member Suda, who has been
the bank’s biggest opponent of monetary easing.  Analysts said Shirai hasn’t said enough about Japanese
monetary policy to gauge how she would vote in the board’s
monthly rate-setting meetings.  “Either way, it’s very hard to go your own way when you
first get appointed to the policy board,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “Putting
aside which way Shirai will turn, Suda’s departure will increase
the influence of Shirakawa and his deputies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  