-- 
Manchester City, Liverpool Lose at Kiev, Braga in Last 16 of Europa League

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-11T00:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/braga-defeats-liverpool-1-0-in-europa-league-villarreal-tops-leverkusen.html
  Manchester City  lost 2-0 to Dynamo
Kiev in the opening game of their Europa League round of 16 tie,
while English Premier League rival Liverpool was handed a 1-0
defeat at Braga.  Andriy Shevchenko and Oleg Gusev scored the goals to give
Dynamo Kiev the home win last night over City, the U.K.
bookmakers’ favorite to win European soccer’s second-tier club
competition.  “I’m frustrated,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  told ITV.
“We made two big mistakes and they were both goals.”  Three-time champion Liverpool lost in  Portugal  on a penalty
kick from Braga midfielder Alan. Porto, the second favorite, won
1-0 at CSKA Moscow and Villarreal scored late to secure a 3-2
win at  Bayer Leverkusen .  Benfica beat Paris Saint-Germain 2-1, FC Twente won 3-0
over 2008 champion Zenit St. Petersburg, Spartak Moscow defeated
Ajax 1-0 and Rangers drew 0-0 with PSV Eindhoven. The return
matches in the two-game series will be played March 17.  Shevchenko opened the scoring in the 25th minute in Ukraine
by heading in a cross from Andriy Yarmolenko. It was the 65th
goal in European competition for the former AC Milan and Chelsea
striker, ranking him third behind Raul Gonzalez and Filippo Inzaghi.  Dynamo then clinched the victory with 13 minutes as Gusev
gathered in a poor clearance and fired in a shot from eight
yards (7.3 meters) out.  Liverpool Streak Ends  Braga ended Liverpool’s 13-match unbeaten run in  Europe  as
Alan converted from the spot in the 18th minute after Sotirios Kyrgiakos’s foul on Mossoro.  “You don’t know if it’s a good or bad result until the
second leg is over, so we will have to wait and see,” Liverpool
manager  Kenny Dalglish  said on the club’s website.  Fredy Guarin’s goal in the 70th minute gave Porto the
victory in Moscow against CSKA, as the 2003 champion took the
advantage over the 2005 winner. Nilmar came off the bench to
score two goals, including the winner in injury time, as
Villarreal beat Bayer Leverkusen in  Germany .  Benfica rallied for the home win over PSG on goals from
Maxi Pereira and Franco Jara, while two headed goals from Luuk
de Jong lifted  FC Twente  past Zenit in the Netherlands.  Alex’s second-half goal gave Spartak Moscow the win at 1992
champion Ajax, while PSV, which won the competition in 1978,
couldn’t capitalize on a 15-4 shot advantage in the scoreless
draw with Rangers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  