-- 
Brazil Interest-Rate Futures Tumble as Central Bank Sees Slower Inflation

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-03-10T21:31:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/brazil-interest-rate-futures-tumble-as-central-bank-sees-lower-inflation.html
The yield on Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts tumbled the most in 20 months after
policy makers said they expect inflation to slow by the end of
the year.  The yield on the contract due in January 2012 plunged 20
basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 12.35 percent at 4
p.m.  New York  time. The yield on the contract also fell by 20
basis points on July 14, 2009.  The central bank said in the minutes of its March 1-2
monetary policy meeting that it expects annual inflation, which
was 6.01 percent in February, to start slowing by the end of the
year after increases in the next two quarters. Policy makers
also said “the eventual introduction of new macroprudential
measures” may allow them to re-evaluate monetary policy
strategy, according to the minutes from their last policy
meeting, when they raised benchmark borrowing costs by 50 basis
points to 11.75 percent.  “Considering the positive scenario the minutes showed, the
central bank could raise rates 0.25 percentage point, not the 50
basis-point increase the market expects,” said  Newton Rosa ,
chief economist at Sul America Investimentos DTVM, which manages
20 billion reais ($12 billion). “The minutes are extremely
dovish,” he said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Policy makers in emerging-market countries from  Thailand  to  Colombia  have raised  interest rates  this year to stem rising
consumer prices. The Bank of  Korea  increased rates for the
second time this year today after inflation exceeded its target
ceiling for two consecutive months.  Inflation Outlook    Brazil ’s central bank forecast inflation will be
“slightly” below target in 2012 if the benchmark rate goes to
12.5 percent and the exchange rate of the real remains
unchanged, according to the minutes. The central bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Policy makers were “way more explicit” in their minutes
than they have been previously regarding their expectations for
inflation, said Ram Bala Chandran, a Latin American currency and
rates analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  “They said that they understand that inflation for this
year will move higher from the current levels, but then they see
that inflation is going to turn around starting” in the fourth
quarter of 2011, he said.  The real fell 0.5 percent to 1.6622 per dollar, from 1.6540
yesterday. Brazilian markets were closed on March 7 and 8 for a
national holiday.  Policy makers said they twice bought dollars in the  spot
market  today at 1.6603 reais and then at 1.6615 each. The
central bank regularly buys the U.S. currency as part an effort
to curb the real’s appreciation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  