-- 
Bridgepoint Aid Grew as Students Dropped Out, Harkin Says

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-10T22:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/bridgepoint-u-s-aid-grew-as-students-dropped-out-harkin-says.html
  Bridgepoint Education Inc. (BPI) , the
owner of Ashford University, pulled in millions of dollars in
federal funds as student dropout rates soared, U.S. Senator  Tom Harkin  said today at a hearing on the for-profit college.  Almost two-thirds of students who enrolled in Clinton,
Iowa-based  Ashford  in 2008-2009 dropped out by September 2010,
Harkin, a Democrat from  Iowa , said. Bridgepoint took in more
than $600 million in federal student aid in 2010, he said in the
hearing.  “In the world of for-profit higher education, spectacular
business success is possible despite an equally spectacular
record of student failure,” Harkin said at the hearing today.  Bridgepoint, based in  San Diego , was one of many for-profit
colleges that bought small, financially troubled colleges with
regional accreditation, and expanded enrollment with telephone
student recruitment and online educational programs.  While enrollment at for-profit colleges tripled to 1.8
million over the past decade, accreditors were unprepared to
ensure that students were being served appropriately, Jose Cruz,
vice president for higher education policy and practice for the
 Education Trust , a research and advocacy group, said in prepared
testimony.  ‘Intending to Exploit’  “Who could have foreseen, 20 years ago, that a group of
investors would purchase small, well-established, fully
accredited, but financially troubled postsecondary institutions,
intending to exploit their history and physical presence to
build billion-dollar, publicly traded, for-profit college
companies?” he said in testimony prepared for the hearing.
“Yet that is precisely what has happened in the case of
Bridgepoint.”  Bridgepoint Chief Executive Officer Andrew Clark, who was
invited to appear at the hearing, declined to testify. The
company fell 51 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $17.49 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The Bloomberg U.S.
For-Profit Education Index of 13 companies dropped 1.9 percent.  After it was purchased by Bridgepoint in 2005, state
regulators found that an Ashford master’s program in teaching
was understaffed and poorly structured, said Arlie Willems, a
former consultant to the  Iowa Department of Education . Faculty
members lacked credentials and qualifications and there were few
opportunities to practice in classrooms, Willems said.  Teachers’ Complaints  Teachers who took courses at Bridgepoint repeatedly
complained that their classes at Ashford didn’t fulfill state
requirements for licensure, according to documents Harkin
released at the hearing. In most cases, Ashford officials denied
the existence of a problem or defended the current practice,
Willems said.  For-profit colleges present “a specific threat to the
future of our teaching force because of their priorities:
bottom-line profits over quality education,” Willems said in
the hearing.  While about two-thirds of Ashford students withdrew before
graduating, recruiters helped enrollment grow to 77,892 in 2010,
from 1,083 in 2005, Harkin said in the hearing. Meanwhile,
annual instruction costs fell to $700 per student in 2009, from
$5,034 per student in 2004, before the Bridgepoint purchase,
Harkin said. The percentage of students defaulting on government
loans within three years of the beginning of required repayment
rose to 22 percent in 2008 from 8.8 percent in 2005, he said.  Students’ use of federal aid soared to $613 million in
2009-2010 from less than $3 million in the 2004-2005 school
year, Education Department Inspector General  Kathleen Tighe  said
in prepared remarks. The increase in aid after Bridgepoint’s
purchase of Ashford prompted an audit, and the final version was
released in January.  ‘Significant Deficiencies’  The audit found “significant deficiencies” in
Bridgepoint’s recruitment and use of student aid. While federal
regulations forbid paying recruiters based on the number of
students signed up, with some exceptions, Bridgepoint’s
compensation for recruiters was “highly incentivized,” Tighe
said.  In some cases, Bridgepoint kept more of students’ financial
aid money than was needed for tuition, Tighe said. The company
also failed to adequately show that students were participating
in online classes, according to the audit.  Ashford officials disagreed with many of the audit’s
findings, and the Education Department must determine how to
address them, Tighe said.  The hearing on Bridgepoint is premature while the Education
Department is still determining how to deal with the company,
said Republican Senator Mike Enzi of  Wyoming .  ‘Rush to Judgment’  “This hearing is an agenda-driven rush to judgment,” Enzi
said in the hearing. “It’s a cart before the horse, a verdict
before the trial.  “The Inspector General’s findings trouble me as much as
they do you,” Enzi said. “These are potentially serious
violations of the law. A process is in place to review these
findings without intervention from Congress.”  The Education Department has said it would have had no
concerns about representatives of Bridgepoint testifying at the
hearing, Harkin said.  Throughout these years of growth and disputes with
regulators, Ashford has remained accredited, Cruz said.  “It must make us wonder about the quality of those reviews
-- and the ability of the entity leading them to understand all
of the complexities presented by a for-profit institution,”
Cruz said.  The  Higher Learning Commission’s North Central Association
of Colleges and Schools  is making “major” changes to stop
companies from buying colleges solely to get accreditation and
access to federal student aid, said Sylvia Manning, president of
the group. The commission is now attaching conditions to the
sale of colleges, requiring them to “remain essentially the
same institution” to keep their accreditation, she said.  First-time applications for accreditation take a minimum of
two years and have become more rigorous, Manning said. Colleges
also are required to disclose more to students about program
costs and quality, she said.  “We were behind the curve,” Manning said. “We had catch-
up to do. We have done catch-up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  