-- 
Brides Copy Chelsea Clinton in Saying Yes to More Than One Dress

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/brides-mimic-chelsea-clinton-in-saying-yes-to-more-than-one-dress.html
Today’s bride is saying yes to more
than just one dress. Heather Wetzel plans to wear two when she
weds next month: a white ball gown for the ceremony and a
strapless knee-length number for the reception.  “Who wants to be seen on Facebook in only one dress on
their wedding day, anyway?” says Wetzel, 26, who works for a
consulting firm in  New York  that helps associations manage their
operations.  Wetzel and other brides are embracing a trend popularized
by celebrities like Chelsea Clinton and singer Carrie Underwood,
who both made costume changes during recent nuptials.
Traditional wedding gowns have grown so large and ornate that
more women are ready for a cute, dance-worthy cocktail dress for
the party after, said Denise Wash, a marketing vice president
for bridal dressmaker Alfred Angelo.  More than 40 percent of weddings occur between May and
July, according to theknot.com, a bridal planning website that
tracks the $4.2 billion U.S. market for wedding attire. About 15
percent of brides plan to buy more than one gown, and that may
rise to as much as 30 percent as more seek variety, according to
Carley Roney, editor-in-chief of the New York site. And that
means more matrimonial money for everyone from J. Crew Group
Inc. to high-end designers like Amsale.  “We saw this come down from the celebrity, affluent part
of the industry, and the last several years it has started
moving down to the mainstream bridal markets,” said Brian
Beitler, chief marketing officer at closely held David’s Bridal
Inc. “We expect the trend to accelerate.”  Detachable Skirts  His  company , which operates more than 300 stores, has added
short white dresses to its Priscilla of Boston locations. The
Conshohocken, Pennsylvania-based retailer also has expanded its
assortment at David’s Bridal over the past few years, and
introduced two-looks-in-one dresses, with detachable skirts,
this spring, Beitler said.  Monique Lhuillier, a Los Angeles-based designer who made
two wedding dresses for country western star Underwood last
year, is creating more short options for her collection,
allowing brides more range of motion. Her best-selling reception
look, which goes for more than $7,000, is the "Pixie" Chantilly
lace corset worn with a floral embroidered organza miniskirt and
a hyacinth-colored sash tied at the waist, she said in an e-
mail.  Brides typically spend more than $1,000 on their main
wedding gown, according to theknot.com. Over the past decade
retailers such as J. Crew and  AnnTaylor Stores Corp. (ANN)  have
entered the market, and last year wedding dresses alone
accounted for $1.7 billion in U.S. sales.  Alfred Angelo  Alfred Angelo , whose gowns mostly sell for just under
$1,000, debuted its first little white dress line for spring of
2010, priced at $199 to $549. Clients are choosing among nearly
a dozen styles for receptions and other events around their
marriage, including showers and rehearsal dinners, said Alfred
Angelo’s Wash, who’s based in Philadelphia.  “They want to be a bride as long as possible,” she said.  Luxury designer Amsale, whose flagship salon is on New
York’s Madison Avenue, introduced its own little white dress
collection in 2008 with designs priced at $900 to $1,200,
compared with prices for traditional gowns as high as $12,000.
Its website currently features 25 such dresses.    J. Crew   New York-based J. Crew, which joined the bridal market in
2004, expanded secondary interpretations a year ago, starting
with a little dress covered in white sequins, said Tom Mora,
head of wedding design. Now searching on its website for
“reception dresses” yields eight styles priced $150 to $1,495,
including a Francesca duchesse satin dress with French lace trim
on the hem and peplum-style tiered overlay.  A big part of the charm in changing is comfort. Brides like
Wetzel are wearing a large gown-of-their-dreams to the ceremony
-- some with sleeves for church weddings -- and moving to
shorter, sexier dresses or streamlined long ones that are easier
to dance in. Some make a surprise switch after the first twirl
with their fathers.  “People are not dancing to  Frank Sinatra  for the whole
reception,” said theknot.com’s Roney. “It’s more Black Eyed
Peas, and that is hard to do in a ball gown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in  Washington  at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  