-- 
U.K. Pound Falls Against Dollar After BOE Holds Key Rate at a Record Low

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-10T16:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/british-pound-weakens-versus-dollar-before-bank-of-england-rate-decision.html
The pound fell the most in more
than six weeks against the dollar as the  Bank of England  kept
interest rates at a record low to safeguard the economy even
with inflation at twice its target.  Sterling has declined in five of the past six trading days
against its American counterpart. Officials held the main rate
at 0.5 percent, as predicted by all 61 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The central bank’s decision to maintain its bond
holdings at 200 billion pounds ($323 billion) was also
anticipated by economists in a separate survey. U.K. gilts rose
as investors reduced bets on higher rates and declines in
equities boosted demand for safer assets.  “There might have been some pricing of a move, so
obviously when it didn’t happen sterling weakened slightly,”
said  Steven Barrow , London-based head of research for Group-of-
10 currencies at Standard Bank Plc. “The economy remains
somewhat fragile, and that’s going to weigh on sterling.”  The pound depreciated 1 percent to $1.6049 at 4:32 p.m. in
London, after weakening to $1.6039, the lowest level since Feb.
25. It was 0.2 percent weaker at 86.01 pence per euro. Prior to
today, the pound had gained 3.8 percent against the dollar this
year amid mounting pressure on policy makers to raise the key
rate as inflation persists above their 2 percent target.
Inflation accelerated to 4 percent in January.  ‘Futile Gesture’  The British currency slipped even after a report from the  Office for National Statistics  showed U.K. factory output rose 1
percent from December, when it shrank 0.1 percent. The median
forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.6 percent increase. The index of manufacturing rose to 92.9,
the highest since October 2008.  Bank of England policy makers are seeking to balance their
mandate to curb price increases with the danger of the economy
slipping back into a recession after output shrank 0.6 percent
in the fourth quarter. The central bank’s Governor  Mervyn King 
said this month that raising rates too soon would be a “futile
gesture.”  Details of policy makers’ deliberations will be released on
March 23, when minutes of the meeting that ended today are
published. The government’s statistics office is scheduled to
release February’s inflation data a day earlier. Three of the
nine-member Monetary Policy Committee voted to raise the
benchmark-interest rate to tame inflation at last month’s
meeting.  ‘Ropey’ Economy  “With the economy looking quite ropey, the wrong thing to
do is to raise  interest rates  in the U.K.,” said  David Bloom ,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in
London. “Our message is to be selling sterling based on this
interest rate madness,” because interest rate expectations
“won’t be met,” he said.  HSBC forecasts the Bank of England will leave its benchmark
rate unchanged at 0.5 percent until the end of 2011.  Short-sterling contracts climbed, pushing the implied yield
on the contract maturing in June down five basis points to 1.04
percent, as investors pared bets that borrowing costs will rise.
The central bank hasn’t adjusted rates since March 2009.  Gains in  government bonds  pushed the 10-year gilt yield
seven basis points lower to 3.59 percent. The 4.75 percent
security due March 2020 rose 0.585, or 5.85 pounds per 1,000-
pound face amount, to 108.855.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  