-- 
Brown Asks for Delay in Vote on California Budget, Says Talks Advancing

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-03-10T01:51:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/brown-asks-for-delay-in-vote-on-california-budget-says-talks-advancing.html
  California  Governor  Jerry Brown  said
he needs more time to reach a compromise with Republican
lawmakers over his plan to erase a resurgent $25.4 billion
deficit, and asked legislators to delay plans for a vote.  Brown, citing “positive and productive talks” late today,
asked Senate and Assembly leaders to postpone action on a
package of measures that would slash spending by $12.5 billion
and call a special election in June on extending more than $9.3
billion of tax increases.  The governor needs “more time to find common ground,” a
spokesman, Gil Duran, said in a statement.  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat, is facing resistance from
Republicans who oppose the tax extensions. While the governor
won the backing yesterday of a Silicon Valley business group,
Brown’s credibility is on the line if the package fails after he
promised voters he could solve California’s recurrent budget
crises without gutting public education, said  Jack Pitney , a
political science professor at  Claremont McKenna College .  “That’s a sack full of nasty,” said Pitney at the college
in Claremont, California. “On one hand, he doesn’t get any
credit for legislative skills and he doesn’t bridge the partisan
divide as promised. And then he has to tell a state full of
parents that their kids’ class sizes are going to increase
dramatically.”  U.S. governors face deficits totaling as much as $125
billion in the coming fiscal year, according to the Washington-
based  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . California’s
financial strains have left it with the biggest deficit among
the states and the lowest credit rating. With an economy bigger
than  Russia ’s, California has fought its way through a combined
$100 billion of shortfalls in the past three years.  Courting Business Backing  Part of Brown’s strategy has been to court business leaders
to help sway Republicans, whose support he will need to get a
two-thirds majority in both chambers of the Legislature for
calling the special election.  The Silicon Valley Leadership Group, whose more than 300
members include  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Stanford University , said broad
tax increases are preferable to targeted levies that would harm
individual industries or income groups.  “Painful cuts as well as those temporary tax extensions
for five years are core to finding common ground,” Carl Guardino, president of the Silicon Valley group, said yesterday
after endorsing Brown’s proposal. “If it’s important for
California, then we should all have skin in the game.”  Chamber of Commerce  The California Chamber of Commerce said it would back
lawmakers who may face criticism from anti-tax groups for
agreeing to Brown’s tax-extension plan. The 15,000-member
organization, based in  Sacramento , hasn’t endorsed the
governor’s budget.  “This will provide for a balanced budget for the
foreseeable future,” said Allan Zaremberg, the group’s
president, in a telephone interview. “That will provide the
certainty that’s going to lead to more investment in
California.”  State law-enforcement leaders two days earlier backed a
cornerstone of Brown’s plan that calls for shifting public
safety and welfare programs to local governments. Money from the
tax extensions would finance that change for the first five
years.  The tension over the budget and the showdown in the
Legislature have helped push the extra yield that buyers want
for 10-year California bonds up almost 10 percent since the one-
year low on Jan. 17 to 136 basis points, compared with top-rated
municipal debt, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Tax-Increase Extensions  Brown, who was governor from 1975 to 1983, proposed asking
voters to retain a 0.25 percentage-point increase in personal
income-tax rates; a 1 percentage-point boost in the retail-sales
tax rate, to 8.25 percent; an increase in the rate for auto-
registration fees of 0.5 percentage point, to 1.15 percent of a
vehicle’s value; and a reduction of the state’s child tax credit
to $99 from $309.  The taxes were raised in 2009 when former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers faced a $42 billion deficit. They
are set to expire this year, and Brown proposes to retain them
for five more.  If the tax increases aren’t extended, Brown has vowed to
cut even more to  close  a deficit that’s equal to 20 percent of
discretionary spending in a total budget of $84.6 billion.
Further spending reductions would have to come from schools and
police protection, he said.  Budget Deadline  Brown had urged lawmakers to approve his plan by March 10
or soon thereafter to give officials the three-month lead time
they need prepare for the special election. He said he wants to
know the outcome of that vote before the constitutional deadline
of  June 15  for the Legislature to send him a budget. Last year’s
financial plan was passed a record 100 days into the fiscal
year, which begins July 1.  The governor’s budget has drawn opposition from some
Democrats. They disagree with the scope of cuts including $1.7
billion from health care for the poor, $1.5 billion from welfare
and $1.4 billion from public universities and community
colleges.  Republicans propose to limit spending, according to their
position papers, legislation and interviews. One notion is to
develop a formula tied to inflation and population, or some
other benchmark, and set aside a portion of any excess revenue
in good years into a rainy-day fund for times when the economy
sours and revenue declines.  Spending Cap  Similar caps offered in the past met with resistance from
Democrats, public worker unions and advocates for school and
welfare funding. Democrats have said they’re open to discussing
a less restrictive cap, such as limiting spending during the
five years of the temporary tax extension.  The Republicans also have said they want to reduce benefits
for government workers, citing the growing cost of pensions.
Some would dismantle the current system that guarantees benefit
levels regardless of investment returns, replacing it with a
hybrid that includes elements of a traditional plan and a 401(k)
account where beneficiaries bear more of the  investment risk .  Some Democrats say a hybrid plan is off the table and that
steps to curtail perceived pension abuses should be bargained
with the unions.  Brown met yesterday with five Republican senators who the
day before had declared negotiations were at an impasse to work
on a possible compromise involving those issues.  Open Door  “He is maintaining an open door policy and is continuing
to talk to legislators on both sides of the isle,” Gil Duran, a
Brown spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  California shares with Illinois the lowest  credit rating  of
any state from Moody’s Investors Service. The A1 grade is
Moody’s fifth-highest. Standard & Poor’s rates California A-,
its fourth-lowest level for investment-quality securities.  “Investors are truly concerned,” said Don Backstrom, a
managing director and principal of Backstrom McCarley Berry &
Co., a San Francisco-based municipal bond underwriter. “They
are telling us that they are concerned about how this is going
to turn out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  