-- 
Cablevision Renames `Mad Men' Unit AMC for Spinoff; Sapan to Be Chief

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-10T22:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/cablevision-says-sapan-to-head-media-business-renames-unit-amc-networks.html
  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  said it
will rename its Rainbow Media unit AMC Networks Inc. and appoint
longtime executive Josh Sapan as chief executive officer as the
business is spun off as a separate company.  AMC Networks will include television stations AMC, IFC, WE
tv, and Sundance Channel, according to a statement today. The
company will “likely” be based in New York, said Kimberly
Kearns, a Cablevision spokeswoman.  The transaction, a tax-free spinoff, is expected to be
completed by the end of the second quarter. No date has been set
for its public listing.  Cablevision first announced it was exploring a spinoff in
November, allowing Chief Executive Officer Jim Dolan to focus on
the company’s cable operations. Rainbow generated $298.5 million
in revenue for Cablevision last quarter, up 14 percent from a
year earlier.  Sapan joined Rainbow Media in 1987 as president of AMC and
Bravo. He “is the ideal executive to provide the leadership
necessary as a new AMC Networks becomes a public company,” said
Dolan in the statement. Sapan has been CEO of Rainbow since
1995.  Rainbow’s fourth-quarter advertising revenue grew 21
percent as Emmy-award winning “Mad Men,” a drama about a  New
York  advertising firm set in the 1960s, and “Breaking Bad,”
about a teacher who sells methamphetamines, boosted AMC’s
national appeal.  In 1997, Sapan created IFC Entertainment, an independent
film division, which has released past Oscar-nominated films
“In The Loop” and “My Big Fat Greek Wedding.” IFC
Entertainment will remain part of AMC Networks Inc., as will
AMC/Sundance Global, the company’s international programming
business, and distribution company AMC Network Communications.  Cablevision fell 41 cents to $35.21 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained 4 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  