-- 
Canadian Pipeline Boosted by Turmoil, Former Ambassador Says

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-03-10T20:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/canadian-pipeline-boosted-by-turmoil-former-ambassador-says.html
David Wilkins, former U.S.
ambassador to  Canada , said unrest in oil-producing nations may
boost support for a stalled pipeline to Gulf Coast refineries
from Canada’s  oil sands .  “Sometimes it takes a crisis and turmoil to make a country
focus,” Wilkins said in an interview in Calgary. “I think this
happened in the last weeks in the Middle East. It is going to
make us focus more on the need for facilitating the movement of
Canadian oil to the U.S. We should be doing as much as we can to
facilitate that rather than setting up roadblocks.”  A proposed extension of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s C$13 billion
($13.3 billion) Keystone Express pipeline system has been
delayed by objections from groups of U.S. politicians and
environmentalists. The link between the end of the existing line
in the U.S. Midwest and Gulf Coast refineries needs State
Department approval.  The approval, which TransCanada expected to receive last
year, should come by the end of this year, Chief Executive
Officer Russ Girling said in February.  Wilkins, who was appointed Canadian ambassador by President  George W. Bush  and served from 2005 to 2009, returned to his
native South Carolina to run the public policy and international
relations practice of law firm Nelson Mullins Riley &
Scarborough LLP. He was speaker of the  South Carolina  House of
Representatives for 11 years before being appointed ambassador.  Predictions that gasoline could reach $4 a gallon in the
U.S. this summer have brought discussion of Canadian supplies to
the forefront, Wilkins said. Negative perceptions of oil-sands
processing are being tempered by the desire to have a secure,
nearby source of oil, he said.  “I think this is an education process,” Wilkins said. “I
think the group opposed to the oil sands got out in front on the
issue and painted it one way. Alberta has been doing a pretty
decent job recently of getting that message out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 