-- 
Harper Says NHL Must Address Increase in Serious Head Injuries to Players

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-03-10T22:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/canada-s-harper-says-nhl-must-address-increase-in-head-injuries-to-players.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper said the  National Hockey League  must address an increase
in major head injuries to its players.  He declined comment on a hit two nights ago to  Montreal
Canadiens  forward Max Pacioretty that caused a severe concussion
and fractured vertebrae, citing an investigation opened earlier
today by  local police . The government is working to control a
rise in such injuries at the youth level, adding he wasn’t sure
if the matter was for “politicians to address” in the
professional ranks, Harper said.  “I just say this as a hockey fan: I’m very concerned about
the growing number of very serious injuries and in some cases to
some of the premier players in the game,” Harper, who has
worked on a hockey history book and who has a son who plays the
sport. “I don’t think that’s good for the game and I think the
league has to take a serious look at that for its own sake.”  Pacioretty is out indefinitely after being checked into a
post along the boards by Boston Bruins defenseman Zdeno Chara.  Air Canada (AC/A)  sent the NHL a letter yesterday saying the country’s
biggest airline would end its league sponsorship unless steps,
including player suspensions, are taken to curb violent hits,
according to a copy of the letter sent by spokesman Peter Fitzpatrick.  “Action must be taken by the NHL before we are encountered
with a fatality,” Denis Vandal, Air Canada’s marketing and
communications director, said in the letter.  ‘Horrific’ Part of Game  The NHL said yesterday Chara won’t be suspended because
there was no indication he sought to make a “dangerous” play.
NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said in  Washington  today the
Pacioretty injury was “horrific,” but part of the “fast-paced
physical game.”  On the Air Canada letter, Bettman said, “if they decide
they need to do other things with their sponsorship dollars,
that’s their prerogative, just like it’s the prerogative of our
clubs that fly on Air Canada to make other arrangements if they
don’t think Air Canada is giving them the appropriate level of
service.”  Canadiens’ owner Geoff Molson said today he disagrees with
the ruling not to suspend the Bruins captain and will raise the
matter at a March 14-16 meeting of team general managers.  The decision “shook the faith that we, as a community,
have in this sport,” Molson said in a  statement . “At risk are
some of the greatest professional athletes in the world, our fan
base and the health of our sport at all levels.”    Sidney Crosby  of the  Pittsburgh Penguins , the league’s most
valuable player in 2007 who scored the Olympic gold medal-
winning goal against the U.S. in  Vancouver  last year, hasn’t
played since January because of a concussion from blows to the
head in hockey games.  In October, the NFL began suspending players and issuing
fines for flagrant hits that endanger safety, particularly those
to the head.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 