-- 
Canada's F-35 Fighter Jets Could Cost $29.3 Billion, Budget Officer Says

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-10T19:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/canada-s-f-35-fighter-jets-could-cost-29-3-billion-budget-officer-says.html
  Canada ’s parliamentary budget
officer said plans by Prime Minister Stephen Harper government
to acquire 65 of Lockheed Martin Corp.’s F-35 Joint Strike
Fighters aircraft may cost about $12 billion more than
estimated, fueling speculation opposition parties may seek to
bring down the government later this month.  The budget office’s figures show the government is
misleading Canadians on the costs of the fighter purchase,
undermining the credibility of their budget, lawmakers from the
main opposition  Liberal Party  said.  The report comes a day after the Speaker of the House of
Commons found the government violated lawmakers’ privileges by
not disclosing information about the cost of some of its
proposed legislation. The leader of the main opposition Liberal
Party,  Michael Ignatieff , said yesterday he is keeping “all
options open” including a non-confidence motion that could
trigger an early election.  It “hasn’t been a good week” for the government, Liberal
lawmaker Dominic Leblanc told reporters today, adding opposition
lawmakers will have a “number of occasions” later this month
to bring down the government in parliamentary votes.  Budget Officer Report  Canada may spend $29.3 billion if it proceeds to buy 65 of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighters aircraft,
Parliament’s budget officer said  in a report  today. The figure
includes the cost to purchase and maintain the aircraft for 30
years. The defense department has estimated a cost of $17.6
billion, the report said.  The Liberals have said they intend to halt any F-35
purchase and start a new competition to replace Canada’s aging
fighter jets, should they win the next election.  Speaking to reporters in Toronto today, Harper said the F-
35 is the only airplane that meets Canada’s defense needs.  The Liberals say Harper is withholding information on the
costs of its policies that is needed to assess the government’s
fiscal plan, which will be released by Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  on March 22.  Canada’s government will either give more information on
the costs demanded by lawmakers or explain why they can’t be
provided, Conservative House Leader  John Baird  told reporters
yesterday.  The governing Conservatives  lack a majority  of seats in the
House of Commons and need the support of at least one opposition
party to pass the budget and avoid elections.  Opposition parties can also bring down the government by
passing a motion of “non-confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 