-- 
Canadian Banks Show Rare Division Over TMX Sale to LSE

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-10T21:29:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/canadian-banks-show-rare-division-over-tmx-group-sale-to-lse.html
Canadian banks, united on most
policy issues, are divided on whether to support the proposed
sale of the country’s main stock exchange to  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)     Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
and National Bank of  Canada , three of the country’s six biggest
lenders, said yesterday they oppose the C$3.2 billion ($3.3
billion) transaction, concerned about job losses and
surrendering regulatory control of the securities industry.    Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Bank of Montreal support the
combination, saying it will benefit Canada’s financial-services
industry. Both banks are advising on the sale.  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , the country’s third-largest bank, hasn’t weighed in on
the debate.  “They’re not all the same - they don’t all wear white
shirts and red ties,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research
at Toronto-based MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. “Each
bank has a different culture and they’re run by different
people.”  The six lenders, which represent the bulk of Canada’s
deposits, loans and mortgages, have been united in the past on
issues including financial reform, opposing a global bank tax
and pushing for the right to sell insurance online.  The banks opposing the transaction released a letter
yesterday outlining their concerns, saying Canada’s clout as a
center for mining and energy trading may be diminished.  ‘Flag of Globalization’  “The outlook for Canadian capital markets over the next
number of years would be very uncertain,” according to the
letter, signed by Toronto-Dominion’s TD Securities Chief
Executive Officer Robert Dorrance, Richard Nesbitt, CEO of  CIBC
World Markets , and Ricardo Pascoe, co-CEO of National Bank
Financial, Casgrain & Co. President Guy Casgrain and AltaCorp
Capital Inc. CEO George Gosbee. Toronto-Dominion coordinated the
logistics of the efforts.  Canada is not “obliged to support any deal that wraps
itself in the flag of globalization,” the bankers wrote in the
letter titled “Let’s Build on a Canadian Success Story.”
“Canadians are quite capable of competing and winning on the
global stage. Our success does not depend on selling out or
waiting for others to ‘save’ us.”  Dorrance told an Ontario legislative committee in Toronto
yesterday that financial firms are also worried about access to
capital and governance of the combined company.  “Rule making will lose its Canadian focus,” he said.  ‘Right for Canada’    National Bank of Canada (NA)  Vice Chairman Luc Bertrand, who
appeared alongside Dorrance, later told reporters that the issue
is what’s right for Canada.  “Canada has made some really smart decisions over the
years, and we’re the envy of the world,” said Bertrand, the
former head of the Montreal derivatives market. “What we’re
hoping to impress upon policymakers is, let’s continue in that
same culture and vein of thinking.”  TMX and LSE dropped on concern the deal may be blocked. The
takeover requires approval from the federal government and five
Canadian provincial regulators including Ontario and  Quebec .
London Stock Exchange fell 24 pence, or 2.8 percent, to 845
pence in London trading. TMX Group fell 68 cents, or 1.7
percent, to C$38.39 at 4 p.m. trading in Toronto.  The Ontario Securities Commission will focus on
“regulatory aspects” in its review of the proposed sale, said
commission Chairman Howard Wetston.  Global Arena  “While exchanges operate in a global arena and
consolidation is ongoing, it remains the responsibility of the
local regulators to ensure regulatory oversight continues to be
strong and effective,” Wetston told the Ontario committee
today.  Shares of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner are trading
about 3 percent below the offer from the LSE, according to
Bloomberg data. When the deal was announced Feb. 9, TMX
shareholders were offered a premium of more than 8 percent. The
gap between the shares and the offer price indicates investors
are betting the sale may not be approved.  TMX Group CEO Thomas Kloet, responding to yesterday’s
letter, said in a statement today that the transaction
“contains protections and covenants to ensure that regulatory
oversight of the exchanges and of Canadian issuers remain
intact.”  Royal Bank, the country’s biggest lender, is advising the
London exchange on the transaction, while  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the
No. 4 bank, is working with TMX.  Business Rationale  “The business rationale behind the merger makes a lot of
sense in a world where exchanges are globalizing,” Royal Bank
CEO Gordon Nixon told reporters on March 3. Having Toronto as a
co-head office for a global exchange is “likely more attractive
than the alternative” if TMX would remain a standalone Canadian
exchange, he said.  The transaction would benefit Ontario and Toronto’s
financial-services sector, which employs about 300,000 people,
said Eric Tripp, President of Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital
Markets unit.  “These are good, well paying jobs,” Tripp said, according
to the text of his speaking notes yesterday to the committee.
“There are thousands more - lawyers, accountants, IT
professionals - whose jobs exist solely to support this
financial services cluster.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 