-- 
Chateau Margaux Luxury Liquidity Is Pricey at $2,400 a Bottle

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s   a n d   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-03-10T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/chateau-margaux-s-mature-luxury-liquidity-comes-pricey-at-2-400-a-bottle.html
A waiter is pouring generous
rations of wine in the private dining salon of  Chateau Margaux 
on the left bank of the Gironde estuary in southwestern  France .
Baccarat crystal schooners are filled to the brim with one of
the world’s rarest liquid investments. The costly history of
downing Chateau Margaux unfolds.  “Richard the Lionheart would drink anything from our
vineyard,” says Corinne Mentzelopoulos, proprietor of Chateau
Margaux and custodian of the 80 hectare Bordeaux vineyard’s
luxury lore. “Friedrich Engels preferred the 1848 Chateau
Margaux. Engels was pretty bloody bourgeois,” she adds with a
grin, a question and a raised glass. “An endorsement from
Engels. I wonder what the Marxists will make of that?”  The answer hinges on whether thirsty disciples of “Das
Kapital” can afford Chateau Margaux prices that range from $225
to $2,400 a bottle. Credit Suisse’s 2010 “Global Wealth
Report” suggests the workers of the world won’t anytime soon be
uniting over a $29,000 case of 1990 Chateau Margaux.  According to the bank’s calculations, there are 81,000
people globally with net assets in excess of $50 million and
2,800 with more than $500 million on tap. As for billionaires,
Credit Suisse figures a mere 1,000 folks have the capital
required to saute their shallots with Chateau Margaux.  Market Confidence  “You can’t fight against the market,” Mentzelopoulos
laments, holding a decanter of her 1989 vintage against the
sunlight. “The price is a sign of trust in Chateau Margaux,
though anyone who’s speculating and not drinking this is kidding
themselves. I’d like to think that there are a good number of
winos among Chateau Margaux investors.”  The market cautions sobriety. Chateau Margaux “fell from
grace” in the 1960s and 1970s, when lack of investment and the
oil crisis hit the Bordeaux market, says Peter Lunzer, director
of London-based  Lunzer Wine Investments . “As a first growth, it
fell the most, and had the most recovery to do,” he says.  While Chateau Margaux vintages improved from 1978, the year
after the Mentzelopoulos family bought the rundown estate, it
took a decade for the market to fully reflect the family’s
dreams. “1990 was the watershed because that was when they
achieved global recognition,” Lunzer says.  The 1990 vintage now rates among Chateau Margaux’s top four
of the past quarter-century, listed on the London-based Liv-ex
wine market at $14,900 a case, or slightly more than $1,200 a
bottle. Awarded a perfect 100 points by  Wine Advocate  founder  Robert Parker , it rose as high as 13,800 pounds ($29,012) a case
at a  Sotheby’s (BID)  London sale in November 2007.    Hong Kong   In the wake of the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the ensuing financial crisis, Chateau
Margaux 1990 last October still achieved $25,000 a case at a
Sotheby’s Hong Kong sale, a sign that the market has recouped
most of the losses.  “I hope Robert Parker lives for a very long time,”
Mentzelopoulos says.  The 2000 vintage price peaked at Sotheby’s Hong Kong
auction last October, when three cases sold for $28,000 each.
Liv-ex’s data on merchant prices in Europe lists the 2000
vintage at a more modest $15,300 a case, while among other
recent standout years 2005 sells in  Europe  for $13,000 and 2009
for $13,900.  Among the five left-bank, first-growth Bordeaux wines,
Margaux typically trades for less than market leader  Chateau
Lafite Rothschild  and its Pauillac neighbor  Chateau Latour ,
while usually fetching more than  Chateau Mouton Rothschild  and
Pessac-Leognan producer  Chateau Haut-Brion .  Upstart Rival  Chateau Margaux is also under siege from one of its
neighbors,  Chateau Palmer , a third-growth claret popular with
U.K. collectors that displays regional similarities to its more
illustrious rival and sells for a quarter of the price. Palmer
1990 is listed at $2,800 a case by European merchants, according
to Liv-ex, while its 2000 vintage sells for $3,500.  “We fill some 120,000 bottles a year, around 10,000 cases
of Chateau Margaux,” Mentzelopoulos says of the bewildering
market clout of investment-grade Bordeaux. “I’ve no idea how
many of the people who buy prefer speculating over drinking, but
I do worry about a Bordeaux slump that never seems to happen.
Hey, if the grape is rotten, the grape is rotten. I make wine
for drinkers.”  International Monetary Fund economists Serhan Cevik and
Tahsin Saadi Sedik say investors might just as well be drinking
Brent Blend.  Oil or Wine  “Although fine wine can be considered as an investable
asset,” the economists wrote in their January  research paper 
“A Barrel of Oil or a Bottle of Wine: How do Global Growth
Dynamics Affect Commodity Prices?” “its behavior is not
significantly different than other commodities and therefore may
fail to enhance portfolio diversification.”  Mentzelopoulos ponders the notion in the IMF working paper
of Chateau Margaux as a hydrocarbon.  “At least they didn’t compare us to gold,” she says. “If
gold drops in price, there’s nothing you can do with it. Chateau
Margaux is an asset that fortunately happens to be a drinkable
commodity that improves with age.”  It has been that way since June 1705, when the London
Gazette newspaper ran an advertisement with a typographical
error that offered 230 hogshead barrels of Chateau “Margoose”
for 60 pounds a “tun” at a time when the most precious
Bordeaux fetched 18 pounds a tun. Chateau Margaux 66 years later
again entered the history books by becoming the first wine put
on auction by Christie’s.  Drinking Paradise  A passage from William Styron’s 1979 bestseller “Sophie’s
Choice” boosted the wine’s literary reputation. “Were a wine
to be drunk in paradise,” Styron wrote, “it would be Chateau
Margaux.”  Over at Sotheby’s, international-wine-department head  Serena Sutcliffe  evokes the 1990 vintage in winespeak. “This is
true first-growth beauty, with its projection of silky,
approachable fruit and sleek bilberry taste,” is Sutcliffe’s
verdict in the catalog for the auction house’s September 2010
London sale. “Utterly tempting and full of black fruit, it has
perfect balance and irreproachable class.”  Mentzelopoulos takes another sip and conjures up her own
memories. “My dad and I first arrived at Chateau Margaux in a
taxi in 1977,” she reminisces. “I thought I was Simone de
Beauvoir. Dad owned the Felix Potin grocery chain and heard that
the place was up for sale. We had lunch with the owners in a
dark dining room and it was spooky. I’d never seen a grand wine
cellar and dad had never tasted Chateau Margaux.”  Feminine Wine  As Mentzelopoulos tells it, Chateau Margaux drinkers never
forget their first taste. “Chateau Margaux is a feminine wine,
sexy,” she says. “I’d like to think that all those speculators
are trading our wine in order to pay for what they’re
drinking.”  Although Mentzelopoulos guarantees that Chateau Margaux is
hangover free, there is one headache that won’t go away. “We
can’t afford to go from exceptional to average,” she says while
pruning a vine. “All of this can stop suddenly if the vintages
aren’t good. What the businessmen don’t understand is that we
are farmers and everything depends on the stupid land and the
stupid climate.”  And on the risk of being eclipsed by Bordeaux rivals as
they compete for high net-worth customers in  China ,  Russia  and
the U.S. “Margaux as a style is lighter, more refined” than
the heavyweight top wines of Pauillac, Lunzer says. While that
helps define the wine’s characteristics, he says Lafite and
Latour are doing more to woo the lucrative Chinese market.  Chinese Labels  Lafite last year put the Chinese figure eight on its 2008
vintage bottles, a lucky number in Asian culture, while Mouton,
known for bottle art by a different artist each year, selected
an image by Chinese artist Xu Lei for its 2008 label.  Mentzelopoulos says marketing maneuvers make her queasy.
“Some experts from Harvard  Business School  advised me to brand
other products with the name Chateau Margaux,” Mentzelopoulos
says. “They failed to grasp that this would accomplish nothing
but our losing focus and diluting the energy of Chateau Margaux.
Can you imagine?” she huffs. “They wanted me to create Petit
Chateau Margaux. What would come next, perfume and toiletries?”  To contact the writers on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Margaux at  ccopetas@bloomberg.net ;
Guy Collins in London on 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 