-- 
Chechen Leader Enforces Islamic Dress Code, Rights Group Says

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-10T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/chechen-leader-enforces-islamic-dress-code-rights-group-says.html
Ramzan Kadyrov, the Kremlin-backed
leader of  Russia ’s mainly Muslim Chechnya region, is forcing
women to respect an Islamic dress code and condoning punitive
attacks on those who defy the rules,  Human Rights Watch  said.  Chechen authorities are requiring women to wear a headscarf
and dress in long skirts and sleeves in all public places,
including offices, schools, universities, entertainment venues,
movie theaters and outdoor areas, the New York-based rights
group said in a report issued today.  In mid-2010, men mostly dressed like local law enforcement
officials shot dozens of women in the Chechen capital Grozny
with paintball guns for wearing clothes deemed to be revealing,
the group said. The men also handed out leaflets that warned the
women they would face more “persuasive” measures if they
failed to comply, the report said.  Then-Russian President  Vladimir Putin , now prime minister,
groomed Kadyrov, 34, to lead Chechnya after his father Akhmad
was killed in a bomb attack in 2004. The southern region has
been wracked by two separatist wars since the collapse of the  Soviet Union . Kadyrov and his father initially fought on the
rebel side before swearing loyalty to Moscow. Human Rights
Watch, which tracks government abuse, has accused Kadyrov of
ordering abductions and torture. He has denied the allegations.  The efforts to enforce an Islamic dress code violate
Russian law, said Human Rights Watch researcher Tanya Lokshina.  Dress Code  “These attacks against women are outrageous and the
alleged involvement of law enforcement officials is of special
concern,” Lokshina said in a statement. “The Kremlin should
publicly and unambiguously make clear, in particular to the
Chechen authorities, that Chechen women, like all Russians, are
free to dress as they choose.”  Kadyrov in a Feb. 19 interview with Bloomberg News said he
had issued instructions for the dress code to protect Chechen
women’s modesty in compliance with Russian laws.  “If we tell them to respect a certain dress code, then
they must do so,” Kadyrov said. “We have the right to do so,
we are applying the laws of the Chechen republic, which don’t
contradict those of the Russian Federation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  