-- 
Tchenguiz Brothers Skip Their Cannes Yacht Party After Release From Arrest

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 
2011-03-10T21:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/tchenguiz-brothers-cannes-yacht-party-still-on-after-release-from-arrest.html
Robert and Vincent Tchenguiz, the
U.K. property investors arrested yesterday as part of a probe
into the collapse of  Iceland ’s Kaupthing Bank hf, skipped a
party tonight on Vincent’s yacht, moored in Cannes,  France .  The pair, who haven’t been charged with a crime and were
released yesterday, are allowed to leave the U.K., said Sam Jaffa, a  Serious Fraud Office  spokesman. The agency was told
they were planning to attend the event, he said. The brothers
weren’t on the boat, Veni Vidi Vici, where a party is being held
as part of the  Mipim property expo , and won’t be in attendance
tonight because they have business to attend to in London, said
Sean Bellew, Vincent Tchenguiz’s spokesman.  The  SFO  and police in Britain and Iceland searched homes
and businesses in  London  and Reykjavik yesterday, arresting nine
men, including the brothers. Robert Tchenguiz, 50, and Vincent
Tchenguiz, 54, said in a statement that they “are cooperating
fully with the investigation and are confident that, once
concluded, we will be cleared.”  Prosecutors are looking at Kaupthing’s “decision-making
processes, which appear to have allowed substantial value to be
extracted from the bank in the weeks and days prior to its
collapse,” the agency said in December 2009 when it opened its
investigation into possible fraud. Kaupthing collapsed in 2008,
the last of Iceland’s three biggest banks to fail.  Icelandic Report  In 2008, lending to Robert Tchenguiz and “related
parties” corresponded to more than 25 percent of Kaupthing’s
equity, according to an Icelandic parliament-appointed Special
Investigative Commission. Tchenguiz, Kaupthing’s biggest retail
borrower, was also a board member in Exista hf, one of the
former owners of the bank.  The Tchenguizes have lost money because of Kaupthing’s
collapse,  Sarosh Zaiwalla , a former lawyer for the brothers,
said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word” with  Andrea Catherwood .  “They also have their side of the story, and that is that
they could’ve gone elsewhere, that if they were aware that
Kaupthing was going to go bankrupt or had economic problems with
its own finances they would’ve gone to any other bank, and
therefore they have a claim for damages,” Zaiwalla said.  The SFO is looking at “whether the loans were proper,”
Zaiwalla said.  Rotch Property Group  The Iranian brothers are co-chairmen of Rotch Property
Group Ltd., which owns and manages properties with a value of
more than 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion), according to the
 company’s website . The company, based in London’s Mayfair
neighborhood, was restructured in 2001, with Robert establishing
R20 Ltd. and Vincent setting up Consensus Business Group.  The pair were worth a combined 850 million pounds in 2007,
according to the Sunday Times Rich List of the most-wealthy
people in  England . Robert Tchenguiz has owned stakes in
companies including pub owner Mitchells & Butlers Plc and
supermarket chain  J Sainsbury Plc. (SBRY)  They also had considered
taking over department-store operator Selfridges Plc in 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Barwell in Cannes on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 