-- 
Chicago White Sox Ex-Scout Mateo Pleads Guilty in Baseball Kickback Case

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-10T23:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/chicago-white-sox-ex-scout-mateo-pleads-guilty-in-baseball-kickback-case.html
A former  Chicago White Sox  scout
pleaded guilty in a U.S. case accusing him and two other ex-
employees of the Major League Baseball team of conspiring to
take kickbacks from players signed in Latin America.  Victor Mateo, 40, admitted to a single mail fraud count
today before U.S. District Judge Charles R. Norgle in Chicago.
About three hours earlier, in his first court appearance since
being indicted in November, Mateo pleaded not guilty.  “What have you then decided to do?” Norgle asked Mateo,
who was born in the  Dominican Republic , through an interpreter
after Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Veatch read the
allegations aloud in court.  “Plead guilty,” Mateo replied.  Mateo, along with David Wilder, the team’s former player
personnel director, and Latin American scout Jorge Oquendo Rivera were indicted on charges they conspired to take team
money intended to finance player signing bonuses and purchase
contracts.  U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald in  Chicago  said in a
statement announcing the charges in November that the men took
about $400,000 in transactions involving 23 players from
December 2004 to February 2008. The players haven’t been
identified.  The team won MLB’s World Series championship in 2005.  Mail fraud is punishable by as long as 20 years in prison.
Today, Norgle deferred setting a sentencing date after Veatch
told him that Mateo is a cooperating witness in the case.  Mateo, who was released on bond, is allowed to leave the
country, said his lawyer, Damon Cheronis.  Wilder’s Plea  Wilder last month pleaded guilty to one of the seven mail
fraud counts he faced in the case, admitting he took a kickback
of more than $20,000 from a player in  Brazil  who had been asked
by a team scout to remit part of a $300,000 signing bonus.  Oquendo pleaded not guilty in November. According to
Wilder’s plea agreement, Oquendo made the Brazilian kickback
arrangements.  Mateo today affirmed Veatch’s representation that Oquendo
had hired him to scout for the team in the Dominican Republic
and that as a condition of that employment, Mateo paid his
supervisor every third paycheck received from the White Sox.  Mateo remitted about $85,000 in signing bonus kickbacks to
Oquendo and Wilder, according to his plea agreement.  Mateo Fired  “Wilder and Mateo were terminated by the White Sox in May
2008 as a result of a Major League Baseball investigation which
began at the request of the team,” the White Sox said in a
statement in November. Oquendo was fired in 2007 for reasons
unrelated to the probe, the team said.  “The Chicago White Sox are pleased that Victor Mateo’s
case has been resolved with his admission of guilt today and
that he will face responsibility for his crimes,” Scott Reifert, a team spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Oquendo’s lawyer, Luis Rafael Rivera of  San Juan ,  Puerto
Rico , didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Wilder, 1:10-cr-00948, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 