-- 
Chimei Innolux Posts Loss on EU Fine, Falling Panel Prices

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-03-10T09:53:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/chimei-innolux-posts-loss-on-eu-fine-falling-panel-prices-1-.html
  Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481) ,  Taiwan ’s
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, posted a bigger-than-
expected quarterly loss after it was fined by the European Union
and prices fell.  The fourth-quarter net loss was NT$24.1 billion ($817
million), the Miaoli, Taiwan-based company said in a statement
today. The average of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for
a loss of NT$7.3 billion. Year-earlier data wasn’t available
because the company was formed less than a year ago.  Chimei Innolux, created in March last year through the
merger of Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp., Innolux Display Co. and
TPO Displays Corp., joins AU Optronics Corp. and LG Display Co.
in posting losses during the period. The company is considering
spinning off its touch-sensor and small-medium panel businesses
to allow each unit to focus on its specialty, Chief Executive
Officer H.C. Tuan said in a conference call today.  Revenue  dropped 5 percent from the prior quarter to NT$130
billion, while average prices for large-size panels fell 12
percent to $99, according to the company. Prices and shipments
will be little changed this quarter from the prior period, while
shipments may rise by a “double-digit” percentage next quarter
from the current three-month period as prices remain unchanged,
Chief Financial Officer Eddie Chen said in the call.  Price Fixing  The EU fined Chimei Innolux 300 million euros ($415
million) in December for price fixing, in a case that also
involved AUO and LG Display. The fine was higher than the
company expected, Chen said Dec. 9. The company made a provision
of NT$6.7 billion in the fourth quarter for the antitrust case,
Chimei Innolux said in the statement. That figure may change, it
said, without elaborating.  Spending on factories and equipment will be about NT$100
billion this year, Chen said. As much as 70 percent of that will
be used for its plants that make large panels.  Chimei Innolux will expand its factories for making touch-
panel sensors at three locations this year, it said. Production
capacity at its so-called 4.5-generation factory for making
touch sensors, targeted at 10.5-inch displays, will expand 89
percent to 115,000 units a month by the end of December.  Revenue and profitability at its touch-panel business is
“highly correlated to one certain customer,” Chen said without
naming the client. Chimei Innolux supplies panels and touch-
sensors for Apple Inc.’s iPad 2, Alvin Kuo, a Taipei-based
analyst at Jih Sun Securities Co. wrote in a March 3 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  