-- 
China's Corn Demand Climbs on Meat Consumption, New Hope Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-10T04:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/china-s-corn-demand-climbs-on-meat-consumption-new-hope-says.html
New Hope Group Co.,  China ’s biggest
maker of livestock feed, said rising output of meat, dairy and
eggs will boost demand for corn this year, draining stockpiles.  “Grain supply, especially feed grain, is tightening”
because of demand from livestock farmers as a drought in
northern regions hurts crops, Chairman Liu Yonghao said in
Beijing March 8. The government should encourage imports of
other feed ingredients such as distillers’ grain, he said.  China is the world’s second-biggest corn user. Rising
incomes among its 1.3 billion people are improving diets and
spurring demand for meat and dairy products as consumers move
away from starch-based food. Increasing grain demand has pushed
up prices and helped drive world food costs to a record as
measured by the  United Nations .  “We may experience a little trouble this year containing
costs of raw materials,” Liu said in an interview at the
National People’s Congress. “We’ll boost imports appropriately
when international grain prices become cheaper.”  New Hope will probably use an additional 1.5 million metric
tons of corn this year, Liu said. The group consumed 14 million
tons in 2010, or the equivalent of about 8 percent of national
production estimated at 172.5 million tons by the China National
Grain & Oils Information Center. The country imported 1.6
million tons last year, the most in about 14 years.  Feed Options  State stockpiles of corn have declined after the country
sold 27.5 million tons last year to curb prices that gained 25
percent. The government should limit industrial uses to ensure
supplies for livestock, Bao Kexin, president of reserve manager
China Grain Reserves Corp., said in interview March 6.  Gao Hongbin, vice minister of agriculture, said March 8
it’s too early to determine whether the country has enough corn
to meet demand and the government would know toward the yearend.  The chances of China importing corn now are “very low” as
world prices are much higher than in China,  New Hope ’s Liu said.  The government should allow imports of alternative feed
ingredients, Liu said. China in December said it would begin an
antidumping probe on U.S. dried distillers’ grains, a byproduct
of corn-based ethanol commonly known as DDGS, spurring
speculation it may impose an additional tariff on imports.  “Using DDGS is obviously a way to ease corn demand, so we
should treat the antidumping investigation cautiously,” Liu
said. “To reduce pressure on grain supply, I propose we
increase imports of the ingredient.”  --William Bi, Zhang Dingmin,  Wang Ying . Editor: James Poole  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  