-- 
China Reports 68% Jump in Cyber Attacks on Government Websites

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-10T04:05:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/china-reports-68-jump-in-hacking-attacks-on-government-websites-in-2010.html
  China  said computer hacking attacks
against websites of the nation’s government agencies jumped 68
percent last year, and called on local regulators to follow the
U.S. and the European Union in stepping up Internet policing.  More than 4,600 Chinese government websites had their
content modified by hackers in 2010, according to  a report  by
the National Computer Network Emergency Response Technical
Team/Coordination Center of China yesterday. Stricter penalties
should be imposed against offenders to deter cyber attacks,
according to the center, which is affiliated to the Ministry of
Industry and Information Technology.  Chinese Internet companies and users should increase
monitoring after cyber attacks against operators including Baidu
Inc. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  last year, according to the
report. Regulators in the world’s biggest online market should
enact new rules as authorities in the U.S., EU, Japan and  Australia  strengthen oversight of Web safety, the center said.  The Chinese government has said previously that it is a
victim of cyber attacks and doesn’t originate them.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
owner of the world’s most-popular Internet search-engine, last
year said its computers were targeted by “highly
sophisticated” attacks from inside China, and threatened to end
its operations in the country.  Hackers backed by Chinese authorities conducted computer
attacks on U.S. government agencies and companies, including
networks of Google, the New York Times reported in December.  “Internet safety is becoming a tougher issue day by day,”
the center said in its report. Infiltrations into computer
systems of Chinese companies in industries including technology,
finance, energy and transport will increase, it said.  China had about 457 million Internet users at the end of
last year, according to the  China Internet Network Information
Center , a government-affiliated group that compiles industry
statistics. That’s more than the combined populations of the
U.S. and Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  