-- 
China's Surprise Trade Deficit May Help Nation Parry U.S. Yuan Criticism

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-10T20:47:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/china-unexpectedly-posts-7-3-billion-trade-deficit-as-export-growth-slows.html
  China ’s efforts to parry U.S.
criticism that its currency is undervalued got a boost from a
report showing the world’s second-largest economy unexpectedly
posted a $7.3 billion trade deficit.  Exports rose 2.4 percent in February from a year before,
the least since 2009, as Lunar New Year holidays disrupted
shipments, and imports climbed 19.4 percent, customs bureau data
showed yesterday. Central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said that the
full-year trade surplus will shrink from the 2010 level.  Yuan forwards dropped as investors pared bets on the
appreciation of China’s currency against the dollar. Premier Wen Jiabao aims to spark domestic demand and reduce the role of
exports in the economy through wage increases, rather than the
exchange-rate gains sought by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and the Obama administration.  “We’re likely to see some narrowing in the trade surplus,
perhaps to the $150 billion range in 2011 from $180 billion last
year, and China will no doubt attempt to point to this number to
deflect the criticism from the U.S. and other trading partners
that the yuan is undervalued,” said  David Cohen , head of Asian
forecasting for Action Economics in Singapore. “I doubt if it
will satisfy Tim Geithner’s complaint.”  Cohen and other economists cautioned that China’s trade
figures are skewed around the time of the New Year holiday,
which occurs at different times because it is tied to the lunar
calendar. In March 2010, China posted a $7.24 billion deficit,
its first in six years.  ‘Significant Surplus’  This year, “the March trade numbers will go back into
significant surplus again,” said  Donald Straszheim , Senior
Managing Director for China Research at ISI Group in  Los
Angeles .  The  U.S. trade deficit  widened more than forecast in
January to the highest level in seven months as a surge in
imports led by costlier crude oil overshadowed record exports,
the Commerce Department reported.  The gap in goods and services increased 15 percent to $46.3
billion, from $40.3 billion in December. Imports jumped 5.2
percent, the most since March 1993, while exports grew 2.7
percent. The  trade gap  with China grew to $23.3 billion from
$20.7 billion as imports rose and U.S. exports declined.  “I don’t think the underlying dynamic has changed a lot,”
said Scott Paul, executive director of the Alliance for American
Manufacturing.  “Those who are looking for an excuse to do
nothing will look at the Chinese government data. Those who want
to do something will look at the U.S. data. ”    India ’s Surge  China’s slowdown compared with India’s 50 percent surge in
exports last month, reported yesterday. At the same time,
India’s $23.6 billion of outbound shipments were less than a
quarter of the value of China’s.  Non-deliverable yuan forwards were at 6.4395 per dollar as
of 6:58 p.m. yesterday in  Hong Kong , after trading at 6.4170
before the data were released. That level indicates the currency
may gain about 2.3 percent in the next 12 months.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index closed 1.5 percent lower.  Yesterday’s report compared with a $6.5 billion surplus in
January. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 21
economists was for a $4.9 billion excess of exports over imports
in February.  “I think this is probably the end of the currency wars,”  Tim Condon , Singapore-based head of Asia research with ING Groep
NV, told Bloomberg Television. He said the deficit was “a move
everyone wants to see” and addressed key concerns of the Group
of 20 nations relating to economic imbalances.  Brazil Finance Minister Guido Mantega popularized the term
“currency war” last year to describe nations securing export
advantages by suppressing the values of their currencies.  Boosting Consumption  Speaking in Beijing, Li, the central bank adviser, said the
annual surplus may slide to $150 billion this year, from $183
billion in 2010 and the record $295 billion in 2008. Chinese
officials this week affirmed policies to boost domestic
consumption, including raising minimum wages an average of 13
percent a year in the five-year plan running through 2015.  The swing in February to a trade deficit may aid central
bank officials working to prevent an excess of cash in the
financial system from worsening inflation that has already
breached the government’s 4 percent target for 2011. Pressure
for more increases in banks’ reserve requirements may ease, Bank
of America-Merrill Lynch said in a note.  Economists combine Chinese data for the first two months of
the year to eliminate distortions caused by the annual holiday.
On that basis, the nation had a deficit of about $890 million,
compared with a surplus of about $22 billion a year earlier.  Commodity Costs  Higher costs for imports of commodities played a role. The
average price for the nation’s 120 million tons of iron ore
imports over the first two months was $154.3 per ton, 63 percent
more than a year earlier, the customs bureau said. Oil and soy-
beans costs also jumped.  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch estimates that each $1
increase in  oil prices  per barrel may cut China’s annual  trade
surplus  by $1.9 billion.  Chinese officials have used press briefings at the annual
meeting of the legislature in Beijing as a forum for defending
policies relating to the nation’s currency, described as
“substantially undervalued” by U.S. officials including
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  Group of 20  The presence of officials from the Group of 20 in Nanjing,
China, on March 31 to discuss overhauling the global monetary
system may again put a focus on the yuan’s value and expanding
international role.  Lenovo Group Ltd., China’s biggest maker of personal
computers, sees a stronger currency as likely to boost domestic
consumption, Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said in
Beijing on March 8. At the same time, gains should be neither
too fast nor too sudden, he said.  The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 27 percent increase in February exports from a
year earlier and a 33 percent gain in imports. Outbound
shipments rose 38 percent in January, while imports surged 51
percent.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from  Jay Wang  in  Singapore ,
Sophie Leung and Marco Lui in Hong Kong, Sonja Cheung,  Kevin
Hamlin  and Bonnie Cao in Beijing, Jin Jing in Shanghai and
Rebecca Christie and Sandrine Rastello in  Washington . Editors:
Christopher Wellisz, Kevin Costelloe  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  