-- 
China's Home Prices to Fall After Sales Decline, Central Bank Adviser Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-10T08:34:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/china-s-home-prices-to-fall-after-sales-decline-central-bank-adviser-says.html
China’s  home prices  will decline
later this year, with sales volume already falling following
purchase restrictions by local governments, said  Li Daokui , an
adviser to the People’s Bank of China.  A 5 percent to 10 percent drop in home prices will be a
“significant achievement,” he said in Beijing today. Cities
such as Chengdu in the southwestern Sichuan province should be
able to remove restrictions in a year and a half because home
prices aren’t as high as those in Beijing or Shanghai, he said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said over the weekend that China will
“resolutely” press ahead with controls on the  property market 
to curb speculation, reiterating a pledge to keep housing
affordable. The government will “severely punish”
irregularities in the real-estate market, implement
differentiated credit and tax policies, and hold local officials
accountable for maintaining stable home prices, he said.  China is seeking to contain gains in housing prices after
they climbed for a 19th month in December. The government
extended curbs in January, including raising the minimum down-
payment for second-home purchases, telling local governments to
set price targets on new properties, and introducing taxes for
homes in Shanghai and Chongqing. The central bank also raised  interest rates  for the first time in three years.  China should slowly raise interest rates, Li said, though
the higher borrowing costs shouldn’t be used as the only tool to
tame inflation. Higher prices are caused by rising global costs
of raw materials, domestic agriculture and wages, he said.  ‘Unreasonable’ Demand  China’s rising property market in the past few years was
driven in part by “unreasonable” demand from speculators, Qi Ji, Vice Minister of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, said
in Beijing yesterday, adding that government curbs have been
targeted at that group of buyers.  January new home prices increased in all but two of the 70
Chinese cities monitored by the government. The national
statistics bureau is scheduled to report February’s housing data
on March 18.  China ’s home prices rose 0.5 percent in February,
the slowest monthly gain since August, as the government
expanded residential curbs, SouFun Holdings Ltd. said.  Demand from speculators have left homes in cities such as
Beijing vacant after they are bought, which are “crazy
investments,” Li said.  Sharp Price Drop  Vincent Lo, chairman of Shanghai-based Shui On Land Ltd.,
said on March 6 that he expects home sales in China will fall
“sharply” this year because of curbs, while China Vanke Co.,
the nation’s largest publicly traded developer, said this week
the outlook for demand for its homes will withstand government
measures. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second-biggest, said
last week the measures didn’t change its bullish outlook in the
medium to long term.  The gauge tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai 
Composite Index fell 0.1 percent at the 3 p.m. close, the least
among five industry groups on the benchmark measure. The
Shanghai Composite lost 1.5 percent.  China will also build 36 million units of social housing or
affordable homes in the next five years, aiming 20 percent
coverage of the market. That includes 10 million units each in
this year and next, the country’s top planning agency National
Development and Reform Committee said on March 6.  The introduction of social housing will help control home
prices, Li said.  The nation’s target for affordable housing will have a
major impact on the residential market because these units will
account for half of the market share, Pan Shiyi, chairman of
Soho China Ltd., the biggest developer in Beijing’s central
business district, said on a conference call last week.  --Bonnie Cao, with assistance from Kevin Hamlin in Beijing.
Editors: Linus Chua, Chua Kong Ho  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  