-- 
China May Approve PetroChina-Venezuela Refinery This Year

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-10T02:53:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/china-ndrc-may-approve-petrochina-venezuela-refinery-in-2011.html
  China  may approve a 57 billion-yuan
($8.7 billion) refining venture between PetroChina Co. and
Petroleos de Venezuela SA this year, according to the economic
planning agency in Guangdong, where the plant will be built.  The southern province will also develop emergency oil
reserves, Li Miaojuan, director of the Guangdong Development and
Reform Commission, told reporters at the National People’s
Congress in Beijing today, without giving details.  Guangdong, the nation’s manufacturing hub, is adding oil-
processing capacity to meet rising demand for industrial fuels
including diesel. Construction of the 400,000 barrel-a-day
refining venture in Jieyang may begin this year, the provincial
government said on March 5.  The plant’s capacity will almost match PetroChina’s 410,000
barrel-a-day Dalian refinery, the company’s biggest. The planned
Jieyang venture highlights the expanding energy ties between  Venezuela  and China.  The South American country sends about 400,000 barrels of
oil and refined products to China a day and is repaying loans
with about 100,000 barrels a day of oil, Venezuela’s Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said in January.  China Petroleum, known as Sinopec, and Kuwait Petroleum
Corp. are also planning to start construction on their 300,000
barrel-a-day refining project in Zhanjiang, Guangdong this year,
the provincial government said this month.  PetroChina has risen 19 percent in Hong Kong trading in the
past 12 months, compared with the 12 percent gain in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The stock fell 0.4 percent to
HK$10.94 at 10:33 a.m. local time.  Emergency Oil Reserves  The world’s biggest energy-consuming nation has started
“preliminary work” on the second phase of its emergency oil
reserves in Guangdong to help bolster  energy security  and meet
demand, Li said in March last year.  Construction of storage bases in the cities of Zhanjiang
and Huizhou will begin “as soon as possible,” Li said at the
time, without giving a timetable or specifying the capacity of
the tanks.  --Liza Lin and  Chua Baizhen  in Beijing. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Jane Lee .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Liza Lin in Beijing at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 