-- 
China Resources Buys 21% Stake in Chinese Brewery Kingway

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-03-10T12:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/china-resources-buys-21-stake-in-chinese-brewery-kingway-1-.html
  China Resources  Holdings Ltd. has
bought a 21.4 percent stake in the Chinese beer maker  Kingway
Brewery Holdings Ltd. (124)   China Resources paid $161.3 million for the stake,
according to data on the  Hong Kong  stock exchange website today.
The website listed multiple units of China Resources in the
transaction, including food, retail and property company  China
Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291)   China Resources paid 44.1 cents a share on March 9,
according to the data on the Hong Kong stock exchange. The
shares last traded at HK$2.30, equivalent to 30 U.S. cents, on
March 9.  Kingway rose to the highest in five months yesterday in
Hong Kong trading after a Heineken NV joint venture said it was
selling its stake in the beer maker.  The venture between Heineken, the world’s third-largest
brewer, and Fraser & Neave was selling its 21.4 percent stake in
Kingway to an unidentified buyer, according to a statement to  Singapore ’s stock exchange yesterday.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP was an adviser to the sale,
Sarah Koh, a spokeswoman at Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd., one of
the entities involved in the Heineken-Fraser & Neave joint
venture, said in an e-mailed response yesterday. Heineken-APB
paid $91 million for the Kingway stake in 2004, she said.  Mona Leong, a spokeswoman for China Resources in Hong Kong,
didn’t respond to a phone call made to the company out of office
hours. Vanessa Wong, company secretary at Kingway, also didn’t
respond to a call made after office hours.  Kingway owns  seven breweries  in China, each with an annual
production capacity of 200,000 tons, according to its web site.  With assistance from John Duce.--Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net ; 