-- 
Citigroup Is ‘World’s Best-Positioned Bank,’ Chief Pandit Says

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-03-10T19:27:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/citigroup-world-s-best-positioned-bank-chief-pandit-tells-shareholders.html
  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. lender, is the “world’s best-positioned bank” to take
advantage of growth in emerging markets, consumer demands for
improved technology and the needs of the poor, Chief Executive
Officer  Vikram Pandit  said in a letter to shareholders.  Pandit, who was forced to sell assets to stabilize a
company hobbled by loan losses, is seeking to distinguish his
firm from rivals like  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
that expanded through U.S. acquisitions during the credit
crisis. New York-based Citigroup in 2010 posted its first annual
profit since 2007, and Pandit is pushing expansion in emerging
markets including Brazil and  China .  Citigroup, with operations in more than 100 countries,
increased net income in Latin America and  Asia  by 14 percent to
$8.2 billion last year at operations the company plans to keep.
Pandit said he aims to derive half the bank’s revenue from
emerging markets and the rest from developed economies, he said
in his annual  letter , which was posted on the Internet today.  The bank has a “strong head start” outside the U.S.,
said Pandit, 54. “We are working to build on it in ways that
aspiring competitors simply cannot.”  Pandit said the bank has eight execution priorities for
2011, the first of which is to “increase our share of emerging-
goals include becoming “the world’s digital bank” and
increasing the availability of financial services to the
estimated 2.5 billion people worldwide who are “unbanked.”  Citigroup also intends to enhance its retail-banking
operation in the U.S., Pandit said. Profit at the North American
consumer-banking unit dropped 17 percent to $607 million in
2010, while loans and deposits slipped. Pandit overhauled the
unit last year, appointing new heads of the retail and credit-
card divisions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 