-- 
Citigroup Hires Kingsmill Bond Among Four Ex-Troika Bankers in Russia Push

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-03-10T10:58:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/citigroup-hires-kingsmill-bond-among-four-ex-troika-bankers-in-russia-push.html
  Citigroup Inc. (C)  hired four former
Troika Dialog bankers, including  Kingsmill Bond , the Moscow
brokerage’s chief strategist, in its second Russian hiring spree
in six months.  Bond was rated the top  Europe , Middle East and  Africa 
analyst for the past two years by Institutional Investor
magazine. Citigroup also hired Andrey Kuznetsov, Troika’s former
Russia strategist, Kirill Kazanli, an infrastructure analyst,
and Will Hammond, who was previously head of equity sales,
according to an e-mailed statement from Citigroup in  London .  Citigroup is expanding as Russia begins a new round of
state asset sales and as competition for banking skills in
Moscow intensifies. The New York-based bank was the fourth-
biggest arranger of debt and equity sales last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Troika, which is in negotiations
to sell an 80 percent stake to OAO Sberbank,  Russia  largest
lender, was the second-biggest underwriter in 2010.  A strong presence in Russia is “critically important,”
Rhys Summerton, Citigroup’s London-based head of research for
Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The U.S. bank also recruited Ronald Smith, former head of
Russian equities at CA Cheuvreux, the equity brokerage unit of
Credit Agricole SA. All five will all be based in Moscow,
Citigroup’s London-based spokesman Jeffrey French said in an e-
mail.  $34 Billion Program  Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s government in October
selected 10 foreign and domestic banks to help it raise at least
1 trillion rubles ($34 billion) selling assets during the next
three years. The privatization list includes Sberbank and VTB
Group, Russia’s second-largest lender. Citigroup was among 13
banks the government added to the initial list on Dec. 25 to
advise on the program of state asset sales.  Russia’s last major asset sale was in 2007, when VTB raised
$8 billion. Oil producer OAO Rosneft’s IPO a year earlier raised
$10.6 billion.  The search for Bond’s replacement is “well advanced,”
Paolo Zaniboni, head of research at Troika Dialog, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Citigroup hired 15 bankers in September from competitors
including UBS AG and Bank of America Merrill Lynch to expand its
coverage of Russia,  South Africa  and the Middle East. Igor Kan,
Morgan Stanley’s former deputy head for Russia, joined as head
of equities.  Renaissance Capital, the brokerage half-owned by Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , said on March 1 it hired six
senior traders for its global cash equities trading team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  