-- 
Clearwire Replaces CEO Bill Morrow in Management Overhaul

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-10T22:58:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/clearwire-replaces-ceo-bill-morrow-in-management-shakeup.html
  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the money-losing
wireless broadband provider, named Chairman John Stanton as
interim chief executive officer effective immediately, after
Bill Morrow resigned for personal reasons.  Stanton, 55, will continue to serve as head of the
company’s board, the Kirkland, Washington-based company said
today in a statement. Chief Financial Officer Erik Prusch will
become chief operating officer, taking responsibility for day-
to-day operations, sales, marketing, network operations,  customer service  and other aspects of the business.  Last month, Clearwire predicted improving earnings that
could eliminate the need for additional financing. The company
had struggled to meet its funding needs, telling investors it
could run out of cash by midyear before raising $1.3 billion in
bonds in December.  “Over the last few days, Bill made this decision for
personal reasons; I tried to talk him out of it,” Stanton said
in an interview. “It’s personal reasons. I’m not sure I
understand them all.”  He and Morrow are going to speak to employees about the
announcement together this afternoon, Stanton said.  Hope Cochran, Clearwire’s treasurer, will take over
Prusch’s duties as finance chief. Chief Commercial Officer Mike Sievert and Chief Information Officer Kevin Hart will leave the
company after a transition period. The company said those
departures are unrelated to Morrow’s resignation.  Clearwire rose 37 cents to $5.75 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading at 4 p.m., and had gained 12 percent this year.  ‘A Legend’  The company has been in a dispute with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
which owns more than half of Clearwire, over pricing for the
wholesale wireless services that  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint resells to its customers.  Clearwire has slowed its network buildout while it awaits
new sources of funds, and the company may not be able to pursue
new financing until the dispute with Sprint is resolved, the
company has said. An executive like Stanton may be able to end
the disagreement and lead the company to new deals, said
Jonathan Chaplin, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “The guy’s a legend,” said New York-based Chaplin, who
rates Clearwire shares “neutral” and doesn’t own any. “When
you’re in the process of very difficult negotiations with Sprint
and others in the industry, Stanton’s got very good
relationships. He’s very much a statesman. He’s a great person
to have at the reins.”  ‘All Good’  Stanton was CEO of VoiceStream Wireless Corp. when it was
sold to  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  in 2001, creating T-Mobile USA Inc.
He was also CEO of Western Wireless Corp. when it was sold to
Alltel Corp. in 2005.  Morrow will be paid a lump sum payment of $900,000 and
another $900,000 in three installments for acting as a
consultant during a transition period. The executive will also
receive health benefits for a year, according to a regulatory
filing.  “The relationship is healthy; the company is healthy,”
said Morrow in an interview, declining to comment on the reasons
for his departure. “It’s all good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  