-- 
Clinton Will Travel to Egypt, Tunisia, Meet With Libyan Opposition Leaders

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-10T23:04:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/clinton-will-travel-to-egypt-tunisia-meet-with-libyan-opposition-leaders.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said she will go to Egypt and  Tunisia  next week and
meet with members of the Libyan opposition.  The top U.S. diplomat will first travel to a meeting of
the Group of Eight nations in Paris on March 14 and March 15,
to meet with other foreign ministers. She will visit Egypt and
Tunisia from March 15 to March 17.  Clinton said the U.S. was reaching out to Libyan
opposition leaders and she would be meeting with them in the
weeks ahead.  “I will be meeting with some of those figures here in the  United States  and when I travel to discuss what more the United
States and others can do,” Clinton said in testimony today to
a House appropriations subcommittee.  Noting that U.S. relations with  Libya  were frozen for
years, Clinton said the State Department was vetting members of
the opposition. “We know there are people we want to be
associated with; we know there are people we don’t want to be
associated with,” Clinton said. Checking out various figures
is “a painstaking process,” she said.  Clinton will carry with her a message from three U.S.
senators who today announced plans to create an enterprise fund
for each country that will invest in new ventures to spur their
economies.  Investment Capital  The Egyptian-American fund might receive $50 million to
$60 million and the Tunisian program $10 million to $20
million, based on tentative discussions, said Massachusetts
Democrat  John Kerry , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. Initial funds would come from existing programs in
the State Department and the  U.S. Agency for International
Development .  The aim is “to provide investment capital for their
entrepreneurs and private business so that their economies can
stabilize, can prosper, and most importantly create the
thousands of jobs that are desperately needed across all levels
of their societies,” Kerry told reporters at the Capitol in
Washington today. Kerry said he will be traveling to Tunisia
March 26 and 27.  The programs would be modeled after enterprise funds set
up for 19 Eastern European countries after the fall of the  Berlin Wall , he said. The U.S. investment of $1.2 billion in
those cases attracted an additional $5 billion in private
capital, Kerry said.  Sending a Message  Both countries’ economies have been hit hard by the
political turmoil, particularly in their tourist industries,
said Arizona Republican Senator John McCain, a former
presidential nominee who plans to sponsor the proposed
legislation with Kerry and Connecticut independent Senator  Joe Lieberman .  “We will send a message to the people of Egypt and
Tunisia that help is on the way,” McCain said.  Lieberman said he hopes the U.S. move will spur similar
investments by European nations and other countries.  The U.S. is sending disaster-response teams to provide
humanitarian aid in areas in eastern Libya controlled by
Qaddafi’s opposition, Tom Donilon, the White House national
security adviser, said today during a conference call with
reporters.  “These are humanitarian assistance teams” and “in no
way, shape or form” represent U.S. military intervention,
Donilon said. The teams come from the  U.S. Agency for
International Development .  Humanitarian Aid  The so-called DART teams will operate “with the
cooperation of the authorities who are running the operations
on the ground” in areas no longer under Qaddafi’s control,
Donilon said.  International Relief & Development , an aid group based in
Arlington,  Virginia , and working at Libya’s border with
Tunisia, said the region’s humanitarian crisis highlights the
dangers of proposed cuts to the State Department budget.  House
Republicans  want to trim 16 percent from the agency’s proposed
fiscal 2012 budget of $47 billion. Clinton has said the impact
would be “devastating.”  “This kind of urgently needed foreign assistance is
exactly what would be cut under the budget that recently passed
the U.S. House of Representatives,” the group said in a
statement. “With the Mideast and North Africa needing relief
and development assistance on a greater level than in recent
memory, these cuts are shortsighted at best.”  ‘Significant Pressure’  Clinton said today that ties with Libya’s embassy in  Washington  have ceased. “We are suspending our relationship
with the existing Libyan embassy,” Clinton said. “So we
expect them to end operating as the embassy of Libya.”  Strengthened sanctions, holding people within the Qaddafi
regime responsible for violence, and a freeze on more than $32
billion in assets held by Qaddafi and his associates, are
putting pressure on the Libyan regime, Clinton said.  “We think all of this is adding up to significant
pressure,” Clinton said today at a State Department appearance
with the foreign minister of  Chile .  Clinton said she will meet with members of the interim
governments in Egypt and Tunisia to offer support for their
democratic transitions and push them to protect human rights.
She will be the first member of President Barack Obama’s
Cabinet to visit either country since turmoil began in the
region in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net  