-- 
Colony’s Barrack Says U.S. Government Actions Averted Financial ‘Tsunami’

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y ,   C o r y   J o h n s o n   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/colony-s-barrack-says-u-s-actions-prevented-distressed-party-.html
Actions by the U.S. government and  Federal Reserve  in the wake of the financial crisis diminished
opportunities for distressed investors to make deals, Colony
Capital LLC Chairman Thomas Barrack said.  “We sent invitations to a gigantic party and nobody
came,” Barrack said in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bloomberg West.” “The government allowed banks
to slowly and in an orderly way work out of what we’d all
anticipated was the $3 trillion tsunami.”  Barrack’s  Santa Monica , California-based Colony, created in
the wake of the savings-and-loan crisis of two decades ago, was
among the investors expecting to snap up distressed financial
assets from the detritus of the global credit crisis. The
government’s willingness to prop up financial institutions
prevented that from happening on a wide scale, he said.  “On the heels of 2007 and the Wall Street malaise, we all
predicted what would happen is the banks would in a disorderly
manner dispose of those bad assets at a gigantic discount,”
Barrack said.  Colony has participated in deals to buy more than $4
billion of loans at discount, mostly through transactions
arranged with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Barrack has
said. Colony also was among the investors who last year agreed
to buy Miramax Films from Walt Disney Co. for $660 million.  Barrack, 63, has said that Colony is focused more on debt
than equity investments. The firm also owns Neverland Ranch, the
former home of pop star  Michael Jackson . He said yesterday that
Colony is working with Jackson’s estate to determine what do
with the Southern California property.  “We are kind of waiting for them to decide what they would
like to do with us and with it,” he said. “We are just being
good stewards to a very special place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in  Los Angeles  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Cory Johnson in  San Francisco  at 
 cjohnson114@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Chang in San Francisco at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  