-- 
Notre Dame, Syracuse, Connecticut and Louisville Reach Big East Semifinals

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-11T05:10:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/connecticut-defeats-top-seeded-pittsburgh-on-last-second-shot-in-big-east.html
  St. John’s  University lost one of
its top scorers, then lost its quarterfinal game against  Syracuse University  in the Big East men’s basketball tournament.  Brandon Triche had 22 points in Syracuse’s 79-73 defeat of
St. John’s. The Orange advanced to a semifinal contest tonight
against the  University of Connecticut , which knocked off the
top-seeded  University of Pittsburgh  76-74.  Notre Dame  and
Louisville will meet in the other semifinal tonight at Madison
Square Garden in  New York .  Dwight Hardy had 22 points for St. John’s, which fell to
21-11. The Red Storm had to play most of the game without
starting forward D.J. Kennedy, who hurt his knee in the first
half. Kennedy, who averaged 11 points a game this season, did
not score against Syracuse.  “You can’t absorb a loss like that, especially if you have
three key guys,” Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim told reporters.
“It’s difficult to lose a guy like that.”  For St. John’s, it broke a five-game winning streak at
Madison Square Garden. The previous loss for the Red Storm at
the Garden was Jan. 12 against Syracuse (26-6).  “Our team has a maturity about them that has allowed us
all year to persevere through tough stretches,” St. John’s
coach Steve Lavin said in a news conference. “Syracuse got just
enough stops and made enough buckets to pull away.”    Connecticut  (24-9) captured its third tournament victory in
as many days when Kemba Walker, who scored 24 points, hit a jump
shot as time expired. Pitt, playing its first game after a
double-bye through the first two rounds, fell to 27-5.  Ashton Gibbs scored 27 points for Pittsburgh, which had
beaten Connecticut 78-63 at home in the teams’ lone regular-
season meeting on Dec. 27.  Notre Dame Wins  Ben Hansbrough scored 23 points to lead Notre Dame (26-5)
to an 89-51 victory against Cincinnati, which was held to 33
percent shooting. The Fighting Irish will face Louisville (24-
8), an 81-56 winner against Marquette in the quarterfinals.  The St. John’s loss came 24 hours after the Red Storm
defeated Rutgers 65-63 in a game that led Big East Commissioner
John Marinatto to issue a statement acknowledging “two separate
officiating errors.” The referees in that game withdrew
yesterday for the rest of the tournament.  Marinatto said in an e-mailed statement before yesterday’s
game began that referees Tim Higgins, Jim Burr and Earl Walton
had acted voluntarily.  A day earlier, Justin Brownlee of St. John’s grabbed an
inbounds pass by Rutgers, then appeared to travel and step out
of bounds with 1.7 seconds remaining as he threw the ball in
celebration. Neither infraction was called, preventing Rutgers
from getting a final chance to tie or win the game.  Although television replays showed the two infractions, the
judgment calls can’t be reviewed or reversed under National
Collegiate Athletic Association rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  