-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Drops to One-Month Low on Fuel

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-10T17:50:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-hits-one-month-low-on-fuel-bloomberg-index-shows.html
  Consumer confidence  fell last week
to the lowest level in a month as surging gasoline prices soured
Americans’ outlook about their finances and the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 44.5
in the period to March 6, from the prior week’s minus 39.7,
which was close to the highest in almost three years. Sentiment
suffered the most among  respondents  who lacked a full-time job
or any employment and those earning less than $50,000 a year.  Gasoline costs have increased every day except one since
mid-February, dealing a financial blow to households just as the
labor market shows signs of improvement. The added burden of
higher prices at the pump may restrain the gains in  consumer
spending  that are bolstering the expansion.  The rise in fuel prices “acts as a kind of tax on consumer
incomes,” said Conrad DeQuadros, a senior economist at RDQ
Economics LLC in New York. “It takes away the ability to spend
on other things.”  A Labor Department report today showed claims for  unemployment benefits  increased last week from an almost three-
year low. Applications rose by 26,000 to 397,000 in the week
ended March 5. Economists projected claims would climb to
376,000, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.4 percent to
1,301.92 at 12:17 p.m. in New York. Treasuries rose, with the
benchmark 10-year note declining by four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.43 percent in  New York , according to
BGCantor Market Data.  Comfort Gauge  The Bloomberg comfort gauge reflected worsening results for
all three sub components.  The measure of personal finances fell to minus 3.7 last
week, from an almost two-year high of 2.4, the report showed.
Forty-eight percent of those polled held positive views on their
financial situation, down from 51 percent the previous week.  A gauge of Americans’ views of the economy fell to minus
76.8 last week from minus 70.6. The share of households with a
positive view of the economy dropped to 12 percent from 15
percent the prior week.  An index of the buying climate fell to minus 53, the lowest
in a year, from minus 50.9. Those people saying it was a good
time to buy needed items dropped to 24 percent from 25 percent
the previous week.  The average price of regular gasoline at the pump climbed
14 cents to $3.51 a gallon in the week ended March 6, according
to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization. That
followed a gain of 20 cents in the prior period, which was the
biggest one-week jump since the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina 
in 2005.  ‘Forking Over $50’  “The repeated impact of forking over $50 or more per fill-
up is not to be underestimated,” Gary Langer, president of
Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the
index for Bloomberg, said in a statement. “Gas is not the only
culprit,” he said, citing the average duration of unemployment,
which rose in February to the highest level in records going
back to 1948.  Gasoline prices and the comfort index have shown a strong
inverse correlation since 2004, according to calculations by
Joseph Brusuelas, a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York. Additionally, changes in the four-week average of claims
for jobless benefits have been in sync with the comfort gauge
about 72 percent of the time.  Cost of Fuel    Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, is among companies watching the rising cost of fuel,
which “will certainly affect some more than others,” said
Chief Executive Officer Terry Lundgren. The shopper with less
discretionary income “makes a decision of filling up (their)
gas tank or buying a handbag,” he said.  “The customer who has the average household income of
$75,000, $100,000, is back spending,” Lundgren said in the
Cincinnati-based company’s March 9 presentation to investors.
“And the customer who is well under that is spending even less
than they spent before.”  Today’s report showed the index for Americans earning
$40,000 to $49,900 a year fell to minus 51.5 last week, from
minus 42.6 the week before.  The comfort measure for part-time workers declined to minus
52.5 from minus 42.9, while for those who are unemployed it
dropped to minus 56.6 from minus 54.3.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in his semiannual
testimony before Congress last week, said sustained rises in the
prices of oil or other commodities “would represent a threat
both to economic growth and to overall  price stability .”  Random Sample  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  The responses are broken down by participants’ sex, age,
income level, race, region of residence, political affiliation,
marital and employment status.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  