-- 
Copper Imports by China Slump to Two-Year Low on Ample Supplies, Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-10T04:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/copper-imports-by-china-slump-to-two-year-low-on-ample-supplies-prices.html
Copper imports by  China , the
largest consumer, tumbled 35 percent in February to the lowest
level in more than two years as ample supplies weighed down
local prices, making purchases unprofitable.  Inbound shipments of copper and products dropped to 
235,469 metric tons from 364,240 tons in January, said the 
General Administration of Customs  website . That was the 
lowest level since January 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Copper in China has mostly traded at a discount to London
prices since July because of increasing domestic supplies of 
refined and scrap metal. Since October, the copper market in
Shanghai has been mostly in a contango, where metal for 
immediate delivery is cheaper than contracts with later dates,
suggesting ample availability.  “There is plenty copper around, from local output and
previous imports, while the high price is deterring buyers,”
Ying Haoliang, an analyst at Orient Securities Futures Co.,
said by phone from Shanghai.  Premiums paid by Chinese importers over the London Metal
Exchange cash price dropped to between zero and $50 a ton on a
cost, insurance and freight basis to Shanghai, metals
consultancy CRU International Ltd. said this month.  Refined copper output rose 12 percent to 4.79 million tons
in 2010, the National Bureau of Statistics data showed. The
statistics bureau didn’t release January’s production figures.  Delayed Recovery  A recovery in demand will probably be delayed until late
March,  Dan Smith , an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, said in a
report this week. Smith forecast copper imports to drop 15
percent last month partly because of the New Year holiday and
high prices.  “February imports are usually low due to the long Chinese
New Year holidays,” Orient’s Ying said. “But it’s a minor
factor; persistently lower domestic prices are the main reason.”
Chinese markets were shut from Feb. 2 for the week-long holiday.  Copper on the London Metal Exchange hit a record $10,190 a
ton last month, after rising 30 percent last year, as demand
outpaced supply and the global economy recovered. The three-
month contract was little changed at $9,267 a ton by 11:55 a.m.
in  Shanghai .  Overall demand this year may grow by 7 percent on strong
strong economic growth, Li Yihuang, chairman of Jiangxi Copper
Co., said on March 5. Consumption may be the highest in at least
four years in 2011, as smelters are operating at more than 90
percent capacity, Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. Chairman
Wei Jianghong said on March 8.  Scrap Use   Most producers are using more scrap material than usual
because of high refined prices, Wei told reporters in Beijing
while attending the National People’s Congress. Jiangxi and
Tongling are the nation’s two largest copper producers.  Total imports in the first two months fell 2.4 percent
599,719 tons, according to customs. China also imported 250,000
tons of scrap copper last month and shipments of aluminum and
the metal’s products were 60,202 tons, customs said.    Macquarie Bank  said in a research report on Feb. 29 the
country’s refined copper imports in February should be 180,000 
tons to 200,000 tons. The customs department will release
refined metal import data later this month.  -  Helen Sun . Editors:  Richard Dobson ,  Matthew Oakley   To contact the Bloomberg News staffs on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  