-- 
Copper Drops to Lowest Price Since December as Imports Into China Tumble

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-03-10T19:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/copper-drops-to-lowest-price-since-december-as-imports-into-china-tumble.html
Copper fell to the lowest in
almost three months as imports slowed in  China , the world’s
biggest user, and amid rising concern that global growth may
ease.  In February, China’s purchases of copper and products made
from the metal tumbled 35 percent from a month earlier to the
lowest in more than two years, customs figures showed today.
The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares dropped the most since November,
as Moody’s Investors Service cut  Spain ’s credit rating and U.S.
jobless claims rose.  “The market is down for a number of things,” said Rick de los Reyes, who manages $700 million at T. Rowe Price Group
Inc.’s Global Metals and Mining Fund in Baltimore. “We still
have geopolitical concerns in the Middle East and northern  Africa . Now, you’ve got the European sovereign-debt concerns
coming back. On top of that, there’s a bit of weakness in the
physical commodity market.”  Copper futures for May delivery dropped 1.5 cents, or 0.4
percent, to close at $4.1975 a pound at 1:21 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. Earlier, the price reached $4.136, the lowest for
a most-active contract since Dec. 17. The industrial metal has
fallen 9.9 percent since reaching a record $4.6575 on Feb. 15.  “The market has been waiting expectantly for signs of
life in Chinese copper demand in the post-New Year period, but
so far the signs are not good,” said Nic Brown, an analyst at
Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd. in  London .  Copper as Collateral  Most of the 550,000 metric tons of copper stockpiled in
so-called bonded warehouses in  Shanghai  at the end of February
was being used as collateral to obtain funds,  Dan Smith , an
analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, wrote in a report dated
March 7.  “With more material available, trading firms have been
diverting metal into finance deals and using copper as
collateral,” Smith wrote. Bonded warehouses are used to store
shipments before duties are paid, and official data on levels
of holdings aren’t issued.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months slid $84, or 0.9 percent, to $9,191 a metric ton ($4.17
a pound).  Lead, tin and nickel also fell in London. Aluminum and
zinc gained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in  New York  at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  