-- 
Crude Oil Trades Near One-Week Low in New York on European Debt Concern

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-10T13:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/crude-oil-drops-for-a-third-day-in-new-york-to-trade-near-104-a-barrel.html
Oil traded near its lowest in a
week as concern that Europe’s debt problems may crimp fuel
demand countered worries over attacks on Libyan crude-refining
and exporting facilities.  U.S. futures dropped as much as 2 percent after Moody’s
Investors Service cut  Spain ’s credit rating to Aa2, saying the
cost of shoring up the Spanish banking industry will eclipse
government estimates. Prices rose 0.7 percent earlier in the
day, after fighting in Libya shut the nation’s biggest oil
refinery. OPEC members are discussing the market situation, and  Saudi Arabia , the group’s biggest producer, has boosted output,
Kuwait’s oil minister said today.  “Oil hasn’t risen more because of the downgrading of Spain
and the decline of the euro today against the dollar,” said
Gerrit Zambo, a trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “Oil
is still moving in relation to the dollar,” he said. A stronger
dollar decreases the appeal of oil and other commodities as
alternative investments.  U.S. crude for April delivery traded at $102.80 a barrel,
down $1.58, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 1:48 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the contract
dropped 64 cents to $104.38, the lowest since March 3. It traded
as low as $101.54 on March 4.  April contracts for  Brent crude , the European benchmark,
traded $1.44 lower at $114.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The contract earlier fell as much as
$2.28 to $113.66.  Spain will spend as much as 50 billion euros ($69 billion)
shoring up savings banks, Moody’s forecast, more than double the
20 billion-euro cost foreseen by the government. The risks to
government finances remain “skewed to the downside,” the
ratings service said in a statement today. The outlook is
“negative,” suggesting more rating cuts are being considered.  Euro Weakens  The euro weakened to $1.3805 against the dollar, the lowest
since March 2.  Europe ’s common currency has lost 1.5 percent
against the dollar since climbing to a four-month high on March
7. The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, rose as much as 0.7 percent.  Yesterday, Brent advanced $2.88, or 2.6 percent, to $115.94
after Bank of America Merrill Lynch said prices may surge above
$140 a barrel in the second quarter. Warplanes sent from Libyan
leader Muammar Qaddafi’s home region of Sirte struck the Ras
Lanuf refinery, the country’s largest crude-processing plant,
according to Al Jazeera television. The nation’s biggest oil
terminal, at the port of Sidra, was also hit and partly in
flames, Al Jazeera reported.  Civil War    Libya ’s civil war has cut oil output by as much as 1
million barrels a day, according to Shokri Ghanem, chairman of
state-run Libya’s National Oil Corp. The country, a member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 1.39
million barrels a day in February, down from 1.59 million the
previous month, according to Bloomberg News estimates.  Popular demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt , and protests have erupted in energy-exporting countries
including  Iran ,  Iraq , Yemen and Oman. In Saudi Arabia, the
world’s biggest exporter, websites have called for a “Day of
Rage” tomorrow, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said.  OPEC members have not called for an emergency meeting and
are holding consultations to discuss the market and overall
situation,  Kuwait ’s oil minister, Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al- Sabah, said in an interview today in Kuwait City.  Asked which OPEC members have raised output, Sheikh Ahmad
replied: “Not Kuwait. The only one known is Saudi, right? I
don’t know if any others did.”  Brent’s premium to WTI widened to the most in a week as
rising inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , depressed the U.S.
benchmark. The spread widened to as much as $11.79 a barrel
today, after U.S. Energy Department data yesterday showed
stockpiles at Cushing, the delivery point for WTI, climbed to
the highest since 2004, according to Andrey Kryuchenkov, London-
based analyst at VTB Capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  