-- 
Oil Pares Losses on Report Saudi Police Opened Fire at Rally

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-03-10T22:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/crude-oil-in-new-york-falls-the-most-in-a-month-on-european-debt-concern.html
Oil pared losses after the police
in  Saudi Arabia , the Middle East’s biggest producer of crude,
reportedly opened fire at a rally in the east of the country.  New York futures rebounded from a four-month low and Brent
crude oil,  Europe ’s benchmark, briefly rose after the news of
the gunfire. Oil earlier fell as much as 3.6 percent after U.S.
unemployment claims increased and Spain’s credit rating was cut,
bolstering concern that the global economic recovery and fuel
demand growth will slow.  “We just got a taste of what will happen if there is any
real turmoil in Saudi Arabia,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “This is what people have been worried about. Saudi
Arabia is many times more important than  Libya .”  Crude oil for April delivery declined $1.68, or 1.6
percent, to settle at $102.70 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Oil traded at about $101.50 before reports
of the gunfire. Escalating violence in Libya, Africa’s third-
biggest oil producer, pushed futures to $106.95 on March 7, the
highest intraday price since Sept. 26, 2008.  Brent crude oil for April settlement slipped 51 cents, or
0.4 percent, to $115.43 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract dropped as much as $2.42, or 2.1
percent, earlier.  The Associated Press reported that Saudi police opened
fire, leaving at least one man injured, to disperse the protest
in the mainly Shiite east.  Saudi Arabian security forces broke up a rally in the city
of al-Qatif, according to Ibrahim al-Mugaiteeb, a local
activist. The action came a day before a “Day of Rage”
advocated by anti-government demonstrators.  Two Injured  Al-Mugaiteeb, president of the al-Khobar, Saudi Arabia-
based Human Rights First Society, said a doctor who attended to
the wounded told him that two people were injured at the rally.
He didn’t have details on how the injuries occurred.  Interior Ministry spokesman Major General Mansour al-Turki
had no immediate comment.  “Prices rebounded on headlines of the Saudi shooting,”
said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New York . “It doesn’t exactly look like the police were
shooting to kill from the initial reports.”  The kingdom, the world’s largest oil exporter, pumped 8.43
million barrels of crude a day last month, the most since
November 2008, a Bloomberg News survey of oil companies,
producers and analysts showed.  Saudi Reserves  The country was responsible for 12 percent of global oil
output and held 20 percent of proved reserves in 2009, according
to BP Plc, which publishes its BP Statistical Review of World
Energy each June.  “When the Saudi Arabia story broke, shorts got scared out
of the market,” said  Richard Ilczyszyn , a market strategist at
Lind-Waldock, a broker in  Chicago , referring to traders betting
that the market would fall. “The bad economic data probably led
you to believe that growth is not as good as expected.”  Regional unrest, which has so far toppled the leaders of
Tunisia and Egypt, has reached Saudi Arabia’s neighbors Yemen,
Oman and Bahrain, the island-kingdom where a Sunni family rules
the majority Shiite population.  Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi, whose country is a member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is fighting
rebels who seek to end his four-decade rule. Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, who has become a spokesman for his father, said
government forces are mounting a full-scale attack on
protesters.  Rebel Retreat  Libyan rebels in Ras Lanuf retreated today under air and
artillery fire from Qaddafi’s forces, Al-Jazeera showed in a
broadcast from the coastal city that is home to Libyan Emirates
Oil Refinery Co.  “The oil market is displaying a huge tug of war between
two fear factors,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist
at Deutsche Bank in  Washington . “The first one is events in
North  Africa  and the Middle East, which have driven prices
higher. The other is fear that higher  oil prices  will derail the
economic recovery.”  Prices fell after the Labor Department said U.S. jobless
claims increased by 26,000 to 397,000 last week from a three-
year low. Moody’s Investors Service reduced Spain’s credit
rating to Aa2, saying the government underestimated the cost of
shoring up its banking industry.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.9 percent to
1,295.11, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 288.48
points to 11,984.61.  Spanish Banks  Spain will spend as much as 50 billion euros ($69 billion)
shoring up savings banks, Moody’s forecast, more than double the
20 billion-euro cost foreseen by the government.  “The downgrade of the Spanish  credit rating  has caught
people’s attention,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “European debt
worries have taken the focus, at least temporarily, from what is
starting to look like a civil war in Libya.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 844,975
contracts as of 4:08 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 959,285
contracts yesterday, 2.7 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was a record 1.59 million contracts.  “Investors in general are looking for safe havens now, and
oil is one,” Sieminski said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 