-- 
Cumulus Agrees to Buy Citadel Broadcasting in Deal Valued at $2.4 Billion

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-10T21:10:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/cumulus-agrees-to-buy-citadel-broadcasting-in-deal-valued-at-2-4-billion.html
  Cumulus Media Inc. (CMLS) , the U.S. radio-
station owner, offered to buy larger rival  Citadel Broadcasting
Corp. (CDELB)  in a deal worth $2.4 billion to expand its coverage and
cut costs, ending months of negotiations.  Citadel shareholders can choose $37 in cash or 8.525
Cumulus Class A shares for each stock they own. The cash offer
is 7.7 percent more than Citadel’s closing price yesterday.
Cumulus said today in a statement the acquisition gives Citadel
an enterprise value of about $2.4 billion.  Cumulus, with a market capitalization of $214.4 million as
of yesterday, said the deal would reduce corporate expenses and
bring the number of radio stations it owns to 572 across 120
U.S. markets. Citadel filed for bankruptcy in 2009, hurt by the
recession and competition from satellite and Internet rivals. It
exited creditor protection in June.  “In some of the old media, consolidation is the only way
they’re going to preserve the economics of the business model
for a while,”  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in New York, said today in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Citadel, based in  Las Vegas , said last month it entered
into exclusive talks with Cumulus after the suitor raised its
bid by about 19 percent. In December, Atlanta-based Cumulus said
it bid $31 a share, or $2.1 billion, including as much as $1
billion in cash. Citadel rejected that offer.  Citadel’s Class B shares rose 43 cents to $34.80 in over-
the-counter trading at 4 p.m. New York time. Cumulus fell 40
cents, or 7.8 percent, to $4.70 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Debt Financing  Cumulus is making an acquisition 10 times bigger than its
own market value, a ratio that contributed to Citadel board
initially rejecting the offer. Cumulus has commitments for as
much as $500 million in financing from Crestview Partners LP and
Macquarie Group Ltd., and up to $3.03 billion in debt financing.  Crestview, a New York-based private-equity firm, created a
strategic partnership with Cumulus in April to invest in radio-
broadcasting companies.  “There’s been a lack of deals for a number of years, and I
think of lot of that had to do with the economic climate and the
weakness of the ad market,” said Leah Pilla, an analyst at
Knight Libertas LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut , who covers radio
companies. “Now that the ad market has started to recover, and
the credit market has opened to certain transactions, you’re
starting to see that happen.”  Internet Radio  The deal may help the combined companies compete with  CC
Media Holdings Inc. (CCMO) , the largest radio broadcaster in the U.S.
with more than 800 stations, and CBS Corp., the No. 2. The
combined Cumulus-Citadel will rank No. 3, Pilla said.  “For Cumulus in particular it’s a great deal because it
adds a lot of large-market stations to the portfolio, which are
growing faster than some of the smaller and medium-sized
markets,” Pilla said. “There is a lot more competition now for
local advertising from Internet radio and a lot of other places,
but listenership of radio is still there.”  U.S. antitrust authorities are likely to approve the deal
and to order “few divestitures,” in part because the combined
company would own less than 6 percent of U.S. commercial  radio
stations ,  David Kaut  and  Rebecca Arbogast , Washington-based
analysts for Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a note today.  The deal is to be reviewed by the Federal Communications
Commission, and either the  Justice Department  or the Federal
Trade Commission, Kaut and Arbogast said.  Chapter 11  Citadel sought Chapter 11 protection in December 2009,
saying the recession had “put a chokehold on advertising
spending,” its main source of revenue. It exited bankruptcy
under the control of its biggest creditors, private-equity firm
TPG Capital, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and hedge fund R2 Investments.  The average premium paid for a radio company in the past
five years was 80 percent, according to Bloomberg data. The
biggest deal was XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc.’s purchase of
Sirius XM Radio Inc. for more than $3 billion, according to the
data.  Cumulus was advised by UBS AG. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Lazard Ltd. advised Citadel on the deal.  Jones Day  acted as a
legal counsel to Cumulus while Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP acted
as Citadel’s legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  New York  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  