-- 
Czech Cabinet Agrees Smaller VAT Increase for Pension Revamp

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-03-10T17:09:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/czech-cabinet-agrees-smaller-vat-increase-for-pension-revamp-1-.html
The three Czech governing parties
agreed to raise the value-added tax less than initially planned
to finance an overhaul of the pension system aimed to boost
private savings for retirement.  Prime Minister Petr Necas, who has called the revamp of the
deficit-making pension system the key task for his Cabinet, said
the parties agreed to unify the VAT rate at 17.5 percent from
2013. The government previously planned to unify the VAT at 20
percent from the fourth quarter of 2010, while keeping basic
food items in the 10 percent bracket.  The Czechs want to avoid the difficulties suffered by other
countries in the region including Hungary and  Poland , where
pension changes widened budget gaps, forcing a reversal of the
overhaul to improve finances. Changes to the current system, in
which employees finance the pensions of retirees, may trigger an
increase in the Czech  credit rating ,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  “I expressed a proposal, and the leaders of the other
coalition parties supported this, that the pension reform be
tied to a vote of confidence” in parliament, Necas said.  The government will keep a lower VAT rate at 14 percent and
maintain a higher 20 percent VAT bracket next year, Necas told
reporters in Prague today. The tax changes will bring about 26
billion koruna in extra revenue to the state budget next year,
and about 22 billion in 2013, Necas said.  The government accord will allow people to voluntarily
divert part of their pension payments to private accounts from
the state-run pay-as-you-go plan. Necas, whose three-party
administration took power in July, said the extra proceeds from
the changed VAT rates to compensate for the resulting loss of
budget revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  