-- 
Daimler, Rolls-Royce Said to Resist Calls to Raise Tognum Takeover Offer

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-10T17:45:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/daimler-rolls-royce-are-said-to-resist-calls-to-increase-offer-for-tognum.html
  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Rolls-Royce Group
Plc (RR/)  plan to resist calls to raise their joint takeover offer for  Tognum AG (TGM)  even as the stock hovers above the bid price, two
people close to the companies said.  The two companies intend to press forward with the offer at
the price of 24 euros per share announced yesterday, backed by
Daimler’s 28.4 percent Tognum stake, the people said on
condition of anonymity because the deliberations are private.  Daimler and London-based Rolls-Royce offered yesterday to
buy Tognum in a deal valuing the heavy-duty engine manufacturer
at 3.2 billion euros ($4.43 billion). The bid is 30 percent
higher than Tognum’s March 4 closing price, the last trading day
before the companies expressed their interest.  The shares have traded above the offer price since
Friedrichshafen, Germany-based Tognum said it had not agreed
with Rolls-Royce and Daimler on a price. Some investors have
said they expect the bid to be increased, with WestLB AG saying
the price may rise to about 27.50 euros per share.  Tognum’s financial performance “confirms our valuation of
the company and the decision to grant a 30 percent premium to
Tognum’s shareholders,” Daimler spokesman Florian Martens said
today when asked about the truckmaker’s plans. Rolls-Royce
declined to comment.  Tognum closed 6.3 percent above the offer, rising 60 cents
to 25.50 euros in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 3.35 billion
euros. Daimler fell 2.2 percent and Rolls-Royce dropped 2.3
percent in  London .  “We’re not communicating on the price and won’t do so,”
Tognum spokeswoman Julia Loeffelsend said today.  Holding Firm  Daimler and Rolls-Royce intend to hold firm with their
offer because Daimler’s current holding allows them to block any
effort by other potential suitors for the company, the people
said. Under German law, shareholders with more than 25 percent
of a company have the power to veto any major strategic moves.  As the two companies wait it out, some investors are coming
forward to support the bid.  “We originally bought Tognum for cyclical reasons, and
it’s almost lucky chance that such an offer comes along,” said  Florian Esterer , who helps manage more than $60 billion,
including Tognum shares, at Swisscanto in Zurich. “We’re happy
to give it up at the current market price.”  Daimler and Rolls-Royce are offering 16.5 times earnings
before interest and taxes for Tognum. Acquirers paid a median of
13.25 times Ebit for assets in the auto- and truck-parts
industry in the past five years, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘In Line’  “The offer is in line with what we expected,” said
Dominique Dequidt, a  fund manager  at Robeco Luxembourg SA in
Paris. “We were considering 24 to 25 euros ourselves. I didn’t
see the move itself coming, but I’m not unhappy about it.”  The financial backing of Daimler and Rolls-Royce is
“positive” and would help strengthen Tognum’s position in a
consolidating market, Tognum Chief Executive Volker Heuer said
today at a press conference in Stuttgart,  Germany , adding that a
deal would help growth rather than result in lower costs.  Tognum, which makes engines for ships, tanks, and power
generators, reported a 39 percent drop in 2010 net income to
63.2 million euros. Profit was negatively impacted by a 60
million-euro charge for discontinuing fuel-cell operations,
which may be transferred to Rolls-Royce in the deal.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains or costs
will rise this year to about 10 percent of sales from 9.4
percent in 2010, and revenue will increase by more than 10
percent, the company forecast today.  Heuer, Chief Financial Officer Joachim Coers and board
member Rainer Breidenbach together owned 5.3 percent of Tognum’s
shares as of the end of 2010. They haven’t said whether they
would tender their shares in the offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Stuttgart at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  