-- 
Dalai Lama Asks to Hand His Political Role to Tibetan Government-in-Exile

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-03-10T08:06:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/dalai-lama-asks-to-hand-his-political-role-to-tibetan-government-in-exile.html
The  Dalai Lama  told Tibetans he
wants to end his role as the political head of their government-
in-exile.  The Dalai Lama, who traditionally is the spiritual and
political leader of the almost 3 million Tibetans, said in a
speech he will ask the parliament elected by more than 120,000
Tibetan exiles to let him relinquish his political authority.
That move would leave the parliament and an elected prime
minister to handle negotiations with China.  The Tibetan  leader , 75, said he will continue his campaign
to press China for broad political autonomy for his homeland,
which China has ruled since invading it in the early 1950s. He
spoke in Dharamshala,  India , the headquarters of his exile
government, on the 52nd anniversary of the 1959 Tibetan uprising
against Chinese rule that led him into exile.  In a transcript published by his office, the Dalai Lama
said he will ask the exile parliament next week to accept “my
decision to devolve my formal authority to the elected leader.”  The Dalai Lama’s decision “is partly about preparing the
Tibetan people for a future beyond his lifetime,” said Kate Saunders, spokeswoman for the Washington-based  International
Campaign for Tibet , which helps represent the Dalai Lama
overseas. While the Dalai Lama has insisted on non-violent
resistance to Chinese rule, riots erupted in  Tibet  in 2008 and
exiles say the direction of their movement will be less clear
once the Dalai Lama dies.  China’s foreign ministry said the Dalai Lama’s plan was a
bid to manipulate international opinion.  ‘Religious Cloak’  The spiritual leader is “a political exile under a
religious cloak,” China’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu
told reporters in Beijing today. “We think these are his tricks
to deceive the international community.”  China accuses the Dalai Lama of spreading “anti-Chinese
propaganda” and seeking independence for Tibet, which forms
about a quarter of China’s territory. In the two sides’ most
recent talks, in January 2010, China rejected “a high degree of
autonomy” for Tibet.  The  China  Geological Survey said Feb. 24 that Tibet has the
nation’s biggest reserves of chromium, copper, and salt lake
lithium amid total mineral deposits valued at more than $152
billion, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. China’s
Tibetan authorities say mining could contribute more than 30
percent of Tibet’s gross domestic product by 2020, compared with
3 percent now, the agency said.  Exiled Government  While Tibet’s Dalai Lamas historically ruled by decree, the
current lama, Tenzin Gyatso, has built a government-in-exile
that is largely run by an elected prime minister and parliament.
A democratic government-in-exile poses a challenge to China,
where the Communist Party has repressed any sign of dissent by
ethnic Tibetans.  China’s government pledged at the ongoing annual National
People’s Congress in Beijing to increase support for the
development of Tibet and other regions inhabited by ethnic
minority groups, according to Xinhua. Still, Communist Party
chief for Tibet, Zhang Qingli, vowed to “strictly” crack down
on violence and “terrorism” aimed at splitting up China,
according to a commentary published in the People’s Daily
newspaper Feb. 24.  China routinely calls any protests by ethnic groups against
Chinese rule terrorism. The government restricted the number of
visitors to Tibet, citing a shortage of hotel rooms, ahead of
today’s anniversary, Xinhua reported. In the past, it has also
cut Internet and mobile phone access to control protests.  Tibet Riots  The March 2008 riots broke out in Lhasa and other Tibetan
cities between ethnic Tibetans and the majority Han Chinese
after Chinese security forces suppressed a protest by monks.  China says at least 19 people died in the riots, the
biggest protests in almost 20 years. Tibet’s government-in-exile
said more than 200 Tibetans were killed in China’s ensuing
crackdown. Tensions over Chinese occupation in Tibet are also
played out in Xinjiang, where mostly-Muslim Uighurs have become
a minority in their own homeland after decades of state-
sponsored migration of Han.  Communal rioting between Uighurs and Han Chinese in the far
western region of Xinjiang left about 200 people dead in 2009,
forcing President  Hu Jintao  to cut short a visit to the Group of
Eight summit in  Italy .  Minority groups complain of discrimination and that the
fruits of economic expansion have been unevenly distributed.  ‘Jasmine Revolution’  Xinjiang party chief Zhang Chunxian said this week at the
Congress, China’s parliament, that the government needs to learn
the lessons from the “jasmine revolutions” that brought down
the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked rebellion in  Libya ,
the  South China Morning Post  reported this week.  High rates of inflation, unemployment and corruption were
all factors that fueled the unrest in the Middle East, he said,
adding that governments needed to pay more attention to people’s
livelihoods.  Shutting down the Internet is not a long-term solution to
maintaining stability, he said, according to the Hong Kong
newspaper.  “China’s leaders consider the communist ideology and its
policies to be correct,” the Dalai Lama said. “If this were
so, these policies should be made public with confidence and
open to scrutiny. If citizens are fully informed, they have the
ability to distinguish right from wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  