-- 
David Miliband Joins Research Firm Oxford Analytica as Adviser

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-03-10T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/david-miliband-joins-research-firm-oxford-analytica-as-adviser.html
Former British Foreign Secretary  David Miliband  will join Oxford Analytica as a senior global
adviser, five months after he was beaten by his younger brother
for the leadership of the U.K.’s opposition Labour Party.  He will work with Nader Mousavizadeh, the firm’s chief
executive officer, the Oxford, England based firm said in a
statement. The advisory firm’s clients include Bank of America
Corp.,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , as well as the U.K., Saudi Arabian and
French governments, according to its website.  “There has never been a greater need for independent and
considered analysis of the complex drivers of global events,”
Miliband, 45, said in the statement. Oxford Analytica was
started by David Young, a politics lecturer at the University of
Oxford and former National Security Council assistant to  Henry
Kissinger  from 1969 to 1973.  Miliband follows former Labour cabinet members who are
taking up jobs as advisers to companies after losing power.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. appointed ex-Prime Minister Tony Blair as a
senior adviser three years ago, while  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the biggest
independent merger adviser, hired former Business Secretary
Peter Mandelson as a senior adviser in January.  The Miliband brothers were the first siblings to sit
together in the British Cabinet since Edward and Oliver Stanley
in 1938. David Miliband was foreign secretary in the Labour
government that lost the election in May while his younger
brother Edward Miliband, 41, was energy secretary.  The firm advises companies on business, political and
economic affairs from offices in Oxford,  New York , Paris and
Washington, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  