-- 
Debit ‘Swipe’ Fee Caps May Hurt Minorities, NAACP Tells Boehner

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-03-11T05:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/debit-card-swipe-fees-may-hurt-minorities-naacp-tells-boehner.html
Congress should review proposed
caps on debit-card transaction fees to ensure they don’t force
low-income minorities out of the banking system, the  NAACP  said
in a letter to House Speaker  John Boehner .  The letter follows assertions by the banking industry that
the caps would force people with low incomes to drop checking
accounts because of new fees that lenders, including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , would impose in response.  “This rule should be thoroughly and expeditiously reviewed
prior to implementation, allowing a full and appropriate impact
study to be performed to ensure that it will not raise fees or
otherwise harm at-risk communities, including communities of
color,” Hilary O. Shelton, vice president for advocacy and
policy at the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People, said in the March 7 letter.  The Fed in December proposed capping debit-card
interchange, or “swipe” fees, charged to merchants at 12 cents
a transaction, replacing a formula that averages about 1 percent
of the purchase price. The Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the
fees to be “reasonable and proportional” to the processing
costs, may erase as much as $12 billion in annual revenue for
U.S. lenders.  House and Senate lawmakers are meeting to draft legislation
that would delay the rules, which must be completed by April 21
and take effect by July 21, lawmakers and aides have said.  Lobbying Fight  The caps proposed by Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois
Democrat, may benefit the biggest retailers, who said they would
pass savings to consumers. The Fed  proposal  set off a lobbying
fight on  Capitol Hill  between the financial-services industry
and retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , based in
Bentonville, Arkansas, and Minneapolis-based  Target Corp. (TGT)     Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s biggest payment
networks, set interchange fees and pass the money to card-
issuing banks. Shares of both firms plunged more than 10 percent
on Dec. 16 after the Fed released its proposal amid investor
concern that the caps would damage their business model.  U.S. bank regulators, including Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , have bolstered opponents of the proposal by
questioning the effectiveness of an exemption for banks and  credit unions  with less than $10 billion in assets. The Fed
proposal is “unnecessarily narrow” and may have long-term
“safety and soundness consequences,” Acting Comptroller of the
Currency  John Walsh  said in a March 4 letter to the Fed.  ‘Fee-Fixing’  Walsh’s statements “reflect either a misunderstanding or a
misrepresentation of the interchange-reform law that Congress
passed,” Durbin responded in a March 9 letter. “Unregulated
fee-fixing by Visa on behalf of its largest member banks is
unsustainable for consumers, merchants and the American
economy.”  Lenders of all sizes, including those that are exempt, said
the caps will cause them to follow the lead of Bank of America.
The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank, the biggest U.S.
debit-card issuer, said in January that it will begin charging
retail customers checking-account fees unless they maintain
minimum balances, make regular deposits, use credit cards or
take advantage of online services.  Consumer groups, while supporting the rule’s intent, said
they’re worried about the consequences for low-income borrowers.  “We would be concerned with a rule that would
inadvertently reduce access to  debit cards  and other basic
banking services to low- and moderate-income borrowers,”  John Taylor , chief executive officer of the National Community
Reinvestment Coalition, said in a Feb. 22 comment  letter  to the
Fed.  ‘Change Banking’  About 8 percent of U.S. households don’t have bank
accounts, and new regulations may cause that figure to rise,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit said in the
New York-based bank’s  annual report , released yesterday.  “The rules that limit interchange and overdraft fees will
change banking,” Pandit said in a Feb. 17 speech in  Chicago .
“We could be heading for an environment in which less credit is
available, access to financial services contracts, and the costs
of such services rise. All of that will have an impact on
financial inclusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  