-- 
Delayed Solar-Power Plants Face Fines as India's Gujarat Sets Precedent

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-10T02:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/delayed-solar-power-plants-face-punishment-as-gujarat-state-sets-precedent.html
  India , which has an average 300
sunny days a year, will impose fines on solar-power plants that
delay start-ups in the country’s largest program to harness
energy from sunlight, a state government official said.  “There will be some penalty,” S.B. Patil, senior
executive of solar and wind at the state-run  Gujarat Energy
Development Agency , said in an interview. Five of six projects
that agreed to start operating by 2011 were delayed, including
one by New Jersey-based  Zeba Solar Inc. , he said.  Gujarat state has led India’s nascent solar industry,
awarding licenses for 959 megawatts to developers seeking a
foothold in a state-subsidized  renewable energy  market. The
first 48.5 megawatts were required start operating by Dec. 31,
according to a list obtained by Bloomberg News from  Gujarat Urja
Vikas Nigam Ltd. , the state-run company that will buy the power.  How Gujarat deals with delayed projects sets a precedent
for India’s Solar Mission, a nationwide program that calls for
20,000 megawatts of capacity by 2022, or the equivalent of about
18 new nuclear reactors. The Solar Mission awarded its first 620
megawatts of capacity in December.  “The way these defaulting projects are dealt with would
set examples for other projects in the pipeline,” said Bharat Bhushan, a New Delhi-based analyst with Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. “If deadlines are not strictly enforced, more project
defaults could be expected.”  Rains, Technology Delays  India is seeking to ramp up the sector with estimates
showing it may have among the highest solar potential in the
world. The nation’s sunny days may provide as much as 5,000
trillion kilowatt-hours per year of solar energy equivalent, far
exceeding its total energy consumption of 848 billion kilowatt-
hours, according to the  Ministry of New and Renewable Energy .  Companies agreed to penalties that were laid out in their
power purchase agreements, Patil said. “They will be charged
accordingly,” he said. The penalties for delays in beginning
operations are 10,000 rupees ($222) a day per megawatt for the
first 60 days and 15,000 rupees thereafter, according to the
state power company that contracted to buy the electricity.    Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , the Hyderabad-based developer that
completed its 5-megawatt allotment on Dec. 20, is the only
company that met the deadline. Five projects awarded to  Azure
Power  of  New Delhi , Zeba Solar,  Germany ’s  Dreisatz GmbH  and MI
MySolar24 Ltd. weren’t completed.  Azure, which built a 2-megawatt plant in Punjab, said the
first phases of two plants were delayed to the end of March by
unseasonably heavy rains. The company was supposed to have
completed 3.5 megawatts by now, according to the list.  “We declared force majeure,” said Inderpreet Wadhwa, the
company’s chief executive officer, whose investors include
 Helion Venture Partners ,  Foundation Capital  and the private
investment arm of the  World Bank . Force majeure is an exemption
to contract obligations due to unanticipated or uncontrollable
events.  Zeba Solar decided to switch to thin-film technology to
build a more efficient plant, pushing its completion date back
to August, said President Shahal Khan by telephone.  “We were okay with delaying for a few months and paying
penalties to have something we can showcase,” Khan said.
“There are many people out there that are just rushing to meet
deadlines without really looking at quality control.”  Dreisatz was assessing the situation, said Dirk Detzner, a
project manager at the company, declining to comment further.  The owner of MI MySolar24 couldn’t be identified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 