-- 
Delhaize Fourth-Quarter Net Beats Estimates on Cost Savings

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-03-10T17:22:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/delhaize-fourth-quarter-net-beats-estimates-on-cost-savings-2-.html
  Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the owner of the
U.S. Food Lion supermarkets, reported fourth-quarter profit that
beat analyst estimates as cost savings and improved buying terms
in Belgium and Greece exceeded the impact of U.S. price cuts.  Net income climbed to 190 million euros ($263 million) from
132 million euros a year earlier, the Brussels-based company
said today in a statement. Profit beat the 161 million-euro
average of nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
grocer raised its dividend 7.5 percent to 1.72 euros a share.  Earnings before interest, tax, one-time items and excluding
the effect of currency swings rose 12 percent, the most in six
quarters, and Delhaize’s operating margin reached a decade-high
of 5.9 percent because of savings in the supply chain, lower
administrative expenses and improved buying terms in Belgium and  Greece . The widening margin enables Delhaize to maintain its
strategy of lowering prices at Food Lion to revive sales
volumes. Operating profit in the U.S. rose 1.5 percent.  “The main region where Delhaize surprised was the U.S.,”
John David Roeg, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, wrote
in an investor note. “Clearly, Delhaize benefited more than
expected from cost savings.”  Delhaize gained 4.1 percent to 59.74 euros at the 5:35 p.m.
close of trading on Euronext Brussels, the biggest increase in
four months. The shares have now erased their loss since Aug.
13, when the grocer cut its profit forecast.  Delta Maxi Group  The grocer last week agreed to buy Delta Maxi Group,  Serbia ’s largest food retailer operating about 450 stores in
five countries, for 932.5 million euros including debt to
accelerate growth. Delhaize’s sales growth excluding the effect
of currency swings hasn’t exceeded 2 percent since the second
quarter of 2009. It was 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter, the
most in three quarters.  The Belgian food retailer, which said on Jan. 20 that it
would stop giving a profit forecast, said that operating profit
generation will accelerate starting in the second quarter
because of an “unfavorable” comparison in the first three-
month period. Delhaize also set a goal for private-brand
penetration of 35 percent in the U.S. by the end of 2013, up
from about 27 percent last year.  Ronald Hodge took over as chief executive officer of
Delhaize’s U.S. business at the start of March. Chief Executive
Officer Pierre-Olivier Beckers had assumed the post since Rick Anicetti left the company in May.  Delhaize America completed the integration of its  supply
chain  last year and sees additional savings from a single
procurement policy starting this year, Chief Financial Officer
Stefan Descheemaeker told reporters in Brussels. Delhaize
repeated its forecast for gross annual savings of 500 million
euros by the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net  