-- 
Development Securities to Buy Property as Owners Face Financial Pressure

-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 
2011-03-10T10:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/development-securities-to-buy-property-as-owners-face-financial-pressure.html
  Development Securities Plc (DSC) , the
builder of London’s Paddington Central business center, plans to
spend about 100 million pounds ($161 million) buying property by
August as debt pressures owners to sell cheaply.  The company spent 234 million pounds in the past 18 months
and may purchase six sites by the summer, Chief Executive
Officer Michael Marx said in an interview in Cannes,  France .
Development Securities is bidding for a mixed-use site valued at
50 million pounds in west London, he said. The deal should be
completed by the end of April and will include about 50
apartments as well as shops, Marx said.  Development Securities has raised about 200 million pounds
in two share sales since July 2009 to buy discounted real
estate. The company may dispose of assets in the second half to
realize gains from renovating its properties. No further share
sale is planned, the CEO said.  Marx said he plans to work with companies that are under
pressure to repay debt and need help upgrading their holdings
into prime real estate.  “We’re trying to turn frogs into diamonds,” he said.  Development Securities aims to sell acquired properties to
within two to three years of purchase to institutional investors
attracted by the steady returns of property rents, the CEO said.  There are “unprecedented,” opportunities now because the
limited availability of bank finance is forcing owners to offer
properties at attractive prices, Marx said. Returns generated by
acquisitions will outweigh the dilution of share value caused by
selling the new stock, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Barwell in  London  on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 