-- 
Diamond's Fed Nomination Likely to Be Blocked Again, Senator Shelby Says

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-03-10T20:32:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/diamond-s-fed-nomination-likely-to-be-blocked-again-senator-shelby-says.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Peter Diamond  is likely to fail in his third try at confirmation for a
seat on the Federal Reserve Board, said the senior Republican
senator overseeing the central bank.  “We’ve blocked him twice,” Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby 
said today in a radio interview with host Laura Ingraham,
according to an audio clip distributed by his office. “I think
we’re going to block him three times.”  Diamond’s absence would deprive Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  of additional intellectual support for his record
monetary stimulus. If Diamond, 70, remains a nominee, he may be
in limbo through the end of 2012 unless Senate Democrats push
for a floor debate on his candidacy and try to round up 60 votes
to break a possible Republican filibuster.  “The administration can do better,” Shelby, 76, said in
the interview after repeating his criticism that Diamond has
insufficient knowledge of monetary policy. “What we need on the
Fed is somebody that’s not interested in just printing money.”  The White House renominated Diamond in January, marking a
third try at confirmation after the Senate adjourned in December
without approving him. Diamond’s initial candidacy was returned
to the White House in August under a procedural objection.  While Shelby repeated and amplified his opposition to
Diamond at a nomination hearing March 8, the senator declined to
tell reporters at the time whether he would try to block a vote.  ‘Superbly Qualified’  Democratic senators indicated March 8 they would support
Diamond again after the committee voted twice by 16-7 margins in
2010 to recommend approval to the full Senate. Rhode Island
Senator Jack Reed, the panel’s No. 2 Democrat, said Diamond is
“superbly qualified.”  Since Diamond’s renomination this year, Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  announced his resignation, opening a second vacancy on the
central bank’s board. The White House has yet to pick a
replacement. Diamond’s nomination is for a term ending January
2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  