-- 
DiMaggio Beats Monroe in Applause; Louis Revives Boxing: Books

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/dimaggio-beats-monroe-in-applause-louis-revives-boxing-books.html
Listen to this exchange between  Marilyn Monroe  and her new husband,  Joe DiMaggio , after the
bride broke away from their 1954 honeymoon to visit American
troops in Korea:  “It was so wonderful, Joe. You never heard such
cheering.”  “Yes I have.”  These might be my three favorite sentences in modern
American literature. They come from Gay Talese’s classic profile
of DiMaggio, which first ran in Esquire in 1966. It now appears
as the title piece in “ The Silent Season of a Hero ,” a
wonderful collection of Talese’s sports writing.  The DiMaggio portrait isn’t the only baseball moment. There
is also Talese’s unforgettable account of a forgettable 1958
game between  New York  University and Wagner College, with 18
people in the stands, including a pretty sophomore drawn to the
game because of the presence at third base of a boy she met in
sociology class five months earlier. By the seventh inning she
had gone home.  In this tidy volume are pieces influenced by  Ernest Hemingway , F. Scott Fitzgerald, Frank O’Hara, Irwin Shaw and
Carson McCullers, and the pieces, maybe because of the subtle
influence of A.J. Liebling, are tilted toward boxing. Sonny
Liston, Floyd Patterson and Joe Louis are here, and so is  Muhammad Ali , in a remarkable portrait of the champ’s visit with  Fidel Castro .  ‘Joe Louis’  Next to baseball, boxing has spawned the greatest American
sports writing, and Louis is one of the reasons. Randy Roberts,
a Purdue University historian, has written “ Joe Louis ,” a
biography that bears the apt subtitle “Hard Times Man.”  Roberts, who has also written biographies of Jack Dempsey
and Jack Johnson, puts Louis in his historical context, equating
the prizefighter with  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  as cultural
touchstones of their time, arguing that each was “a moral
compass during a turbulent era.”  That was an era when the world heavyweight championship and
the  World Series  were moral equals -- and equal competitors for
the nation’s attention.  I live a half mile from Billy Conn Boulevard, so people in
my Pittsburgh neighborhood still talk about the match between
Louis and Conn, the Pittsburgh Kid who had been fighting in the
light-heavyweight division before he almost defeated Louis.
People in every neighborhood still talk about Louis’s two fights
against Max Schmeling.  Boxing Revival  Louis’s rivals in the rings were but foils for his ability
and his personality. “Louis had become the black Clark Gable,
supernatural in his power to attract crowds,” Roberts writes.
The sheer power of his appeal helped revive boxing after the
retirement of Dempsey and Gene Tunney.  He was a symbol, too. In the Schmeling bouts, Louis stood
for American virtue against Nazi racial arrogance -- and Louis’s
victory in the second fight was, as Roberts puts it, a
validation of “an American ideology of equal opportunity and
individual initiative.”  But of course, Louis, born in Jim Crow  Alabama , part of the
great migration to  Detroit  and shaped by the persecution of Jack
Johnson, knew that equal opportunity and individual initiative
were limited if you were black in America. He became “the
loudest cry for racial justice,” Roberts says, and one that
“set the tone for the later civil-rights movement.”  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 