-- 
Dimon, Pandit, Blankfein, Ackermann Join Kremlin Advisory Board

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n ,   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-03-10T15:07:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/dimon-pandit-blankfein-ackermann-join-kremlin-advisory-board.html
Wall Street bankers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Jamie Dimon,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Vikram Pandit and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Lloyd Blankfein are
advising the Kremlin on how to turn Moscow into a global
financial center.  President Dmitry Medvedev named 27 people to a working
group for the project that also includes  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
Brian T. Moynihan,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s John Mack,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ’s Josef Ackermann and Blackstone Group’s Stephen Schwarzman,
according to a member of the board who declined to be identified
and information posted on the Kremlin’s website.  Russia is seeking to lessen its dependence on natural
resources by promoting “innovative” technologies, selling
state assets and creating a “special sovereign” fund to
attract foreign capital, Medvedev said in an interview on Jan
26. Creating the legal and physical infrastructure needed to
lure financial flows to the Russian capital is part of that
drive. Moscow ranked 68th of 75 cities in the Global Financial
Centers Index commissioned by the City of London in 2009.  “We believe it is very important to participate in the
committees advising President Medvedev on how to transform
Moscow into a financial center,” said Dimitri Agishev, a
Deutsche Bank spokesman, in an e-mailed statement.   Russia 
continues to be a key market with ample opportunities.”  Nomura, Bank Leumi  All but eight of the people Medvedev named to the group are
foreigners, including Timothy Flynn, Dennis Nally and James Turley, the heads of accounting firms KPMG LLP,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Ernst & Young LLP, respectively.  The Russians include Alexander Voloshin, who was chief of
the Kremlin staff under the late President Boris Yeltsin and his
successor  Vladimir Putin . Medvedev appointed Voloshin head of
the government working group on the financial center last July.  German Gref and Andrei Kostin, who run Russia’s two biggest
banks, OAO Sberbank and VTB Group, are on the board, as are
billionaire lawmaker Suleiman Kerimov and Troika Dialog’s Ruben Vardanian.  Galia Maor of Israel’s  Bank Leumi  and OAO Sberbank’s Bella Zlatkis are the only women in the group, while Nomura Holdings
Inc.’s Kenichi Watanabe is the only Asian.  Andrey Sayko, a spokesman for Micex, Russia’s largest stock
exchange, said the bourse’s President Ruben Aganbegyan had been
appointed to the panel. Micex shareholders agreed in February to
buy a controlling stake in the rival RTS, merging the Moscow-
based exchanges.  “Ruben is taking part,” Sayko said by phone in Moscow.
“The merger of the RTS and Micex is a part of the bigger
picture of making Moscow a financial center.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  