-- 
DS Smith Chief Paves Way for Possible Sale of ‘Non-Core’ Spicers

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-03-10T14:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/ds-smith-chief-paves-way-for-possible-sale-of-non-core-spicers.html
  DS Smith Plc (SMDS)  is seeking to improve
the profitability of Spicers and remove the obstacles that would
prevent a sale of the supplier of office products, Chief
Executive Officer Miles Roberts said in an interview.  The company’s strategy is now focused on recycled
packaging, where there are some “really great opportunities,”
said Roberts. Spicers is “non-core” and the initial plan is to
boost margins at the unit, which generates about 330 million
pounds ($530 million) from selling products spanning calculators
and paper.  “I’m not saying we’re going to sell it, but I am saying
there are barriers that will prevent it from being sold and
those barriers are being dismantled,” said Roberts, who took
over in May. “It has absolutely no synergies. If anything, it
detracts from our rating. If you want to start to disposing of
things, you have to get an awful lot of things sorted out.”  DS Smith, which collects boxes from J Sainsbury Plc and
other supermarkets to recycle, would need to close Spicers’
pension fund and improve its  capital structure  to pursue a sale,
Roberts said. DS Smith purchased Otor of  France  for almost $300
million last year to expand its packaging division and tap
demand among consumer-goods manufacturers such as Reckitt
Benckiser Group Plc for more environmentally friendly boxes and
cartons.  Cardboard boxes can be crushed and are more easily adapted
to different product sizes, while plastics need cleaning and are
bulky to transport, the CEO said.  Spicers Improving  The company, based in London, reported “strong revenue”
growth since the end of its fiscal first half on Oct. 31. U.K.
sales climbed 27 percent at existing business and 23 percent in  Europe , it said in a statement today.  Spicers’ performance has been satisfactory, with revenue
similar to a year earlier and improved profitability. Other
distributors of office ware include Premier Farnell Plc.  The company is trying to reduce the amount of original
material it uses in its packaging products, he said. Cardboard
fibers can currently be recycled up to eight times, he said,
meaning each cycle needs up to 12 percent new material to
continue the process.  Roberts estimates the company has about 30 percent of the
recycled corrugated packaging market in the U.K., worth about
1.5 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  