-- 
Dubai World’s Drydocks Unit Sued in Singapore for Failing to Pay Suppliers

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-03-10T01:29:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/dubai-world-s-drydocks-sued-in-singapore-for-not-paying-suppliers.html
Two  Singapore  units of Drydocks
World LLC, the ship repair unit of state-owned Dubai World,
which is attempting to restructure $24.9 billion of debt, were
sued in Singapore’s High Court for not paying suppliers.  Drydocks World Singapore Pte and Labroy Shipbuilding &
Engineering Pte, failed to pay S$6 million ($4.7 million) for
goods sold and delivered between May and December, according to
four complaints filed with the Singapore High Court. The cases
had their first closed hearing yesterday.  Drydocks refused repeated requests to pay Beng Hui Marine
Electrical Pte, Hoe Seng Huat Pte and Z-Power Automation Pte,
according to the lawsuits of the Singapore-based suppliers.  The Dubai state-owned company hasn’t filed a defense to the
lawsuits. Drydocks’s lawyer Arthur Yap of Tan Kok Quan
Partnership declined to comment. Sumaya Tahlak, a Dubai-based
Drydocks spokeswoman, didn’t return four calls to her mobile
phone and didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The ship repair unit of  Dubai World  in January said it will
enter talks with its lenders to restructure a $2 billion loan
and get long-term working capital.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, roiled credit markets in November 2009 when
it sought to delay payments on debt. The company will sign a
deal to restructure its debt within a week, Chairman Sheikh
Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum  said on March 9.  The cases are Beng Hui Marine Electrical Pte v Labroy
Shipbuilding & Engineering Pte S18/2011, Beng Hui Marine
Electrical Pte v Drydocks World-Singapore Pte S19/2011, Hoe Seng
Huat Pte v Drydocks World-Singapore Pte S20/2011 and Z-Power
Automation Pte v Labroy Shipbuilding & Engineering Pte S21/2011
in the Singapore  High Court .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  