-- 
Tea Party Republicans Fight Compromise After Senate Defeats Budget Plan

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-10T23:21:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/tea-party-republicans-fight-compromise-after-senate-defeats-budget-plan.html
House Republican freshmen are
urging their leaders to resist compromising on spending cuts
after the Senate defeated the party’s plan to cut $61 billion
from the federal budget this year.  Representative Bill Flores, a first-term Republican from  Texas , said he’s not interested in splitting the difference
with Democrats, “and I don’t think you’re going to find many
of my freshman colleagues that are either.” He said today the
House plan was only a small step toward reining in the deficit
and “we cannot push it off any more.”  House Republicans plan tomorrow to propose a three-week
stopgap measure aimed at buying lawmakers more time to work out
a deal. Representative Steve LaTourette, an Ohio Republican on
the Appropriations Committee, said it will include about $6
billion in cuts designed to be non-controversial.  “There is still a lot of low-hanging fruit out there so
you can probably get through this three weeks without making
any tremendously difficult spending decisions,” LaTourette
said. He said lawmakers could still rescind unspent money for
their pet projects known as earmarks.  Current spending authority ends March 18, and without
agreement by then non-essential government services would shut
down.  ‘Roll Up Our Sleeves’  Each side called on the other to make the next move on
proposing a plan to fund the government through September. New
York Senator Chuck Schumer, the third-ranking Democrat, said
it’s up to House Speaker  John Boehner  to present an offer with
fewer cuts after the Senate yesterday rejected the House plan
and a rival spending proposal offered by Democrats.  “We’re ready to roll up our sleeves and negotiate, but we
need them to put something that moves the negotiations forward
on the table,” Schumer said.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, responded that it’s time for
Senate Democrats to “get serious” about negotiating. “Where
is the Senate Democrat plan?” he said. “I’m not going to sit
up here and negotiate with myself.”  Senate Democratic leaders said they want to broaden the
budget talks by considering spending reductions in future
fiscal years, as well as tax increases. Schumer has suggested
cutting Medicare and agriculture programs, as well as
eliminating tax benefits for oil and gas drilling.  Muddling the Issue  Bringing up tax increases and other matters would “muddle
the current issue,” Boehner said today. “That’s what the next
budget process is for, and we’ll have plenty of opportunities
to talk about that.”  Second-ranking House Democrat Steny Hoyer said he’s
skeptical that both parties could end the fight over the
current fiscal year’s funding with a deal extending cuts over
multiple years.  “What I don’t know is necessarily achievable is an
agreement on what the cuts in the out years are, how deep they
are and how long-term they are,” Hoyer of  Maryland  said in an
interview.  The Republican spending bill, which would kill more than
100 programs and reduce funding for hundreds more,  failed  in
the Senate late yesterday, 44-56. The Senate also  defeated , 42-
58, a Democratic alternative that called for roughly one-tenth
the amount of cuts as in the Republican measure.  Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican, said
today he’s willing to compromise with Democrats though he said
he didn’t know how many of his freshman colleagues would agree.  ‘Fight Another Day’  “You don’t always get what you want -- if you get a
little bit of it and you live to fight another day, that’s what
you’re going to do,” he said. He said the freshmen are “a
force and I’m not sure what their level of tolerance is, but
you don’t want the perfect to be the enemy of the good.”  Said Idaho Republican Mike Simpson: “I don’t know how
much flexibility our conference is going to give us” because
“Republicans are pretty stuck on those numbers.”  Freshman members -- who make up more than one-third of the
241  House Republicans  -- are eager to deliver on campaign
promises to slash spending. The party should stand behind its
plan even if a stalemate results in a government shutdown,
Republican Representative Allen West of  Florida  said yesterday.  “Anything less than that is a heinous violation of the
trust of the American people,” said West, who won his first
term in November with Tea Party support. “It is a question of
can we truly prove ourselves to be fiscally responsible or are
we just up here playing a game.”  Blocking Legislation  Also today, 10 Republican senators threatened to block
consideration of any legislation that doesn’t address the
deficit.  “Taxpayers expect Congress to work together to reduce
wasteful and unnecessary spending,” the senators including  Jeff Sessions  of  Alabama  and  Jim DeMint  of  South Carolina  said
in a letter to Reid. They said they would relent if he agreed
to schedule “significant” floor debate on the issue before a
needed increase in the federal debt limit.  Reid spokesman Jon Summers said in a statement, “After
ignoring jobs for months, Republicans are making it official by
vowing to block every bill that creates American jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at   or
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  