-- 
Leap Wireless Gains as Shareholder Nominates Three to Board

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-10T23:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/leap-wireless-gains-as-shareholder-nominates-three-to-board-3-.html
  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) 
jumped the most in 10 months after a shareholder nominated three
candidates for the pay-as-you-go mobile-phone carrier’s board,
saying it made “poor strategic decisions.”  Leap, based in  San Diego , rose $1.19, or 9.5 percent, to
$13.69 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading,
for the biggest one day gain since May.  Pentwater Capital Management LP , which owns 4.8 percent of
Leap, today criticized the company for not merging with  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)  in 2007, for the carrier’s pricing decisions
and for its inventory management, among other matters. Leap
shares have declined 69 percent in the past three years.  “In addition to the poor strategic decisions made by the
board, Leap has made many incorrect operational decisions that
have led to a destruction of  shareholder value ,” Pentwater said
in the letter, addressed to Leap directors.  Pentwater, based in  Chicago , nominated its chief executive
officer, Matthew C. Halbower, and telecommunications-industry
executives Robert E. Switz and Richard R. Roscitt to the Leap
board.  “We strongly disagree with many of the assertions
contained in Pentwater’s letter,” Leap said in an e-mailed
statement. “The Board is committed to acting in the best
interests of all shareholders.”  Leap said the Board had overseen the introduction of lower-
priced smartphones, nationwide third-generation coverage and
improvements in customer turnover and average revenue per user.  Pentwater holds 3.78 million Leap shares, according to the
letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  