-- 
Eastern Europe Uses Greek Crisis as Cover to Delay Move to Euro Discipline

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-03-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/eastern-europe-uses-euro-debt-crisis-to-delay-currency-adoption.html
The euro-region debt crisis is
giving Poland, the  Czech Republic  and Hungary an excuse to delay
getting their economies in shape to join the single currency.  The European Union’s largest eastern members are slowing
euro preparations as western governments struggle to end a debt
crisis that nearly ripped the currency apart in May. Without a
fixed timetable, buying the bonds of these countries is no
longer a one-way bet on falling yields, said investors including
Jean-Dominique Butikofer, who helps oversee about $1 billion of
emerging-market debt at Union Bancaire Privee in Zurich.  Governments from Warsaw to Budapest are becoming more
reluctant to adopt the tighter fiscal rules designed to prevent
a new crisis that will be debated by euro-region leaders in
Brussels today. Seven of the 10 former communist countries that
have joined the EU since 2004 have yet to adopt the currency.  “It’s a convenient excuse and it may distract away from
some of the measures they need to do at home to sort out budget
deficits and structural changes,”  Nigel Rendell , an economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London, said in a phone interview. “It’s
welcome news in some of the euro-skeptic countries.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is pushing EU leaders to
commit to cutting debt and deficit levels and bolstering
economic competitiveness in return for her pledge to back
stepped-up crisis-fighting efforts. The plan includes targets in
areas such as sustainability of public finances and the
stability of financials systems. The discussion will also
include proposals to beef up sanctions for offenders.  ‘Just an Excuse’  That’s sparking concern among Polish, Czech and Hungarian
officials because it may force them to cut spending and revamp
social security and labor rules faster than they had planned.  Slower preparations weaken the “credibility regarding
structural reforms,: said  Michael Ganske , head of emerging-
markets research at Commerzbank AG in London. “It’s a good
rationale for politicians and governments to say that the  euro
zone  has this problem so let’s wait and see. But it’s really
just an excuse because meeting the criteria is tough.”  Adopting the euro’s inflation and budget requirements may
help reduce bond yields in east European countries. At the same
time, the aftermath of the euro crisis means that some already
enjoy yields lower than those of the bloc’s most-indebted
countries.  Czech 10-year bonds yield 3.97 percent, compared with 3.25
percent for German bunds,  Europe ’s benchmark. Polish 10-year
yields are at 6.29 percent and Hungarian yields at 7.49 percent.
That’s still lower than Greek 10-year yields, at 12.4 percent.
Spanish and Portuguese debt of similar maturity yields 5.49
percent and 7.31 percent, respectively.  ‘Unimaginable Before 2020’  During the global credit crisis of 2008 and 2009, some
eastern leaders lobbied western governments for faster euro
admission as investors fled riskier markets. Now, politicians
are rethinking euro timetables after flexible exchange rates
helped them cope with the global recession and the euro’s own
crisis.  Poland  was the only EU country to avoid an economic
contraction in 2009.  Hungarian adoption is “unimaginable before 2020,” Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  said on Feb. 5. Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas said in December his country “de facto” has an “an opt-
out” and can refuse to adopt the single currency as long it
deems it beneficial to keep the koruna.  Poland’s switchover, slated for 2012 only two years ago,
“isn’t on the agenda” because of Europe’s debt crisis, an
adviser to Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said on Dec. 8.  Risking Benefits  Some economists argue that they should keep their euro
plans on track as it will help lure investment and eliminate  currency risk  for companies in the region.  While caution is “perhaps understandable” after the crisis,
“the underlying justification for wanting to go into the euro
project is still a very strong one,” said Peter Westaway,
European chief economist at Nomura International Plc in  London .
“Every year that they are out, they are risking not being able
to exploit the benefits that occur once you’re inside a strong
monetary union and once you’re locked into that market.”  By postponing the changeover, some countries risk losing
the determination to continue budget cuts after years of
austerity, said  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-markets analyst
at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen.  “There is a risk that with the anchor disappearing,
discipline is also going out the window,” Christensen said.
“There are massive structural issues.”  Budget Deficits  The average euro-area budget deficit was 4.6 percent of
gross domestic product last year, according to the European
Commission’s November estimates, compared with 3.8 percent in  Hungary , 7.9 percent in Poland and 5.2 percent in the Czech
Republic. Debt in Hungary totaled 78.5 percent of GDP, compared
with 55.5 percent in Poland and 40 percent for the Czechs. Euro-
region debt averaged 84.1 percent, the commission said.  Investors who own bonds denominated in Polish zloty,
Hungarian forint and Czech koruna and once put money on the so-
called convergence play have to wait longer before seeing the
benefits, said Ronald Schneider, who helps manage the equivalent
of $1.1 billion in east European bonds at Raiffeisen
Kapitalanlage in Vienna.  “This used to be one of the investment stories but at the
moment it is not a near-term topic,” Schneider said.  With the absence of euro-adoption target dates, investors
must weigh other factors, such as potential currency gains and
the shape of public and external finances when buying euro
candidates’ debt, said Butikofer at UBP. They also must assess
countries on their individual merits.  ‘Good and Bad’  “Investors will have to differentiate between the good and
the bad” instead of “the blind convergence play,” Butikofer
said.  Whether eastern EU members have a deadline for euro entry
or not is less relevant as long as they don’t stray from meeting
the conditions, said Michael Gomez, co-head of emerging markets
at Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  “The important thing is to follow a set of policies that
are consistent with the type of prudence that” euro entry would
require, Munich-based Gomez said in an interview. “As long as
countries are implementing proper and sound policy to put them
back on a sustainable track then that really is critical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  