-- 
Lebanon’s Mikati, Hariri Families on Forbes Billionaire List

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-03-10T12:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/lebanon-s-mikati-hariri-families-on-forbes-billionaire-list.html
Lebanese Prime Minister-designate
Najib Mikati, currently trying to form a new government in
Lebanon, was  ranked  by  Forbes magazine  as the 409th richest
person in the world with $2.8 billion.  Mikati 55, and his brother  Taha , 62, who founded  M1 Group ,
and is also ranked at 409th with the same net worth, moved down
from 374th last year.  In 1982, Najib and Taha founded Investcom, a
telecommunications company that operated in emerging markets.
The company was bought by  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
mobile-phone company, in 2006 for $5.5 billion.  M1 Group’s  holdings include Geneva-based  Baboo  airline,
French retailer  Faconnable ,  Avante Petroleum , an exploration and
production company and a stake in Bank Audi SAL-Audi Saradar
Group, Lebanon’s largest lender by assets.  Bahaa Hariri, the eldest son of former Lebanese Prime
Minister  Rafiq Hariri  who was assassinated in 2005, was  ranked 
as the 459th richest person in the world with a fortune of $2.5
billion.  Hariri moved down from 316th place last year when his net
worth was $3 billion. The 44-year-old  Boston University  graduate
left the family owned Saudi Oger Ltd., a construction, utility
and telecommunications company to run his own property business.
He became the first member of his family to break with 33-year-
old Saudi Oger, which was founded by his father and has built
hotels, hospitals,  power plants , military compounds and most of
the Saudi Royal family’s palaces.  New Company  Hariri’s new company,  Horizon Development Group , focuses on
real estate in Jordan, Lebanon and  Saudi Arabia . The company is
in partnership with Jordan’s government-owned real-estate
developer to build a downtown neighborhood called Al-Abdali in
Amman valued at more than $3 billion.  Hariri’s younger brother, caretaker Prime Minister Saad Hariri, 40, was  ranked  595th with a net worth of $2 billion,
down from 536th place, although his net worth rose from $1.9
billion in 2010. Saad also runs the Riyadh-based Saudi Oger.    Mexico ’s  Carlos Slim , 71, who is of Lebanese descent,
remained the world’s richest person for a second year with
estimated assets of $74 billion, according to  Forbes magazine’s 
annual global ranking of billionaires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  