-- 
ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for March (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 
2011-03-10T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-march-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s March monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 3 March 2011 to
leave the key ECB interest rates unchanged. The information
which has become available since its meeting on 3 February 2011
indicates a rise in inflation, largely reflecting higher
commodity prices. The economic analysis indicates that risks to
the outlook for price developments are on the upside, while the
underlying pace of monetary expansion remains moderate. Recent
economic data confirm that the underlying momentum of economic
activity in the euro area remains positive; however, uncertainty
remains elevated. The current very accommodative stance of
monetary policy lends considerable support to economic activity.
It is essential that the recent rise in inflation does not give
rise to broad-based inflationary pressures over the medium term.
Strong vigilance is warranted with a view to containing upside
risks to  price stability . Overall, the Governing Council remains
prepared to act in a firm and timely manner to ensure that
upside risks to price stability over the medium term do not
materialise. The continued firm anchoring of inflation
expectations is of the essence.  The Governing Council also decided to continue conducting its
main refinancing operations (MROs) and the special-term
refinancing operations with a maturity of one maintenance period
as fixed rate tender procedures with full allotment for as long
as necessary, and at least until the end of the sixth
maintenance period of 2011 on 12 July 2011. Furthermore, the
Governing Council decided to conduct the three-month longer-term
refinancing operations (LTROs) to be allotted on 27 April, 25
May and 29 June 2011 as fixed rate tender procedures with full
allotment. The rates in these three-month operations will be
fixed at the average rate of the MROs over the life of the
respective LTRO.  As stated before, the provision of liquidity and the allotment
modes will be adjusted as appropriate, taking into account the
fact that all the non-standard measures taken during the period
of acute financial market tensions are, by construction,
temporary in nature. Accordingly, the Governing Council will
continue to monitor all developments over the period ahead very
closely.  With regard to the economic analysis, following the 0.3%
quarter-on-quarter increase in euro area real GDP in both the
third and the fourth quarter of 2010, recent statistical
releases and survey-based evidence continue to confirm the
positive underlying ﻿momentum of economic activity in the euro
area at the beginning of 2011. Looking ahead, euro area exports
should continue to be supported by the ongoing recovery in the
world economy. At the same time, taking into account the
relatively high level of business confidence in the euro area,
private sector domestic demand should increasingly contribute to
growth, benefiting from the very accommodative monetary policy
stance and the measures adopted to improve the functioning of
the financial system. However, the recovery in activity is
expected to be dampened somewhat by the process of balance sheet
adjustment in various sectors.  This assessment is also reflected in the March 2011 ECB staff
macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual real GDP growth in a range between 1.3% and 2.1% in 2011
and between 0.8% and 2.8% in 2012. Compared with the December
2010 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections, the lower ends
of these ranges have been shifted upwards, reflecting better
prospects for the global economy - and thus for euro area
exports - as well as for domestic demand. The March 2011 ECB
staff projections are broadly in line with forecasts by
international organisations.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, the risks to this
economic outlook are broadly balanced in a context of elevated
uncertainty. On the one hand, global trade may continue to grow
more rapidly than expected, thereby supporting euro area exports.
Moreover, strong business confidence could provide more support
to domestic economic activity in the euro area than is currently
expected. On the other hand, downside risks relate to the
ongoing tensions in some segments of the financial markets and
their potential spillover to the euro area real economy.
Downside risks also relate to further increases in commodity
prices, in particular in view of renewed geopolitical tensions,
and to protectionist pressures and the possibility of a
disorderly correction of global imbalances.  With regard to price developments, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 2.4% in February 2011, according to Eurostat’s
flash estimate, after 2.3% in January. The increase in inflation
rates in early 2011 largely reflects higher commodity prices.
Pressure stemming from the sharp increases in energy and food
prices is also discernible in the earlier stages of the
production process. It is paramount that the rise in HICP
inflation does not lead to second-round effects and thereby give
rise to broad-based inflationary pressures over the medium term.
Inflation expectations over the medium to longer term must
remain firmly anchored in line with the Governing Council’s aim
of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term.  ﻿The March 2011 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the euro
area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 2.0% and
2.6% for 2011 and between 1.0% and 2.4% for 2012. In comparison
with the December 2010 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic
projections, the ranges for HICP inflation have been shifted
upwards. This is mainly due to the considerable rise in energy
and food prices. It should be stressed that the projections are
based on commodity price futures as of mid-February 2011, and
therefore do not take into account the most recent oil price
increases. Moreover, it needs to be emphasised that the
projections assume continued moderate domestic wage and price-
setting behaviour. Risks to the medium-term outlook for price
developments are on the upside. They relate, in particular, to
higher than assumed increases in energy and non-energy commodity
prices. Furthermore, increases in indirect taxes and
administered prices may be greater than currently assumed, owing
to the need for fiscal consolidation in the coming years.
Finally, risks also relate to stronger than expected domestic
price pressures in the context of the ongoing recovery in
activity. Price and wage-setters’ behaviour should not lead to
broadly based second-round effects stemming from higher
commodity prices.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth rate of M3
declined to 1.5% in January 2011, from 1.7% in December 2010,
while the annual growth rate of loans to the private sector
increased to 2.4% in January, from 1.9% in December. Looking
beyond the movements in individual months and the effects of
special factors, trends in broad money and loan growth confirm
the assessment that the underlying pace of monetary expansion is
still moderate and that inflationary pressures over the medium
to longer term should remain contained. At the same time, the
low level of money and credit growth has thus far led to only a
partial unwinding of the large amounts of monetary liquidity
accumulated in the economy prior to the period of financial
tensions. This liquidity may facilitate the accommodation of
price pressures currently emerging in commodity markets as a
result of strong economic growth and ample liquidity at the
global level.  Looking at M3 components, annual M1 growth moderated further to
stand at 3.2% in January 2011, reflecting the prevailing low
remuneration of overnight deposits. At the same time, the yield
curve steepened somewhat further at the start of the year,
implying that the attractiveness of short-term instruments
included in M3 continues to decline, compared with more highly
remunerated longer-term instruments outside M3.  On the counterpart side, the rise in the annual growth rate of
bank loans to the private sector in January reflected stronger
lending to both households and non-financial ﻿corporations. The
growth of loans to non-financial corporations turned positive,
to stand at 0.4% in January, after -0.2% in December, while the
growth of loans to households strengthened further to 3.1%, from
2.9% in December. Overall, lending to the non-financial private
sector has gradually strengthened over the past few quarters, as
the economic recovery gathered momentum.  The latest data also confirm that banks have continued to expand
their lending to the euro area economy, while at the same time
keeping the overall size of their balance sheets broadly
unchanged. It is important that banks continue to expand the
provision of credit to the private sector, in an environment of
increasing demand. To address this challenge, where necessary,
it is essential for banks to retain earnings, to turn to the
market to strengthen further their capital bases or to take full
advantage of government support measures for recapitalisation.
In particular, banks that currently have limited access to
market financing urgently need to increase their capital and
efficiency.  To sum up, the Governing Council decided to leave the key ECB
interest rates unchanged. The information which has become
available since its meeting on 3 February 2011 indicates a rise
in inflation, largely reflecting higher commodity prices. The
economic analysis indicates that risks to the outlook for price
developments are on the upside, while the cross-check with the
monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of monetary
expansion remains moderate. Recent economic data confirm that
the underlying momentum of economic activity in the euro area
remains positive; however, uncertainty remains elevated. The
current very accommodative stance of monetary policy lends
considerable support to economic activity. It is essential that
the recent rise in inflation does not give rise to broad-based
inflationary pressures over the medium term. Strong vigilance is
warranted with a view to containing upside risks to price
stability. Overall, the Governing Council remains prepared to
act in a firm and timely manner to ensure that upside risks to
price stability over the medium term do not materialise. The
continued firm anchoring of inflation expectations is of the
essence.  Turning to fiscal policies, all governments need to fully
implement their fiscal consolidation plans in 2011. Where
necessary, additional corrective measures must be implemented
swiftly to ensure progress in achieving fiscal sustainability.
Beyond 2011 countries need to specify ambitious and concrete
policy measures in their multi-year adjustment programmes, so as
to underpin the credibility of their fiscal consolidation
targets of ensuring a rapid correction of excessive deficits and
returning to a close-to-﻿balance or surplus position.
Strengthening confidence in the sustainability of public
finances is key, as this will reduce interest rate risk premia
and improve the conditions for sound and sustainable growth.  At the same time, it is crucial that substantial and far-
reaching structural reforms be implemented in the euro area to
strengthen its growth potential, competitiveness and flexibility.
In the case of product markets, policies that enhance
competition and innovation, in particular, should be further
pursued. On the  labour market , the priority must be to enhance
wage flexibility and incentives to work, and to remove labour
market rigidities.  The current sovereign debt crisis in the euro area has
reinforced the need for an ambitious reform of the economic
governance framework of the euro area. The Governing Council is
of the view that the legislative proposals which have been put
forward by the European Commission go some way to improving
economic and budgetary surveillance in the euro area. However,
they fall short of the necessary quantum leap in the
surveillance of the euro area which is necessary to ensure the
smooth functioning of Economic and Monetary Union. As outlined
in the ECB’s opinion of 17 February 2011 on these proposals,
more stringent requirements, more automaticity in the procedures
and a clearer focus on the most vulnerable countries with losses
in competitiveness are required to ensure that the new framework
will indeed be effective in the long run.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Budapest at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  