-- 
EFSF Expansion to Be Discussed in EU Package, Official Says

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-03-10T13:58:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/efsf-expansion-to-be-discussed-in-eu-package-official-says-1-.html
Expanding the rescue fund for
indebted euro-area nations will be discussed as part of an
overall European Union package to fight the debt crisis to be
unveiled at the end of March, a German government official said.  No decisions on the fund, known as the European Financial
Stability Facility, or its post-2013 successor, the European
Stability Mechanism, are likely at a summit of EU leaders in
Brussels tomorrow, the official said on condition of anonymity
because the discussions are not public. EU finance ministers
will discuss details of the ESM next week, the official said.  The comments are the first acknowledgement by German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government that expansion of the EFSF
to lend its full capacity is on the table as EU leaders hammer
out a comprehensive package to combat the debt crisis by a March
25 deadline. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on
Feb. 15 that the bailout fund didn’t need changes because it
could act with “lightning speed” if needed.  The EFSF’s full 440 billion-euro ($608 billion) amount
“needs to be available to lend out,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told parliament in The Hague yesterday, saying
that he expects euro-region countries to make fresh financing
pledges to allow that to happen.  Any changes to the EFSF require the approval of the German
parliament, the government official said, without elaborating.
That threatens to pose problems for Merkel, who lost her
majority in the upper house last year. Parliamentary lawyers
have already concluded that the ESM will need lawmakers’ assent.  Merkel will tell fellow EU leaders that  Germany  won’t
support bond buying in the secondary market by the permanent
rescue fund, the official said. The post-2013 ESM can only be
allowed to dispense aid as a last resort, and any aid from the
ESM will be conditional on reforms, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  