-- 
Egypt Opposition Leader ElBaradei Plans to Run in Next Presidential Vote

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 
2011-03-10T02:14:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/egypt-opposition-leader-elbaradei-plans-to-run-in-next-presidential-vote.html
Egyptian opposition leader Mohamed ElBaradei said he plans to contest the first presidential
elections to be held after mass demonstrations ended former
President  Hosni Mubarak ’s three-decade rule.  ElBaradei, 68, emerged as the surprise face of an Egyptian
opposition that forced Mubarak from office last month after 18
days of mass demonstrations, ending three decades of rule. The
protests were inspired by a mass uprising in  Tunisia  that led to
the ouster of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  In the early part of the interview with  Egypt ’s ONTV, the
Nobel Prize winner said he wanted to run in the next election,
though he refused to repeat the statement and then said he would
only do so if the system was fair. As the show came to an end
and after being pressed by the interviewer, he said: “I,  Mohamed ElBaradei , intend to officially declare my candidacy for
presidency through ONTV.”  ElBaradei also said he would vote “no” in a March 19
referendum on constitutional changes because the measures had
been rushed and some of them contained flaws. He said that if
elected he would seek to restore close ties with  Iran  and that
the relationship between Israel and Egypt was one of “master-
servant.”  During Egypt’s turmoil, a coalition of opposition groups,
including the banned Muslim Brotherhood, coalesced around
ElBaradei, who last night said that if elected he would seek
“social justice” through socialism and not capitalism.  Equal Rights  ElBaradei, the former chief of the United Nations atomic
agency, said he backed equality, whether between men and women
or Muslims and Copts.  The toppling of Ben Ali and Mubarak has fueled protests
across the Arab world including in  Libya , where rebel forces are
battling leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Oil prices  have risen to the
highest in 2 1/2 years on concern that the turmoil in the region
will disrupt the flow of crude.  Mubarak ceded authority to an army council, which suspended
the constitution and dissolved parliament, saying it would rule
for six months or until elections are held. No date for a vote
has been set.  “I won’t run, unless there’s a democratic system and real
representation by people,” said ElBaradei, who was a critic of
the U.S. invasion of  Iraq . “A corrupt constitution results in a
corrupt system.”  Egyptian Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik resigned earlier this
month, succumbing to demands by protesters who are insisting
that Cabinet members named by Mubarak leave office.  Opposition groups are also calling for the release of
political prisoners, the trial of those responsible for attacks
during the unrest, increased democracy and a crackdown on
corruption.  Some 365 people were killed and 5,500 injured during the
uprising, state TV reported on Feb. 17, citing the Health
Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  