-- 
Temp Workers Place Company Stock Gains in Peril: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-10T15:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/temp-workers-place-company-stock-gains-in-peril-chart-of-the-day.html
Providers of temporary help are
unlikely to fare as well in the workplace as they have in the
stock market, according to Morgan Stanley.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the number of U.S. temporary
workers, as compiled by the Labor Department, compares with the
performance of an S&P index of human-resource and employment
companies since September 2008.  There were 3.6 percent fewer jobs in February than at the
start of the period, when the economy was about halfway through
the most recent recession. The drop contrasts with a 29 percent
increase in the S&P index through yesterday. Last month’s total
of 2.22 million workers was also 17 percent lower than the peak
of 2.68 million, reached in April 2000.  “Temps are likely to become a smaller percentage of the
workforce, especially for skilled professionals,” analyst Vance H. Edelson wrote yesterday in a report. He drew the conclusion
from Morgan Stanley’s January survey of 200 corporate recruiters
in the U.S., U.K.,  Germany  and  France .  Just 15 percent of the companies plan to add temporary
workers during the next 12 months, the report said. The same
percentage of respondents said they might stop using them
altogether next year and beyond, primarily because they are more
expensive than permanent employees.  “We are increasingly cautious on temporary staffing,” the
analysts wrote. They cut ratings to “underweight” from “equal
weight” on  Robert Half International Inc. (RHI) , the third-biggest
U.S. staffing company, and  Randstad Holding NV (RAND) , the second-
largest in the world.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:  David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  