-- 
English Soccer Body Said to Mull Bond Placement to Refinance Wembley Debt

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-10T13:28:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/english-soccer-body-said-to-mull-bond-to-refinance-wembley-stadium-loans.html
  England ’s  Football Association  may
refinance about 350 million pounds ($566 million) of loans used
to fund Wembley Stadium in a bond sale, according to two people
familiar with the situation.  English soccer’s governing body is considering a  bond issue 
because the current loan, taken out in 2008 and due to run until
2023, is too expensive, said one of the people, who declined to
be identified because a decision has yet to be taken.  “How are you going to get cheaper money -- that’s the
question,” said Stephen Schechter, founder and chairman of
investment bank Schechter Co. He specializes in sports finance,
helping teams like  Manchester City , Southampton and Leeds raise
funds. “There’s not a lot of capital around.”  Wembley cost 757 million pounds, making it the world’s most
expensive stadium when it opened in 2007. It is the home of
England’s national soccer team and also hosts the F.A and League
Cup finals. It is used as a concert venue and has held National
Football League games in the last few years.  The F.A. replaced an original 426.4 million pound loan with
a 341.5 million pound agreement with a syndicate of six banks
led by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Germany ’s WestLB AG. It fixed an
interest rate of 6.92 percent through a swap arrangement for the
entire amount. That swap carried a loss of 38 million pounds,
according to results filed for the year ended Dec. 31. The other
syndicate members are Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, Lloyds TSB
Group Plc, Bank of Ireland and Banco Espirito Santo SA.  “The F.A. Group keeps such arrangements under regular
review to maintain the continued financial strength of the
organization,” the English soccer body said today.  Collapse of Lehman  The first financing agreement signed in 2002 was for 16
years and paid lenders interest of 2.5 percent points over the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, the interest rate banks
charge each other for money lent overnight.  Libor hit record lows following the global economic crisis,
which included the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. a
week before the Wembley refinancing was secured. Three-month
Libor for sterling is currently at 0.81 percent, about 5.5
percentage points less than when the loan was made. WestLB, RBS,
Bank of Ireland and Lloyds TSB all required government bail-outs
following the crisis.  A soccer-related bond sale wouldn’t be unique. The Premier
League’s top two teams have securities outstanding. Second-
placed Arsenal owes 230 million pounds on a 2006 bond, while
leader  Manchester United  replaced a 500 million-pound  bank loan 
with a sterling and dollar bond last year.  Risk Profile  While the current debt was financed by a subsidiary
company, Wembley National Stadium Plc, new financing may be
sought on behalf of the entire F.A. group in order to lower the
risk profile, one of the people said.  The governing body makes more than 130 million pounds from
selling broadcast rights to England national team matches and
the F.A. Cup, the oldest domestic cup competition in the world.
Wembley, which seats 90,000 people, generates about 100 million
pounds on its own. About 65 percent of the stadium’s revenue
comes from the sale of 10-year club seats. Plans by European
soccer’s governing body to take over the sale of national team
matches may hurt the F.A.’s television income.  “The more funding sources one has, the more diverse that
base the more it helps,” Schechter said.  License holders get guaranteed annual access to the 12
biggest matches organized by England’s  Football Association,  the
Football League and the Rugby Football League after Wembley
secured staging rights ranging from 20 to 30 years. The current
set of seat licenses expire in 2017.  Seat sales are important because Wembley can’t sell naming
rights or become the home stadium for a Premier League soccer
club under restrictions with local and national governments,
which provided more than 120 million pounds for construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 