-- 
Entergy’s Vermont Nuclear Unit Cleared for License Renewal

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-03-10T21:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/entergy-s-vermont-nuclear-unit-cleared-for-license-renewal-1-.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission said it will extend the operating license for  Entergy
Corp. (ETR) ’s Vermont Yankee nuclear reactor.  The federal nuclear agency will issue a 20-year license
extension after upholding an agency board ruling that rejected a
challenge to the renewal, Gregory Jaczko, chairman of the
commission, said today during a conference call with reporters.
The license will be issued in a “matter of days,” Jaczko said.  The commission voted 4-0 to support a decision by its
Atomic Safety Licensing Board that denied an objection to the
license by New England Coalition on Nuclear Pollution, Eliot Brenner, a commission spokesman, said during the call. The
coalition had raised concerns about Entergy’s oversight of
underground pipes that had leaked at the plant, according to a
statement posted on the Brattleboro, Vermont-based group’s
 website .  “We believe Entergy, through the exhaustive review that
we’ve done for license renewal, meets all of our requirements
and standards needed to be able to operate for another 20
years,” Jaczko said.  The commission’s approval is just “one piece” of a
variety of permits and actions that are needed for plant to
continue to operate, Jaczko said. The actions that the state of  Vermont  is taking “don’t involve any of our authorities or
responsibilities,” he said.  Governor’s Opposition  Entergy, based in  New Orleans , said in November it may sell
the plant after Vermont voters elected a governor who has
opposed extending the plant’s life beyond 2012. The Vermont
Senate voted in February 2010 against allowing state regulators
to extend the plant’s license after it expires on March 2012
because of leaks of tritium-laced water at the site.  Governor Peter Shumlin, a Democrat, has called for the
state to reject a 20-year extension of the plant’s operating
license.  The 620-megawatt reactor is located in Vernon, Vermont,
about 140 miles (225 kilometers) northwest of  Boston , and
provides a third of the electricity consumed in the state,
according to Entergy.  The reactor came under scrutiny after leaks of water laced
with tritium were identified in January 2010. Tritium is a
radioactive form of hydrogen and a byproduct of nuclear power
generation that in large doses can increase the risk of cancer.  Entergy is in the process of cleaning the areas affected by
the tritium leak and would “substantially complete” the effort
before any sale, Michael Burns, a company spokesman, said in
November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 