-- 
EPA to Issue E15 Label Rules in Next Few Months, Chief Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-03-10T20:49:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/epa-to-issue-e15-label-rules-in-next-few-months-chief-says-1-.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency plans to issue final rules for labeling gasoline pumps
that carry a higher blend of ethanol within months,
Administrator Lisa Jackson said.  “We expect to issue a final rule in the next few months,”
Jackson said today in testimony before the House Agriculture
Committee about the EPA’s fiscal budget.  The EPA has been crafting label requirements after granting
a request from ethanol producers to raise the amount of the
corn-based additive in fuel for vehicles made for the 2001 model
year and later. Refiners will be able to blend gasoline with as
much as 15 percent ethanol, up from 10 percent.  The blend can’t be sold until federal rules are in place to
ensure that so-called E15 is labeled properly at gasoline pumps.
The requirements are aimed at preventing use of the fuel in
vehicles that aren’t approved to handle the new blend. Some
environmental groups and other opponents of E15 say they aren’t
convinced labeling measures will be enough to prevent damage to
engines.  “We don’t believe that a label will be sufficient to
mitigate all misfueling, but we do support stronger and more
detailed language on the ethanol label,” the Washington-based
 Environmental Working Group  said in a Jan. 3 letter to Jackson.
“Stronger and more detailed labels seem to us to be the next-
best solution to our preferred option, denying the E15 waiver
altogether.”  ‘No Better Time’  Growth Energy , a Washington-based ethanol trade group that
submitted the request to lift the limits on the additive, said
it welcomed the EPA’s timeframe for the labeling rules.  “There’s no better time than now to move E15 into the
market, considering the alternative of continuing to see high  oil prices  and high gas prices,” Growth Energy Chief Executive
Officer Tom Buis said today in a statement. “Lifting the
regulatory barriers preventing higher blends of U.S.- made
ethanol from getting into the pump would start to push gas
prices down right away.”  The EPA had been pressed by supporters of the ethanol
industry to raise the limit to increase demand and help boost
consumption for an industry that saw at least a dozen companies
seek  bankruptcy protection  in an 18-month period.    Oil companies , automakers and environmental groups say
higher ethanol in fuel may damage engines, boost food prices and
worsen  air quality , and that refiners and convenience stores
selling fuel may be reluctant to market the new blend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  