-- 
Merkel Said to Back Lower Bailout Rates for Greece, Ireland

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-03-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/merkel-is-said-to-support-lower-bailout-rates-on-debt-for-greece-ireland.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
told lawmakers she would back lower  interest rates  for emergency
loans if Greece agrees to sell state assets and Ireland backs a
common corporate tax base in the euro region.  Merkel’s comments in a closed-door briefing to German
lawmakers on the eve of today’s European Union summit came as EU
leaders seek to break a deadlock by a March 25 deadline on
reinforcing their bailout plan and coordinating economic
policies, said four lawmakers who attended the session of the
parliament’s European Affairs Committee in Berlin.  Her willingness to back what she called a moderate
reduction in the cost of the rescue loans sought by Greece and
Ireland marked a turnaround. The comments followed the first
acknowledgement by her government yesterday that an expansion of
the European Financial Stability Facility to lend its full
capacity was on the table.  “It is a difficult negotiation and the negotiations are
not over,” Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou told
reporters in Paris yesterday after meeting French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Papandreou met Merkel in Berlin on Feb. 22 in a
bid to persuade her to support an easing of lending terms.  At a March 4 meeting of their European  People’s Party ,
Merkel rebuffed a plea by Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  to cut
the cost of last year’s 85 billion-euro ($117 billion) bailout,
saying “relief isn’t the issue.” Kenny wants to lower the 5.8
percent interest rate on aid loans and end the protection of
senior bank bondholders.  ‘Market Focus’  The public negotiating suggests today’s meeting, which is
set to focus on coordinating economic policies, won’t “result
in any tangible measures,” said UBS AG economist  Beat Siegenthaler  in a note today. “But it will bring the eurozone
debt crisis back into market focus, particularly amid ever-
widening spreads of peripheral sovereign bonds.”  Bond yields in Portugal and  Greece  touched euro-era records
this week and Moody’s Investor Service lowered  Spain ’s credit
rating by one notch today with a negative outlook. The euro fell
0.8 percent to $1.3798 at 8:35 p.m. in Berlin.  As part of the quest for a comprehensive plan to stem the
debt crisis, the EU is nearing agreement on a plan to be put to
today’s summit to raise the region’s competitiveness and tighten
economic cooperation, German and French officials said.  The pact, which includes chapters on competitiveness,
labor, sustainable public finances and the stability of
financial systems, sets objectives rather than binding targets,
leaving countries free find their own policy mix, the officials
said on condition of anonymity because the talks are not public.  The original plan proposed by Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy on Feb. 4 ran into opposition. Luxembourg and  Belgium  rejected suggestions to scrap wage indexation.  German Elections  Merkel has been hemmed in by state elections and EU
resistance to her calls for greater economic-policy
coordination. In a March 9 speech, she said EU nations must
adhere to fiscal rules to spur growth.  “We can’t give ourselves rules and then have some
repeatedly flouting these rules,” Merkel said at a rally of her
Christian Democratic party in Demmin, northern Germany.  Speaking to lawmakers yesterday, she signalled a
willingness to compromise on several issues, including interest
rates on aid loans to proposals to expand the scope of the
current temporary rescue fund, said participants.  She set a proviso that any about-turn by  Germany  over
interest paid by Greece and Ireland for aid be tied to strict
conditionality, said the participants.  Merkel indicated support for raising the EFSF’s effective
lending capacity to its headline figure of 440 billion euros and
for making sure that the facility replacing it in 2013 can pay
out the full 500 billion euros if needed, the lawmakers said.  Still, Merkel won’t support bond buying in the secondary
market by the EFSF and the future permanent rescue fund, she
told lawmakers. The post-2013 fund can only be allowed to
dispense aid as a last resort, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin at   rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  