-- 
MetLife Will Cut Holdings of Financial-Firm Debt, CEO Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A p r i l   L e e
-- 
2011-03-10T21:19:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/metlife-will-reduce-holdings-of-financial-firm-debt-chief-henrikson-says.html
  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the U.S. insurer that
owned $160.7 billion of corporate bonds at year-end, plans to
reduce its holdings of debt issued by financial firms, Chief
Executive Officer Robert Henrikson said.  The insurer will “pare it down over time,” Henrikson said
today in an investor presentation. “We see opportunities to
lower the percentage of our business in the financial community,
and banks, European banks, so forth and so on.”  MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, is making
adjustments to its  $450 billion  investment portfolio after the
November acquisition of American Life Insurance Co. The unit,
previously owned by  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , gave New
York-based MetLife assets and customers across  Europe ,  Asia  and  South America .  “We are also paring down the Greek portfolio,” Henrikson
said at the presentation, which was hosted by  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
MetLife said in December it had about  $735 million  in sovereign
exposure to  Greece .  MetLife fell 63 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $45.67 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company
has gained 9.3 percent in the past 12 months, less than the 13
percent advance in the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.  MetLife Chief Investment Officer Steven Kandarian told
investors in December that Alico had “a very heavy
concentration in financials,” and the insurer was repositioning
the portfolio.  Consumer, Industrial Companies  Debt from financial companies issued in U.S. dollars gained
for six straight quarters before declining 0.7 percent in the
last three months of 2010, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The debt returned 1.43 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with the 0.5 percent gain on
industrial debt. Overall, corporate bonds returned 0.8 percent.  MetLife had more than $90 billion in U.S. corporate debt as
of Dec. 31, with $20.9 billion in financial firms. That compares
with about $22.3 billion from industrial companies and $21.7
billion from consumer businesses.  MetLife may increase returns by altering the investments at
Alico, Henrikson said. The unit’s portfolio was “stronger than
MetLife” before the acquisition, from the perspective of
ratings, he said.  “People say, ‘Well, why do you want to mess that up?’”
Henrikson said. “Because we can. We do see opportunities in the
portfolio” to make adjustments including extending the duration
of securities in nations including Japan and shifting
allocations, Henrikson said, without identifying new
investments.  Japanese Golf  Henrikson will rebrand the acquired business as “MetLife
Alico” on April 1, according to a  slide show  from the insurer
today. The company has been promoting the business in Japan by
sending a blimp to golfing events, Henrikson said.  MetLife will spend $500 million over three years
integrating Alico, the company said in September. Costs include
severance pay, technology improvements and advertising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
April Lee in New York at 
 alee355@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  