-- 
EU Antitrust Agency Raids Baltic Rail-Freight Companies

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-03-10T18:09:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/eu-antitrust-agency-raids-baltic-rail-freight-companies-1-.html
The European Commission said it
inspected companies in the Baltic region over a suspected cartel
in the “rail freight sector and related products.”  The raids took place on March 8, the EU said in a
statement, which didn’t name the companies involved. EU
officials were joined by local regulators, the commission said.  Lithuania’s state-owned railways company  Lietuvos
Gelezinkeliai  was one of the targets, Vidmantas Gutas, a company
spokesman, said by phone. The commission has been conducting
inspections at the Vilnius-based railroad since March 8.  “The fact that the commission carries out such inspections
does not mean that the companies are guilty of anti-competitive
behavior nor does it prejudge the outcome of the investigation
itself,” the EU agency said in an e-mailed statement from
Brussels today.  The inspections may be related to a dispute with oil
refinery Orlen Lietuva AB over transport fees, Gutas said. The
refinery, controlled by Poland’s PKN Orlen SA, transports about
90 percent of its production by rail.  The refinery has raised concerns with the European
Commission about Lietuvos Gelezinkeliai, PKN Orlen said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We’ve repeatedly drawn attention to practices damaging to
Orlen Lietuva, in particular the dismantling of a 19-kilometer
section of track, which led to higher transport and shipment
costs for our company,” PKN Orlen said.  The commission and Latvian competition authorities have
also conducted inspections at  Latvia ’s state-owned railroad
company, the  Telegraf  newspaper reported, citing Iveta Sulca,
the head of the commission’s representation in Riga.  A call to the Latvian railways press department today
wasn’t answered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  