-- 
EU Says Most Halted Carbon Registries Not Ready to Reopen by March 14

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-10T16:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/eu-said-likely-to-give-most-carbon-registries-approval-to-open-by-march-14.html
The European Union isn’t planning
to give permission by March 14 for all but two carbon registries
to reopen following online attacks in January.  The European Commission, the EU regulator, refuted today 
predictions that most of the 15 registries that are still
suspended may reopen early next week. Two EU diplomats with
direct knowledge of filings by member states said earlier today
that as many as 13 still-halted carbon office likely will get
commission approval to resume operations early next week.  “This is not going to happen,” said Isaac Valero-Ladron,
a spokesman for climate issues at the commission in Brussels. He
declined to comment on when the approvals to reopen may come.  The commission already approved restarting 15 of 30
registries in the European emissions-trading system, the world’s
largest, after shutting them on Jan. 19 following a series of
computer-hacking attacks. National registries are required to
file reports showing they have adequate security in place before
they can open to accommodate spot trading of permits.  “Our procedures are unchanged, and each registry must
comply with the same security standards,” Valero-Ladron said.  The EU suspension drove spot carbon markets to a halt
for 15 days, and trading remains low. Spot volume on the
BlueNext SA exchange in Paris is down 74 percent in the last 22
trading days compared with the period before the halt, according
to exchange data.  The suspensions didn’t affect trading of carbon futures. EU
permits for delivery in December fell 0.7 percent to 15.77 euros
($21.82) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London as of 3:30 p.m.  The commission will present an update on the region’s
carbon registries when environment ministers meet in Brussels on
March 14, according to the meeting’s agenda.  The EU regulator announces the reopening of registries with
at least 24-hour notice. Suspended registries can’t record
transactions, except for the surrender and allocation of
permits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  