-- 
Bulgarian Growth to Miss Government Estimate, Eurobank Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-10T13:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/eurobank-sees-2011-bulgarian-gdp-growth-at-2-5-on-unemployment.html
Bulgaria’s economy will grow 2.5
percent this year, less than a government forecast, because of
rising unemployment and low household demand,  EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB)  said.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent in 2010 after a
5 percent contraction in 2009, driven by industrial output and
exports. The government forecasts 3.6 percent growth this year.
Unemployment, at 10.1 percent in January according to Eurostat,
will erode consumption and slow the economy, Eurobank,  Greece ’s
second-largest lender, said in an e-mailed report today.  Bulgaria is recovering from its worst recession in more
than a decade after a three-year lending boom stalled and
foreign investment dried up during the global credit crisis. The
 European Union’s  poorest country in terms of per-capita GDP is
counting on  government spending  and demand for its exports in
metals, machinery, textiles and furniture to drive growth.  "This remains a jobless recovery, particularly in the non-
tradable sectors such as services," Eurobank said. "As a result,
domestic households remain extremely cautious on their spending
decisions, continuing to repair their balance sheets."  Individual consumption, which accounts for 73.5 percent of
GDP, fell an annual 1.4 percent in the fourth quarter after a
5.9 percent drop in the third quarter, according to the
statistics office.  Eurobank also sees “significant downside risks stemming
from a relatively high private-sector external indebtedness”
and increasing non-performing loans, according to the report.
Bulgaria’s foreign private-industry debt fell to 89.4 percent of
GDP from 96 percent in 2009, it said. Non-performing loans
accounted for 11.9 percent of bank portfolios in December, after
10.6 percent in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  