-- 
European Stocks Tumble as China Export Growth Slows; BHP, Home Retail Drop

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-03-10T17:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/european-u-s-stock-futures-drop-as-moody-s-downgrades-spain-oil-climbs.html
European stocks slumped to their
lowest close this year as Moody’s Investors Service cut Spain’s
credit rating and export growth slowed in China, raising concern
that the global economic recovery will falter.    Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  slumped 5.9 percent after lowering
its full-year pretax profit forecast.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  lost 2.6
percent as Financial Times Deutschland reported that Germany’s
second-largest lender may raise as much as 7 billion euros ($9.7
billion) to help repay government aid.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  led
raw-material shares to the biggest decline among all 19 industry
groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The Stoxx 600 dropped 1.2 percent to 277.88 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London . The gauge has lost 4.6 percent since
reaching a 2 1/2-year high on Feb. 17 as crude oil surged amid
fighting between Libyan rebels and their ruler for the last 41
years, Muammar Qaddafi, increasing concern that higher energy
costs will choke off the economic recovery.  “After horrific trade numbers out of China overnight,
which show that the engine of world growth might be slowing down
dramatically and another downgrade of a sovereign European
nation, the ‘buy the dip’ attitude which has reigned over the
last two years has started to look wobbly,” said Lex van Dam,
London-based  fund manager  at Hampstead Capital LLP, which
oversees $500 million.  National benchmark indexes fell in 17 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index lost 1.6
percent,  Germany ’s DAX Index declined 1 percent and France’s CAC
40 Index retreated 0.8 percent.  Spain’s Credit Rating  Spain’s IBEX 35 index sank 1.2 percent as the nation’s
rating was downgraded to Aa2 by Moody’s, which said that the
banks will need as much as 50 billion euros to meet new  capital
requirements , more than double the 20 billion euros estimated by
the government. Moody’s has a negative outlook on Spain’s debt.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has said she will do
“whatever is needed to support the euro,” and promised that
meetings scheduled for March 11 and on March 24 and 25 will
produce a “comprehensive” solution to the crisis. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said monetary union is so important
“that we will be there whenever it needs to be defended.”  “It makes sense to be nervous,” said  Nick Nelson , a
London-based equity strategist at UBS AG. “We have seen lead
indicators peak, oil prices rise and we await the outcome of EU
meetings that will lead -- or not -- to a comprehensive solution
for the sovereign-debt crisis.”    China ’s Trade Deficit  China reported an unexpected $7.3 billion trade deficit,
the biggest in seven years. The nation’s exports rose at the
slowest pace since November 2009.  German exports unexpectedly declined in January after
gaining in the previous two months, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said today.  Concern remains that supply disruptions in  Libya , Africa’s
third-largest producer, may spread to the Arabian peninsula.
Warplanes sent from Qaddafi’s home region of Sirte struck the
Ras Lanuf refinery, the country’s largest crude processing
plant,  Al Jazeera  television said. The nation’s largest oil
terminal, at the port of Sidra, was hit in an attack yesterday,
Al Jazeera said.  The  Bank of England  held its benchmark interest rate at a
record low as policy makers set aside their concerns on rising
inflation to support the U.K.’s economic recovery. The Monetary
Policy Committee, led by Governor Mervyn King, kept the rate at
0.5 percent for a 25th month, as predicted by all 61 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., first-time claims for jobless benefits climbed
last week from an almost three-year low, highlighting the uneven
nature of the improvement in the labor market. Applications for
first-time  unemployment benefits  rose by 26,000 to 397,000 in
the week ended March 5, Labor Department figures showed today.  Stoxx 600 Earnings  Even after a retreat in equities since mid-February, the
Stoxx 600 has still surged 76 percent since reaching a 12-year
low two years ago as governments and central banks pumped more
than $12 trillion into the financial system to help the recovery
from the worst global recession since the 1930s.  Fifty-six percent of Stoxx 600 companies that have
announced earnings since Jan. 10 have beaten the average analyst
estimate for per-share profit. The gauge is valued at about 13.6
times the reported earnings of its companies, close to the
cheapest multiple since March 2009, when the measure reached its
lowest level in more than 12 years.  Home Retail sank 5.9 percent to 198.5 pence. The company
projected that its “benchmark” pretax profit for the year
ended on Feb. 26 will have reached 255 million pounds ($409.5
million) at most, as trading at its Argos catalog stores was
“more difficult and volatile than we anticipated.” In January,
Chief Executive Officer Terry Duddy predicted that pretax profit
would reach 265 million pounds.  Commerzbank,  BHP Billiton   Commerzbank lost 2.6 percent to 5.98 euros. The lender will
test the market’s appetite for a possible capital increase of as
much as 7 billion euros in May or June to help repay government
aid, Financial Times Deutschland reported. Separately, the
lender said it sold 1.25 billion euros of subordinated notes as
it prepares for new capital rules.  BHP Billiton, the world’s biggest mining company, declined
3.5 percent to 2,300 pence.  Rio Tinto  sank 3.8 percent to
3,931.5 pence. Copper, lead and nickel prices retreated on the
London Metal Exchange.    ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  slumped 9 percent to 522.5 pence after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the designer of chips that power Apple
Inc.’s iPhone is most at risk if demand for tablet computers
decreases. ARM’s shares rose 151 percent in the 12 months
through yesterday, leaving the stock valued at 59 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, more than
the multiple for any semiconductor takeover since ATI
Technologies Inc. in 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg that includes net debt.  Standard Life, Delhaize    Standard Life Plc (SL/)  plunged 7.3 percent to 226.9 pence, its
largest slide since March 2009, after Scotland’s biggest insurer
reported that its cash generation dropped 6 percent in 2010,
falling short of analysts’ estimates. The former mutual society
spent about 200 million pounds last year on technology for its
savings products.    Delhaize Group SA (DELB)  surged 4.1 percent to 59.74 euros, its
highest price since last July. The owner of the U.S. Food Lion
supermarkets said fourth-quarter net income advanced to 190
million euros, beating the 161 million-euro average of nine
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Delhaize said that cost
savings and improved buying terms in Belgium and Greece exceeded
the impact of price cuts in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  