-- 
Euro Set for Weekly Drop Before EU Leaders Meet on Debt Plan; Yen Climbs

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-11T01:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/euro-trades-near-one-week-low-versus-dollar-before-eu-leaders-meet-on-debt.html
The euro headed for its biggest
weekly drop since January on speculation European Union leaders
meeting today will struggle to agree on measures to combat the
region’s debt crisis.    Europe ’s common currency was 0.3 percent from the lowest in
a week against its U.S. counterpart after Moody’s Investors
Service yesterday said the cost of shoring up  Spain ’s banks will
eclipse government estimates. Demand for the dollar and yen were
bolstered after Saudi Arabian security force forces fired above
a protesting crowd yesterday before demonstrators begin a so-
called Day of Rage.  Australia ’s dollar headed for a second-
straight weekly drop as Asian stocks declined.  “There continues to be significant downside risk to the
euro with the EU summit today, and slowly we’re shifting back to
those periphery concerns,” said Greg Gibbs, a strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “The Middle East
tensions seem to be slowly generating increased risk aversion,
causing the dollar to be better supported.”  The euro traded at $1.3817 as of 10:09 a.m. in Tokyo from
$1.3798 in  New York  yesterday, when it touched $1.3775, the
least since March 2. The currency has fallen 1.2 percent this
week, the biggest decline since the five days ended Jan. 7.  The European currency was little changed at 114.48 yen. The
dollar weakened to 82.85 yen from 82.98 yesterday and 82.32 last
week.  European leaders are due to meet in Brussels today, having
set a March 25 deadline to approve a comprehensive package of
measures to end the sovereign-debt crisis.  Spanish Banks  The euro yesterday slid against most of its major peers
after Moody’s cut Spain’s credit rating to Aa2 and said the
outlook is “negative,” meaning the next change is likely to be
another cut. Spanish lenders will need as much as 50 billion
euros ($69 billion) to meet new  capital requirements , Moody’s
said, more than double the government’s estimate.  “There’s a risk that we continue to see concern build over
the quality of any stress tests and the quality of the data
coming out from officials in Spain,” Gibbs said. “There’s a
bias toward weakness in the euro.”  The euro has fallen 0.5 percent in the past week according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track
the exchange of 10 developed nations.  The dollar and yen were bought on speculation tensions in
the Middle East will spread to Saudi Arabia, the region’s
largest producer of crude oil, supporting demand for safer
assets. Saudi Arabian security forces yesterday broke up a rally
in the city of al-Qatif, according to Ibrahim al-Mugaiteeb, a
local activist. The action came a day before a “Day of Rage”
advocated by anti-government demonstrators.  ‘Risk Off’  “Worries over the Middle East situation are likely to
persist,” said Osao Iizuka, head of foreign-exchange trading in
Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s third-
largest banking group. “The bias seems risk off, and the dollar
and the yen could be bought.”  Regional unrest, which has so far toppled the leaders of
Tunisia and  Egypt , has reached  Saudi Arabia ’s neighbors Yemen,
Oman and Bahrain, the island-kingdom where a Sunni family rules
the majority Shiite population. In  Libya ,  Muammar Qaddafi  is
fighting rebels who seek to end his four-decade rule.  The dollar typically strengthens in times of political,
financial and economic turmoil as it’s the world’s principal
reserve currency. Japan’s trade surplus makes the yen attractive
in times of crisis because it means the nation doesn’t have to
rely on overseas lenders.  Australia’s dollar is set for a 1.1 percent decline against
the greenback since March 4. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped
0.6 percent today and is set for a 2.9 percent slide this week,
the biggest decline since August.  The currency traded at $1.0033 from $1.0138 last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 