-- 
Ex-White Sox Scout Veatch Discusses Change in Not Guilty Plea, Lawyers Say

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-10T18:45:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/ex-chicago-white-sox-scout-mateo-pleads-not-guilty-to-charges-of-fraud.html
A former  Chicago  White Sox scout
who pleaded not guilty to plotting to take kickbacks from
prospective Major League Baseball players is discussing changing
his plea, defense and prosecution lawyers said.  Victor Mateo entered his initial plea today before U.S.
District Judge Charles R. Norgle in Chicago. He is charged with
three counts of mail fraud, each punishable by as long as 20
years in prison. Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Veatch told
the judge that Mateo turned himself in this morning.  Damon Cheronis, Mateo’s lawyer, told Norgle that his client
has a child hospitalized in the Dominican Republic, where he
would like to return. Cheronis and Veatch told the court the
parties were discussing a plea change. Norgle scheduled a
follow-up court appearance for later today. Cheronis told
reporters after the hearing that if his client changes his plea,
he probably would admit to a single count of mail fraud.  Mateo, who worked as a scout for the White Sox in the  Dominican Republic , was indicted in November together with David Wilder, a former White Sox player personnel director, and Jorge Oquendo Rivera, another former scout.  Federal prosecutors accused the three men of taking about
$400,000 from the bonuses and contract-purchases of 23 players
from December 2004 to February 2008. The players haven’t been
identified.  ‘Secretly Inflated’  “The indictment alleges that the defendants secretly
inflated those signing amounts to fund kickbacks for
themselves,” Chicago U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald said in a
statement then.  Wilder pleaded guilty last month to one count of mail
fraud, admitting he took a kickback of more than $20,000 from a
player in  Brazil  who had been asked by a team scout to remit
part of a $300,000 signing bonus.  Oquendo pleaded not guilty in November. According to
Wilder’s plea agreement, Oquendo made the Brazilian kickback
arrangements.  “Wilder and Mateo were terminated by the White Sox in May
2008 as a result of a  Major League Baseball  investigation which
began at the request of the team,” the White Sox said in a
statement in November. Oquendo was fired in 2007 for reasons
unrelated to the probe, the team said.  The White Sox won Major League Baseball’s World Series
championship in 2005.  The case is U.S. v. Wilder, 1:10-cr-00948, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 