-- 
Ex-KV Pharmaceutical CEO Hermelin Pleads Guilty to Drug Label Law Breach

-- B y   J o e   W h i t t i n g t o n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-10T21:26:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/ex-kv-pharmaceutical-ceo-hermelin-pleads-guilty-to-drug-label-law-breach.html
Marc Hermelin, the former KV
Pharmaceutical Co. chief executive officer banned last year from
doing business with the U.S., pleaded guilty to violating drug-
labeling laws and was sentenced to 30 days in prison.  U.S. District Judge E. Richard Webber in  St. Louis  also
ordered Hermelin today to pay a $1 million fine and forfeit
$900,000. Hermelin, who the Bridgeton, Missouri-based company
said was fired as CEO and chairman in 2008 and who resigned as a
director in November, reached a plea agreement today with
prosecutors, who also announced the charges today.  “Greed, abuse of power and recklessness, that’s what I
see,” Webber said after Hermelin pleaded guilty.  “I accept full responsibility for what’s happened,”
Hermelin told Webber before being sentenced.  “You just saved yourself 30 days in jail,” Webber
replied. “I was going to sentence you to 60 days for showing no
remorse.”  Hermelin, 69, faced two counts of violating the U.S. Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act, in connection with the company’s shipping
interstate of oversized tablets of the painkiller morphine
sulfate in 2008.  While the pills were labeled as 30-miligram and 60-miligram
strength, they were “actually oversized,” and contained more
of the active ingredient than those labels indicated, according
to a charging document prosecutors filed with the court.  Hermelin’s lawyer, Jim Martin, declined to comment after
the hearing.  Ethex Plea  Ethex Corp., a KV subsidiary, last year pleaded guilty to
two felony counts stemming from its failure to tell the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration about manufacturing problems
involving oversized prescription drug tablets, and  agreed  to pay
fines and restitution totaling $25.8 million.  The drugs were recalled after Ethex received reports of
problems, said CEO Michael Anderson in a Feb. 25, 2010, phone
interview. The recalled drugs were dextroamphetamine, which is
used to treat attention-deficit and hyperactivity disorders, and
Propafenone, which combats heart arrhythmias,  KV agreed to dissolve its Ethex unit as part of an
agreement with the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services,
according to the Nov. 17 statement in which it announced the
federal agency had told Hermelin he’d be “excluded” from
conducting health-care-related business with the U.S.  The agency’s website confirms the ban, made effective on
Nov. 18, without specifying its duration.  The case is U.S. v. Hermelin, 4:11-cr-00001, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Missouri  (St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Whittington in St. Louis at 
 joethewhitt@sbcglobal.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  