-- 
Rajaratnam Jurors Told of Inside Tips by Ex-McKinsey Director

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/ex-mckinsey-director-tells-jurors-of-inside-tips-to-rajaratnam-at-trial.html
Anil Kumar, then a McKinsey & Co.
director, was secretly updating Raj Rajaratnam while he helped
Advanced Micro Devices Inc.’s management negotiate a deal to
sell chips to Hewlett-Packard Co., Kumar told jurors.  Kumar, 52, testifying in Rajaratnam’s criminal insider-
trading trial in  Manhattan  federal court yesterday, said
Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, covertly hired
him as a consultant in 2003 for $500,000 a year in violation of
McKinsey rules. The money was paid into a Swiss bank account, he
said.  Beginning in 2004, Kumar began giving Rajaratnam
information about AMD’s finances, products and sales, he said.
Some of the first leaks centered on the efforts of AMD, Kumar’s
client, to sell $400 million of micro-processing chips to HP, a
deal that could dramatically increase AMD profits, he said.  “I told him there were advanced discussions,” Kumar told
jurors on the first day of testimony in the case. “Mr.
Rajaratnam kept asking me for that information and I felt that I
owed him something given how much money he was paying me.”  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and hedge
fund traders. His trial started March 8.  Rajaratnam, who has denied wrongdoing, said he made his
trades as a result of legitimate Galleon research.  Kumar told jurors that he obtained a master’s degree in
business administration in 1983 from the Wharton School at the  University of Pennsylvania , where he met Rajaratnam.  Kumar Pleaded Guilty  The former McKinsey director pleaded guilty to leaking tips
to Rajaratnam about AMD deals, including its acquisition of ATI
Technologies Inc. in 2006. He also admitted telling Rajaratnam
about a deal in which AMD was getting an investment from
Mubadala Development Co., an Abu Dhabi government investor.  Kumar testified that the hedge-fund billionaire pulled him
aside after a 2003 charity event and offered to pay him to
discuss his insights into the technology market every four to
six weeks. He said Rajaratnam suggested he work secretly for him
after Kumar unsuccessfully tried to get Rajaratnam to hire
McKinsey as consultants for Galleon.  “I’d much rather have you as a consultant, not McKinsey,”
Kumar quoted Rajaratnam as telling him.  “You work very, very hard and you’re underpaid,” Kumar
quoted Rajaratnam as saying. “People have made fortunes while
you were away in  India , you deserve more for all your insights,
so just keep track of your insights and share them with me.”  ‘Will Not Remember’  He said Rajaratnam insisted on paying him, saying “I know
you will not remember to keep a list of ideas if you don’t get
money from me.”  Kumar declined at first, saying McKinsey didn’t permit
outside consulting work.  “If you could get someone on the outside to accept it,
then McKinsey doesn’t have to know about it,” Rajaratnam
replied, according to Kumar.  Kumar said he found a friend in  Europe , whom he didn’t
identify, who agreed to sign a consulting agreement with Galleon
for $500,000 a year. That entity, called Pecos Trading Co., had
a bank account in  Switzerland , he said.  Rajaratnam’s payments to Pecos were invested in Galleon’s
Buccaneer’s Offshore Ltd. in an account in the name of Kumar’s
housekeeper, Manju Das, Kumar said.  Rajaratnam didn’t say at the time that he would require
inside information about McKinsey clients, Kumar testified.  Kumar, who said he’d signed an agreement with McKinsey not
to disclose confidential information about the firm’s clients,
said once he began accepting money from Rajaratnam, the tenor of
their arrangement changed. While they would only speak four
times a year, Rajaratnam began to press him for information.  ‘Got Quite Specific’  “Once I accepted the money he got quite specific about
what a company’s financial performance was,” Kumar said.  “He was asking me for a variety of information such as
what is a company’s profit, their revenue, how they are doing in
that quarter, if they had strategic plans,” Kumar said. “He
kept asking me. I didn’t always know the answer but I felt that
since I accepted the money I had a sort of obligation to him.”  Early yesterday, jurors heard Rajaratnam’s recorded voice
for the first time. He was heard giggling, asking about the
stock market and questioning a friend about a public company in
the first of three wiretap recordings that prosecutors played
for jurors.  Diane Wehner, a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  special
agent who was the first government witness, told jurors how
agents made the recordings of Rajaratnam’s cell phone calls in
2008.  ‘On the Board’  “We know because, ah, one of our guys is on the board,”
Rajaratnam told his friend, Rajiv Goel, during an Oct. 7, 2008,
call. “We know that they’re gonna put $41 million in escrow.
It’s a $250 million deal.”  The two men are discussing the acquisition of PeopleSupport
Inc. by Essar Group, which operates steel, oil and cell-phone
businesses in India. In the call, Rajaratnam told Goel that he
bought 30,000 shares for Goel’s personal brokerage account,
“because I’m 100 percent sure.”  In another conversation played by prosecutors for jurors,
Rajaratnam asked his friend, “Should I buy a million?” after
Kumar tells him about a transaction involving  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD)   ‘Cannot Go Wrong’  “You cannot go wrong,” Kumar replied. “There will be
such a boost from this announcement.”  The recordings were just “snippets” of Rajaratnam talking
with two friends and two Galleon traders, defense attorney
Terence Lyman said during his cross-examination of Wehner. While
questioning Wehner, Lyman sought to show that the conversations
were innocent and not corrupt.  For instance, after prosecutors played a one-minute portion
of a taped conversation between Rajaratnam and Galleon trader  Adam Smith , the defense attorney highlighted two additional
minutes in which another Galleon trader briefed Rajaratnam on
the market’s performance and the hedge fund’s holdings that day.  In one conversation, Smith jokes with his boss.  “How’s the market treating you today?” Rajaratnam asked
in another tape played for jurors after they discussed a deal
involving Vishay Intertechnology Inc.  “Like a baby treats a diaper,” Smith replied, prompting
giggles from Rajaratnam.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at
   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 