-- 
Fed Gives Markets Clues on Exit Path From Unprecedented Easing

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/fed-giving-credit-markets-clues-on-path-to-exit-from-unprecedented-easing.html
The Federal Reserve is trying to
let investors know that, even as it pursues an unprecedented
expansion of monetary stimulus, it hasn’t forgotten about
exiting.  In the week after the Federal Open Market Committee’s Jan.
25-26 meeting, policy makers issued three announcements about
expanding the number of counterparties for transactions that
will help drain the record amount of cash added to the financial
system.  Brian Sack , the  New York  Fed’s markets-group head, added
more details about the preparations in a Feb. 9 speech, and New
York Fed President  William Dudley  reiterated last week that
officials have the ability and will to withdraw their stimulus
when necessary.  The disclosures come as a decline in the unemployment rate
and growth in manufacturing underscore that the economic
recovery is gaining momentum. Policy makers need to
“communicate effectively” about their exit strategy to build
confidence in the Fed and anchor inflation expectations, Dudley
said Feb. 28 in a New York speech. The plan to buy $600 billion
of Treasuries through June sparked the harshest political
backlash against the Fed in three decades, with Republican
lawmakers warning the stimulus risks a surge in prices.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke “has to convey to the market
‘I’m thinking about the exit and I have some plans in place,’”
said  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC 
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . Silvia said Bernanke faces the
same challenge President Barack Obama does in saying he wants
the  budget deficit  under control: “You’ve got to have a plan.”  Regular Review  The Fed is about halfway through its $600 billion asset-
purchase program, or so-called quantitative easing, which was
dubbed “QE2” by analysts and investors because it followed an
earlier round of $1.7 trillion in bond buys that ended in March
2010. Policy makers “continue to regularly review” the
purchases and will adjust them “as needed” to achieve the
central bank’s dual mandate of full employment and price
stability, Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee March 1.  “We have all the tools we need to achieve a smooth and
effective exit at the appropriate time,” Bernanke said.  Rising stock prices, lower corporate-borrowing costs and an
improvement in economic data have fueled speculation that the
Fed may be nearing the end of its record monetary expansion
after keeping its benchmark rate near zero since December 2008
and expanding its balance sheet to a record $2.55 trillion. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 8.9 percent in February,
the lowest in almost two years, and employers added 192,000 jobs
in a sign of growing confidence in the rebound, which began in
the third quarter of 2009.  Talk ‘Is Cheap’  “Talking about your commitment to keep inflation at a low
level is cheap, but it’s certainly one arrow in the Fed’s quiver
and they’re going to use that,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Clearly Fed officials are very cognizant” of the risk that
“the markets say ‘the Fed is messing this up,’ and inflation
expectations come unhinged.”  The break-even rate for 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between this debt and
comparable maturity Treasuries, rose to 2.57 percentage points
on March 8, the highest since July 2008 and up from 1.63
percentage points on Aug. 27, the day Bernanke said additional
securities purchases might be warranted. The rate is a measure
of the outlook for consumer prices during the life of the
securities.  While the Fed hasn’t committed to the specific tools it
will use, or in what order, it has been releasing details about
its progress in building new programs and expanding its ability
to drain reserves.  New Counterparties  On Jan. 31, the New York Fed announced it added 32 money-
market mutual funds as potential reverse-repo counterparties.
The next day, the central bank reduced by half the amount of
assets that money-market funds must hold to become
counterparties, and on Feb. 2 the New York Fed named  New York- 
based  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA in Paris
as primary dealers. They were the first companies since July
2009 to join the network of securities firms that act as
counterparties to the central bank’s transactions.  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, draining bank reserves from the financial system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to the primary dealers.  The Fed conducted tri-party reverse repurchase agreements
with money funds in October as part of its preparations. It was
the first time the Fed conducted the operations with
counterparties other than its primary dealers. In a tri-party
arrangement, a third party functions as the agent for the
transaction and holds the security as collateral.  ‘A Lot of Skepticism’  “There’s a lot of skepticism of the scale at which the Fed
can operate with some of these programs,” given that several of
the tools are new and the central bank has never had so much
liquidity to withdraw, Stanley said. “People are trying to get
a sense of whether this stuff will actually work.”  Officials may use their new Term-Deposit Facility to help
tighten monetary policy. Sack said Feb. 9 that more than 500  depository institutions  have registered for the program, which
pays banks a premium on their funds in exchange for leaving
their money in the facility and is designed to help raise the
Fed’s target interest rate for overnight lending between banks.  The Fed could choose to sell assets or raise the interest
it pays on excess reserves, a tool it was granted in 2008. It
also may decide to drain money from the banking system by
“ceasing the reinvestment of principal payments on the
securities it holds,” Bernanke said March 1, reversing a policy
begun in August.  ‘More Complicated’  “It’s a more complicated exit strategy than usual, and
it’s not just a matter of saying ‘the Fed funds rate has
risen,’” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at  Barclays
Capital  in New York. “They also have this bloated balance sheet
and have to decide how quickly to run that off, and whether to
use term deposits and reverse repos. There are a number of
complicated choices to be made.”  Gregory Habeeb, who manages $7.8 billion in fixed-income
assets at Calvert Asset Management Co. in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
said the Fed’s policies are fueling asset bubbles in the stock
and bond markets. Habeeb says he “doesn’t buy it at all” that
the central bank will pull its stimulus in time, so he is being
cautious about taking on what he regards as too much interest-
rate or credit risk in his funds.  Extra Yield  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks climbed to
1,320.02 yesterday, up 24 percent since Aug. 27. The extra
yield, or spread, investors demand to own high-yield, high-risk
securities instead of Treasuries has narrowed to 4.71 percentage
points from 6.81 percentage points in the same period, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “There’s this bubble that’s growing that they helped
create, and they themselves say ‘We can’t spot them’ so they’re
not going to do anything” in time, Habeeb said.  At the January FOMC meeting, policy makers differed over
whether the strengthening U.S. recovery merited reducing or
slowing their stimulus.  They also discussed the risk that “the very large size”
of the Fed’s balance sheet could lead “the public to doubt the
Committee’s ability to withdraw monetary accommodation when
doing so becomes appropriate,” according to the minutes of the
meeting. To that end, the FOMC should “continue its planning
for the eventual exit,” the minutes said. The next meeting is
March 15.  Main Risk  Dudley, who is also vice chairman of the policy-setting
committee, said Feb. 28 that the main inflation risk is that
expectations climb, which could happen if there is a “loss of
confidence” in the U.S. central bank’s ability to withdraw its
funds in time to ward off a surge in prices.  “If inflation expectations were to become unanchored
because  Federal Reserve  policy makers failed to communicate
clearly, this would be a self-inflicted wound that would make
our pursuit of the dual mandate of full employment and price
stability more difficult,” Dudley said.  The central bank will boost interest on excess reserves to
keep inflation from accelerating too quickly, and the new tool
is “viable” for “keeping the economy from overheating,”
Dudley said.  The talk about the exit hasn’t been enough to convince
Barclays’ Maki that the Fed will get it right.  “The real issue in my view is not whether they have the
tools, but whether they use them in a timely enough manner to
prevent inflation or asset bubbles from arising,” Maki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  