-- 
Fed Economist Says Disclosure on Monetary Policy May Backfire on Markets

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-03-10T21:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/fed-economist-says-policy-disclosure-may-backfire-on-markets.html
Central banks that expand their
public disclosure of information may go too far and impair the
ability of markets to predict monetary policy, according to an
economist at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  “A potential side-effect of providing costless public
information is that market participants may be less inclined to
invest in private information,” Menno Middeldorp, a senior
economic analyst at the regional bank, said in a research paper.
“Theoretical results suggest that this can hamper the ability
of markets to predict future monetary policy.”  Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  has led since November a group
of Fed officials reviewing how to publicize more information
without inhibiting the internal debate of officials over
monetary policy. That month, a Fed announcement that it planned
to buy $600 billion in bonds through June sparked the harshest
political backlash against the central bank in three decades.  “What central banks should look out for is some sign of
crowding out of private information happening,” Middeldorp
said. “We should continue to analyze everything central banks
do.”  The paper, co-written by Stephanie Rosenkranz of Utrecht
University, doesn’t necessarily reflect the views of the central
bank, the New York Fed said in a disclaimer.  Middeldorp said in an interview he was inspired to write
the paper by his experience in 2004 when, as an economist at
Rabobank International, he cut back his efforts predicting the
course of  interest rates  after the Fed repeatedly said in
statements it would raise its main rate at a “measured” pace.  ‘Bad Thing?’  “The Fed was telling me what the likely direction of
monetary policy was, so I reoriented my own time to doing other
kinds of analysis rather than thinking about the Fed funds
target,” Middeldorp said. “So if everybody does that, is that
a good or a bad thing?”  Empirical evidence shows that increased transparency from
central banks has improved the ability of markets to predict
monetary policy, he said. The research suggests that eventually
more public disclosure leads in theory to a reduction in the
amount of private information generated on monetary policy,
“but only where it is most pronounced does the predictive
ability of the market deteriorate,” the paper said.  “There is a small isolated risk that you could get an
adverse effect” on markets if the Fed released more information
about its policies, Middeldorp said. “Though I haven’t seen any
evidence of that in reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  