-- 
Fertitta Group to Pay $500 Million for Green Valley Casino Near Las Vegas

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-03-10T20:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/fertitta-group-to-pay-500-million-for-green-valley-casino-near-las-vegas.html
Green Valley Ranch Resort, Spa &
Casino in suburban  Las Vegas , a joint venture of Station Casinos
Inc. and Greenspun Corp., will be acquired for $500 million by a
group led by the Fertitta family through a prepackaged
bankruptcy.  Holders of more than 90 percent of the resort’s first-lien
debt agreed to the deal, which is expected to be completed by
June 30, Station Casinos said today in an e-mailed statement.
The acquisition will be partly financed by a new loan.  Green Valley Ranch will become a majority-owned part of a
restructured Station Casinos, which is expected to exit  bankruptcy protection  this year with most of its properties
controlled by the existing owners. Station Casinos is being
reassembled by Chairman Frank Fertitta; his brother, Vice
Chairman Lorenzo Fertitta; and their partners, which include and
Tom Barrack’s  Colony Capital LLC  and some lenders.  Station Casinos filed under Chapter 11 in July 2009 in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Reno,  Nevada , after its debt was increased
by a November 2007 leveraged buyout by the Fertittas and Colony
Capital.  The Green Valley Ranch deal means 17 of the 18 casinos
owned and managed by Station Casinos before the bankruptcy will
remain under control of the Fertittas, who founded the company.
The 18th is Aliante Station, another Greenspun joint venture,
which creditors including TPG Capital and Apollo Global
Management LLC are poised to take over, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  Opened in December 2001, Green Valley Ranch is located
about 13 miles (21 kilometers) southeast of the  Las Vegas Strip .
It is surrounded by the area’s first planned housing community,
a project developed by the Greenspun family.  The Greenspuns have an option to remain part-owners of
Green Valley Ranch, Lori Nelson, a Station Casinos spokeswoman,
said today. Henderson, Nevada-based Greenspun Corp. is a family-
controlled investment group that owns the Las Vegas Sun
newspaper, magazines, Nevada television stations and real-estate
developer American Nevada Co.  The Fertittas will continue to manage the resort and retain
all employees under the accord, the company said today.  The case is In re Station Casinos Inc., 09-52477, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  