-- 
Florida House Cuts Jobless Aid With Unemployment Above 11%

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-03-10T20:53:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/florida-house-cuts-jobless-aid-with-unemployment-above-11-.html
  Florida ’s Republican-controlled
House passed a bill curbing  unemployment benefits  as the state
announced its jobless rate remained above 11 percent for the
15th consecutive month.  The bill, which passed by 81 to 38 in Tallahassee today,
would reduce benefit coverage to 20 weeks from 26 and cap the
maximum weekly payment at the current $275. The measure now
moves to the Senate, also led by Republicans.  “This bill is punitive to unemployed people at a time when
there are no jobs,” Darryl Rouson, a Democrat from  St.
Petersburg , said during floor debate. “The timing is wrong.”  Similar efforts are under way in Indiana, where last month
the  legislature reduced  average weekly payments, and in  New
Jersey , where Republican Governor  Chris Christie  proposed
 reducing  maximum weekly benefits to $550 from $600.  In Florida, most businesses would see reduced unemployment-
compensation taxes if the House bill becomes law, bolstering
Governor Rick Scott’s drive to make the state more company-
friendly. The Republican elected in November has proposed
phasing out the corporate-income tax, the state’s second-largest
revenue source.  “Florida businesses have already received their tax bills,
which become due April 1,” said House Speaker Dean Cannon.
“Legislation passed today will help ease that tax increase.”  The state’s unemployment rate fell to 11.9 percent in
January from 12 percent in December, the Labor Department said
today. It’s been  above 11 percent  since November 2009 and
exceeds the 8.9 percent national rate for February. It remains
the third-highest in the U.S. after  California  and Nevada.  Loans for Benefits  Florida, facing a $3.6 billion  budget deficit  next fiscal
year, owes $2.1 billion to the federal government for loans to
pay jobless workers. In January, 1.1 million people lacked jobs
in a labor force of 9.3 million, the state said today.  The length of time work-seekers could collect payments
would be linked to the jobless rate under the House bill,
dropping to 12 weeks at 5 percent. The measure also disqualifies
some people from receiving benefits.  Only four states have less-generous maximum weekly benefits
than Florida, according to a  March 3 brief  from Florida
International University’s Research Institute on Social and  Economic Policy . The portion of unemployed workers receiving
benefits is the second-lowest among states at about 23 percent.  “Florida has one of the strictest systems in the
country,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Tallahassee at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 