-- 
Foreclosure Filings Hit Three-Year Low as U.S. Servicers in `Dysfunction'

-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-10T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/foreclosure-filings-drop-to-3-year-low-as-u-s-servicers-in-dysfunction-.html
U.S. foreclosure filings fell last
month to the lowest level in three years as lenders under legal
scrutiny struggled to process a backlog of defaults and put new
systems in place for home seizures, RealtyTrac Inc. said.  A total of 225,101 U.S. properties received notices of
default, auction or repossession, down 14 percent from January
and 27 percent from February 2010, the Irvine, California-based
data seller said today in a statement. The number was the lowest
since February 2008, and the year-over-year decrease was the
biggest since the company began keeping records in 2005.  Loan servicers are moving slowly in resuming foreclosures
amid a five-month-old investigation by state attorneys general
into flawed paperwork and improper procedures. Delays in
processing defaults are creating a clogged pipeline that may
postpone home prices from reaching a bottom, according to Celia Chen, an economist for Moody’s Analytics Inc.  “It’s clearly taking the lenders and servicers longer than
anyone had anticipated,”  Rick Sharga , RealtyTrac’s senior vice
president, said in an e-mail. “Beyond that, the industry itself
is in a state of dysfunction.”  State and federal officials are negotiating a settlement
with the nation’s top mortgage servicers after complaints of
mass processing of foreclosure paperwork without verification.
The “robo-signing” controversy spurred lenders including  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Ally Financial Inc.’s
GMAC unit to freeze some home repossessions last year.  Taxed Resources  A glut of resubmitted paperwork is “taxing the resources”
of loan servicers, and judges are demanding greater scrutiny in
states where courts oversee foreclosures, Sharga said. Bad
weather and fewer days in February may also have contributed to
the month’s low total, according to RealtyTrac.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. loan servicer, found
“room for improvement” in its foreclosure practices after a
review, Terry Laughlin, an executive vice president at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank, said at a March 8 investor
conference. The lender expects to return to “normalized
foreclosure run rates” in the next two to three months, he
said, according to a transcript.  U.S.  home prices  may be supported during the foreclosure
delay and will drop once repossessed homes come on the market,
said Chen of Moody’s Analytics. The company forecasts a 5
percent decline in values from the end of last year and a market
bottom in the third quarter, she said.  Paying Later  “It’s sort of pay me now or pay me later,” Chen said in a
telephone interview from West Chester,  Pennsylvania .  The foreclosure slowdown may hurt sales in parts of the
nation where there is a shortage of inventory and prop up home
prices in states such as Arizona and Nevada, where there’s a
surplus of bank-owned real estate, said Sean O’Toole, chief
executive officer of ForeclosureRadar.com. His firm tracks sales
of foreclosed properties in  Arizona ,  California , Nevada, Oregon
and  Washington .  “The problem is you’re dealing with different crises at the
same time,” he said. “National solutions are a fool’s
errand.”  Default notices in February slid 41 percent from a year
earlier to 63,165, the lowest monthly total in four years,
according to RealtyTrac. Total auction notices fell 21 percent
from a year earlier to 97,293, a 27-month low, the firm said.  Banks seized 64,643 U.S. properties in February, the fewest
in 22 months. The number was down 17 percent from a year
earlier. The peak was 102,134 in September, RealtyTrac said.  Judicial States  The declines in auction and default notices were bigger in
states where courts oversee foreclosures compared with non-
judicial states. Repossessions tumbled 35 percent from February
2010 in judicial states, while decreasing 8 percent in non-
judicial states.  In  Florida , a judicial state that’s been among the hardest-
hit by the crisis, total foreclosure filings plunged 65 percent
from a year earlier. It still ranked second for total filings.  “Florida is a state of foreclosure chaos,” O’Toole said.    Nevada  had the highest foreclosure filing rate for the 50th
consecutive month at one in 119 households, according to
RealtyTrac. The national average was one in 577.  Arizona had the second-highest rate, at one in 178
households, and California ranked third at one in 239.  Utah  was
fourth at one in 273 and  Idaho  fifth at one in 298.    Georgia ,  Michigan , Florida, Colorado and Hawaii rounded out
the states with the 10 highest foreclosure filing rates.  California Leads  Ten states accounted for more than 70 percent of all U.S.
filings, led by California’s 56,229, a quarter of the national
total. Filings in the most populous state were down 18 percent
from February 2010, the 15th straight year-over-year decline.    Las Vegas  had the highest metro foreclosure rate among
cities with population 200,000 or more. Modesto and Stockton in
California ranked second and third, and Phoenix was fourth.  Riverside, Vallejo, Merced and Bakersfield, all in
California, ranked fifth through eighth; Reno, Nevada, was
ninth; and Sacramento was 10th, according to RealtyTrac.  Florida cities were absent from the top 20 metro areas
after having nine cities in the group a year earlier, according
to RealtyTrac, which sells data from counties representing 90
percent of the U.S. population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  