-- 
Former First Lady Laura Bush Urges GOP to Spare Foreign Aid

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-10T20:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/former-first-lady-laura-bush-urges-republicans-to-spare-u-s-foreign-aid.html
Former First Lady  Laura Bush  urged
Congress not to make foreign aid cuts that may harm women and
children, arguing that reductions in funding would also hurt the  U.S. economy , national security and the nation’s moral standing.    House Republicans , looking to trim the  budget deficit , are
targeting the State Department, which oversees foreign
assistance. Their proposed 16 percent cut to the agency’s budget
would be “devastating,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said March 1.  “I would try to get in touch with some and tell them that
I think it’s really important and that it’s worth the 1 percent
of the budget that it is,” Bush said on “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ,” airing this weekend on Bloomberg TV. “It’s
worth it because of our own moral interest to be generous and to
help other people, but it’s also worth it both for our national
security and for economic interests.”  At the same time, the former first lady has no plans to
lobby members of Congress, according to the  George W. Bush 
Presidential Center in  Dallas . In a hearing before a House
appropriations subcommittee today, Clinton voiced thanks to Bush
for her efforts to promote the importance of foreign aid.  Bush said that while her husband, former President George W. Bush, would not weigh in with Congress, he “would talk about
how important it is both for national security and for our moral
interest as a country.”  Laura Bush joined  Melinda Gates , co-founder of the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation , and Helene Gayle, president of  CARE
International , a nonprofit organization that combats poverty, in
attempting to raise awareness of the benefits of maternal and
infant health programs.  Gayle acknowledged that she is “pretty worried” about the
budget climate and what it could mean for foreign aid. Fully 42
percent of Americans believe that cutting such programs would
result in a very large reduction in the deficit, according to a
March 4-7 Bloomberg National Poll, and 72 percent of Americans
favor significant cuts in assistance to other countries.  Pressuring Congress  Gayle said that her organization had 1,000 volunteers going
to Congress this week to “make it clear to our policy makers
that there’s a constituency that cares about global poverty.”  Bush and Gayle said that the effects of disease and poverty
overseas don’t stop at the U.S. border. “If other countries
have a chance to be stable, then that helps us,” Bush said.
“Diseases don’t respect borders.”  Gayle said that the interconnected nature of the world
means “we can no longer say that it’s about those people over
there.”  “Our economies are tied together,” she said. “Our
security is tied together. Our futures are tied together. So it
is one of the best returns on investment for less than 1 percent
of our taxpayers’ dollars.”  Obama’s Support  Gates, who visited President  Barack Obama  this week with
her husband,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates , said Americans
understand that foreign aid “is not just a line item in a
budget, you’re talking about a life.” In some cases, as little
as $2 could save a child’s life, Gates said.  Obama “completely gets” the importance of foreign aid and
maternal and child programs in particular, Gates said. “He
knows that also, if you build up a woman so she stays alive and
her child stays alive,” she can help her economy to grow, Gates
said.  “We export to those emerging economies,” she said, “and
that creates jobs for us, so they’re all linked.”  At the launch of a maternal and child health program
yesterday, Clinton said she would be going to Congress today in
her fourth visit to defend her agency’s $47 billion budget
request for the 2012 fiscal year.  “Everyone knows that we’re in a difficult budget
environment,” Clinton said, adding that she is trying to make
the case for funding the State Department and the U.S.  Agency
for International Development  “in every way I know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  