-- 
France Roils EU Ministers' Meeting With Plan to Recognize Libya's Rebels

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-03-11T00:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/france-roils-eu-meeting-with-libyan-rebel-recognition-advocacy-of-bombing.html
  France  roiled a meeting of European
Union foreign ministers by saying it will recognize a Libyan
rebel group and then with reports it wanted to bomb leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s strongholds.  EU ministers meeting in Brussels yesterday said it was too
early to recognize the Benghazi-based Libyan National Council as
the country’s government and rejected military attacks on Libya.  “The French position didn’t muster any consensus,”
Belgian Foreign Minister Steven Vanackere told reporters after
the meeting. “In fact, there were some voices against it. The
general view is that  Europe  has to act together, and you can’t
have countries going off on their own.”  Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said it was
premature to recognize the rebel council since Italy, France and
EU Foreign Affairs chief  Catherine Ashton  were among the few
members of the 27-country bloc to have met with them.  “We should open dialogue with them and  Italy  has led the
way,” Frattini told a news conference. “But at this point, we
can’t really consider them as the government since more than 20
EU members don’t even know who they are.”  Italy, Libya’s former colonial ruler, plans to reopen its
Benghazi consulate, which it closed in 2006 after anti-Italian
riots.  France’s recognition was announced after two members of
Libya’s Interim Transitional National Council, Ali al-Issawi and
Mahmoud Jibril, met with President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in Paris.  “On the basis of this recognition, we will open a
diplomatic outpost in Paris, and France will send an ambassador
to Benghazi,” Issawi told reporters after the  50-minute
meeting . The French president’s office confirmed his comments.  France, U.K. Letter  Later, Sarkozy released a letter with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  that said “we consider the Council to be valid
political interlocutors and an important voice for the Libyan
people in this phase.” It didn’t use the word recognition.  Libya’s rebels are seeking assistance to defeat Qaddafi as
their military advance has stalled in the face of government
counterattacks, leaving the country split between a rebel-held
East centered on Benghazi and a western region including the
capital, Tripoli, that is mostly under the Qaddafi government’s
control. Some rebels are urging Western powers to impose a no-
fly zone over Libya to stop Qaddafi’s air attacks.  The European Parliament on March 9 passed a non-binding
resolution calling for recognizing the rebel’s council.  “We must be careful, we must be prudent, we can’t rush
into endorsing any groups,” Darren Ennis, Ashton’s spokesman,
said today. “We recognize states, we don’t recognize
governments, and we certainly don’t recognize the opposition.”    Arab League   “In our view, any so-called recognition should be led by
the Arab League, then we need to discuss that in the context of
the UN,” Ennis said. “There should not be any unilateral
declarations.”  France, along with the U.K. and now Italy, urged allies at
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to consider a no-fly zone
at a NATO defense ministers’ meeting in Brussels yesterday, with
the U.S. and  Germany  less enthusiastic.  France favors direct air strikes against Libyan military
bases to weaken Qaddafi’s grip, Le Monde reported, citing
unidentified French officials. A spokesman for Sarkozy declined
to comment, saying the president will hold a press conference
today after a summit of EU leaders in Brussels.  “Italy will not take part in bombing  Libya ,” Frattini
said. “Italy wants a UN resolution to prevent Qaddafi from
bombing.”  Later, French Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said
Sarkozy’s office was simply assessing different options.  “The objective is to prevent Qaddafi from turning his
population into martyrs,” Longuet told journalists. “Planning
means you look at all the possibilities and you judge the cost
of each one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Brussels at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  