-- 
Franklin Templeton Likes Junk Bonds of Cash-Rich Buyout Targets

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-03-10T22:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/franklin-templeton-likes-junk-bonds-of-cash-rich-buyout-targets.html
Junk bonds of U.S. companies that
borrowed to repay debt or boost cash reserves are attractive
because some issuers are potential acquisition targets,
according to  Franklin Templeton  Investments.  Franklin Templeton’s $270 billion fixed income group favors
the highest rated speculative-grade notes, betting a takeover by
an investment-grade company would drive up prices, Betsy Hofman,
portfolio manager for the company’s U.S. High-Yield Fund, said
at a briefing in Singapore.  “We’re bullish on the energy sector for this reason as
it’s a market where we’re seeing continued strong demand
worldwide and there have been a few buyouts by investment-grade
companies,”  San Mateo , California-based Hofman said.  U.S. junk bond sales climbed to a record $287.6 billion
last year, allowing companies with the lowest credit ratings to
extend debt maturities and strengthen balance sheets, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Debt ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service or BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s  returned 3.7
percent this year, adding to annual gains of 15 percent and 58
percent in the previous two years, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High-Yield Master II Index.  When investment-grade  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  agreed to buy Atlas
Energy Inc. for $3.2 billion on Nov. 9, Atlas’s $400 million of
speculative-grade 10.75 percent bonds due February 2018 jumped
to 124.5 cents on the dollar from 112.5 cents, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Dollar Stores    Dollar General Corp. (DG) , the Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based
operator of discount retail stores, is a high-yield company that
“successfully de-levered” after weathering the economic
downturn, and its bonds rose after it raised $824 million from
an initial share sale in 2009, Hofman said.  The extra yield investors demand to own Dollar General’s
$451 million of 11.875 percent notes due July 2017 instead of
Treasuries fell 9 basis points this year to 617 basis points,
BNP Paribas SA prices show. The company is rated Ba3 by Moody’s,
the third-highest junk ranking, and one level higher at BB by
S&P, Bloomberg data show.  The average spread on U.S. junk bonds is 471 basis points,
or 4.71 percentage points, compared with a high of 21.82
percentage points during the global financial crisis, according
to the U.S. High Yield Master II index.  The default rate for speculative-grade U.S. corporate debt
fell to 2.75 percent in January, the lowest since before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 shuttered
credit markets, S&P said in a Feb. 23 report. It should drop to
about 1.5 percent this year, implying a yield premium over
Treasuries of about 390 basis points, according to Hofman.  “Spreads imply a default rate of 4.3 percent and we don’t
think defaults will be anywhere close to that this year,” she
said. “The high-yield market is still attractively priced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  