-- 
LG Display Says More Than 10 Television Makers May Purchase Its 3-D Panels

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-03-10T05:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/lg-display-says-more-than-10-television-makers-may-purchase-its-3-d-panels.html
LG Display Co., the world’s second-
largest maker of flat screens, said more than 10 television
manufacturers may use displays based on its 3-D technology as it
seeks to challenge Samsung Electronics Co.  Companies from  China , the U.S., Japan and  Europe  “have
started to buy our products or are expected to buy soon,” Chief
Executive Officer Kwon Young Soo told reporters in Seoul today,
without identifying them. LG has also briefed Sony Corp. on its
technology, and the world’s third-largest TV maker is reviewing
whether to use it, he said.  LG and bigger rival Samsung are promoting different 3-D
technologies in efforts to boost sales of their TVs. Seoul-based
LG says its technology offers consumers lighter and more
comfortable glasses that cause less eye strain than the approach
adopted by companies including Samsung.  The Film Patterned Retarder, or FPR, technology that LG
introduced in December uses polarized glasses to create 3-D
images with visual information sent to both eyes simultaneously.
Samsung uses the so-called shuttered-glasses approach, which
sends visual data to each eye sequentially.  LG expects FPR to be the standard until TVs that can
display 3-D images without the use of glasses become affordable
to consumers, Kwon said.  LG Electronics, the world’s second-largest maker of LCD TVs,
aims to sell 40 million flat-screen sets this year and boost its
market share to 16 percent from about 12 percent in 2010,
according to Havis Kwon, head of the TV division.  TVs with 3-D features will probably capture 10 percent to
20 percent of the global LCD TV market this year, Kwon said in
December.  Global sales of 3-D TVs will probably climb more than
fivefold to about 17 million sets this year from 3 million in
2010, Yoon Boo Keun, head of Samsung’s digital media division,
said Dec. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  