-- 
Gasoline, Heating Oil Slip on Europe, China Growth Concerns

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-10T21:10:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/gasoline-heating-oil-slip-on-europe-china-growth-concerns.html
Gasoline and heating oil fell on
concern that global fuel demand will decline as  Europe ’s debt
crisis widened and  China  reported an unexpected trade deficit.  Futures fell as Spain’s credit rating was cut to Aa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service, sending the dollar higher and
reducing the investment appeal of commodities. China reported a
$7.3 billion trade deficit in February, the biggest in seven
years, customs bureau data showed today. Gasoline pared losses
after the Associated Press reported that police in  Saudi Arabia ,
the world’s largest oil exporter, opened fire at a rally.  “The fact of the matter remains that China is slowing and
we’ve seen a couple of downgrades in Europe, so is Europe going
to slow down some more?” said Dominick Chirichella, senior
partner at the Energy Management Institute in  New York . “We’ve
got a market now that’s full of uncertainty.”  Gasoline for April delivery fell 0.76 cent to settle at
$3.0196 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
sixth time this month prices have settled above $3 a gallon.  Gasoline, which fell as low as $2.9612 prior to the AP
report, rose to $3.045 before retreating near the close of floor
trading at 2:30 p.m.  Saudi Rally  Saudi Arabian security forces broke up a rally in the city
of al-Qatif, a day before anti-government demonstrators are
advocating a “Day of Rage,” according to Ibrahim al-Mugaiteeb,
a local activist.  Al-Mugaiteeb, president of the al-Khobar, Saudi Arabia-
based Human Rights First Society, said a doctor who attended to
the wounded told him that two people were injured at the rally.
He didn’t have details on how the injuries occurred.  “The fear that something could happen with the Saudis is
enough to turn the market around,” said  James Cordier ,
portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida .  Futures have surged 21 percent since anti-government
protests began in Libya Feb. 15, threatening to spread political
unrest through the region and limit global oil production and
shipments.  Libyan rebels under fire fled a key oil hub on the
Mediterranean coast, as Muammar Qaddafi’s son said government
forces are mounting a full-scale attack. The director of the
U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, Army Lieutenant General Ronald
Burgess, said the momentum in the fighting, initially with the
rebels, has shifted to Qaddafi’s forces.  The U.S. director of national intelligence, James Clapper,
said Qaddafi “will prevail” if the fighting goes on for a
longer time.  Libya Uprising  The Libyan uprising followed popular protest movements that
ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak . There have also been anti-government
demonstrations across the region.    Brent crude  for April settlement fell 51 cents to $115.43 a
barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange, after earlier
touching $113.52. Products futures are vulnerable to changes in
Brent because refineries supplying fuel to New York Harbor, the
delivery point for heating oil and gasoline futures, process
crude grades priced relative to the European benchmark.  Nymex April crude sank $1.68 to $102.70 a barrel.  Heating oil for April delivery dropped 2.58 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $3.0449 a gallon, after touching $2.9903
earlier.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
0.5 cent to $3.529 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website ,
the highest level since Oct. 4, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  