-- 
Gazprom Delays Board Meeting on Shtokman Project to April

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-03-10T10:20:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/gazprom-delays-board-meeting-on-shtokman-project-to-april.html
The OAO Gazprom-led venture
developing the Shtokman natural-gas field postponed a decision
on whether to proceed with the Arctic project until next month.  Directors of Shtokman Development AG, an operating company
whose other partners are  Total SA (FP)  and  Statoil ASA (STL) , will meet in
April, Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive Officer Alexander Medvedev
said in an interview in Moscow today.  The venture, which last year decided to delay the project
because of uncertainty in the gas market, planned to make an  investment decision  on gas for transportation by pipeline this
month. The final investment decision on liquefied natural gas is
due by the end of the year.  The date of the board of directors meeting hasn’t been set
yet, a press officer at Shtokman Development, who declined to be
identified in line with company policy, said by phone today.  Medvedev is one of Shtokman’s  nine directors . Gazprom holds
51 percent of the project operator.  Gazprom and its partners may decide on whether to go ahead
with pipeline gas and LNG simultaneously, Medvedev said in  New
York  last month. He said he personally didn’t see any need for
separate decisions.  Shtokman, located about 600 kilometers (373 miles) from  Russia ’s Barents Sea coast, plans first output for shipment by
pipeline in 2016, with LNG deliveries to start a year later.  The total cost of the project is decreasing “every day,”
Medvedev said, declining to provide details before the board
meeting. Shtokman partners had aimed to approve the project’s
cost estimates in January, Shtokman Development CEO Alexei
Zagorovsky said in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  