-- 
German Exports Unexpectedly Fell in January After Two Increases

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-03-10T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/german-exports-unexpectedly-fell-in-january-after-two-increases.html
German exports unexpectedly
declined in January after gaining in the previous two months.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes,
dropped 1 percent from December, when they rose 0.5 percent, the
 Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
had forecast a 0.7 percent increase, according to the median of
13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports gained 2.3
percent from December, when they declined 2.6 percent.    Germany ’s economic recovery is broadening as companies
increase investment and hire more workers to meet export demand,
encouraging household spending. A focus on emerging markets is
helping to boost foreign sales as governments across the euro
area cut spending to rein in deficits.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s
biggest automaker, surpassed rival Ford Motor Co. in profit last
year on surging demand in fast-growing economies such as  China .  “There is no reason at the moment why Germany’s export
dynamic should slow down,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at
Commmerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Exports will be a central
economic pillar again this year.”  Still, the Bundesbank expects economic growth to slow to
2.5 percent in 2011 from a record 3.6 percent in 2010 as the
pace of the global recovery eases. World output will weaken to
4.4 percent this year from 5 percent last year, the  International Monetary Fund  forecast on Jan. 25.  Trade Balance  From a year earlier, German exports rose 24.2 percent in
January, today’s report showed. Sales to countries within the
euro region advanced 18.8 percent in the year while sales to
countries outside the European Union increased 30.8 percent.  The trade balance narrowed to 10.1 billion euros ($14
billion) from 12.2 billion euros in December. The surplus in the
current account, a measure of all trade including services, was
7.2 billion euros in January, down from 19.3 billion euros in
December.  German business confidence jumped to a record high last
month and unemployment dropped to 7.3 percent, the lowest in
almost two decades. Industrial production rose in January after
construction output rebounded from its winter hiatus, and
manufacturing orders rose more than economists forecast on
domestic demand, the  Economy Ministry  said this week.    BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemical company, said on Feb.
24 that fourth-quarter profit more than doubled as demand from
the automotive industry grew, prompting the company to propose a
bigger-than-expected dividend. Volkswagen’s Audi unit plans to
spend 11.6 billion euros worldwide on new plant, products and
technologies in the next five years.  “Our factories are buzzing,” Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Stadler  said on March 8. “2011 will mark another year
with great workload for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Zurich at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  