-- 
Glaxo, Human Genome Win Approval for First Lupus Drug in 52 Years

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-10T08:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/glaxo-human-genome-win-approval-for-1st-lupus-drug-in-years.html
  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Human
Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  won U.S. approval to sell Benlysta, a
potential $3.6 billion product that will be the first new drug
in 52 years for the auto-immune disease lupus.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved the medicine for
treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus, the most common form
of the disorder, the agency said yesterday in a statement. The
therapy will be available within about two weeks, the companies
said in a statement.  Benlysta is the first drug designed specifically for lupus,
an incurable condition that affects  1.5 million Americans  and 5
million people worldwide. Most treatments, including steroids to
ease inflammation, were used for other disorders when they were
cleared for lupus more than a half-century ago.  “It’s a landmark achievement for  Human Genome  Sciences and
a testament to what well-managed, productive biotech companies
can achieve,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in
New York, said in an e-mail.  Glaxo shares rose 9 pence, or 0.8 percent, to 1,193 pence
at 8:14 a.m. in trading in  London , where the company is based.
Before today, the stock had fallen almost 3 percent this year,
including reinvested dividends.  Shares of Rockville, Maryland-based Human Genome rose 1
cent to $25.68 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading before the FDA’s announcement. Extended trading was
halted before the statement’s release.  Sales Estimate  Sales of Benlysta, an intravenous product also known as
belimumab, may reach $2.3 billion in the U.S. and $3.6 billion
worldwide in 2015, Maged Shenouda, an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus in  New York , said Feb. 25 in an interview.  Benlysta’s initial U.S. market will be about 200,000 people
with moderate to severe systemic lupus, Barry Labinger, Human
Genome’s chief commercial officer, said yesterday during a
conference call. The drug will cost about $35,000 a year for an
average patient, Labinger said during the call.  “This is a historic day for the millions of people with
lupus and their families around the world who have waited more
than 52 years for a treatment breakthrough,” said Sandra Raymond, president of the Washington advocacy group  Lupus
Foundation of America . Benlysta’s approval “is a significant
first step toward reaching our goal of developing an arsenal of
new, safe, effective, and tolerable treatments.”  Black Patients  Black patients in the U.S. didn’t appear to respond to
Benlysta in clinical studies, though the trials lacked
sufficient numbers to establish any conclusions, the FDA said in
its statement. The companies agreed to conduct an additional
study of these lupus patients to further evaluate the safety and
effectiveness of the drug, the agency said.  The disease is linked to an overproduction of proteins
known as autoantibodies that lead the body to attack healthy
cells. Benlysta isn’t recommended for patients with severe
active lupus nephritis or severe active central nervous system
lupus, or those taking other biologics or the chemotherapy drug
cyclophosphamide, the companies said in the statement.  Developing and testing new lupus drugs poses unique
challenges because no two people experience the disease in the
same way, Raymond said. Symptoms range from rashes to joint
swelling to kidney difficulties and tend to come and go.  A 2002 Lupus Foundation  survey  of more than 1,000 members
found that 40 percent take at least six medications to treat
their symptoms.  The steroid prednisone and some antimalarial drugs
developed for other diseases won FDA approval for lupus more
than a half-century ago. Immune-system suppressants used in
transplant patients are among drugs prescribed for lupus without
U.S. clearance, a so-called off-label use that may not be
covered by health insurance plans.  Previous Failures  Potential lupus drugs that preceded Benlysta had a history
of failures. Rituxan, an arthritis and cancer drug from Basel,
Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  in
Weston,  Massachusetts , failed a lupus clinical trial in 2009.  Also falling short were  Petah Tikva , Israel-based  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Edratide,  Redwood City ,
California-based Genelabs Technologies Inc.’s Prestara and
Riquent, developed by  La Jolla Pharmaceutical Co. (LJPC)  and  BioMarin
Pharmaceutical Inc. (BMRN)   Lupus patients “witnessed the disappointment of one source
of hope after another,” David Stump, Human Genome’s executive
vice president for research and development, said on the
conference call. “Today’s action by the FDA changes all that.”  Benlysta became the first experimental lupus drug to work
in late-stage clinical trials after Human Genome and Glaxo, in
collaboration with the FDA, designed a way to measure a
reduction in overall disease activity.  Benlysta met its primary goal of reducing disease activity
more effectively than standard treatments, the FDA said.  The FDA had evaluated Benlysta under a six-month priority
review that was extended to nine months in December. While the
agency typically takes at least 10 months to decide drug
applications, it grants  priority reviews  to therapies that may
provide major advances in treatment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  