-- 
GM Says Chief Financial Officer Liddell to Step Down, Ammann to Take Post

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 
2011-03-10T21:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/gm-says-chief-financial-officer-liddell-to-step-down-ammann-to-take-post.html
  General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Financial
Officer  Chris Liddell  will leave the company after 15 months on
the job, following the departures of two other top executives in
the past two weeks.  Treasurer Dan Ammann, 38, will succeed Liddell as CFO
effective April 1, Detroit-based GM said today in a statement.
Liddell, 52, joined GM as CFO and vice chairman on Jan. 1, 2010,
after leaving  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , where he had been finance chief.  GM has had three chief executive officers and two chief
financial officers since emerging from a government-backed
bankruptcy in July 2009. Liddell’s exit follows the departures
of powertrain Vice President Jamie Hresko last week and GM do
Brazil President Denise Johnson on Feb. 22.  “They had management problems that caused the company to
go into bankruptcy, and they still do,”  Maryann Keller ,
principal of a self-titled consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “It smacks of
confusion at the highest ranks of GM.”  GM fell 83 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $31.42 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
dropped 4.8 percent from their initial public offering price in
November.  Liddell was unhappy about being passed over for the CEO job
when Dan Akerson was named to the position in August, a person
familiar with the matter said today. Liddell also differed with
members of the management team over some strategies, including
GM’s move into consumer auto lending, the person said.  Strategy Differences  He opposed acquiring subprime lender AmeriCredit Inc.,
which GM agreed to buy in July, the person said. Liddell had
told analysts that he didn’t want the risk of financial assets
on an industrial company’s balance sheet.  Chairman Ed Whitacre replaced onetime finance chief Fritz Henderson as CEO in December 2009, a month before Liddell
succeeded Ray Young, who is now CFO of Archer Daniels Midland
Co.  “Liddell did not go to GM to be CFO forever,” Keller
said. “He had to join GM with the presumption that he was the
heir apparent. When they picked someone else, he wasn’t going to
stay.”  Liddell said today on a conference call with reporters that
he has accomplished all he wanted both at GM and as a CFO and
wants to pursue something different.  “My CFO days might be behind me as of April 1,” Liddell
said. “I have a number of interesting ideas but none of them
have CFO on it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Koenig in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 