-- 
Goldman Sachs Invests Up to $65 Million in Management Dynamics

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-10T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/goldman-may-invest-65-million-in-management-dynamics.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
invest as much as $65 million in closely held  Management
Dynamics Inc. , whose software helps companies automate
international shipments.  The investment by Goldman Sachs’s special situations group
will enable  East Rutherford , New Jersey-based Management
Dynamics to pursue an acquisition, Chief Executive Officer Jim Preuninger said yesterday in a phone interview. Goldman Sachs
provided $15 million in equity up front and will supply as much
as $50 million more, depending on the acquisition size, he said.  “We have a short list of companies that we’re talking to,
we haven’t finalized a deal right now,” Preuninger said. “It
would be a  software company  that had a product or two that we
don’t have but would be very complementary and would fit in well
with our ambition of automating the full order-to-pay life cycle
of a global transaction.”  For Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank, the deal
shows that the special situations group continues to make new
investments amid uncertainty over how government implementation
of the so-called Volcker Rule may restrict deals with the firm’s
own capital. David Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial
officer, told analysts in October that the “predominant” part
of the special situations group is “a lending business.”  Minority Stake  Preuninger, who founded the company in 1989, said Goldman
Sachs will have a minority stake and declined to specify the
size. He and his twin brother John are the biggest shareholders,
he said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the New York-based
bank, declined to comment.  Preuninger wouldn’t disclose Management Dynamics’s
financial information, other than saying that it is profitable.  “Even in the shaky economic times that everybody went
through, we had great years in ‘08, ‘09 and 2010,” he said.
“Putting another one on top of that is important to us. I think
we’re well on our way to doing that.”  The company is not using Goldman Sachs or any other
investment bank as an adviser on the acquisition, he said.  Preuninger said he was approached by a Goldman Sachs
employee at a conference in  San Francisco  hosted by investment
bank Thomas Weisel Partners Group Inc. more than a year ago.
Before Goldman, Management Dynamics had equity investments from
venture-capital firms  Cross Atlantic Capital Partners  and  UpData
Partners , he said.  Apple, Wal-Mart  Preuninger previously worked in sales and marketing for  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , according to the software
company’s  website . John Preuninger, president and chief
operating officer, was a strategy consultant at Monitor Company
before joining in 1990.  Management Dynamics’s clients include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , Jim Preuninger said. They use the software in more than 70
countries and trade across 122 nations, he said.  Gene Yoon, a managing director at Goldman Sachs, is joining
Management Dynamics’s board. Yoon is head of private equity for
Goldman Sachs’s Americas special situations group, according to
a biography published on the Management Dynamics  website .  The company, which employs about 400 people, has discussed
whether to pursue an initial public offering, Preuninger said.
While the company is big enough to proceed with an IPO, that’s
not the plan, he said. Private equity investors are typically
patient as long as the company makes progress, he said. Goldman
Sachs may be even more patient, he said.  Less Pressure  “A lot of times, a private equity investor or venture
capitalist has a lot of the money come from limited partners,
who have provided that capital to them with a time frame in
mind, it might be 10 years,” Preuninger said. “Goldman’s
capital all comes from Goldman Sachs, so they don’t have the
same kind of pressures to turn over their capital.”  Goldman Sachs in January changed the way it reports
financial results, creating a division called Investing and
Lending. The special situations group, which buys distressed
debt and equity and makes loans, has moved most of its holdings
out of the firm’s fixed-income, currencies and commodities
division into the new segment.  Investing and Lending contributed 19 percent of Goldman
Sachs’s 2010 revenue, making it the second-largest division on
that basis after institutional client services, or sales and
trading, according to Goldman Sachs’s annual 10-K filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  In 2009, Investing and Lending accounted for 6 percent of
revenue, the filing showed, and in fiscal 2008 it had negative
revenue of $10.8 billion, making it the only money-losing
division that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 