-- 
Goldman Sachs Weighs Competing Lehman Liquidation Plan, Creditors Say

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/goldman-sachs-weighs-competing-liquidation-plan-for-lehman-creditors-say.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may
propose a liquidation plan for bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. that would give it more money and compete with two rival
plans for the defunct company, two creditors said.  Goldman Sachs, which owns claims against a Lehman
derivatives unit, is considering proposing its own plan to pay
creditors, said John Beiers, chief deputy county counsel for San
Mateo County in  California , and another creditor familiar with
the matter. The county has joined hedge fund Paulson & Co. and
other bondholders to push a plan that would pay them more than
one filed by Lehman.  “This really gets under my skin because it is yet another
example of big banks taking a position that adversely impacts
taxpayers and Main Street,” Beiers said in a phone interview
yesterday, referring to the potential plan from Goldman Sachs.
San Mateo County is owed $155 million by Lehman.  Goldman Sachs, based in  New York , has been buying claims of
another Lehman unit and met with Lehman recently to outline its
proposal, according to the other creditor, who declined to be
named because the discussions were private. Lehman opposes
Goldman Sachs’s challenge, the person said.  Goldman Sachs’s two biggest claims originally filed against
the Lehman Brothers Special Financing unit for derivatives
transactions totaled about $2.5 billion, according to claims
filings. It filed duplicate claims against Lehman’s holding
company based on guarantees issued by Lehman, according to the
filings. Goldman Sachs actively trades Lehman claims, according
to court filings.    Michael DuVally , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  Bryan Marsal , Lehman’s chief executive officer, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Expected Recoveries  Derivatives creditors were in line to get 38.3 cents on the
dollar as Lehman liquidated, according to calculations by
Paulson and other bondholders. The bondholders’ rival plan would
cut that to 25.7 cents and raise the bondholders’ share to 24.5
cents.  In the next few years, Marsal aims to raise $61 billion
from Lehman’s assets to pay $322 billion in claims, or an
average of 18.6 cents on the dollar for each creditor, he said
in January. Responding to Paulson’s challenge, Marsal said he
would pay bondholders a little more than originally offered,
taking something away from derivatives creditors.    Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Deutsche Bank AG
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  have filed derivatives claims against
the Lehman Brothers special finance unit, according to court
filings.  ‘Contentious’ Approval  Lehman hopes to win court approval of its payment plan by
the end of the year and is negotiating with creditors on its
details. Approval of the plan will be “contentious,” given the
competing proposal by Paulson and other creditors, Lehman said
in a court filing this week.  The Paulson group, which includes the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers, says its plan is
better for Lehman creditors. Goldman Sachs’s proposal would lead
to a lower recovery for San Mateo County and other creditors of
Lehman’s holding company, Beiers said.  “Now a large bank like Goldman Sachs, which has all the
resources,” is looking to “rob us,” he said.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 