-- 
Google Unveils Tool to Let Users Block Unwanted Sites From Search Results

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-03-10T20:54:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/google-unveils-tool-to-let-users-block-unwanted-sites-from-search-results.html
  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the most
popular Internet search engine, unveiled a tool that will let
users block unwanted websites as the company aims to improve the
quality of its search results.  Users can click on a link in query results that gives them
the option to hide all listings from sites that they dislike or
find offensive or of low quality, Google said in a  blog post .
Once an Internet domain is blocked, the user will no longer see
those results in future  searches , the company said.  Google, which gets most of its sales from search-engine
advertising, is trying to refine the relevance of its results
after receiving complaints that spammers and some websites game
its system to get more prominent placement. Google last month
said it changed the way it carries out Web searches to feature
more “high-quality” sites, affecting 12 percent of queries.  “Giving you control over the results you find will provide
an even more personalized and enjoyable experience on Google,”
the company said in the blog post. “While we’re not currently
using the domains people block as a signal in ranking, we’ll
look at the data and see whether it would be useful as we
continue to evaluate and improve our search results.”  Blocked websites will be connected with users’ Google
accounts, and domains can later be unblocked. Earlier this year,
Google announced a feature for its Chrome Web browser that also
lets users hide unwanted sites.  Google fell $10.85 to $580.92 at 3:51 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares were little changed this
year before today.  Editors: Jillian Ward, Lisa Wolfson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  