-- 
Gordhan Says South Africa Needs ‘Bolder’ Ways to Boost Growth, Create Jobs

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-10T18:44:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/gordhan-says-south-africa-needs-bolder-ways-to-boost-growth-create-jobs.html
  South Africa  needs “new and bolder
ways” of boosting economic growth and jobs to meet the
government’s goal of reaching 7 percent expansion, Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  “We have to do something more imaginative to get to 7
percent growth,” Gordhan told business people in the Soweto
township of Johannesburg today.  South  Africa  is aiming to create 5 million jobs in the next
decade to slash the  unemployment rate  to 15 percent from 24
percent currently. With growth forecast by the government to
reach 3.4 percent growth this year and 4.1 percent in 2012, that
may not be fast enough to make a dent in the jobless rate.  The recovery in Africa’s biggest economy has strengthened
since last year as rising demand for commodities boosted exports
of platinum, gold and iron ore, and the central bank cut  interest rates  to a 30-year low. Manufacturers are still under
pressure though as the rand’s 15 percent jump against the dollar
in the second half of last year undermined the industry’s
competitiveness.  While manufacturers may say the rand is hurting them, the
currency is acting as a “buffering mechanism” against rising
oil prices, Gordhan said. In managing the impact of the
currency, the government has to balance the competitiveness of
industries with accelerating inflation, he said.  Gordhan added that banks in South Africa are “not the most
accessible” for small businesses to source funds and the
government is in discussions with financial institutions to help
improve that.  He also criticized government departments that boosted
spending on unnecessary items before the end of the fiscal year
in March to use up their budgeted funds.  The practice of “fiscal dumping is disgraceful,” Gordhan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 