-- 
Greece Debt Default Bets Increase as Spain Exits 'Sick List': Euro Credit

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-03-10T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/greece-debt-default-bets-increase-as-spain-exits-sick-list-euro-credit.html
Investors are becoming more
discriminating about European creditworthiness, increasing bets
that  Greece , Ireland and Portugal may restructure their debts
while Spain and Italy survive the euro region’s deficit crisis.  The average annual cost of protecting of Greek, Irish and
Portuguese bonds in the credit-default swaps market for five
years exceeded the average of Spanish and Italian contracts by a
record $496,000 this week. That’s up from $384,000 on Feb. 2 and
$77,000 a year ago. Swaps on Greece signal a 60 percent
probability of default in five years.  The division between peripheral nations widened this week
after Greece was downgraded deeper into junk by Moody’s
Investors Service and speculation increased that the European
Union will fail to agree on a comprehensive package to end the
crisis. Traders are betting  Spain  will avert an EU bailout as
budget cuts and growth help repair its balance sheet.  “Spain has skillfully managed to navigate itself away from
the sick list,” said Georg Grodzki, London-based head of credit
research at Legal & General Investment Management, which
oversees more than $500 billion. “If Spain continues structural
reforms, especially in the labor market, it could start moving
towards the core.”  Economic Overhaul  Spanish companies led by Banco Santander SA and Telefonica
SA are reaping rewards from Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s economic overhaul, delivering the best bond returns
among nations with the most corporate debt. Spanish company
notes returned 1.4 percent this year, compared with 0.2 percent
for the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. The securities are the top performing of the
dozen nations with the most debt in the index.  Credit-default swaps on Spain have tumbled to 250 basis
points from 350 at the start of the year, while  Italy  has
dropped to 179 from 240, according to CMA.  Germany  trades at 48
basis points. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  An overhaul of labor laws and pensions, increased job
creation and the introduction of core-capital requirements for
savings banks are among the reasons for Spain to outperform the
region’s smaller economies, Morgan Stanley economist Daniele Antonucci and analysts Owen Roberts and Leef Dierks wrote in a
note to investors published on March 7.  ‘Growth Trajectory’  “Spain’s growth trajectory looks more reassuring than that
of Greece and Portugal,” they wrote. “We think that  Portugal 
is likely to double-dip, while growth in Greece should remain in
negative territory.”  Spain this week raised 4 billion euros ($5.6 billion) in
the first syndicated sale of bonds due in 15 or more years from
a peripheral European nation since Italy issued 6 billion euros
of notes due 2026 in September.  Credit swaps on Greece closed at a record 1,035 basis
points yesterday from 800 basis points in February after Moody’s
lowered its rating three steps to B1. The risk of default is
rising because of lagging tax collection and “implementation
risks” in the budget cuts demanded as a condition for a 110
billion-euro bailout last year, Moody’s said.  Greece will inflict losses of about 50 percent on investors
and extend bond maturities by five to 10 years in a series of
moves to reduce its debt, according to investors. Almost all the
400 people at this week’s Euromoney Bond Investor Congress in  London  expect a European nation to restructure in the “next
couple of years,” according to a show of hands.  Irish Swaps  Swaps on Ireland, which became the second nation to request
an EU bailout after the government was nearly sunk by the weight
of guaranteeing its banking system’s debt in November, now cost
587.5 basis points and imply an almost 40 percent likelihood of
default within five years, according to CMA.  Investors are betting Portugal will have to follow Greece
and Ireland in asking for international aid as the cost of
issuing debt becomes unsustainable. EU finance ministers are
meeting tomorrow in Brussels to debate how to construct a
comprehensive debt-support package ahead of a summit scheduled
for March 24-25.  Portugal sold 1 billion euros of bonds due in 2013 at an
average yield of 5.993 percent yesterday, compared with 4.086
percent at a Sept. 8 auction. The sale attracted bids for 1.6
times the amount offered, compared with a so-called bid-to-cover
ratio of 1.9 six months ago.  Default swaps on Portugal soared to 497 basis points from
387 in February, suggesting about a 34 percent chance of
default, according to CMA.  “The market is starting to price in that Portugal may have
to come to the table,” said  Brian Yelvington , head of fixed-
income strategy at Knight Capital Americas LP in Greenwich,  Connecticut . “Portugal and Ireland will be very, very political
in the short run and force an eventual solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  