-- 
Pimco’s Bill Gross Dumping Treasuries Leads Managers Calling Rally’s End

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/gross-dumping-treasuries-leads-managers-calling-rally-s-end.html
  Bill Gross  has dumped all
Treasuries from the world’s biggest mutual fund, Warren Buffett
is shifting to shorter-term debt, and Swiss Reinsurance Co. is
boosting equities and corporate bonds.  Some of the biggest private investors in the  bond market ,
from fund managers to insurers and pensions, are preparing for
an end to the three-decade Treasury rally, as interest rates
near zero and unprecedented spending by the U.S. government and
the central bank threaten to fuel inflation. Their strategies
range from reducing the longest-dated holdings and shifting to
higher-yielding corporate debt, to investing in stocks,
commodities, non-U.S. bonds and even holding cash.  “U.S. government bonds are not a safe haven,” Jim Rogers,
the global investor who predicted the 2007-2009 housing-market
crash, said in a telephone interview from  Singapore . “I cannot
conceive of lending money to the U.S. government for 30 years.”  Pacific Investment Management Co. said yesterday that
Gross, who runs the $237 billion Pimco Total Return Fund,
eliminated government-related debt from his flagship fund last
month as the U.S. projected record budget deficits. Gross, who
has overseen the expansion of Pimco into a $1.2 trillion bond
shop over four decades, predicted a year ago that “bonds have
seen their best days.” Last month, he said Treasuries may have
to be “exorcised” from model portfolios.  The bonds, considered the safest and most liquid, have been
an investment staple for generations. The U.S. is the world’s
biggest debt issuer, with $14.2 trillion outstanding. Most of
that is owned by U.S. government entities, foreign countries
such as  China  and Japan, and investors including mutual funds,
pension funds, insurers and banks.  Real Assets  Mutual funds, which collectively represent the largest
private owners of U.S. debt, cut their holdings by 17 percent to
$638 billion as of June 30 from the end of 2008, according to
federal government data. Treasuries have lost 0.3 percent this
year, after returning an average of 8.8 percent a year since
interest rates peaked in 1981, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.    Jeffrey Gundlach , who runs fixed-income specialist
DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles , said he’s looking to real
assets to lift returns. DoubleLine last month opened its first
fund with the freedom to invest in a mix of assets including
equities, real estate and commodities.  Gundlach, whose $5.3 billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond
Fund has returned 19 percent since opening last April, had 93
percent of assets in mortgage bonds and none in Treasuries at
year-end, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Devilishly Difficult’  “Tactical investing is more important than ever before,”
Gundlach, who has more than half of his personal wealth in real
assets, said in a telephone interview. Government policies and
rising commodity prices make it “devilishly difficult” for
investors to profit in U.S. bonds, he said.  Pimco, based in Newport Beach,  California , and led by
Mohamed El-Erian, has opened a global stock fund and plans to
start two that invest in the emerging markets. The firm has
hired executives who previously worked at Franklin Resources
Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and this month added seven
analysts and traders to help expand the active stock-fund unit.  Pimco Total Return in December expanded its mandate to
invest as much as 10 percent of its assets in preferred stocks
and convertible debt, a hybrid security that can be converted
into stock at a predetermined price, according to a regulatory
filing.  BlackRock ‘Underweight’    BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, has
moved to shorter-duration securities because of the potential
for interest-rate swings and is “underweight” Treasuries
relative to benchmark indexes, Rick Rieder, chief investment
officer of fundamental fixed income at the New York-based firm,
wrote in a February investment commentary.  BlackRock started expanding beyond bonds a decade ago by
making acquisitions, including the 2006 purchase of Merrill
Lynch & Co.’s investment unit. The firm, formed in 1988 as a
fixed-income manager, in 2009 bought Barclays Global Investors.
Rieder, who co-manages the $3.4 billion BlackRock Total Return
Fund, had more than half of its assets in mortgage-related
securities as of Dec. 31, according to a quarterly report. About
26 percent was in Treasuries.  U.S. debt entered a bull market in the early 1980s, after
Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker raised  interest rates  to
as high as 20 percent to tame inflation. In the years that
followed, inflation and interest rates declined, pushing up bond
prices, which move inversely to yields. The 10-year Treasury
yield, which reached a high of 15.8 percent in September 1981,
fell to as low as 2.05 percent on Dec. 30, 2008.  ‘Artificially Low’  That yield has risen to 3.47 percent as of yesterday. The
Fed, after spending $1.7 trillion in the wake of the global
financial crisis to end the recession, said in November it would
buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June to
help the  U.S. economy . The Fed and the  Bank of Japan  are alone
among the major central banks in indicating they have no plans
to increase rates.  Gross has said he may buy Treasuries again if yields rise.
Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of BlackRock, said in
an interview last week that he’s a “big buyer” of the  U.S.
dollar  and he doesn’t see a “bear market” in bonds.  Bond buyers outside the U.S. have added longer-term debt,
showing that some agree with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s assessment that inflation will be contained even as
global food and energy prices soar. China, the largest foreign
investor in U.S. government debt, bought more U.S. bonds in
December even as its leaders criticized Bernanke’s plan for the
Fed to buy $600 billion of Treasuries by June.  ‘China’s Faith’  “China has kept on lending money to the U.S. to keep its
export machine going, and to prevent losses” on its existing
holdings of Treasuries, said Yu Yongding, a former Chinese
central bank adviser. “Perhaps it is too late to do anything
about the existing stock without causing a serious political and
financial backlash. But at least China should stop continuing
building up its holdings.”  China’s currency’s de facto peg to the dollar limits its
ability to diversify away from Treasuries even while its policy
makers are “very, very bearish” on the dollar, said  Andy Xie ,
formerly Morgan Stanley’s chief Asia economist in  Hong Kong .
China’s probably trying to diversify by increasing purchases of
euro-denominated bonds and buying bonds with shorter maturities
to minimize risk, Xie said.  “China’s faith in the Fed broke a few years ago,” said
Xie, now an independent economist based in  Shanghai . “China
used to be enamored of people like Greenspan and Bob Rubin even
though at that time the dollar was coming down. QE2 destroyed
whatever faith was left.”  ‘Who Will Buy?’  Moves by the Fed to pump money into the economy are keeping
interest rates “artificially low,” Gross wrote in a letter to
investors published March 2. The central bank’s purchases have
resulted in 10 percent of publicly issued U.S. debt being owned
by the Fed, 50 percent by foreign governments and 40 percent by
private investors such as fund managers, insurance companies and
banks, he said.  “The legitimate corollary question is: Who will buy
Treasuries when the Fed doesn’t?” Gross wrote.  Like Gross, Loomis Sayles & Co.’s  Dan Fuss  has expanded
investments in non-U.S. bonds and equity-linked securities. The
$19.9 billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund has been reducing
Treasuries for more than a year in favor of high-yield bonds,
said Kathleen Gaffney, co-manager with Fuss. Junk bonds
accounted for 24 percent of the fund’s assets as of Jan. 31,
while 11 percent was in convertible debt, according to the
firm’s website. About 2.4 percent was in U.S. Treasuries.  ‘Excellent Liquidity’  “Treasuries are the one sector we would avoid, but the one
positive about it that it provides investors with excellent
liquidity,” said Gaffney, whose fund has beaten 96 percent of
its peers in the past five years, according to Bloomberg data.
“So we have plenty of  government bonds  with liquidity, just not
in the U.S.”  The fund has shifted money into Canadian government bonds,
Gaffney said in an interview. About 13 percent of the fund was
in Canadian debt, according to the website.  Loomis Sayles, the Boston firm that oversees $152 billion,
last year hired a portfolio manager and three research analysts
from Evergreen Investments LLC as part of a plan to expand its
stock-fund unit.  The impact of the Fed’s efforts to stimulate the economy by
buying Treasuries, questions over the durability of U.S. growth
and rising oil prices spurred by unrest in the Middle East have
created a “confusing landscape,” Cynthia Steer, managing
director of investment strategy at Russell Investments in
Seattle, said in a phone interview.  ‘Wise Investors’  More institutional investors are seeking to break away from
broadly used benchmarks for U.S. bonds, such as the BarCap U.S.
Aggregate Total Return index, and use a combination of indexes
that incorporate bonds all over the world, Russell’s Steer said.  “Wise investors started diversifying away from the BarCap
Aggregate index a decade ago into areas such as global bonds,”
said Steer, whose firm manages $149 billion for institutional
clients. “Alternatives such as  hedge funds  investing in credit
should be part of the good investment program.”  Rogers, the chairman of Rogers Holdings who correctly
predicted the start of the commodity rally in 1999, said he
plans to sell Treasuries short, betting on a price decline,
because of the “staggering” U.S. debt load. Net interest
expense to service the national debt will triple to an all-time
high of $554 billion in 2015 from $185 billion in 2010,
according to the Obama administration’s adjusted 2011 budget.  Buffett’s Holdings  Rogers said he had a short position in U.S. Treasuries
until the Middle East protests that began in Egypt in January
prompted him to unwind the wager on expectations that demand for
U.S. bonds would rise temporarily. He said he’ll take a new
bearish stand when prices climb.  Insurers, whose flexibility to allocate to different assets
is limited by regulators, are buying bonds with shorter
maturities to protect their investments from rising interest
rates. Investors who buy longer-term securities face the risk
that interest rates may spike, hurting them if they want to sell
before the debt matures.  Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. brought the percentage of
securities maturing in a year or less to 23 percent as of year-
end, according to a Feb. 28 regulatory filing. That compares
with 16 percent when the Omaha, Nebraska-based company started
disclosing the duration of investments 18 months earlier. The
holdings include Treasuries, municipal debt, foreign-government
securities and corporate bonds.  Swiss Re  Swiss Re, which trails only Munich Re by assets among
reinsurers, is buying about $7 billion of “high-grade”
corporate bonds to improve investment returns, Chief Financial
Officer  George Quinn  said in a Feb. 17 interview from Zurich.  The company will also, depending on market conditions,
increase stocks to 3 percent to 4 percent of its $149 billion
investment portfolio by year-end, from 2 percent, Quinn said.
The reinsurer last had that much in equities in the second
quarter of 2008, according to quarterly statements.  Allstate Corp., the largest publicly traded U.S. home and
auto insurer, is sacrificing yield for flexibility on the $49.9
billion in fixed-income holdings at its life-insurance division
by acquiring shorter-duration bonds, according to Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Wilson.  “We are staying short in Allstate Financial, so that when
rates come up we can reinvest at higher rates and lock in good
long-term returns,” Wilson, whose firm is based in Northbrook,
Illinois, said in a Feb. 9 interview. “But that’s costing us
today in operating income.”  ‘Hard Assets’  Liberty Mutual Holding Co. CEO Edmund “Ted” Kelly has
decreased the percentage of  fixed-income assets  in the Boston-
based insurer’s $69.8 billion investment portfolio, while adding
to equity and energy holdings.  “We have obviously long-term liabilities that will
increase with inflation, so to protect ourselves we have been
investing heavily in hard assets,” Kelly said in a Feb. 17
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.” “We’re a
big holder of oil and gas, we’re into mining and minerals and we
just finished in wrapping up developing a wind farm in northeast  Brazil .”  Pension funds, facing potential shortfalls in meeting their
liabilities to retirees, are adjusting their allocations as
well. Pensions surveyed by Greenwich Associates predicted fixed-
income returns would decline to 4.8 percent annually over the
next five years, from 5.7 percent predicted a year earlier,
according to a Feb. 8 report by the Stamford, Connecticut,
consulting firm.  Calpers’ Target  California Public Employees’ Retirement System, the
nation’s largest public pension plan at $230 billion in assets,
in December cut its target allocation to bonds and raised the
portion for assets that guard against inflation.  Calpers, as the Sacramento-based retirement fund is called,
reduced its target for corporate bonds to 16 percent from 20
percent as part of a broader shift aimed at lifting returns. The
pension added to inflation-linked securities and infrastructure
to protect itself from the impact of possible price increases.  “We learned in the financial crisis and the past recession
that a liquidity crunch or inflation can have a significant
impact on portfolio performance in ways that many investors
didn’t anticipate,” Rob Feckner, president of Calpers’s board,
said in a Dec. 13 statement announcing the changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in New York at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  