-- 
Gulf Arab States to Provide $20 Billion to Bahrain, Oman After Protests

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a ,   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-10T17:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/gulf-arab-states-to-provide-10-billion-each-to-bahrain-oman-for-housing.html
Gulf states plan to provide Oman
and Bahrain, which have faced popular protest movements, with
$10 billion each over a decade.  U.A.E. Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan
said the package showed Gulf support for the countries. The aid
would be aimed at developing infrastructure and housing,
Bahraini Foreign Minister Sheikh Khaled bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa
said on his Twitter account. Ministers from the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council met today in  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia.  Protesters in Oman and Bahrain are calling for free
elections, more housing and jobs, echoing popular movements that
have swept the region in the past two months and unseated
longtime rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt . At least two people have
been killed in clashes between demonstrators and security forces
in the Omani city of Sohar, while in Bahrain, seven people have
been killed in demonstrations.  “The regimes are capable and fully prepared to use
ammunition on their own people and I am not sure that the aid
packages can deflect from that,” said Christopher Davidson, who
teaches politics at Durham University in the U.K.  The unrest has deterred investors and sent the  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Gulf shares down 6.6 percent so far this year,
while oil rose to a 2 1/2-year high as protests in  Libya , holder
of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, escalated into civil war.  Reports that the GCC was preparing an aid package helped
the region’s stocks pare losses today, with Oman’s MSM30 Index
rising 0.5 percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index adding 0.1
percent.  Fifth Fleet  The protests in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, began on Feb. 14 and marked the spread of the unrest to
the  Persian Gulf , where most Middle Eastern oil is produced.  Shiite Muslims, who represent as much as 70 percent of
Bahrain’s population, say they face discrimination over jobs and
housing from the ruling Al Khalifa family, who are Sunnis, and
their supporters. Omanis are demanding higher wages and are
pressing Sultan Qaboos Bin Said to name a prime minister and
give more power to the consultative council.  In both countries, hereditary rulers have taken measures
aimed at placating the protesters. Bahrain yesterday announced
plans to spend $6.6 billion on new homes to allay a shortage,
and Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa has invited the
Shiite-led opposition to enter a “national dialogue.” The
largest opposition group, al-Wefaq, said it wants “significant
steps” from the government before agreeing to negotiate.  Increasing Employment  Oman’s Sultan Qaboos told the government to hire 50,000
Omanis and pay 150 rials ($390) a month to job-seekers.    Saudi Arabia , the largest GCC economy, has also taken steps
to avert protests spreading to the kingdom, pledging more than
$30 billion of spending to build homes, create jobs and increase
social security payments. Saudi opposition supporters have
called for a “Day of Rage” tomorrow.  In the  United Arab Emirates , a petition has been circulated
by academics and activists calling for elections to the
legislative advisory body, the Federal National Council.  The GCC is comprised of Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait , the U.A.E.,
Oman, Qatar and Bahrain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net 
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 