-- 
Li Ka-Shing's Hutchison Port Said to Cut Price of Stock in Singapore IPO

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-03-10T09:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/li-ka-shing-s-hutchison-port-said-to-cut-price-of-stock-in-singapore-ipo.html
Hutchison Port Holdings Trust
reduced the maximum amount it may raise in southeast  Asia ’s
biggest initial public offering to $5.56 billion, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  The company, which manages Chinese port assets for
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , is offering
about 5.4 billion units in a trust at 99 U.S. cents to $1.03
each in Singapore, said the people, who declined to be
identified before an announcement. The units were initially
offered at 91 cents to $1.08 each, according to a sale document
sent to investors on Feb. 28.  Investors are cooling on Asian equities as unrest in the
Middle East pushes  oil prices  higher and accelerating inflation
from China to  India  prompts central banks to boost borrowing
costs. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has slipped 1 percent this
year after gaining 14 percent in 2010.  “They are trying to ensure the deal will go off with a
very solid book, so it’s the best outcome for both Hutchison and
potential investors in the trust,” said Anderson Chow, an
analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities.    China  Hongqiao Group Ltd., the country’s largest privately
owned aluminum producer, in January scrapped a plan to raise as
much as $2.2 billion from a Hong Kong IPO, citing “deterioration
in market conditions,” according to a Jan. 31 filing to the
city’s stock exchange.  Cornerstone Investors  The narrower pricing range was earlier reported by the Wall
Street Journal on its website. Laura Cheung, a spokeswoman at
Hutchison Whampoa in Hong Kong, declined to comment.  Hutchison Port Holdings Trust will own assets including
container terminals in Hong Kong and neighboring Guangdong
province. Hutchison will manage the trust and retain a 25
percent stake, according to a Jan. 18 statement. The sale may
still surpass the $4 billion raised in  Singapore 
Telecommunications Ltd.’s 1993 IPO and the total amount raised
in IPOs in the city-state last year.  Cornerstone investors led by Capital Research & Management
Co. and Paulson & Co. will invest $1.62 billion in the IPO,
according to the prospectus filed with the Monetary Authority of
Singapore.  Capital Research will invest $634 million in the offering,
according to the term sheet. Paulson & Co., managed by  John Paulson , will buy a $350 million stake and Lone Pine Capital LCC
will invest $186 million, it said. Jenkin Hui and family,
Singapore’s state investment company Temasek Holdings Pte,
Cathay Life Insurance Co. and Metropolitan Financial Services
Ltd. will each invest $100 million, and Ally Holding Ltd. will
buy a $50 million stake.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG are among
banks managing the sale. Edward Naylor, a Hong Kong-based
spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and Mark Bennewith, a Deutsche Bank
spokesman in Singapore, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at   fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  