-- 
MIDEAST DAYBOOK: Dubai World Unit Sued; Abu Dhabi, IPIC Bonds

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 
2011-03-10T03:58:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/mideast-daybook-dubai-world-unit-sued-abu-dhabi-ipic-bonds.html
Abu Dhabi government officials will
meet fixed-income investors in Beijing,  Hong Kong  and  Singapore 
to update them on its economy, a government official said.  Two Singapore units of Drydocks World LLC, the ship repair
unit of state-owned Dubai World, which is attempting to
restructure $24.9 billion of debt, were sued in Singapore’s  High
Court  for not paying suppliers.  Muammar Qaddafi’s forces carried out air and artillery
strikes on oil facilities midway along  Libya ’s coastline as
fighting flared across a desert area that is now the east-west
dividing line in the nation’s civil war.  Egypt plans to sell 5.5 billion Egyptian pounds ($931
million) of treasury bills, the first auction after the military
council swore in the government of Prime Minister Essam Sharaf.  WHAT TO WATCH:
* Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal embarked on a
  plan to invest more than 500 million riyals ($133 million) in
  Saudi stocks after political unrest in the Middle East pushed
  down equity prices.
*  Dubai World , the state-owned holding company seeking to alter
  terms on $24.9 billion of debt, will sign an agreement to
  restructure its debt within a week, Chairman Sheikh Ahmed bin
  Saeed Al Maktoum said.
* International Petroleum Investment Co., an  investment company 
  owned by Abu Dhabi, is selling $4.4 billion of bonds in euros
  and pounds as  Brent crude  rose on concern Libya’s turmoil
  will spread to other oil-producing nations.
* Egyptian inflation and interest rate decision.
* Mubadala Development Co., an Abu Dhabi government-owned
  investor, has offered to buy a stake in state-owned Dubai
  Aluminium Co. to create a new holding company, Gulf News
  reported, citing Dubai’s deputy ruler.
* The  International Monetary Fund  said economic growth in Qatar
  this year will likely reach 20 percent, after 16 percent
  growth last year.
* U.A.E. Central Bank meeting with banks on Islamic finance
  operations in  Abu Dhabi .
* Saudi Arabian authorities have listened to the demands of
  Shiite Muslims in the Eastern Province and believe that
  dialogue, not protests, is the best way to solve problems,
  Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal said.
* Activists in the  United Arab Emirates  are circulating an
  online petition demanding that members of the 40-member
  Federal National Council, an advisory body to the government,
  be elected.
* Emirates, Dubai’s government-owned airline, dropped plans to
  sell bonds to finance expansions, President Tim Clark said.
*  Syria  plans to sell 1 billion Syrian pounds ($21.4 million)
  of one-year notes at an auction March 14, according to the
  central bank.  MARKETS:
*  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell less than 0.1 percent.
* Crude oil futures for April delivery rose 0.3 percent to
  $104.66 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
  Mercantile Exchange at 7:40 a.m. in Dubai.
* Gold for April delivery fell less than 0.1 percent to $1,429.9
  an ounce.
* Dubai Financial Market General Index advanced 2.2 percent, QE
  Index rose 2 percent; Kuwait Stock Exchange Index and ADX
  General Index climbed 1.3 percent each, Bahrain All Share
  Index gained 1.2 percent, and Muscat Securities Market rose
  0.2 percent. Tunis Stock Exchange’s Tunidex gained 0.1
  percent, while and Morocco Casablanca Stock Exchange Index
  rose less than 0.1 percent.
*  Saudi Arabia ’s market is closed for the weekend.  EQUITY MOVERS:
* Kingdom Holding (KINGDOM AB) is still in talks with Zain on
  the Kuwaiti company’s stake in Zain Saudi unit, Kingdom
  Holding Chairman Prince Alwaleed bin Talal was cited as
  saying by Reuters.
*  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  , builder of the world’s
  tallest skyscraper in Dubai, had its price estimate
  cut at Credit Suisse Group AG, citing “potential delivery
  delays in international projects.”  FINANCIAL RESULTS AND MEETINS
*  Kuwait Cement Co. (KCEM)  , the Gulf state’s biggest publicly
  traded cement maker by market value, posted an increase in
  full-year profit to 13.36 million dinars ($48 million) from
  12.8 million a year ago.
* Gulf Finance House (GFH BI) board meeting.
*  Orascom Development Holding AG (ODHN)   said it postponed the
  announcement dates of its 2010 full-year and first-quarter
  2011 financial results as well as its annual general meeting,
  citing the political events in  Egypt  and a delay in the audit
  process at units in the country.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  