-- 
India's Food Inflation Slows to 3-Month Low as Supply Boost After Harvest

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-03-10T06:29:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/india-s-food-inflation-slows-to-3-month-low-on-supply-boost-after-harvest.html
  India ’s food inflation slowed to a
three-month low as supplies of vegetables were boosted by the
most recent harvest.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including lentils, rice and vegetables rose 9.52
percent in the week ended Feb. 26 from a year earlier, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The
gauge showed a 10.39 percent increase in the previous week.  India, which has increased its repurchase rate seven times
in the past year to 6.5 percent, may face further pressure as
rising oil costs threaten to spur inflation across  Asia . While
food and grain will move in a “downward direction,” the nation
may be forced to raise fuel prices should crude remain above
$100 a barrel for some time, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, the prime
minister’s chief economic adviser, said this week.  “Food prices are showing a downward trend because of the
base effect and due to increased supplies,” Jay Shankar, chief
economist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai, said
before the report. Still, he expects the central bank to raise
rates by at least a quarter of a percentage point this month.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 0.7
percent as of 11:41 a.m. in Mumbai.  The decline in food prices was led by potatoes, which fell
9 percent in the week to Feb. 26 from a year earlier and lentils,
which declined 3.9 percent.  Rate Estimates  All five economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the  Reserve Bank  of India to increase the repurchase rate to 6.75
percent on March 17.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation probably slowed
for a second month to 7.8 percent in February, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists.  “Uncertainty in the oil price is a serious issue which we
shall have to address,” Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee, 75,
said last week.  Oil climbed for the first time in three days in New York
today as escalating violence in  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-largest
producer, renewed concern that supply disruptions may spread to
the Middle East. Crude for April delivery gained as much as 59
cents to $104.97 in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange and was at $104.84 at 12:35 p.m. Singapore
time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  