-- 
Indian Rupee Drops Most in Two Weeks as Crude Oil Price Climbs

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-03-10T11:57:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/indian-rupee-drops-most-in-two-weeks-as-crude-oil-price-climbs.html
India’s rupee fell the most in two
weeks on speculation crude  oil prices  near a 29-month high will
increase import costs and widen a record current-account deficit.  Oil in  New York  surged more than 20 percent in the past
month on concern escalating political violence in  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-largest producer, will disrupt supplies. Monthly
shipments of the commodity to the South Asian nation averaged $8
billion in the year to Jan. 31, up from $6.5 billion in the
previous 12 months, according to the latest government data.  “Oil prices are something to be watchful of,” said
Krishnamurthy Harihar, Mumbai-based treasurer at FirstRand Ltd.
“The problem in Libya itself doesn’t matter, but the concern is
that it has the potential to spread across the Middle East. It
will have an impact on  India ’s trade” and the rupee, he said.  The currency dropped 0.4 percent to 45.1825 per dollar at
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, extending its loss this year to 1.1 percent. That’s
the biggest decline since Feb. 24.  India’s current-account shortfall increased to $15.8
billion in the quarter ended Sept. 30, according to latest
figures from the central bank. The nation buys from overseas
almost three-quarters of the oil it uses. Crude reached the high
of $106.95 on March 7.  The rupee also declined as the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Sensitive Index lost 0.8 percent. Overseas investors pulled $1.8
billion from the nation’s equities this year through Feb. 23,
after pumping a record $29.3 billion into the securities last
year, according to the Securities & Exchange Board of India.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.98 in
three months, compared with expectations for a rate of 45.76
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  