-- 
Indonesian Bourse Seeks to Extend Hours to Align With Hong Kong, Singapore

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i
-- 
2011-03-10T23:42:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/indonesia-s-exchange-plans-to-extend-trading-hours-by-one-hour-from-july.html
The  Indonesia  Stock Exchange is
seeking approval from the country’s regulators to begin market
trading hours an hour earlier to align itself with other Asian
markets, President Director Ito Warsito said.  The  bourse  hopes to introduce the extension by July,
Warsito said yesterday in an interview in Tokyo. The move may
boost trading volumes as it brings Southeast  Asia ’s third-
largest stock market in line with exchanges in Hong Kong and  Singapore , he said.  “Right now, the emerging market is more dependent on what
happened in the morning in Hong Kong and Singapore because we
open later,” Warsito said on the sidelines of a conference
organized by Daiwa Securities Group Inc. “But if we open the
market earlier, global investors will already have a trading
strategy in Singapore,  Hong Kong  and Indonesia, unlike right now,
where Indonesia is left behind.”  Warsito’s comments on the bourse’s plans come the same week
that the Hong Kong exchange extended its own hours to complement  China ’s trading times. Hong Kong lengthened its trading day from
March 7, with the market opening 30 minutes earlier and a lunch
break that was cut to 90 minutes from two hours.  Trading hours in Jakarta are from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. local
time, with a 1 1/2-hour break from Monday to Thursday and a 2
1/2-hour break on Friday for prayers. Stock trading in Singapore
starts at 8 a.m. Jakarta time and 8:30 a.m. in Hong Kong.  Attracting Investors  “Longer trading hours will enable us to synchronize
trading with the regional markets,” said Soni Wibowo, vice
president of PT Bahana TCW Investment Management in Jakarta,
which manages about $2 billion. “But, I don’t think it will be
what attracts more investors. Investors are focusing more on the
fundamentals and attractiveness of the Indonesian market when
deciding to invest, not the trading hours.”  About 3 billion shares traded each day on average this year
in Jakarta, compared with 163.6 billion in Hong Kong, Asia’s
third-biggest stock market after Japan and China.  The Indonesian bourse also expects the  Jakarta Composite
index (JCI)  to rise 25 percent to 30 percent in 2011 as profits for
listed companies grow, and as the number of initial public
offerings increase, Warsito said. The stock gauge has fallen 3.1
percent this year, after surging 46 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Iwatani in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at 
 nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 