-- 
Innkeepers Bankruptcy Judge Adjourns Bid-Procedure Hearing

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-03-10T23:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/innkeepers-bankruptcy-judge-adjourns-bid-procedure-hearing-1-.html
The bankruptcy judge for  Innkeepers
USA Trust , the owner of extended-stay hotels, adjourned a
hearing today on bidding procedures for the sale of the company
after Innkeepers’ lawyers said there was new “activity.”  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman, following a closed-
door session with the parties during a hearing today in  Manhattan , said she would agree to Innkeepers’ request and
adjourn till tomorrow morning.  “There is activity,” Anup Sathy, a lawyer for Innkeepers,
told the judge. He said the board had decided it needed more
time to be sure it’s “making the right call.”  Innkeepers, based in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , filed earlier
today an amended commitment letter with the two largest holders
of secured debt, Lehman Ali Inc. and Five Mile Capital Partners
LLC, and a servicer of the debt, Midland Loan Services Inc.,
regarding the acquisition of the properties.  “We are completely dumbfounded by this request,” Adam Shiff, a lawyer for Five Mile, told the judge after Innkeepers
requested the adjournment.  Lehman and Five Mile planned to provide equity to
restructure the company’s debt in exchange for ownership. Five
Mile would acquire 50 percent of the new equity for $174.1
million in cash, and Lehman Ali, in exchange for its claims,
would receive 50 percent of the new stock and $26.2 million in
cash.  Bidding Procedures  The bidding procedures require that any other qualified bid
must have a value of at least $363.2 million. If Lehman and Five
Mile aren’t the winning bidders, Lehman must be paid at least
$200.3 million in cash. The so-called stalking-horse bidders
would also receive a breakup fee of $7 million.  Appaloosa Investment LP and other asset funds objected to
the auction procedures, stating in court papers that they would
“chill potential pool bids.”  Innkeepers, a real-estate investment trust that operates 72
hotel properties in 20 states under brands including Marriott,
Hyatt and Hilton, filed for Chapter 11 creditor protection in
July.  “The debtors have an unmanageable debt load, which has
impeded their ability to service funded debt obligations as they
come due,” Dennis Craven, the chief financial officer, said at
the time of the filing.  Before filing under Chapter 11, Innkeepers negotiated a
restructuring transaction that has since been modified.  Secured Creditor  Its largest secured creditor then was Lehman Ali, the
holder of an $825 million loan, serviced by Midland, with 45
hotel properties as collateral, a senior mortgage loan for $250
million with 20 properties as collateral and a $118 million
junior loan. Of Innkeepers’ $1.29 billion of property-level
secured debt, about $1.05 billion was securitized and sold in
the commercial mortgage-backed  securities market .  Innkeepers’ hotels are used by business travelers and
employees on temporary work assignments. Most of the hotels are
extended-stay, which is a hybrid of hotel and apartment. About
40 of the hotels are Marriott Residence Inns; another 11 are
Hampton Inns.  Revenue in 2009 was $292 million, a 16 percent decline from
the previous year.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  