-- 
Brazil Equity Selloff May Deepen on Rate Increase Concerns, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-03-10T17:53:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/investors-not-ready-to-buy-brazil-stocks-on-rate-concerns-jpmorgan-says.html
  Brazil ’s measures to curb rising
inflation may deepen a selloff in the nation’s stock market as
investors refrain from adding to positions, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said.  “Unless markets get clear indications from the government’s
economic team about where Brazil is going and what strategy it
will employ, the bias of most investors is to wait and see from
the sidelines,” analysts including Emy Shayo Cherman wrote in a
note to clients.  The benchmark Bovespa stock index rose 1 percent in 2010,
the worst annual performance relative to the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. Brazil’s central bank signaled today it may
resort to additional measures to curb credit growth and contain
inflation running at the fastest pace in more than two years,
according to minutes published from the March 1-2 policy
meeting. Brazil’s benchmark interest rate was lifted to a two-
year high last week.  The prospect of more rate increases means “equity markets
will need to adjust once more,” the analysts said. “If the
domestic economy and earnings don’t decelerate, inflation won’t
either, and therefore, more rate hikes will be needed.”  Rising oil prices and concern that the economy will lose
momentum “could lead to another round of outflows from global
investors in Brazil,” Shayo Cherman said. In this scenario,
“U.S. markets are likely to overperform Brazil this year.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of higher rates, measures to curb credit expansion and
spending cuts to slow inflation running at the fastest pace in
27 months.  Investors ‘Doing Homework’  Investors are “still not ready” to buy more Brazilian
equities, the analysts said. They issued the report after
visiting 25 clients in the U.S. to assess their views on
Brazil’s stock market.  “Investors are starting to do their homework on Brazil once
more, but are still not ready to add positions and likely will
not do so until there is a great deal more visibility on the
outlook for local  interest rates  and inflation,” Shayo Cherman
wrote.  Economists covering the Brazilian economy expect policy
makers to raise the overnight rate to 12.5 percent from today’s
11.75 percent by the end of the year, according to the median
estimate in a March 4 weekly central bank survey of about 100
analysts. The same survey showed economists forecast consumer
prices will increase 5.78 percent this year and 4.80 percent in
2012. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points.  The Bovespa stock index fell 3 percent this year through
yesterday, as homebuilders and banks led declines on concern
rising inflation will spur additional measures to restrict
credit growth. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced 5.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  