-- 
IPhone Makes ARM Most Expensive Chip Takeover Target: Real M&A

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-03-10T17:19:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/iphone-makes-arm-most-expensive-chip-takeover-target-since-2006-real-m-a.html
  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ’s stock has
rallied so fast that the designer of chips that help power  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone is now the most expensive takeover target in the
semiconductor industry since 2006.  ARM’s shares rose 151 percent in the past 12 months through
yesterday, about double the next best performance in the MSCI
World Information Technology Index, as demand surged for
semiconductors in mobile devices such as iPhones and iPads and
speculation grew that Apple,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  or  Intel Corp. (INTC)  will
try to buy the Cambridge, England-based company. The gains left
ARM valued at 59 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, more than the multiple for any
semiconductor takeover since ATI Technologies Inc. in 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that includes net debt.  While increasing shipments of mobile handsets helped push
ARM’s gross margin to the highest level of any global
semiconductor company, a takeover would now cost at least $11.3
billion, in line with the combined total spent in all chip
acquisitions in the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Even as technology companies sit on $276 billion in cash, ARM’s
Chief Executive Officer Warren East says any deal would destroy  shareholder value  because the chip designer’s success stems from
its neutrality.  “If anyone was interested in buying ARM, why would they
have waited, when you could have had it” cheaper before, said
Paul Morland, an analyst at Peel Hunt in London. “ARM has done
better than people expected, but not 10 times better. The bulls
on it are looking out 10 years to the growth of mobile
devices.”  Apple History  ARM fell 9 percent to 522.5 pence in London trading today,
the biggest slump since October 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  ARM, which has a market value of 7.03 billion pounds ($11.3
billion), was created out of a venture with Cupertino,
California-based Apple in 1990, according to the company’s
 website . Founded as Advanced RISC Machines, ARM was spun out of
Acorn Computer Group Plc, which made personal computers.  The U.K. designer now sells its chip blueprints to
companies from  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  of  San Diego  to Redmond,
Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and receives royalties from
shipments of semiconductors. A total of 1.8 billion processor
chips with ARM’s designs were shipped last quarter, according to
a statement last month.  ARM’s earnings increased 113 percent last year to 86
million pounds as global smartphone shipments climbed to  297
million units . That’s more than double the  122 million  reported
by  Stamford , Connecticut-based market research firm Gartner Inc.
in 2007, when Apple introduced its iPhone.  Relative Value  Net profit at ARM may rise 40 percent to 121 million pounds
in 2011, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  ARM retained about 94 cents per dollar of revenue after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, the highest gross margin of
29 global semiconductor companies with market values greater
than $5 billion. Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor maker,
has a margin of 65 percent, while Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung Electronics Co., which makes chips that help power the
iPad, has a margin of 29 percent, Bloomberg data show.  The surge in ARM’s earnings hasn’t been enough to keep pace
with the 151 percent gain in its share price in the past 12
months through yesterday. ARM’s rally was more than twice the 75
percent climb for  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV) , the Seattle-based maker of
software used for managing computer networks that posted the
second-best performance in the MSCI World gauge of 153
technology companies.  ‘Flush With Cash’  ARM traded at 87.7 times profit, more than twice as high as
Woburn, Massachusetts-based  Skyworks Solutions Inc. (SWKS) , the second-
most expensive global semiconductor company with a ratio of
35.2. Intel was valued at 10.5 times earnings, the data show.  “I would be surprised to see an ARM acquisition due to
their high valuation,” said Chad Morganlander, a Florham Park,
New Jersey-based money manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees $90 billion in client assets. “A technology company
that is flush with cash could acquire another company on extreme
valuation only if that gives them great competitive advantage.”  Yesterday’s share price of 574 pence gave ARM an enterprise
value, or equity and debt minus cash, of 59 times Ebitda of
126.9 million pounds for the previous 12 months. At that level,
even without any takeover premium, ARM would be more expensive
to buy than any semiconductor acquisition of more than $500
million since ATI Technologies four years ago, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.    Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  of Sunnyvale,  California ,
offered 3,137 times Ebitda for Markham, Ontario-based ATI in a
$5 billion deal that closed on Oct. 25, 2006. AMD’s shares
slumped 39 percent in the next year, the worst performance in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index.  ‘Any Sense’  Speculation that ARM will be a target for takeovers has
helped inflate its valuations. The company’s shares jumped as
much as 32 percent on June 10 on optimism that Apple was looking
to buy ARM, traders said. Apple has about $10.7 billion in cash
and $16.2 billion in short-term investments, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.  “It doesn’t make any sense for Apple to buy ARM since
Apple is a consumer electronics company and ARM is a
semiconductor company,” said Nick James, an analyst at Numis
Securities in  London . “Apple is not really in business to
become a semiconductor” company, he said.  ARM climbed 6.1 percent on Sept. 24, outpacing the 4
percent gain in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, after
Oracle CEO Larry Ellison said at the  Redwood City , California-
based company’s annual meeting in  San Francisco  that it may buy
semiconductor companies. Didier Scemama, a London-based analyst
with Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a note to
clients at the time that a takeover of ARM by Oracle “would
make sense.”  Credit Ratings    Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle, declined to
comment. The world’s second-largest software maker has “no
synergies” with ARM, James said.  Oracle has $10.4 billion in cash and $14.4 billion in
short-term investments, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
company is rated A2, the third-highest level of investment
grade, by Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings, which analyze
borrowers based on their indebtedness, profitability and other
financial ratios.  ARM shares climbed 8.6 percent on Aug. 31, the day after
Intel agreed to buy Neubiberg, Germany-based Infineon
Technologies AG’s wireless unit for about $1.4 billion to grab a
foothold in the mobile-phone business it has struggled to crack.  ‘Influence and Dominate’  A takeover of ARM, whose technology dominates the market
for processors that run smartphones, to further Intel’s inroads
would only drive ARM’s partners away, said Lewis Kaufman, a
money manager at Thornburg Investment Management, which oversees
about $79 billion in Santa Fe, New Mexico, including ARM shares.  They wouldn’t be “enthusiastic” about an acquisition of
ARM, “because of the way that Intel in particular has sought to
influence and dominate the trajectory of future technology
transitions,” he said.  Laura Anderson, a spokeswoman for Santa Clara, California-
based Intel, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Any takeover would potentially damage ARM’s value,
according to the company’s CEO.  “We’re the  Switzerland  of the semiconductor world,”
designing chips for multiple manufacturers, East, 49, said in an
interview on Feb. 16 at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona,  Spain . ARM offers its technology “at a fraction of the cost”
for each company to create its own designs, he said.  “Our customers are making ever bigger commitments to this
architecture,” he said. “They want us to be around with a
roadmap for 20 years time.”  Overall, there have been 4,412 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $428.1 billion, a 11 percent increase from
the $386.2 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 