-- 
Israel Bonds Advance, Yields Fall to Week-Low on Regional Unrest

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-03-10T12:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/israel-bonds-advance-yields-fall-to-week-low-on-regional-unrest.html
Israel government bonds gained,
pushing yields to the lowest level in a week, as heightened
political unrest in the Middle East and a downgrade of  Spain ’s
credit rating, boosted demand for the safest assets.  Muammar Qaddafi’s forces resumed air strikes on oil hubs in
the central area of Libya’s coastline that mark the east-west
dividing line in the nation’s civil war, as the U.S. and its
allies discuss how to intervene. Spain’s government bond ratings
were cut one notch to Aa2 from Aa1 with a negative outlook,
Moody’s Investors Service said.  The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit note due January
2020 fell 1 basis point to 5.18 percent at 1:15 p.m. in Tel
Aviv. After climbing to 5.22 percent on March 7 on inflation
concerns, the highest level since December 2009, the yield is
now just 1 basis point above the March 3 close.  “There’s not much movement as investors are sitting on the
fence looking for direction in the market,” Ehud Itzhakov, a
bond trader at Bank Hapoalim Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by
telephone. “Volumes have been fairly low as violence in the
Middle East intensifies.”  One-year-forward and medium-term inflation expectations are
above the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range, the  Bank of Israel  said in the minutes of its last rate decision
meeting released March 7. Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the
benchmark lending rate for March after annual inflation
increased to 3.6 percent. The Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  will release February prices March 15.  The shekel was little changed at 3.5673 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  