-- 
Mitsubishi Is Interested in Woodside Project, Spokesman Says

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-10T10:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/mitsubishi-interested-in-woodside-lng-project-spokesman-says.html
Mitsubishi Corp. is interested in  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ’s $35 billion Browse liquefied natural
gas project, spokesman Shunsuke Nanami said, without specifying
whether the Japanese company wanted to buy a stake.  “It’s right to say we are interested in the Browse Basin
liquefied natural gas project,” Nanami said today, when asked
to comment on an Australian Financial Review report that said
Woodside approached Mitsubishi about the possible sale of a
stake in the development. “No decision has been made.”  Woodside is the most likely party to dilute its stake given
the large spending commitment the project needs, the newspaper
said. A final  investment decision  by the partners on the
development, which will deliver 12 million metric tons of LNG
annually, will be made in the middle of next year, according to
the newspaper.  “There is significant interest in Browse LNG from a wide
range of LNG buyers,” Laura Hammer, a spokeswoman at Woodside,
said by e-mail today. “We do not comment on our commercial
discussions with individual customers.”  Woodside approached Mitsubishi and Mitsui & Co., a Japanese
trading company, about six months ago, the newspaper reported,
without citing anyone. Mitsubishi President Ken Kobayashi and
his Mitsui counterpart, Masami Iijima, voiced an interest in the
project, Western  Australia  Premier  Colin Barnett  told the
newspaper on a trip to Tokyo.  Nanami declined to comment on whether Mitsubishi plans to
buy a stake and whether Mitsubishi had held talks with Woodside.  Mitsui & Co. spokesman Kazuhisa Kawamura declined to
comment on the report.  Woodside is Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer
and Browse is located off Australia’s northwestern coast. It’s
unclear whether the company planned to sell down its own 50
percent share or was inquiring on behalf of its venture
partners,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the Australian Financial Review said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  