-- 
Liverpool Is Worried About Steven Gerrard Groin Injury: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-10T11:32:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/liverpool-is-worried-about-steven-gerrard-groin-injury-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Gerrard Worries  Liverpool is concerned about  Steven Gerrard ’s groin injury,
which may require surgery and keep its captain out for much of
the rest of the season,  the Mirror said.   Gerrard felt pain in last weekend’s 3-1 victory over  Manchester United , his first game for three weeks, and may miss
England’s next European Championship match in Wales, the
newspaper said.  Atletico Offer  Atletico Madrid will offer strikers Diego Forlan and Sergio Aguero to Tottenham for a combined 40 million pounds ($64.7
million) when the transfer window reopens,  Metro reported .  Cash-strapped Atletico is ready to sell its “prize
assets” because of personality clashes within the squad, Metro
said, citing reports in Spain.  Ireland’s Test  Newcastle manager Alan Pardew wants to sign Stephen Ireland
on a permanent deal after taking him on loan from  Aston Villa ,
provided he can prove he’s physically fit, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  The midfielder has yet to play for the Magpies since his
switch in January because he has had knee and thigh problems.  Liverpool Rejection  Ajax midfielder Christian Eriksen says he would reject an
offer to join Liverpool and is only interested in a move to
Barcelona,  the Daily Mail said.   The 19-year-old Dane has also been pursued by Chelsea and
Arsenal, the Mail reported.  Arsenal ‘Tired’  Arsenal goalkeeper  Manuel Almunia  said some teammates were
“walking” in the second-half of the 3-1 loss to Barcelona that
dropped the London team out of the Champions League, the
Telegraph said.  “The only explanation I have is that we were so tired and
the players couldn’t give any more,” said Almunia, who came on
to replace the injured Wojciech Szczesny.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 