-- 
Ivory Coast’s Gbagbo Bans Flights by United Nations or French Peacekeepers

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-10T18:53:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/ivory-coast-s-gbagbo-bans-flights-by-united-nations-french-peacekeepers.html
Ivory Coast’s incumbent president,  Laurent Gbagbo , banned planes from the  United Nations  and French
peacekeeping missions from landing in the West African nation,
according to a statement read on state-television.  The decision aims to “preserve the wholeness and the
integrity of the national territory and the security of goods
and people,” according to the statement late yesterday.  Gbagbo has called for UN and French peacekeepers to leave
Ivory Coast since December after the international community
backed rival  Alassane Ouattara  as the winner of a presidential
election on Nov. 28. The UN is protecting Ouattara’s
headquarters in a hotel in the commercial capital, Abidjan.  Patrick Achi, spokesman for Ouattara’s government, said the
decree was illegal, according to an e-mailed statement today.  The UN mission “will maintain its flight operations and
take all necessary measures, as directed by unanimous Security
Council resolutions, to protect its assets and fulfil its
mandate, particularly with regards to protection of civilians,”
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Ouattara left the country yesterday to attend a meeting at
the  African Union  in  Ethiopia  to discuss the crisis in  Ivory
Coast . It is the first time he has travelled from Ivory Coast
since the political standoff began.  Anne Ouloto, a spokeswoman for Ouattara, declined to say
how he left Ivory Coast in order to attend the meeting.  “He did not need the agreement of Laurent Gbagbo to leave
the country, he won’t need it to come back,” she said by phone
today.  Gbagbo, who was also invited to the African Union meeting,
refused to attend, according to the state-owned Fraternite Matin
newspaper. Gbagbo is represented by his adviser, Affi N’Guessan,
and his government’s minister of foreign affairs, Alcide Djedje,
the Abidjan-based newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 