-- 
J&J Faces More Scrutiny From FDA on McNeil Consent Decree

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T21:04:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/j-j-charged-with-violating-u-s-law-barred-from-making-drugs-at-plant.html
  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest health products maker, will face more scrutiny from U.S.
regulators after its McNeil unit was charged with violating
federal laws following multiple recalls in the past year of
over-the-counter drugs such as Tylenol.  The  Food and Drug Administration  and Justice Department
signed a consent decree yesterday with McNeil that requires the
company to fix deficiencies at a plant in Fort Washington,
Pennsylvania, that has been closed since April 30. McNeil must
also address manufacturing violations at facilities in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and Las Piedras,  Puerto Rico , under “a
strict timetable,” the agency said in a  statement .  The legal agreement intensifies regulatory pressure on J&J
to fix manufacturing woes that have led to dozens of recalled
products and last year cost the world’s largest health-products
company $900 million in sales. The FDA ordered McNeil to hire a
quality-control expert and take steps to address the problems.
Failure may result in fines of as much as $10 million annually.  “Now that the FDA is there, it’s going to make things
worse,” said  Les Funtleyder , a health-care portfolio manager at
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, in a telephone interview
yesterday. “They are going be a lot more restrictive, a lot
more stringent with their regulations.”  J&J gained 8 cents to $59.69 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
company has fallen 7.1 percent in the past 12 months, compared
with a 1.8 percent average gain among 52 stocks in the Standard
& Poor’s Health-Care Index.  Children’s Medicines  J&J shut down the Fort Washington plant about a year ago
after FDA inspectors found signs of contamination that forced
the recalls of more than 40 types of children’s liquid pain and
allergy medicines including Tylenol and Benadryl. Since then,
the company has withdrawn Rolaids, Sudafed and other products
because of unusual texture, improper labeling or insufficiencies
in the manufacturing process.  The FDA had “numerous meetings and teleconferences” with
McNeil and J&J officials since 2009 to address violations found
in inspections of the three plants, the  Justice Department  said
in its complaint.  “Although McNeil has initiated a corrective action plan
and made some improvements with respect to personnel and
operations as a result of these meetings, recent FDA inspections
have confirmed that violations persist and additional work is
needed to fully address deficiencies and achieve sustained
compliance with the law,” the Justice Department said.  ‘Necessary Step’  “This is a strong, but necessary, step to ensure that the
products manufactured by this company meet federal standards for
quality, safety and purity,” said Deborah Autor, director of
the Office of Compliance in the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research.  McNeil will operate the facilities in Lancaster and Puerto
Rico as it addresses the findings of the independent expert. The
company said in a statement that it expects the consent decree
will govern the operations of the facilities for at least five
years after the remediation plan is in place.  The consent decree “is not a complete surprise” and may
decrease J&J’s earnings per-share about 5 cents, or $200 million
pretax, said  Michael Weinstein , an analyst with JPMorgan
Securities in  New York , in a note to clients.  Further Inspections  The consent decree “lays out a specific game plan and
timeline” for bringing McNeil’s facilities into compliance,  Ira Loss , an analyst with Washington Analysis, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  “Most responsible companies have the discipline and desire
to meet the targets,” said Loss, who has followed the FDA for
more than three decades. “The uncertainty is over for the
McNeil division.”  The FDA will charge McNeil for follow-up inspections at a
rate of as much as $104.97 per hour for lab analysis. The
consent decree also doesn’t preclude future criminal charges,
the agency said. J&J has disclosed in filings that the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Philadelphia issued grand jury subpoenas
seeking documents relating to the recalls and FDA inspections of
the plants in  Fort Washington  and Lancaster.  “We are a company that strives to do the right thing, and
we succeed far more often than not,” J&J Chief Executive
Officer William Weldon said yesterday in a note to employees on
the company’s  blog . “When we don’t succeed, it’s painful. But,
consistent with our credo, we take responsibility for our
actions, and we learn from our mistakes.”  Previous Recalls  McNeil is among J&J’s units that have drawn scrutiny over
product defects. The company’s Cordis unit failed to ensure that
heart stents made at a Puerto Rico factory worked properly, the
FDA said in a Feb. 16  warning letter  released this week. The
DePuy Orthopaedics division recalled a hip-replacement system in
August, at a cost of $280 million, and faces more than 500
lawsuits by patients who had the implants.  Products recalled last month by J&J and its subsidiaries
include Animas insulin cartridges that may leak, possibly
cracked syringes of Invega Sustenna for schizophrenia, defective
Simponi injectable pens for arthritis and vials of discolored
Dermabond skin adhesive.  The consent decree filed yesterday with McNeil, the FDA and
the Justice Department must be approved by the U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  