-- 
JA Solar to Build 3-Gigawatt Photovoltaic Factory in China

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-03-10T23:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/ja-solar-agrees-to-build-3-gigawatt-solar-pv-factory-in-hefei-china.html
JA Solar Holdings Co., a Chinese
solar company, plans to build a manufacturing plant in the city
of Hefei that will have annual production capacity of 3
gigawatts.  Construction is expected to start this year, with
production beginning in 2012, the Shanghai-based company said
today in a statement.  The plant will be able to produce about three times the
total capacity of solar panels installed in the U.S. last year,
and may add to concerns that cuts in incentive programs in  Europe  may lead to an oversupply of panels.  “We anticipate this new facility will serve to enhance JA
Solar’s future profitability and market share," Peng Fang, the
company’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Hefei High-Tech Construction and Investment Group, a
government-affiliated  investment company , and several Chinese
banks, are expected to provide financing of as much as 13.5
billion yuan ($2.05 billion) over a four-year period, JA Solar
said in the statement. A spokeswoman for JA Solar did not return
phone or e-mail messages today.  JA Solar fell 39 cents, or 5.6 percent, to $6.58 a share in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading, its lowest since Sept. 7. Several
other solar companies fell today, including  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) 
and Suntech Power Holdings Co.  JA Solar said March 7 that it would build a manufacturing
plant with annual production capacity of 250 megawatts with St.
Peters, Missouri-based polysilicon supplier MEMC Electronics
Materials Inc. The plant will be constructed at an existing JA
Solar facility in Yangzhou,  China , and is expected to begin
production in the second half of 2011. Polysilicon is used to
make photovoltaic solar cells.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  