-- 
Japanese Stocks Fall for First Time in Three Days on Libya, Threat to Oil

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-03-10T07:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/japanese-stocks-fall-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-libya-toyota-slides.html
Japanese stocks fell, sending the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average to its first decline in three days, as
violence in Libya tempered optimism for a global economic
recovery.  Electronics makers including Fanuc Corp. and Elpida Memory
Inc. tumbled, contributing the most among 33 industry groups to
a decline by the Topix. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., the
nation’s biggest publicly traded bank, fell 1.6 percent while
property developer Mitsui Fudosan Co. declined after Tokyo’s
office vacancy rate rose.  “The Libya situation is the biggest market concern,” said
Naoteru Teraoka, general manager at Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion. “We
can’t know if this unrest will spill over to  Saudi Arabia , or if
Libyan exports will stop. Those would certainly have a negative
impact on the global economy.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.5 percent to 10,434.38
as of the close in Tokyo. The broader Topix lost 1.4 percent to
930.84, with about nine times as many shares declining as
advancing.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.1 percent
yesterday in  New York , falling for a third time in four days.  Electronics Makers, Banks  Industrial robot manufacturer Fanuc, which earns about 80
percent of its revenue overseas, slumped 2.7 percent to 12,530
yen, the heaviest single drag on the Nikkei.  Elpida, the world’s third-largest maker of computer-memory
chips, tumbled 8 percent after  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the
second-largest U.S. chipmaker, narrowed its first-quarter
forecast range, predicting sales and profit in line with
analysts’ projections.  Murata Manufacturing Co., a maker of precision electronics
that gets more than 80 percent of its revenue outside of Japan,
and Kyocera Corp., which earns a third of its revenue from the
U.S. and Europe, both retreated 1.2 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ fell 1.6 percent to 442 yen as banks made
the second-biggest contribution to the Topix slide. Smaller
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. slumped 2.4 percent to
2,924 yen while Mizuho Financial Group Inc. slid 1.2 percent to
164 yen.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces carried out air and
artillery strikes on central oil facilities as the government
posted a 500,000 dinar ($407,000) reward for anyone who arrests
the head of the rebel leadership council.  Libyan Turmoil    Libya  is chaotic and a sense of uncertainty for the
future is increasing even in countries surrounding Libya,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “It’s hard to know how high
oil prices will go and how much that will damage the economy.
That’s deterring investors from putting new money into stocks.”  Oil climbed for the first time in three days in New York
today as escalating violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest
producer, renewed concern that supply disruptions may spread to
the Middle East.  Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Japan’s second-biggest copper
smelter, fell 2.6 percent to 1,468 yen. Mitsubishi Materials
Corp., the country’s third-largest copper producer, sank 2.7
percent to 290 yen.  Copper futures yesterday fell to the lowest in more than
two months on concern that demand for the metal will wane as
higher energy costs slow the global economy.  Gains, Values  The Topix has gained 3.6 percent this year, compared with
gains of 5 percent by the S&P 500 and 1.9 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Shares in the Japanese benchmark are valued at
an average 15.6 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.7
times for the S&P 500 and 11.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 1.3
percent rate in the three months ended Dec. 31, more than the
1.1 percent contraction reported last month, the Cabinet Office
said today in Tokyo. The median forecast of 26 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 1.2 percent contraction.  Mitsui Fudosan, Japan’s largest property developer by sales,
tumbled 4.1 percent to 1,611 yen after Miki Shoji Co., a
privately held office brokerage, said Tokyo’s office vacancy
rate rose for a second month in February. Mitsubishi Estate Co.,
the biggest Japanese developer by market value, fell 3.2 percent,
while smaller Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. slid 2.4 percent.  Exchange Talks  Osaka Securities Exchange Co. soared 6.9 percent to 460,000
yen, the steepest advance since August 2009. Tokyo Stock
Exchange Inc. President  Atsushi Saito , who heads the main venue
in the world’s second-largest equity market, said in an
interview he aims to hold merger discussions with the Osaka
exchange.  “Looking at trends in the world, if anything they’re
late,” Ichiyoshi Investment’s Akino said. “If they had been
five years earlier, they could have become the core of East
Asian exchanges. But it will be tough for the TSE to take the
initiative and proceed given how they’re behind the curve in
internationalization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 