-- 
Japan's Notes Drop for Third Day as Demand Falls at 2.44 Trillion Yen Sale

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-10T06:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/japan-s-bond-futures-rise-on-bets-stock-losses-to-help-five-year-debt-sale.html
Japan’s five-year notes dropped for
a third day after demand fell to the lowest level in three
months at an auction of the securities today.  Five-year yields climbed to the highest level in two weeks
as the 2.4 trillion yen ($29 billion) sale drew bids for 3.49
times the amount on offer, down from 3.56 times at the previous
offering last month. The decline in bonds was tempered as stocks
fell and a report showed the economy shrank more than previously
estimated in the fourth quarter.  “Investors are refraining from a lot of buying as there’s
no need to do so near the end of the fiscal year” that finishes
this month, said Toshiyuki Kurabayashi, assistant manager in
Tokyo at the fixed-income division of Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., a unit of Japan’s largest lender by assets.
“The auction was somewhat weaker than expected.”  The yield on the five-year note rose 1.5 basis points to
0.57 percent as of 3:35 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The price of the
0.6 percent security due December 2015 fell 0.070 yen to 100.139
yen. The yield was the highest since Feb. 22.  Ten-year yields climbed half a basis point to 1.30 percent.
Ten-year futures for March delivery were unchanged at 139.42 at
the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The lowest price at today’s five-year auction was 99.98 yen,
below the median forecast of 100 in a Bloomberg survey of 14
traders. The Ministry of Finance set a 0.6 percent coupon on the
new securities, the same as the previous benchmark sold Feb. 16.  GDP Shrinks  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank an annualized 1.3
percent in the three months to Dec. 31, compared with a 1.1
percent contraction reported last month, the Cabinet Office said
today in Tokyo. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 1.2 percent contraction.  Bond futures climbed earlier as the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average slid 1.5 percent, snapping a two-day gain, on concern
rising  oil prices  will slow the global recovery.  Sayuri Shirai, nominated to the Bank of Japan’s board this
week, said governments shouldn’t be fooled into confidence in
their debt levels by a lack of stress in the  bond market .  “The problem with using market indicators is that they
don’t rise enough until an economic crisis hits, making it
difficult to say they are effectively preventing an expansion of
deficits and debt levels,” Shirai, an economics professor at  Keio University  in Tokyo, wrote in a June 2009 paper that
discussed the importance of fiscal rules in  Europe .  Shirai was nominated to replace BOJ board member  Miyako Suda , the bank’s biggest opponent of monetary easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 