-- 
Jobless Claims in the U.S. Rose 26,000 Last Week to 397,000

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-10T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/jobless-claims-in-the-u-s-rose-more-than-estimated-last-week-to-397-000.html
First-time claims for jobless
benefits rose last week from an almost three-year low,
highlighting the uneven nature of the improvement in the U.S.
labor market.  Applications for first-time  unemployment benefits  increased
by 26,000 to 397,000 in the week ended March 5, Labor Department
figures showed today. Economists forecast claims would climb to
376,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The total number of people receiving benefits in the
prior week fell to the lowest since October 2008.  The rebound in the world’s largest economy has curbed
firings, paving the way for employers such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  to add jobs and spur household spending.
A Labor Department official said claims generally rise the week
after a federal holiday and some New England states reported
more claims due to school holidays.  “It’s the volatility around the Presidents’ Day holiday,”  Jonathan Basile , director of U.S. economics at Credit Suisse
Holdings USA Inc. in  New York  said before the report. “The
swings around this moving holiday sometimes distort the trend.
The labor market has been improving. Firms feel better about the
outlook because their sales have improved and the need to cut
costs” has decreased. The Presidents’ Day holiday was Feb. 21.  Bloomberg Survey  Jobless claims estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 49
economists ranged from 355,000 to 410,000. The Labor Department
initially reported the prior week’s figures at 368,000.  The number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits
decreased by 20,000 in the week ended Feb. 26 to 3.77 million.  Figures for continuing claims do not include the number of
workers receiving extended and emergency benefits under federal
and state programs.  Those who’ve used up their benefits and are now collecting
emergency and extended payments decreased by about 200,500 to
4.3 million in the week ended Feb. 19.  The  unemployment rate  among those eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the national jobless rate, remained
unchanged at 3.0 percent.  Labor Market  Twelve states and territories reported an increase in
claims during the week ended Feb. 26, while 41 had a decrease.  Recent reports add to evidence the labor market is on the
mend. The jobless rate fell in February to 8.9 percent, the
lowest since April 2009 and the third straight monthly decline,
Labor Department figures showed last week. More seasonable
weather helped boost payrolls by 192,000, the most since May.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  “We believe that we are in a continued positive economic
recovery that will lead to positive labor growth over the course
of the next couple of years,” Carl Camden, chief executive
officer at Troy, Michigan-based temporary staffing provider
Kelly Services Inc., said Feb. 24 at a conference in  Boston .
“We see strength in U.S. conditions.”  Companies taking on staff include Atlanta-based Home Depot.
The world’s largest home improvement retailer in February said
it is hiring more than 60,000 temporary workers in the U.S., and
adding permanent employees for the second year in a row.  Boeing began “change incorporation” work on the 787
Dreamliner in  San Antonio ,  Texas , where 450 employees will be
hired on a temporary basis to join with 1,700 experienced
workers at the site to complete the work, the Chicago-based
planemaker said on March 7.  Near Zero  Federal Reserve policy makers will likely keep  interest
rates  near zero and maintain plans to buy $600 billion in  Treasury securities  by June to boost growth as they await signs
of sustained  job creation . Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
employment data are encouraging.  “We do see some grounds for optimism about the job market
over the next few quarters,” Bernanke said March 1 during
testimony before lawmakers. Still, the labor market “has
improved only slowly,” and it may take “several years” for
the unemployment rate to reach a “more normal level,” he said.  While higher fuel costs may be of concern for consumers,
bigger paychecks thanks to the tax compromise reached by
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans in December
are probably preventing demand from slipping for now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net 
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  