-- 
K+S Profit Beats Estimates, Company Raises Outlook for Sales

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-03-10T09:02:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/k-s-profit-triples-on-potash-prices-demand-for-de-icing-salt.html
K+S AG,  Europe ’s biggest potash
producer, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates and lifted its outlook for sales this year as demand
for the crop nutrient rebounds.  Earnings before interest and taxes excluding hedging
transactions climbed to 195.2 million euros ($270 million) from
36.5 million euros. That beat the average estimate of 155.7
million euros in a Bloomberg survey. K+S climbed as much as 2.2
percent in  Frankfurt  trading in a declining market.  The company forecast earnings will rise “significantly”
this year, with a “tangible” increase in sales, up from prior
guidance of a moderate gain. Soaring grain prices have enabled
K+S to lift potash prices five consecutive times. Prices for
plant nutrients such as potassium, nitrogen and phosphorus are
climbing, as expanding food demand and inclement weather strain
global supplies of corn, soybean and wheat.  “2011 will also be a good year for K+S,” Chief Executive
Officer Norbert Steiner said in a statement. “World fertilizer
demand should increase further and we assume that total salt
business should stabilize at a high level.”  K+S, which is proposing a fivefold boost to its dividend to
1 euro a share, rose 0.1 percent, or 7 cents, to 55.28 euros as
of 10:00 a.m. local time.  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index slid 0.8
percent. Prior to today, the shares had returned 18 percent in
the past year for a market value of 10.6 billion euros.  Morton Boost  The company also lifted its forecast for salt sales volumes
to as much as 23 million tons, up from an earlier forecast of 21
million tons. The world’s largest salt producer increased sales
of the de-icing mineral compound by 50 percent to 13.5 million
tons last year as harsh weather spurred demand for road grit and
following the purchase of  Morton Salt  from  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)   Overall, revenue gained 26 percent to 1.34 billion euros,
and net income rose almost eight-fold to 123.2 million euros, or
an adjusted 0.69 euros a share. For 2012, the company expects
revenue to remain stable, while operating profit should rise
“moderately.”  Potash, a form of potassium, climbed to about $606 a ton at
the end of 2010, 13 percent more than at the end of September,
according to a Bloomberg index of U.S. Midwest retail prices.
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest maker of
the crop nutrient, raised its 2011 profit forecast on Jan. 27
and doubled its dividend because of its confidence in the
fertilizer market.  “Against the backdrop of booming farm profits, in
particular for European wheat farmers, there appears every
chance that this momentum in pricing can continue for some time
to come,” analysts including Neil Tyler at J.P. Morgan Cazenove
said in a report to clients today.  K+S, which is in the process of buying Potash One Inc. for
$353.1 million, will focus its resources on potash and salt.
It’s not planning to bid for the nitrogen fertilizer factories
that are owned by  BASF SE (BAS) , one of which exclusively supplies
K+S, board member Joachim Felker said.  The potash supplier is also seeking bids for its Compo
retail-fertilizer brand and a deal could be agreed by mid-year,
Felker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 