-- 
K+S Rules Out Bidding for BASF’s Nitrogen Fertilizer Assets

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-03-10T15:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/k-s-rules-out-bidding-for-basf-s-nitrogen-fertilizer-assets-1-.html
K+S AG,  Europe ’s largest potash
manufacturer, will refrain from bidding for fertilizer assets
being put up for sale by  BASF SE. (BAS)   “A purchase of the BASF plants by K+S has been ruled out
because our company’s two-pillar strategy calls for growth
especially in the Potash & Magnesium Products and Salt business
segments,” Joachim Felker, a K+S executive board member, said
in a presentation handed to reporters today at a press
conference in Frankfurt.  BASF said March 1 that it plans to sell a nitrogen plant in
Antwerp and a share of a joint venture in  France . Kassel,
Germany-based K+S, the Belgian plant’s exclusive customer, said
then it was considering a purchase.  Yara International ASA (YAR) , the
world’s largest publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker,
reiterated today that it’s interested in the assets.  The businesses BASF plans to sell generate annual revenue
of about 500 million euros ($692 million). The Ludwigshafen,
Germany-based company said it seeks a buyer that has fertilizer
as its main business and plans to complete the transaction by
the first quarter of 2012.  OAO  Uralkali (URKA)  is not interested in acquisitions “other than
in potash,” Alexey Sotskov, a spokesman for Uralkali in Moscow
said today. OAO Acron,  Russia ’s third-largest producer of
nitrogen-based fertilizers, declined to comment on any interest
in the BASF assets, said Elena Kochubey, a spokeswoman for the
company.  K+S will stick to its nitrogen fertilizer business even as
its supplier is set to change. “It is still a core business
since we have contractual relations with BASF until the end of
2014,” Chief Executive Officer Norbert Steiner said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “As long as our contracts
are valid we are in this business,” he said.  Nitrogen-based products contributed 55.7 million euros, or
7.7 percent, of K+S’s operating profit last year, the company
said in its 2010 annual report. The unit had an operating profit
margin of 4.3 percent, while the company had margins of 14
percent for salt and 26 percent in potash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 