-- 
Kenyan Government Says ICC Summonses Send Signal Country a Failed State

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-10T13:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/kenyan-government-says-icc-summonses-send-signal-country-a-failed-state.html
  Kenya ’s government said the
 International Criminal Court ’s decision to summon six officials,
including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , sends a signal that
the East African nation is a “failed state.”  The government’s challenge of the ICC’s jurisdiction to try
the cases is a bid to “show the world that Kenya is a
progressive, not a regressive state,” government spokesman
Alfred Mutua told reporters today in Nairobi, the capital.  ICC judges, in a 2-1 ruling on March 8, ordered six Kenyans
to appear before the Hague-based court next month as part of its
investigation into post-election violence in 2008 that left
1,500 people dead and displaced 300,000. The fighting broke out
after opposition supporters said a December 2007 presidential
vote was rigged in favor of President  Mwai Kibaki .  Calm returned after Kibaki signed a power-sharing accord
with his political opponent,  Raila Odinga , who was named prime
minister. No one has been convicted for masterminding the
attacks, following several failed attempts by lawmakers to
create a special tribunal. Kenya enacted a new constitution in
August that aimed to improve the judicial system.  “At that particular time in our country we didn’t have a
new constitution, we had not started properly the reform agenda
that is going on, we were still playing divisive politics,”
Mutua said. “But things have changed now.”  Government Challenge  The government plans to challenge both whether the ICC
cases are admissible and if the court has jurisdiction over
them, Justice Minister Mutula Kilonzo, Attorney General Amos Wako and Internal Security Minister George Saitoti said in a
 statement  yesterday posted on the website of Kenya’s Office of
Public Communication.  A Kenyan delegation appointed by Kibaki last week is urging
the  United Nations Security Council  to defer the ICC trials for
a year, while the country’s legal system can prepare to handle
the cases.  The officials summoned by the ICC for April 7 include
Kenyatta, who is also deputy prime minister and the son of
Kenya’s post-independence president Jomo Kenyatta, Henry Kosgey,
who resigned as Industrialization Minister in January, and
suspended Higher Education Minister William Ruto.  Others include the head of the civil service, Francis Muthaura, former police chief Mohammed Hussein Ali and Joshua Arap Sang, a radio presenter. All six men deny the charges and
have said they will cooperate with the ICC to demonstrate their
innocence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 