-- 
Kenya Stocks Index Falls Most Since December to 10-Month Low

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-10T13:28:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/kenyan-broadest-stocks-index-declines-most-since-december-to-10-month-low.html
Kenya’s stocks gauge fell to a 10-
month low as the government said a summons by the  International
Criminal Court  for leaders sent a signal that it was a “failed
state” and as rising prices raise rate-increase concern.  The 55-member All Share Index lost 2.9 percent to 71.16
points by the 3 p.m. close in Nairobi, a ninth day of decreases.  East African Breweries Ltd. (EABL) , Diageo Plc’s Kenyan unit, slipped
4.1 percent to 164 shillings, the lowest since March 31, 2010.  “We can attribute the downbeat performance to a dampened
political outlook, rising inflationary and interest rate
environment and instances of panic selling,” Apex Africa
Capital Ltd. said in an e-mailed note to Bloomberg News today.  The Kenyan government plans to challenge whether the  ICC 
cases against six Kenyans alleged to have led violence after
elections in 2008, including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta ,
are admissible and whether the Hague-based court has
jurisdiction over them, Justice Minister Mutula Kilonzo,
Attorney General Amos Wako and Internal Security Minister George Saitoti said yesterday in a statement, according to the Nairobi-
based  Daily Nation’s website .  Inflation in the East African nation quickened for a fourth
month in February to 6.5 percent, the highest since October
2009, as fuel costs rose. Oil has increased 35 percent in the
past six months.    Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. (COOP) , the nation’s third-biggest
lender by assets, fell to a five-month low a profit for the year
through December didn’t meet some analysts’ expectations.  Co-Op, Kenya Power  Co-op Bank, as the lender is known, posted a 55 percent
increase in full-year profit to 1.31 shillings per share in the
12 months through December. Estimates for earnings per share
were as high as 1.41 shillings and as low as 1.08 shillings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It was good growth but from a market perspective, they
did not quite meet expectations because there was over-
optimism,” George Bodo, an analyst with Nairobi-based Genghis
Capital Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  Kenya Power & Lighting Co., the East African nation’s
monopoly power distributor, fell to the lowest since April 20,
losing 1 shilling, or 4.7 percent, to 20.25 shillings. Workers
started a strike following a dispute over accounting for
expenses, company spokesman Migwi Theuri said in a phone
interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  