-- 
New York Lawmaker King Defends Muslim Hearing as Needed to Probe Al-Qaeda

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-10T15:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/king-says-hearing-needed-to-probe-al-qaeda-recruiting-muslims.html
Congress must investigate al-
Qaeda’s efforts to recruit U.S. Muslims and an alleged lack of
cooperation by Islamic leaders in fighting terrorism rather than
submit to a “craven surrender to political correctness,”  House
Homeland Security Committee  Chairman  Peter King  said.  “This committee cannot live in denial,” King, a  New York 
Republican, said today at the opening of hearings on Muslim
radicalization. “There are realities we cannot ignore” about
U.S. Muslim militancy, he said. He accused “special-interest
groups and the media” of engaging in “paroxysms of rage and
hysteria.”  King ignited a firestorm with his plan to explore the
causes of Islamic radicalization, prompting street protests in
New York last week and denunciations by civil libertarians and
Muslim groups. His critics said the hearings could backfire by
giving extremists new recruiting talking points and alienating
Muslims.  “I cannot help but wonder how propaganda about this
hearing’s focus on the American Muslim community will be used by
those who seek to inspire a new generation of  suicide bombers ,”
said Representative Bennie Thompson, the Homeland Security
panel’s senior Democrat.  Irish Roots  Thompson, of  Mississippi , also referred to King’s Irish
roots. King, 66, has been criticized for his past support of the  Irish Republican Army , which used terrorist tactics in its
attempt to end British rule in  Northern Ireland .  “As I understand it, the chairman’s background includes
the history of a country divided by religion and torn by a
prolonged and violent struggle,” Thompson said.  King has said that, unlike al-Qaeda, the IRA never attacked
the U.S.  In a 1995  CNN  interview, King said, “The moral standing of
the IRA is equal to that of the British army.”  During Bill Clinton’s presidency, King was involved in the
Northern Irish  peace process , relying on his contacts with  Sinn
Fein , the IRA’s political wing. “There was a real opening here
if the U.S. took advantage of it” to broker a peace accord,
King told CNN yesterday.  Representative Keith Ellison, choked up in speaking about
Mohammad Salman Hamdani, a Muslim who was a New York Police
Department cadet who died in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  “After the tragedy, some people tried to smear his
character” because of his religion, said Ellison, who opposed
the hearings’ focus on Muslim radicalization.  In a statement, U.S. religious leaders said today’s hearing
should be broadened to avoid appearing to condemn one group.  “To assert that Muslims as a broad group are not deeply
devoted to America’s safety and the peaceful interaction of its
entire citizenry, that is false witness,” according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  