-- 
King Faces Challenge on Record Low Interest Rate as ECB Signals Increase

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-10T09:52:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/king-faces-challenge-on-record-low-interest-rate-as-ecb-signals-increase.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  may find it harder to justify holding interest rates at a
record low as U.K. inflation accelerates and the  European
Central Bank  signals it’s about to tighten policy.  King, who chairs a meeting of the nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee in London today, resisted a move by three
officials last month to raise the benchmark interest rate. The
panel will probably leave it at 0.5 percent for a 25th month,
according to all 61 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The MPC has held off raising rates even after inflation
surged to 4 percent in January, twice its target, with King
saying price growth will ease as government spending cuts
restrain the recovery. In the euro area, ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet said last week the central bank may raise
borrowing costs from a record low after inflation quickened
above its limit to 2.4 percent.  “It’s very easy for people to ask why the BOE isn’t moving
when inflation in  Europe  is about half what it is here,”  Simon Hayes , an economist at  Barclays Capital  in London and a former  Bank of England  official, said in an interview. “It’s a clear
message for MPC members in the middle ground, who are likely
waiting to see data on first-quarter growth.”  The Bank of England will also hold its bond-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds ($324 billion), according to all
34 economists in a separate Bloomberg survey. The bank will
announce its decision at noon in London.  Inflation Concerns  The pound fell 0.2 percent to $1.6172 as of 9:38 a.m. in
London today. Bonds rose, with the yield on the 10-year gilt
rising 5 basis points to 3.62 percent  Investors are predicting the Bank of England will boost
borrowing costs to 0.75 percent in June and to 1 percent in
October, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc.
Hayes said he “can’t rule out a move this week.”  Central banks around the world are facing increasing
inflation pressures as global demand recovers and commodity
prices surge. Crude oil has jumped by about 30 percent in the
past 12 months, while global food prices have soared 28 percent,
according to  United Nations ’ data.  ECB, Fed  Trichet said March 3 an “increase of interest rates in the
next meeting is possible” after the ECB held its key rate at 1
percent for a 23rd month.  Sweden ’s central bank, which has
increased its benchmark lending rate five times since July, on
Feb. 15 predicted it will raise the rate four times this year.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has
taken a different line, telling told Congress on March 2 that
economic conditions continue to justify holding the central
bank’s benchmark rate near zero.  U.K. inflation pressure has been amplified by a government
sales-tax increase and the pound’s decline. Sterling has
weakened about 25 percent on a trade-weighted basis since the
start of 2007, and an ECB rate increase that fuels a gain by the
euro may exacerbate U.K. imported inflation.  “Rising rates elsewhere and a depreciation in sterling
against the euro would add pressure on the Bank of  England ,”
said Azad Zangana, an economist at Schroder Investment
Management in London and a former U.K. Treasury official.
“Still, it may be a bit too early for them. They have to see if
the economy can take it.”  ‘Futile’  King said in an interview with the  Daily Telegraph 
published last week that while raising rates too soon would be a
“futile gesture,” there is still a “perfectly reasonable case
for doing it now.” He argued the effect of higher commodity
prices will prove temporary, and inflation may return to the
bank’s target in two to three years without the squeeze from
higher interest rates.  A rate increase could also jeopardize a recovery that has
shown signs of faltering. The economy shrank 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter and service-industry growth slowed in February.
Banks are also keeping a lid on credit to consumers, with
mortgage approvals about half the average over the last decade.  A survey by ComRes Ltd. carried out for ITV Plc showed that
almost one-in-four Britons say they are concerned they won’t be
able to afford their debt repayments if interest rates increase.  At the same time, wage growth has slowed, suggesting faster
price gains aren’t yet getting entrenched in the economy. In the
three months through February, average take-home pay growth
cooled to 0.5 percent, the weakest since May, according to
Vocalink Ltd., which processes 90 percent of U.K. salaries paid
directly to bank accounts.  ‘Slowing’  “The economy isn’t in great shape, in fact, it’s
slowing,” said Richard Barwell, an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London and a former Bank of England
official.   Monetary policy  should be set on what the economy
needs 18 months from now, not 18 days from now. The ECB won’t
have much sway on them.”  Nevertheless, U.K. manufacturing production jumped in
January by the most in 10 months. Factory output rose 1 percent
from December, when it shrank 0.1 percent, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today.  For now, the majority of policy makers may prefer to wait
until they have first-quarter economic data and the bank
publishes the results of its next quarterly forecasting round in
May. The Office for National Statistics will publish the gross-
domestic-product data on April 27.  “They’ll continue to have unease about inflation, but in
the end they won’t quite do it,” said Peter Westaway, an
economist at Nomura International in  London  and a former central
bank official. “There hasn’t been enough news since February.
We see a rate increase in May but it could come earlier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  