-- 
King’s Muslim Probe Needs ‘Semantic’ Adjustment to Avoid Maligning Islam

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/king-s-muslim-probe-needs-semantic-adjustment-to-avoid-maligning-islam.html
House Homeland Security Committee 
Chairman  Peter King ’s investigation into Muslim radicalization
in the U.S. may backfire by antagonizing people who could help
fight terrorism, former government officials said.  “King risks helping to promote precisely the narrative
Osama bin Laden and his sympathizers try to promote, namely
dividing the world between Muslims and non-Muslims,” said
Jennifer Bryson, a former counterterrorism official at the
Defense Department. Al-Qaeda has used the same tactic as a
recruiting tool, she said.  King, a New York Republican, ignited a firestorm with his
plan to explore the causes of Islamic radicalization, prompting
street protests in Manhattan last week and denunciations by
civil libertarians and Muslim groups. His committee is holding a
hearing today to examine the roots of radical behavior.  While the issue merits attention by Congress, said Matthew
Levitt, former deputy chief of the Treasury Department’s Office
of Intelligence and Analysis, King’s approach is “semantically
shaped to point a finger at an entire community.”  King , 66, also has been criticized over his past support of
the  Irish Republican Army , which used terrorist tactics
including bombings in opposing British rule in  Northern Ireland .
In response, King said that, unlike al-Qaeda, “The fact is, the
IRA never attacked the  United States . And my loyalty is to the
United States,” the New York Times reported yesterday.  In a 1995 CNN interview, King said, “The moral standing of
the IRA is equal to that of the British army.”  Working for Peace  During  Bill Clinton ’s presidency, King was involved in the
Northern Irish  peace process , relying on his contacts with  Sinn
Fein , the IRA’s political wing. “There was a real opening here
if the U.S. took advantage of it” to broker a peace accord,
King told  CNN  yesterday.  Some of King’s critics called a news conference yesterday
in Washington to condemn today’s hearing by the Homeland
Security Committee.  “His bias toward the Muslim community makes him” an
“unfit” chairman of the panel, said Nihad Awad, national
executive director of the Washington-based  Council on American-
Islamic Relations .  King said his intention is to examine how U.S. Muslims have
responded to al-Qaeda’s efforts to recruit them.  “A number of attempted attacks which could have killed
hundreds, thousands of people have been carried out in the last
several years by people who were radicalized in this country,”
he said on CNN yesterday. “There are people in the community
who are not fully cooperating” in tracking down terror
suspects.  Home-Grown Terrorism  King cited Najibullah Zazi’s plan to blow up the New York
subway in 2009 around the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks and the attempt by Faisal Shahzad to set off a car bomb
in Times Square last year as examples of home-grown terrorists.
Both men have pleaded guilty.  Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano told King’s
panel last month that the threat of terrorist attacks is greater
than at any time since the 2001 attacks due in large part to an
increase in militants recruited in the U.S.  Obama has made preventing radicalization a priority, said
Denis McDonough, the president’s deputy national security
adviser.  “This threat is real and it is serious,” he said in a
March 6 speech at the All Dulles Area Muslim Society, a  community center  and mosque in the Washington suburb of
Sterling, Virginia.  Cooperation by Muslims  The Obama administration disagrees with King that Muslim
leaders have failed to cooperate in fighting terrorism. Attorney
General  Eric Holder  said yesterday that they have contributed to
the  Justice Department ’s efforts. “We don’t want to stigmatize
entire communities,” Holder told a news conference.  In a July 2010 report, Levitt, now a senior  fellow  at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, and three co-authors
said the administration has been too reluctant to counter
Islamic radicalism.  “Administration officials have expressed concern about
employing language that could be interpreted as an attack on
Islam as a religion,” they wrote. “However, unless government
recognizes and articulates clearly the threat posed by the
ideology of radical Islamist extremism, its broader” efforts
will “lack strategic focus.”  Zuhdi Jasser, president and founder of the  American Islamic
Forum for Democracy , said Muslims themselves must confront
militant rhetoric.  ‘Slippery Slope’  These radical beliefs “are not violent ideologies, but
they are part of the slippery slope,” said Jasser in an
interview. He is a scheduled witness at today’s hearing.  Imam Johari Abdul-Malik, a representative of the Council of
Muslim Organizations, said at yesterday’s press conference held
by King’s critics that no one is ignoring al-Qaeda’s recruiting
strategy.  “We’re not in denial as a community that something is
going on,” he said.  The federal government should convince Muslims about the
shared goal of security, said Todd Helmus, a  behavioral
scientist  at  Santa Monica , California-based Rand Corp., who
focuses on radicalization and recruitment.  “We’re all in this together,” he said in an interview.
“The Muslim community is at the forefront.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  