-- 
Kosmos Rejects Cnooc, BP Bid for Jubilee Field, Ghana Says

-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-03-10T13:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/kosmos-rejects-joint-cnooc-bp-bid-for-jubilee-oil-field-stake-ghana-says.html
Kosmos Energy LLC, the U.S.-based
oil explorer focusing on West Africa, rejected a joint bid from
China National Offshore Oil Corp.,  BP Plc (BP/)  and Ghana National
Petroleum Corp. for its stake in the offshore Jubilee field.  The partners had the offer turned down last week, Ato Ahwoi, chairman of the West African nation’s state-owned oil
company, told reporters today in Accra.  Kosmos’s rejection of the approach may make it more likely
the company, backed by  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Warburg Pincus
LLC, pursues the initial public offering it filed notice of in
January. Kosmos has become an oil producer with the Jubilee
start-up, diverging from its  strategy  focusing on exploration.  “Last week Kosmos told us they would not sell their shares
to GNPC, rather they wanted to do an IPO in New York,” Ahwoi
said, declining to disclose the value of the bid. “Kosmos wants
to do an initial public offering and that is within their
rights.”    Sheila Williams , a London-based spokeswoman at BP, declined
to comment. Jiang Yongzhi, a Beijing-based spokesman for  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) , did not respond to a call made to his mobile phone out of
office hours. George Sarpong, a country representative for
Kosmos in Ghana, didn’t answer two calls on his mobile phone or
immediately respond to an e-mail message. No-one returned a
phone message left at Kosmos’s Dallas headquarters prior to
working hours.  Kosmos in August ended almost a year of talks to sell its
Ghanaian assets, including the stake in Jubilee, for $4 billion
to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  after government opposition to the deal.  Cnooc, China’s largest offshore oil producer, and GNPC made
a $5-billion bid to buy Kosmos assets in Ghana last year, three
people with knowledge of the matter said in October.  Jubilee, which is operated by  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , is pumping
about 69,000 barrels of oil a day and will reach 120,000 barrels
a day of production later this year. The project partners,
including  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , invested about $3.1 billion
in the deposit with potential resources of about 1.8 billion
barrels discovered in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net 
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  