-- 
Kotak Mahindra Plans $300 Million Infrastructure Fund

-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 
2011-03-10T15:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/kotak-mahindra-plans-300-million-india-infrastructure-fund-1-.html
(Corrects to say Kotak, Sumitomo and Brookfield will
together contribute 22.5 percent of the fund’s capital in the
second paragraph.)  Indian billionaire Uday Kotak’s
Kotak Mahindra Group said Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. will
invest in a $300 million fund that will buy stakes in
infrastructure projects.  Kotak Mahindra plans to raise funds from domestic and
overseas private-equity investors for Indian power generation,
road, port and airport projects, it said in a statement to the
Bombay Stock Exchange today. Toronto-based  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc. (BAM/A) , Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui and Kotak will
together contribute 22.5 percent of the capital, it said.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government is easing rules
to lure cash from abroad as Asia’s third-biggest economy plans
to double spending on public works to $1 trillion in the five
years to 2017.  India  cut a withholding tax on funds that invest
in infrastructure debt to 5 percent from 20 percent in a budget
released on Feb. 28.  “Individually and collectively, the three entities
strongly believe in the long-term growth prospects of the Indian
infrastructure sector,” C. Jayaram, executive director of Kotak
Mahindra Bank, said in the statement. Sumitomo Mitsui, a unit of
Japan’s second-largest bank by market value, bought a 4.5
percent stake in Kotak Mahindra last year.  Group companies Kotak Investment Advisors Ltd. and Kotak
Mahindra U.K. Ltd. will manage the funds raised locally and
overseas, the statement said. Suman Saha, who was earlier
executive director at the Equity Product Group for Kotak  Investment Banking , will head the project, it said.  Through its group companies, Kotak Mahindra offers
financial services ranging from investment banking to  life
insurance .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  