-- 
Krawcheck Said to Exempt Merrill Lynch Brokers From Taking `Garden Leave'

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-03-10T16:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/krawcheck-said-to-exempt-merrill-lynch-brokers-from-garden-leave-policy.html
  Sallie Krawcheck , head of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s wealth management division, told Merrill Lynch
financial advisers that a new “garden leave” policy doesn’t
apply to them, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Concern had spread among some of Merrill Lynch’s 15,500
advisers that they would face curbs like those imposed by the
bank’s U.S. Trust unit, said the people. The policy bans
associates who leave from soliciting the firm’s clients for
eight months, starting with a two-month garden leave. The term
refers to workers who are ordered to stay home after they give
notice, leaving them little to do other than gardening.  “Contrary to press and recruiter speculation, there are no
changes coming from Merrill Lynch Financial Advisors on any type
of garden leave,” Krawcheck wrote in a Feb. 25 memo, according
to the people, who asked not to be identified because the matter
isn’t public. “Please put that one in the circular file.”  Bank of America, seeking to stem defections and protect
client accounts, asked U.S. Trust employees to sign agreements
last month extending notice periods to 60 days from as little as
two weeks, according to a copy of the document. The advisers
face legal action if they approach the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based firm’s clients during the two-month garden leave,
and for six months after they move on.  Bonus Payments  The bank also told U.S. Trust workers that they weren’t
covered by the so-called broker protocol, a voluntary recruiting
agreement that allows advisers to solicit clients after changing
employers without getting sued. Merrill Lynch, a co-creator of
the protocol, is still subject to the agreement.  The U.S. Trust unit is a private bank catering to wealthy
clients, with about 4,000 employees. Workers received the garden
leave notice ahead of 2010 bonus payments and were told their
continued employment hinged on agreeing to the new policy.  “She wants to make it completely clear to Merrill Lynch
advisers that she wasn’t talking about them” regarding the U.S.
Trust resignation policy, said Richard Lipstein, a managing
director at headhunter Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd. “You
want to keep as many of your people happy as possible.”  Krawcheck’s message to Merrill Lynch advisers came at the
end of an e-mail entitled “Notes from the Road,” part of a
series of letters typically detailing how clients are responding
to the firm’s strategies. Registered Rep, an industry trade
journal, reported on the e-mail this week.  U.S. Trust  U.S. Trust managers including unit head Keith Banks made
the policy changes after they observed that some newly hired
advisers had garden leave provisions from former employers, said
Susan Thomson, a Bank of America spokeswoman. The change
expanded an existing policy to include more workers, she said.  The wealth management division, cobbled together with the
2009 acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co. and the 2006 acquisition
of U.S. Trust, has about 20,000 brokers, advisers and bankers
and $2.2 trillion of client balances as of Dec. 31, according to
a  presentation .  The business generated net income of $1.35 billion last
year, a 22 percent decline from 2009, on higher expenses, while
revenue climbed 3.3 percent to $16.7 billion. Krawcheck, 46, has
a long-term target of 6 percent to 7 percent annual revenue
growth, she told investors this week during an investor
conference held in  New York . Bank of America is the largest U.S.
lender by assets and deposits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 