-- 
Kuwait Says Gulf Arab States to Set Up $10 Billion Fund for Oman, Bahrain

-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-03-10T12:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/kuwait-says-gulf-arab-states-to-set-up-10-billion-fund-for-oman-bahrain.html
The Gulf Cooperation Council plans
to set up a fund worth more than $10 billion,  Kuwait ’s foreign
minister said, to help the rulers of Bahrain and Oman appease
popular protest movements.  The announcement will be made today in  Riyadh , Saudi
Arabia, where ministers from the six-nation bloc are meeting,
Sheikh Mohammad Al-Sabah said in an interview. He declined to
give further details.  Protesters in Oman and Bahrain are calling for free
elections, more housing and jobs, echoing popular movements that
have swept the region in the past two months and unseated
longtime rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt . At least two people have
been killed in clashes between demonstrators and security forces
in the Omani city of Sohar, while in Bahrain, seven people have
been killed in demonstrations.  The unrest has deterred investors and sent the  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Gulf shares down 6.6 percent so far this year,
while oil rose to a 2 1/2-year high as protests in  Libya , holder
of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, escalated into civil war.  The GCC aid pledge helped the region’s stocks pare losses
today, with Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  rising 0.5 percent and Bahrain’s
BB All Share Index adding 0.1 percent.  The protests in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, began on Feb. 14 and marked the spread of the unrest to
the  Persian Gulf , where most Middle Eastern oil is produced.  Shiite Majority  Shiite Muslims, who represent as much as 70 percent of
Bahrain’s population, say they face discrimination over jobs and
housing from the ruling Al Khalifa family, who are Sunnis, and
their supporters. Omanis are demanding higher wages and are
pressing Sultan Qaboos Bin Said to name a prime minister and
give more power to the consultative council.  In both countries, hereditary rulers have taken measures
aimed at placating the protesters. Bahrain yesterday announced
plans to spend $6.6 billion on new homes to allay a shortage,
and Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa has invited the
Shiite-led opposition to enter a “national dialogue.” The
largest opposition group, al-Wefaq, said it wants “significant
steps” from the government before agreeing to negotiate.  Oman’s Sultan Qaboos told the government to hire 50,000
Omanis and pay 150 rials ($390) a month to job-seekers.    Saudi Arabia , the largest GCC economy, has also taken steps
to avert protests spreading to the kingdom, pledging more than
$30 billion of spending to build homes, create jobs and increase
social security payments. Saudi opposition supporters have
called for a “Day of Rage” tomorrow to demand a constitutional
monarchy and free elections.  In the  United Arab Emirates , a petition has been circulated
by academics and activists calling for elections to the
legislative advisory body, the Federal National Council.  The GCC is comprised of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the U.A.E.,
Oman, Qatar and Bahrain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  