-- 
New Bank Rules Will Drive Risk Elsewhere, Channel Capital Says

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-03-10T14:51:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/new-bank-rules-will-drive-risk-elsewhere-channel-capital-says.html
Tougher bank capital rules will
spur lenders to cut risky assets, shifting likely sources of
financial instability to other institutions, said Allan Yarish,
a portfolio manager at Channel Capital Advisors LLP.  “Increasing  capital requirements  gives the banks more of
an incentive to offload the risk, which creates, clearly, some
systemic risk issues,” said Yarish, speaking at the Euromoney
Bond Investors Congress in London yesterday. “If banks become
highly dependent on non-bank counterparties to offload the risk,
all you’ve done is to transfer the systemic risk.”  Regulators are forcing banks to raise capital to ensure
governments won’t have to prop them up in a crisis. Banks can
cut the capital they must set aside to cover losses in a default
by reducing their loan books, which also reduces costs and
boosts returns.  Firms such as Channel Capital are marketing funds to take
on the risk of banks’ borrowers defaulting, allowing the lenders
to reduce their capital requirements, London-based Yarish said.
Funds do this by selling credit-default swaps that insure
against the first losses incurred on portfolios of corporate
loans.  “There clearly will be a lot of incentives to develop non-
banks, or shadow banks, that hold risk outside the banking
system,” said Yarish. “What will determine whether they are a
source of stability or instability is how leveraged those
institutions are.”  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. The seller
charges a fee based on the risk of a borrower defaulting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  