-- 
New Jersey Lawmaker Seeks to Reinstate `Millionaire Tax' Christie Vetoed

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/new-jersey-lawmaker-calls-for-millionaire-tax-christie-vetoed.html
  New Jersey ’s millionaires may have
to pay an income-tax surcharge under a bill from Democrat John McKeon, the Assembly’s deputy speaker, even as Governor  Chris Christie  has said he’ll veto “job-killing” taxes.  McKeon’s proposal would increase the levy by 2 percent on
18,000 people with a combined income of about $36 billion, the
West Orange lawmaker said today in a statement. The money would
go to property-tax rebates for middle-class homeowners, he said.  “A call for shared sacrifice should include all residents
of New Jersey, including the most affluent, and not be
restricted to our seniors, the disabled, and the middle class,”
McKeon said. Christie has asked for “shared sacrifice” to help
balance spending and revenue.  Elected to his first term in 2009, Christie, 48, vetoed a
similar measure passed last year, when his fiscal 2011 budget
closed a $10.7 billion deficit by cutting $1.3 billion in
education and local-government aid. The governor’s $29.4 billion
spending plan for next year boosts school assistance by $250
million while keeping municipal funding little changed.  Democrats, who control the Legislature, failed to muster
the two-thirds vote needed to override the governor’s veto of
the so-called millionaire tax last year. Christie reiterated his
opposition to higher taxes last month.  “Spending cuts have helped us make real progress; letting
up now and returning to the easy path will inevitably lead us
back to job-killing tax increases and deficits,” the governor
said in a Feb. 22 speech about his fiscal 2012 budget proposal.  Making Workers Pay  In his proposed spending plan for the year that begins in
July, Christie would expand property-tax credits if lawmakers
pass his plan to make government workers pay 30 percent of their
health-insurance premiums by 2014 to cut costs. He’s also said
he’ll make a $506 million payment into state pensions if
lawmakers roll back a 2001 benefits increase, freeze cost-of-
living adjustments and raise the  retirement age  to 65 from 62.  “The budget process will unfold in the weeks ahead,” said  Tom Hester , a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, an
East Orange Democrat who sponsored the surcharge measure last
year. He declined to say whether she plans to let the measure
move forward.  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from West
Deptford, didn’t immediately return a telephone call seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  