-- 
NFL, Union Offer Few Hints at Progress on Accord as Deadline Day Arrives

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-03-11T16:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/nfl-union-continue-talks-as-clock-ticks-toward-tomorrow-s-labor-deadline.html
The  National Football League  and
its players’ union gave little indication as they started a 16th
day of mediated talks that they’re close to bridging an almost
$1 billion-a-year divide before the scheduled expiration of
their labor accord today.  Team owners and union leadership filed into the Federal
Mediation and Conciliation Service building in Washington this
morning for more talks under the supervision of George
H. Cohen, head of the government agency. They held separate
meetings there yesterday.  The NFL and its union are struggling to agree on how to
split up $9 billion in annual revenue, the most of any
professional sports league. The labor accord originally was
scheduled to end last week. Unless there’s a further extension,
owners may shut down the league and the union may stop
representing its members, allowing individual players to sue the
league, citing antitrust violations.  “If both sides have an equal commitment to getting this
done, it will get done,” Jeff Pash, the NFL’s lead negotiator,
told reporters as he left talks yesterday. “Things can come
together quickly and they can fall apart quickly.”  In addition to the division of revenue, the league and
union are at odds over health-care provisions and whether to
extend the season to 18 games from 16. The talks come weeks
after the Super Bowl championship game drew the largest
television audience in U.S. history.  Extension Indicator  Whether another extension is discussed is an indicator of
how the talks are going, said Kenneth Shropshire, director of
the Wharton Sports Business Initiative at the  University of
Pennsylvania .  “If you ask for an extension, you are signaling that you
haven’t presented them your final best offer and there is more
to talk about,” Shropshire said in an interview. “If you
aren’t asking for an extension, you are saying, ‘This is really
my best deal. There is no need to get back together again.’”  The sides opted for a weeklong extension three days after
U.S. District Judge David Doty in  Minneapolis  ruled that the
league improperly negotiated $4 billion in television rights
fees that owners might have tapped in a work stoppage.  Under the expiring agreement, about $1 billion is set aside
for expenses such as stadium costs and NFL.com before the
players’ share is calculated as a percentage of the remaining $8
billion.  $1 Billion  The league wants to set aside an additional $1 billion for
costs, according to the union.  DeMaurice Smith , executive
director of the NFL Players Association, told the NFL Network
this week that they are now $800 million apart on this figure.  A work stoppage would end 24 years of labor peace and may
empty stadiums financed with a combined $7 billion in taxpayer
money. It may also interrupt the schedules of the largest U.S.
broadcasters and leave fans without a sport that, during the
2010 regular season, was watched by a record 207.7 million
people, according to Nielsen Co. data.  Americans, by a ratio of more than 2-to-1, are lining up
with players in the dispute.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 4-7 showed that
43 percent of those surveyed side with the players and 20
percent with the owners. The remaining 37 percent either don’t
follow football or aren’t sure which side they favor.  “Fans live vicariously through the players and are more
sympathetic to player causes,”  David Carter , executive director
of the Sports Business Institute at the University of  Southern
California , said in an interview.  Audited Figures  Smith wants to review each team’s audited financial
statements to justify the owners’ demand for more money. The
parties have been discussing a 6- to 8-year extension.  “How much financial information would you want before you
were being asked to write a $5 billion check?” Smith said to
reporters two days ago. “The information that was offered was
not what we asked for.”  Pash responded that the NFL has given the union
unprecedented access to its finances during the talks.  “Has it gotten everything it wants? Evidently not,” he
said. “Have we offered to provide more? Absolutely. And is it a
subject that we’re prepared to discuss? Absolutely.”  During a March 9 fan event at union headquarters, Smith
said the players’ association is unwilling to accept an 18-game
regular season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington  at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novywilliams in Washington at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  