-- 
Obama Said to Direct Overhaul of U.S. Trade Agencies

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-03-10T18:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/obama-said-to-direct-overhaul-of-u-s-government-trade-agencies.html
(Corrects USTR’s appropriated budget in 14th paragraph.)  President  Barack Obama  will direct
his administration as soon as tomorrow to develop a plan to
reshape the federal government that may include folding the U.S.
Trade Representative’s office into the Commerce Department,
abolishing some agencies and reducing the workforce, people
familiar with the process said.  “The U.S. needs to learn from other countries,” said
 Jitinder Kohli , author of a report the administration is
studying on the reorganization by the Center for American
Progress, a Washington-based research group led by Obama adviser  John Podesta .  Obama is facing Republican demands that he limit the size
of the government by stripping away layers of bureaucracy.
Making the efficiency of trade agencies a top priority may also
help facilitate the president’s goal of doubling U.S. exports
over the coming years to boost the economy.  Obama tapped Jeffrey Zients, deputy director for management
at the Office of Management and Budget, to lead the
reorganization effort in January.  Zients and a group of aides, including Obama’s staff
secretary Lisa Brown, have been charged with streamlining 12
agencies involved in exports and the enforcement of trade
agreements. That may result in the firing of some mid-level
managers, including technology officers, one person said.  Costing Taxpayers Billions  The  Center for American Progress  report recommends moving
agencies from the Commerce Department into other departments,
including shifting the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration , which handles coastal and marine environments,
to the Interior Department.  The center also said the U.S. Census Bureau and the  Bureau
of Economic Analysis  could be moved from the Commerce Department
to a new U.S. statistical agency.  The administration has been having discussions with
business executives, former U.S. trade representatives and
members of Congress to get their input, the people said.  The effort comes in the wake of a report by the  Government
Accountability Office  that found 34 broad areas of duplication
in federal programs, including  food safety  and domestic food
assistance. The March 1 report found that overlapping programs
may cost taxpayers billions of dollars each year.  In his State of the Union address Obama said his
administration would “develop a proposal to merge, consolidate,
and reorganize the federal government in a way that best serves
the goal of a more competitive America.”  Black-and-White TV  White House Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer  said in
announcing Zients’s appointment, the “federal government is
 stuck  in the age of black-and-white television while we are
competing in the age of the iPad.”  The administration may have an opportunity to reorganize
the Commerce Department now that Secretary Gary Locke has been
tapped to be the next U.S. ambassador to China. U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk, former Pfizer Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Jeffrey Kindler and Google Inc. CEO  Eric Schmidt  are
potential candidates for the job.  Still, some former trade representatives say any changes to
the USTR, which has about 230 employees, would be dangerous for
U.S. businesses. The office, which negotiates trade agreements
and litigates disputes at the  World Trade Organization , is
housed in the executive office of the president.  Moving USTR into Commerce or any other federal agency
“would be a disaster” and Congress would never allow it,
former U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab said in an
interview. The agency is efficient partly because it’s small and
focused, she said. USTR has an appropriated budget of $48
million.  Leave USTR Alone  Schwab, who served in President  George W. Bush ’s
administration, said the trade-promotion arm of the Commerce
Department could be strengthened without changing USTR’s role.
Commerce has an office that advocates for U.S. companies seeking
government contracts abroad.  “The minute you try to move your trade negotiators in
there, you’re going to have to recreate the function in the
White House to coordinate your trade policy with other agencies
with expertise and legitimate interests,” Schwab said. She said
she hasn’t been consulted by the administration.  Kirk, the current trade representative, told the House Ways
and Means Committee in a Feb. 9 hearing that he needs more staff
“if we are going to have the robust enforcement” the agency is
committed to.  No Hippos  “We are woefully short frankly on the investigative
side,” he said. Kirk said USTR exhausted its entire 2009
translation budget in three months analyzing a complaint filed
by the United Steelworkers union against tire imports from  China .  Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican who heads
the Ways and Means Committee’s trade panel, told Kirk he’s “not
interested in turning USTR from a cougar into a hippo,” adding
that the agency shouldn’t grow too big and bureaucratic.  Mickey Kantor, a U.S. Trade Representative in the Clinton
administration, said that the enforcement and promotion agencies
should be kept separate.  The Commerce Department’s office of import administration
rules on dumping and anti-subsidy duties on imports. The Bureau
of Industry and Security administers export controls for
civilian items that may have military applications, such as
radar or encryption software.  “But to try and build a huge agency, which would only
reflect what Commerce is today, would not be very effective,”
Kantor said in an interview.  Cutting Back Waste  The administration is seeking to make the case that it’s
cutting back government waste.  “We shouldn’t just give our people a government that’s
more affordable,” Obama said in his  State of the Union address .
“We should give them a government that’s more competent and
efficient.”  He cited the Interior Department’s jurisdiction over salmon
while the fish are in fresh water and the Commerce Department’s
jurisdiction over them when they’re in salt water as an example
of inefficiency.  Not everyone agrees the system is in need of repair.    William Reinsch , president of the  National Foreign Trade
Council  and a Commerce Department official in the Clinton
administration, said, “If it ain’t broke, we’re baffled at why
they want to try to fix it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  