-- 
Obama to Address Rising Energy Prices on Mideast Unrest in News Conference

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-11T15:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/obama-plans-news-conference-tomorrow-on-rising-energy-prices-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  will answer
questions today about the impact of rising oil prices caused by
unrest in the Middle East.  The news conference, now scheduled for 12:30 p.m.
Washington time at the White House, is being held as the cost of
oil has increased 25 percent over the past year and gasoline
prices are at their highest in more than two years. Obama also
is likely to address the U.S. response to the earthquake in
Japan and the unrest in the Middle East and North  Africa .  “We understand the impact that higher gasoline prices have
on family budgets,” White House press secretary Jay Carney said
at a briefing yesterday. “We are confident that the global
system has the capacity to deal with a major disruption.”  Members of Congress have been pushing the administration to
release some of the 727 million barrels of oil stored in the
nation’s  Strategic Petroleum Reserve  to help calm markets and
reduce prices.  As a candidate for president in 2008, Obama called for a
release from the reserve as  oil prices  rose above $140 a barrel.
Carney said yesterday that tapping the reserve is an option
under consideration if energy costs threaten the economic
recovery while repeating assurances by other officials that the
turmoil that has toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  and
divided Libya won’t threaten supplies.    Consumer confidence  fell last week to the lowest level in a
month as surging gasoline prices soured Americans’ outlook about
their finances and the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 44.5
in the period to March 6 from the prior week’s minus 39.7, which
was close to the highest in almost three years.  Gasoline Prices  The average retail price for a gallon of regular gasoline
was at $3.53, compared with $2.77 a year ago, according to the
AAA  price survey .  The higher prices at the pump may restrain the gains in  consumer spending  that has bolstered the U.S. recovery.  Crude oil for April delivery settled at $102.70 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after trading as high as
$105.06 following reports yesterday that police in  Saudi Arabia 
had used gunfire to break up a demonstration. While Saudi
security forces broke up the protest in the eastern city of al-
Qatif, anti-government demonstrators have called for a “Day of
Rage” today.  Violence also continues in Libya, where government forces
loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  mounted a full-scale attack on rebels
who have taken control of the eastern half of the country. Libya
has Africa’s largest proven reserves of oil.  Qaddafi’s Endurance  The U.S. director of national intelligence, James Clapper,
told a Senate committee yesterday that Qaddafi’s forces have a
logistical advantage over rebels, which means if the fight for
control is extended, the leader’s “regime will prevail.”  Qaddafi, Clapper said, is in “this for the long haul,
despite press speculation” otherwise.  After Clapper had testified, Obama’s national security
adviser and his press secretary said that the intelligence chief
was giving an analysis of the current situation and that steps
being taken by the U.S. and its allies would change the dynamic
in  Libya .  “Change is the order of the day in the Middle East,”
national security adviser Tom Donilon said on a conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  