-- 
South Africa, Russia Rebuff Demands From Europe to Keep IMF’s Chief Job

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   A r t y o m   D a n i e l y a n
-- 
2011-05-18T17:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/south-africa-says-manuel-is-respected-as-it-pushes-for-new-chief-at-imf.html
South Africa  and  Russia  said the next
head of the  International Monetary Fund  should come from an
emerging economy, rebuffing demands from European officials who
want the post reserved for someone from their region.  Trevor Manuel, head of South Africa’s National Planning
Commission, is “highly respected in the world,” Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in an interview in Pretoria today.
Russian central bank Deputy Chairman Sergei Shvetsov said a
developing country should be given the chance to run the IMF to
better reflect the role of those economies in global trade.  European officials are closing ranks to defend their 65-
year lock on the top job at the IMF after its chief,  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  of France, was arrested in  New York  on May 14 and
charged with sexual assault on a housekeeper at a Manhattan
hotel. South Africa, Brazil, India and other emerging economies
have lobbied the Group of 20 to change a global convention that
reserves the top job at the IMF for a European and the World
Bank position for an American.  “ Europe  must be alive to changes in the world,” Gordhan
said. “There are fundamental changes happening in the world. If
there is a vacancy in the leadership of the IMF, and that
depends on the due process of law being concluded, we must have
an open and transparent process” to choose a new leader.  Potential Candidates  Manuel, Gordhan’s predecessor, is among potential
candidates named by Eswar Prasad, a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington  and a former IMF official,
as a successor to Strauss-Kahn. Other potential candidates
include Singapore Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam and
Kemal Dervis, who was Turkey’s minister of economic affairs at a
time his country got IMF aid, Prasad said.  “Emerging markets have every right to compete for leading
positions in international organizations,” Shvetsov said in an
interview in Moscow today. “This is absolutely normal.”  South Africa is in talks with other developing nations on a
possible candidate, including whether it will support a single
candidate from emerging market nations, Gordhan said. He
declined to give further details.  At G-20 discussions, there was “broad agreement that we
are moving into a more democratic era where issues of merit and
transparency need to be part of the framework in which leaders
are chosen at the IMF,” Gordhan said.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has no
intention of using the current crisis to push for an emerging
market candidate to lead the fund, according to two government
officials who couldn’t be named because they’re not authorized
to speak publicly on the matter.  ‘Fair and Transparent’  China ’s government asked for a “fair and transparent
process,” while Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo in Seoul
today that he hoped “this will be an opportunity for a country
in the emerging economies to take the post.”  Finance ministers from Sweden to Spain say there’s a need
for a European as Strauss-Kahn’s potential successor while the
region contends with a sovereign-debt crisis.  Manuel, 55, has earned plaudits from financial leaders
around the globe for his handling of the economy. As finance
minister for 13 years prior to assuming his current post in May
2009, Manuel brought the budget into a surplus and introduced
inflation targeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Artyom Danielyan in Moscow at 
 adanielyan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 