-- 
Obama Says School Bullying Is `Not Something We Have to Accept' in U.S.

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-10T17:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/obama-says-school-bullying-not-something-we-have-to-accept-.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
students, parents and school officials at a White House
conference today to take steps to reduce or end bullying and he
admitted to being bullied himself while in school.  “As adults, we all remember what it was like to see kids
picked on in the hallways in the schoolyard,” Obama told the
group of about 150 people. “With big ears and the name that I
have, I wasn’t immune, I didn’t emerge unscathed.”  Obama said the goal for today’s conference is to “create
an environment where every single one of our children can
thrive.”  Obama and first lady Michelle Obama were joined by
officials from the Department of Education and the  Department of
Health  and Human Services.  The president said some groups “are stepping up and
accepting responsibility,” including the Parent Teacher
Association that’s begun a campaign to get anti-bullying
literature to parents.  MTV  is leading a new coalition to fight
bullying online, the president said.  In a video message posted on Obama’s  Facebook page  and the
 White House  website, the president says that bullying “affects
every single young person in our country.”  Personal Stake  As the parents of two daughters, the Obamas say the issue
has personal resonance. “Putting a stop to bullying is a
responsibility we all share,” the president says in the video.  “It breaks our hearts to think about any parent losing a
child to bullying or just wondering whether their kids will be
safe for school in the morning,”  Michelle Obama  said at today’s
conference. “I hope all of us will step up and do our part to
keep our kids safe.”  In conjunction with the White House campaign, executives of
Facebook Inc., the world’s most-used social networking service,
announced today that the company is expanding an existing
reporting system that lets users report content that they
consider bullying to a parent or a teacher. The company also is
making improvements intended to provide better information about
online safety to its 500 million users.  Dealing with the impact of bullying, including some recent,
widely publicized suicides of young people, requires more than
just a conference or action by one social networking site, said
Nan Stein, a Wellesley College researcher on sexual harassment
and gender violence.  Stein, who was a middle school teacher for three years,
said “whatever Facebook does is not going to impact what
schools do.” She said mental health needs to be addressed in
schools more seriously.  In October, the Department of Education said schools that
don’t address the bullying of gay students may lose government
funds for failing to enforce gender-discrimination laws.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  