-- 
Ohio's Dayton, Once `Full of Families,' Has 21% of Houses Empty

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/ohio-s-dayton-once-full-of-families-has-21-of-houses-empty.html
When Vaughn Bullman moved to
Drummer Avenue in 1961, thousands of people built cash registers
at the  NCR Corp. (NCR)  in Dayton, Ohio, and assembled cars at a
General Motors Co. plant in nearby Moraine.  Now, 10 of Drummer Avenue’s 30 houses are empty; throughout
Dayton, the city north of Cincinnati where the Wright brothers
planned the first airplane, the proportion of vacant homes is
one in five. NCR and General Motors are gone, and so are many
middle-class wage earners.  “This whole street used to be full of families who owned
their homes,” said Bullman, 59, who still lives on his boyhood
street with his wife and grandchildren. “Today, the
neighborhood is so different because there is no feel of
community and no way to take pride in living here.”  Dayton has 21.1 percent of its housing stock vacant --
almost double the national rate,  U.S. Census Bureau  data show.
The city exemplifies a trend in  Ohio  of a loss in population and 
industry. That means less  tax revenue , fewer jobs and less 
political clout.  The population of Ohio, the seventh-largest state, grew 1.6
percent during the past decade, compared with 9.7 percent in the
U.S. as a whole, according to the data. The state, which has
been pivotal in presidential elections, will lose two of its 18
congressional seats, the bureau announced in December. The
agency will release details on state populations through the end
of March.  Starting Again  Ohio, once an industrial powerhouse, has lost 610,100 jobs
in the past decade, Republican Governor John Kasich said
yesterday in his State of the State speech. The state’s
unemployment rate in January was 9.4 percent, compared with 9
percent in the U.S.  The state may face a deficit of $8 billion, the governor
has said. Kasich plans to release his proposed budget for the
next biennium March 15. He promised that it will not include
higher taxes.  “If we push and we work together, we’re going to save the
state,” he told lawmakers. “I have no doubt.”  There are fewer residents to cooperate. Dayton’s population
decreased 14.8 percent over 10 years to 141,527, the data show.
Cincinnati lost 10.4 percent and Toledo lost 8.4 percent.  Columbus, the capital and a university town, gained 10.6
percent. It is the state’s biggest, with 787,033 inhabitants.    Cleveland ’s Loss  In the 2010 Census, Cleveland lost 17.1 percent of its
residents, to 396,815. Its population fell below 400,000 for the
first time since the 1900 census. As recently as 1960 it was the
eighth-most-populous U.S. city; in 2000 it was 33rd.  “Ohio doesn’t have the jobs to attract people,” said  William Frey , a demographer with the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “States like  North Carolina  are quickly growing and
expanding, while Ohio cities are either declining or showing
only modest gains.”  In Dayton, falling population and real-estate values are
sapping city coffers. Property-tax revenues were $19 million in
2009, down from $24 million in 2008, according to the city’s
financial report.  On Bullman’s street, the Silver Slipper Bar and Lounge and
Sam’s Chilibowl Diner long ago closed. Children’s toys and a
faded pink flamingo litter overgrown yards, with orange notices
on doors forbidding entry. Many houses have been gutted by fire,
Bullman said.  Gone to  Georgia   NCR, once called the National Cash Register Co., opened
in Dayton in 1879. The company now makes automatic teller
machines and kiosks and moved to Duluth, Georgia, in 2009,
taking more than 1,000 jobs. General Motors, the largest U.S.
automaker, shut down a 2,400-employee plant in 2008, citing the
global recession.  Dayton’s largest employer is Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base, where 27,000 people work, according to its  website . Other
employers include five hospitals and three universities. The
city’s unemployment rate in January was 11.8 percent, according
to the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services.  When Bullman graduated from high school, manufacturing jobs were
plentiful and he worked with his father at Price Brothers Co.
making water pipes. After the company moved its headquarters to
Irving,  Texas , he worked as a welder for the city of Dayton.  In 2004, he started a neighborhood association with his
wife to raise civic pride and interest. It is “close to
impossible” to mobilize people, he said. Only his next-door
neighbor attends the meetings.  Now retired, he and his wife, Vivian, have scheduled a
meeting with city officials to discuss revitalizing the
neighborhood. If the city will not renovate the homes, he said
he wants them torn down and turned into green space.  Houses to Grass  “A few years ago, the city’s plan was to just mothball the
houses, boarding them up until people came back,” said  Nan
Whaley , 35, a city commissioner. “Realizing that people may not
come back, we are using federal dollars to deconstruct and
demolish those empty houses.”  The city plans to use $11 million in federal tax credits to
tear down buildings, Whaley said.  “It will be sad to see these houses go”, Bullman said.
“They are more than a hundred years old, and I’ve been looking
at them my whole life.”  Bullman said that if he and his wife fail to improve the
neighborhood, they may move back to  Tennessee , where he was
born.  “This just isn’t a good place to raise your kids and
grandkids anymore,” said Bullman, as he stood outside the empty
diner where he used to eat bowls of chili with his father after
work. “We’re always looking for something better, and Ohio
might not be it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  