-- 
Tokyo Exchange CEO Saito Changes Mind on Osaka as Mergers Engulf Markets

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-03-10T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/tokyo-exchange-ceo-saito-changes-mind-on-osaka-as-mergers-engulf-markets.html
Atsushi Saito, president of Tokyo
Stock Exchange Group Inc., said in November there would be no
value in expanding Japan’s biggest stock exchange through
mergers. Yesterday, the 71-year-old said he’s considering a
marriage with an old rival.  Saito, who joined the Tokyo bourse as its president in June
2007, said he’s looking “positively” at holding talks with
Osaka Securities Exchange Co. A deal between Japan’s largest
bourses would be the latest in a rush of planned unions totaling
more than $21 billion since October, when  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) 
announced a plan to take over  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , operator of  Australia ’s
main equity and derivatives market.  “He probably looked around at everybody else and thought,
‘Are we going to be OK?’” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps
oversee $6 billion in Tokyo at Shinkin Asset Management Co. “In
an environment where everyone globally is merging, this is what
you have to do in order to survive.”  The TSE, the center of Japan’s stock trading since 1878,
faces increasing competition from alternative platforms
including  Chi-X Japan Ltd. , owned by Saito’s former employer
Nomura Holdings Inc., and exchanges in countries such as  China ,
which briefly surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest
equity market last year. Competition was part of the reason  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  last month agreed to purchase  Canada ’s main bourse and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  agreed to buy  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  for $9.53 billion, forming the world’s biggest exchange
operator.  ‘No Successful Deals’  The possibility of discussions with Osaka is a change of
heart for Saito, who has criticized exchange mergers in the past.  “We’re not thinking of any mergers or alliances with
other exchanges at present,” Saito, who once had his salary
docked after a malfunction on TSE’s derivatives venue, said in a
Nov. 18 interview. The Tokyo bourse planned instead focus on
overseas listings and improving trading speed, Saito said,
adding that he has “yet to see any successful deals.”  The turnaround isn’t the first for Saito, who worked for 35
years at Nomura Securities Co. On Oct. 26 he said that  Singapore
Exchange ’s plan to combine with Sydney-based ASX wouldn’t be
favorable for the Tokyo bourse, which owns almost 5 percent of
its Singapore rival.  “It’s not a good story,” he said at the time. “Our
shareholdings will be diluted, with our stake falling to around
3.1 percent. It’s possible we’ll have a loss of hundreds of
millions of yen.”  Two weeks later, Saito told Reuters that the TSE wouldn’t
oppose a takeover of Australia’s stock exchange by Singapore
Exchange. The step might encourage other bourses in the region
to merge, he said, according to the report.  Words and Actions  “What he says and what he does are sometimes different,
but I don’t think the direction he’s taking is wrong,” said
Shinkin’s Fujiwara. “You can say that he’s been slow, but none
of this happens overnight.”  Shares in  Osaka  Exchange climbed as much as 12 percent
yesterday before closing 6.9 higher at 460,000 yen after Saito
said the sooner talks begin, “the better.” While Osaka is the
only Japanese exchange offering Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures,
the number of stocks trading on it has dwindled by 15 percent in
the last four years as companies cut dual listings and focused
on the nation’s capital.  Rushing to List?  Adding Osaka’s derivatives market would build on Saito’s
efforts to modernize the Tokyo Exchange. He oversaw the
implementation in January 2010 of the Arrowhead trading system,
which cut the time it takes to execute trades to less than a
second and is now being offered for export.  Saito was among several executives whose salaries were cut
by  10 percent  for a month after a failure of the bourse’s
derivatives trading system on Feb. 8, 2008, caused trading in a
Topix index future to be halted for 1 1/2 trading days.  The Tokyo bourse yesterday sent a statement that no
decision has been made on a merger, responding to a Nikkei
newspaper report. The Osaka exchange, which also operates the
Jasdaq Securities Exchange, issued a statement saying there was
no truth to the report.  Saito said yesterday the exchange will begin the process of
listing its shares after reporting earnings for the period
ending March. The Tokyo exchange delayed an initial public
offering in March 2009 after the biggest global financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  “At a time when exchanges are going through mergers and
acquisitions, Japan’s exchanges need to first become bigger and
establish a stronger presence before going into overseas merger
talks,” said  Tsutomu Yamada , a market analyst in Tokyo at
Kabu.com Securities. “Japan is trying to escape from silly
competition between regional exchanges, and move towards one
grand coalition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 