-- 
Tokyo, Osaka Exchange Tie-Up Too Late, Too Local as Mergers Engulf Markets

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-03-11T00:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/tokyo-bourse-merger-with-osaka-exchange-too-late-too-local-investors-say.html
A merger between Japan’s two
biggest stock markets may not be enough to strengthen the new
exchange’s position as competition for global investment money
heats up.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc., which runs the world’s
second-largest equity market, is considering merging with
smaller domestic rival,  Osaka  Securities Exchange Co., TSE
President Atsushi Saito said yesterday. Japan is losing to its
regional rivals and the acquisition may be too late to change
that, said Masahiko Ejiri, a  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co.  “The optimum timing for them to merge was about 20 years
ago, when Tokyo was a giant,” said Ejiri, a Tokyo-based fund
manager at Mizuho Asset, which oversees the equivalent of $41
billion. “Also they only look at the inside of Japan. They
don’t care about foreign investors. If Tokyo were to merge with
a stock exchange in Asia, that would be much more powerful.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average has plunged about 73 percent
from its 1989 peak, while  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index has
surged about 30-fold since December 1990. Tokyo has less than
half the number of listings than in Hong Kong and China, which
is challenging Japan’s ranking as the No. 2 equity market.  Osaka Exchange President Michio Yoneda said the bourse is
prepared to finalize a deal within three months if it is to
happen, according to Masahiro Yada, a spokesman. The Osaka
bourse operates a derivatives trading system with Nikkei 225
Stock Average futures and the Jasdaq Securities Exchange Inc., a
market for start-up companies.  Market Cap  Osaka Securities shares fell 1.4 percent to 453,500 yen as
of 9:56 a.m. local time, giving the exchange a market value of
122.4 trillion yen ($1.5 billion). The stock rose 6.9 percent
yesterday.  The Tokyo exchange, which has been the center of Japan’s
stock trading since 1878, is seeking an initial public offering
after reporting its earnings for the period ending March, Saito
said. The bourse delayed a share sale in March 2009 after the
biggest global financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The merger would be the latest in a cascade of planned
exchange tie-ups totaling more than $21 billion since October,
including  Deutsche Boerse ’s agreement last month to buy  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  to create the world’s largest exchange operator. The
133-year-old Tokyo exchange, home to  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , will gain a derivatives trading system with Nikkei 225
Stock Average futures should it acquire the Osaka bourse.  ‘Strong Domestic Exchange’  Merging with Osaka “would make them a very strong domestic
exchange, combining both equities and derivatives,” said  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York . “The derivatives component of exchanges garners a
higher valuation globally since the cash equities business is
seen as very competitive.”  Derivatives trading in the Asia-Pacific region increased
more in 2010 than it did in the Americas and in Europe,  Africa 
and the Middle East, according to data  compiled  by the World
Federation of Exchanges.  Asia  now accounts for the largest
portion of derivatives transactions with 8.9 billion contracts
traded last year, compared with 8.8 billion in the Americas.  Average trading volume on the Tokyo Stock Exchange fell 8.2
percent to 2.12 billion shares a day in 2010, from 2.31 billion
shares a year earlier, according to the exchange. Osaka traded
1.4 million units of Nikkei 225 futures and 8.6 million of a
smaller version of the product in February,  according  to the
company.  Japan has had 11 initial public offerings so far this year,
compared with 33 in China and 23 in Hong Kong, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. There were just 12 foreign companies
listed on the Tokyo exchange as of July last year, compared with
a  peak of 127  in 1991, according to the exchange.  ‘Long Overdue’  “Arguably it’s been long overdue and there should have
been exchange consolidation in the industry years ago,” said  Ben Collett , the Hong Kong-based head of Japanese equities at
Louis Capital Markets   Hong Kong ) Ltd. “Will it improve volumes?
I don’t think so. The only thing that improves volume in any
market is demand and supply for those equities.”  The market value of stocks listed in Japan totals $4.12
trillion, behind only the U.S. at $16.3 trillion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s equity market is valued at
$4 trillion, and briefly surpassed Japan’s as the second-biggest
last year, the data show.  China overtook Japan last year as the world’s second-
largest economy behind the U.S. Japan’s economy shrank an
annualized 1.3 percent in the fourth quarter, the Cabinet Office
said today.  China’s economy  grew 9.8 percent in the quarter,
according to the statistics bureau on Jan. 20.  “A lot of enterprises in Asia and even  Europe  want to get
listed in Hong Kong, to have exposure to mainland China,”
Mizuho’s Ejiri said. “It’s a very domestic deal. The next thing
they should do is something like increase their presence outside
of Japan, to help Japanese or Asian enterprises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  