-- 
Home Remodeling to Rebound in U.S. as Owner Confidence Improves

-- B y   R e b e c c a   L .   M c C l a y
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/home-remodeling-to-rebound-in-u-s-as-owner-confidence-improves.html
The U.S. home-improvement industry
is poised for a revival this year as property owners who
scrimped and saved during the recession spruce up kitchens and
bathrooms.  Spending on remodeling probably will rise 9.2 percent to
$125.1 billion in the first quarter from $114.6 billion a year
earlier, according to Harvard University’s Joint Center for
Housing Studies. A 13 percent increase forecast for April
through June would be the largest jump in five years, a  report 
by the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based center shows.  Home-improvement retailers are preparing for a spring sales
bump as homeowners consider upgrading rather than selling their
houses at a discount in a struggling market. Signs of recovery
in the economy are encouraging people to spend money on work
they may have been putting off for years, said Paul Zuch,
president of the National Association of the Remodeling
Industry, a  trade group  based in Des Plaines,  Illinois .  “There’s an overwhelming pent-up demand for remodeling,”
Zuch said. Capital Improvements, his Allen, Texas-based company,
lined up about $800,000 in projects for the first two months of
the year, more than its total sales for 2010, he said.  Spending on renovations may increase 3.5 percent annually
through 2015, according to the Harvard center, which measures
data including hours worked by remodelers and retail sales at
building materials stores. The gain follows a decline that
started in the third quarter of 2007 and sent spending to a six-
year low of $112 billion in 2009.  Replacements, Upgrades  New owners of discounted, foreclosed properties and a tax
credit for energy-efficient windows and modifications will help
drive remodeling demand, the Harvard center said. The bulk of
spending during the next five years will be on replacements and
upgrades rather than high-end projects, according to the report.  The Residential Remodeling Index by Asheville, North
Carolina-based  BuildFax  showed demand for remodeling rose 18
percent in December from a year earlier, the property data
provider said Feb. 15. The index tracks the number of
construction permits issued for home improvements in specific
metropolitan regions.  Home Depot and Lowe’s, the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailers, said they plan to hire additional seasonal workers
during the next few months. Both companies in February reported
fourth-quarter profits that exceeded analyst estimates, and Home
Depot raised its earnings forecast for the year.  Jeff Chinman, who owns Broadway Kitchens & Baths in  Manhattan  with his wife, Linda Reiter, said improving employment
and consumer confidence are drawing customers back to his
stores. Foot traffic in his showrooms is increasing steadily
after a recession-long slump, he said.  ‘Very Busy Year’  “Obviously the last couple years have been tough,”
Chinman said. “In the fall, sales have just started to come
back. You can feel the activity. I’m expecting that this will be
a very busy year.”  The U.S. unemployment rate fell to 8.9 percent in February,
the lowest in almost two years, the Bureau of Labor Statistics
reported last week. Retail spending probably will increase 4
percent in 2011, according to the  National Retail Federation .
Confidence among U.S. consumers is at a three-year high, the
Conference Board, a New York-based private research group, said
last month.  Homeowners “realize it’s OK to buy again,” Chinman said
during an interview in his showroom on Broadway in the Union
Square neighborhood. The retailer also has locations in
Englewood,  New Jersey , and  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  ‘Extra Dollars’  Ernest Wilson, a residential subcontractor in New Jersey,
said he’ll use some of his  tax refund  to add a third bedroom to
his five-year-old  Jersey City  home. He plans to spend about
$8,000 for new walls and closets, painting and tiling, and will
do the work himself.  “It’s the market,” Wilson said while shopping at a Home
Depot in Jersey City. “You have to hold onto your home until
you get a few extra dollars. Then you can renovate.”  Some property owners are stuck in their homes after falling
values left almost a quarter of mortgage holders owing more than
their residences are worth, according to CoreLogic Inc. U.S.  home prices  fell 2.4 percent in December from a year earlier and
are down 31 percent from the July 2006 peak, based on the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of values in 20 cities.  “Negative equity holds millions of borrowers captive in
their homes, unable to move or sell their properties,” Mark
Fleming, chief economist at  Santa Ana , California-based
Corelogic, said in a March 8 statement. “Until the high level
of negative equity begins to recede, the housing and mortgage
finance markets will remain very sluggish.”  Home-Equity Loans  The negative equity may limit remodeling projects as it
dries up a source of funding. Americans spent about $63 billion
a year from home-equity loans on renovations during the 2000 to
2005 real estate boom, according to a 2007 paper by former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  and Fed economist James
Kennedy.  “Consumer behavior is saying ‘I’m going to invest in my
home again,’ even if they’re not seeing gains in equity,” said
Joe Emison, vice president of research and development at
BuildFax.  Home Depot, the largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
said on Feb. 22 that earnings per share excluding some items
will increase as much as 9.5 percent this year, up from a
December forecast of no more than 9 percent. Craig Menear,
executive vice president of merchandising, said in an interview
Feb. 14 that the company is hiring more than 60,000 temporary
workers to handle an expected spring sales surge.  “Our business is stabilizing and can improve, even as the
housing market remains under stress,” Frank Blake, chairman and
chief executive officer, said Feb. 22 on a conference call with
investors.  Smaller Improvements  The average Home Depot purchase jumped 2.6 percent in the
fourth quarter, the most in more than four years, though
consumers are favoring smaller improvements and are still
cautious about spending on major renovations, Blake said.  Lowe’s plans to hire 50,000 seasonal workers this spring,
Katie Cody, a spokeswoman for the Mooresville, North Carolina-
based company, said in a Feb. 24 e-mail. That’s up from 43,000 a
year ago.    Robert Niblock , Lowe’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said that while employment is stabilizing, home prices
have been slow to recover and consumers are concerned about
rising prices of oil and raw materials.  “While uncertainty in the market remains, the economic
recovery is continuing,” Niblock said Feb. 23 on a conference
call with investors. “And as I’ve said before, we are prepared
to operate effectively in a slow-growth environment.”  The driving force behind this year’s spending increases
will be  baby boomers , the first of whom are reaching 65 and
preparing their homes for retirement, said Zuch, of the National
Association of the Remodeling Industry.  “They’re looking to age gracefully,” Zuch said. “They
need better lighting, less barriers, more things in convenient
locations. They still want luxury, but they want value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca McClay in  New York  at 
 rmcclay@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 