-- 
Home Retail Falls After Cutting Profit Forecast on Spending

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-03-10T09:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/home-retail-group-lowers-profit-forecast-as-argos-sales-fall.html
  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the owner of
the Homebase do-it-yourself store chain, declined the most in
two years in London trading after lowering its full-year profit
forecast as sales at the company’s Argos catalog stores dropped.  Pretax profit for the year ended Feb. 26 is expected to be
between 250 million pounds ($404 million) and 255 million
pounds, the  Milton Keynes , England-based company said in a
statement today. In January, Chief Executive Officer Terry Duddy
said profit on that basis may be 265 million pounds. Home Retail
fell as much as 9.4 percent.  There are “clear signs of pressure” on consumer spending,
Duddy said in a call with reporters, echoing comments by other
retailers of a slowdown in spending as government cutbacks take
hold. The Confederation of British Industry’s retail-sales index
fell to an eight-month low in February.  “There are clear signs of further pressures on  consumer
spending , with recent trading conditions, particularly at Argos,
proving to be more difficult and volatile than we anticipated,”
Duddy said in today’s statement. “Against the backdrop of the
challenging economic environment, and taking into account our
more recent trading, we are now planning with increased caution
for the year ahead.”  Sales Decline  Sales at Argos outlets open at least a year declined 4.6
percent in the eight weeks through Feb. 26, and 5.6 percent in
the year. The gross margin fell 150 basis points, “driven
principally by an increased level of clearance activity,” the
company said. Same-store sales at Homebase rose 3.8 percent in
the eight-week period.  The Argos same-store sales drop was “much worse” than a 1
percent decline estimated by Investec Securities, analyst David Jeary said in a note to investors today.  Home Retail dropped as much as 19.9 pence to 191 pence and
traded at 195.6 pence as of 9:04 a.m., giving the company a
market value of 1.6 billion pounds. The retailer’s shares
climbed 10 percent on Jan. 13, when it said earnings may beat
analysts’ estimates.  John Lewis Partnership Plc, the owner of the largest U.K.
department-store company, forecast yesterday that business
conditions will be “more difficult” in 2011, citing an
increase in value-added tax, high unemployment and public-sector
spending cuts.  “Home Retail Group finds itself in a challenging
position,” Ramona Tipnis, an analyst at Shore Capital, who has
a “sell” recommendation on the stock, said this week before
today’s earnings. “Argos is faced with an increasingly
hamstrung consumer faced with falling disposable incomes and the
rising cost of living.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  