-- 
London Bank Staggers, Hides Debt in Cartwright Thriller: Books

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-10T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/london-bank-staggers-hides-toxic-debt-in-cartwright-thriller-interview.html
As a student studying philosophy,
politics and economics at Oxford, Justin Cartwright dropped the
economics after his first flummoxing year. His 12th novel
revisits the subject, gently satirizing the fate of a family-
owned bank on the brink of collapse.  “Other People’s Money” unfolds during  Gordon Brown ’s
premiership. As U.K. banks sink under bad loans and the country
slides into its worst recession in decades, Tubal & Co. finds
itself sitting on $800 million in toxic mortgages.  While Tubal’s former chairman, Sir Harry, fades away at his
villa on the French Riviera following a massive stroke, his son
Julian struggles to prop up the bank long enough to secure its
sale. This entails siphoning 250 million pounds ($405 million)
from a family trust in Liechtenstein and burying the loan in
paperwork. It’s fraud, and Julian knows it.  “The financial crisis seems desperately simple,”
Cartwright says over a late lunch and a chorus of piped cicadas
at Cigalon, a Provencal restaurant around the corner from C.
Hoare & Co., a private bank on  London ’s Fleet Street.  “Nobody really knew what was going on,” he says between
bites of stuffed courgette flowers and pollock. “They got above
themselves and thought it would go on forever, and it didn’t.
What’s interesting is the impact on human beings. The whole
point about this novel was that it should start with the
characters.”  ‘Weird as Snakes’  It was crucial, he says, that Julian be sympathetic rather
than a “capitalist swine.” And he is, in a bumbling sort of
way. Cajoled into banking when his older brother becomes a
nomadic hippy, Julian reacts to the stress by dreaming at night
of a boyhood pony that speaks to him. As his American wife
observes, “These Englishmen are as weird as snakes.”  Cartwright, 65, was himself born in  South Africa , the son
of the editor of the Rand Daily Mail. With his weathered face
and slight frame, he sits with a modest hunch in our large
lavender booth.  Though his native country lingers in his vowels, he has
lived in the U.K. since his student days. He was awarded the
title Member of the Order of the British Empire for his work on
campaign films for the Liberal and Social Democrat Parties in
the 1970s and ‘80s. He calls himself the first spin doctor.  He knows very little about banks, he confesses. To research
the book, he nosed round a Tubal-like institution to pick up
physical details and quizzed friends in finance.  One had worked at Barings Plc when it collapsed in 1995.
Another sent him to pick up a pair of shoes he had ordered from
cobbler  John Lobb . Sir Harry wears them, and their 4,000-pound
price tag becomes shorthand for the tasteful excess that defines
the moneyed.  Patina of Privilege  The Tubals have Jewish roots, and family portraits show
them getting taller, acquiring a patina of privilege and
illustrating Cartwright’s conviction that Britain’s class system
is far more permeable than popular belief allows.  “We talk about the class system, but it’s more a system of
snobbish antipathies,” he says. “When you meet very upper-
class people now, you get the sense that they’re faintly
ridiculous, an eccentric ornament.  “Clearly money is the new class. In that sense, we’re very
like America; the only thing that’s missing is a sense of
service.”  “Other People’s Money” is a state-of-the-nation novel,
and its title alludes to a grasping culture that’s no longer
limited to London’s financial district, the City, he says.  “The title isn’t exactly original but it does tell the
whole story in three words. It was other people’s money: Nobody
really cared until it all went horribly wrong.”  Money Versus Art  One recurring motif in the genre is the clash between money
and art, he says. The latter is represented in this case by
Artair, a septuagenarian Gaelic playwright who lives in a
Cornish lifeboat station and was once married to Sir Harry’s
trophy wife. The bank paid him off with a monthly grant, which
Julian axes during the crisis. Before long, a local newspaper
blogger begins investigating Tubal’s.  As the tension ratchets up, Julian finds himself becoming
more like his father. Does exposure to immense wealth
necessarily corrupt? Not at all, says Cartwright, though he
would welcome the chance to prove it.  As if in preparation, he has worn what he calls his only
suit, an  Ozwald Boateng . Leaving the restaurant, though, he dons
a parka and a motorcycle helmet, making him look more Artair
than Julian.  “Other People’s Money” is published by Bloomsbury (259
pages, 18.99 pounds, $15).  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley at   jpressley@bloomberg.net . 