-- 
One in Four Hedge Funds Clearing Swaps Ahead of U.S. Reforms, UBS Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-03-10T17:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/one-in-four-hedge-funds-clearing-swaps-ahead-of-u-s-reforms-ubs-says.html
One in four  hedge funds  is already
clearing over-the-counter derivative trades, up from none in
October, prior to new rules requiring changes later this year to
the $583 trillion market, according to analysts at UBS AG.  Most interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps bought
and sold by money managers will be required to processed by a
clearinghouse later this year under new U.S. regulations. UBS
analysts lead by Alex Kramm in New York surveyed money managers
to gauge how they’re reacting to the changes, following an
initial survey in October, they said in a note to clients today.  “The results from the current survey seem to indicate an
increasing level of urgency on the buy side around preparing for
the clearing of OTC derivatives,” Kramm said in the note.  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  and the Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc.,
also known as ICE, will benefit most for the change in the swaps
market, Kramm said. “We prefer ICE given the higher near-term
upside potential,” he said.  Congress last year mandated that most OTC derivatives trade
on exchanges or similar electronic systems and be processed by
clearinghouses after credit-default swaps contributed to the
financial crisis. The overall unregulated swaps market also made
it difficult to determine how interconnected banks had become by
trading the contracts.  The survey respondents by type included 26 percent from
hedge funds, 39 percent by asset managers, 17 percent by banks
and 17 percent by other investors, according to the note. Half
of the firms were located in  Europe , 35 percent were in the U.S.
while 11 percent were in  Asia .  ‘More Expensive’  About 78 percent of money managers said the changes to the
swaps market would make using the contracts “prohibitively more
expensive,” “significantly more expensive” or ”more
expensive,” according to the survey. Clearinghouses require
margin to be pledged against trades, a practice that doesn’t
always occur in the private swaps market.  LCH.Clearnet Ltd. , the world’s largest interest-rate swap
clearinghouse, was predicted to capture most of that business,
according to 47 percent of respondents. CME Group, based in  Chicago , was next, with 29 percent saying they will clear rates
swaps there.  Intercontinental’s two credit-default swaps clearinghouses
were expected to get the majority of that business, according to
44 percent of the money managers. CME was next with 27 percent
saying they expected to clear credit swaps there.  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members,
increase stability in OTC derivatives markets because they
lessen the effect of a default by sharing the risk among the
members and use daily margining procedures to keep accounts
current. They also allow regulators to see market positions and
prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 