-- 
Look Models Accused in Lawsuit of Falsely Claiming to Represent Tunisian

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-03-10T18:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/look-models-accused-in-lawsuit-of-falsely-claiming-to-represent-tunisian.html
Look Models International Inc. was
sued in U.S. court by Tunisian fashion model  Hanaa Ben Abdesslem 
for more than $20 million in damages over claims the agency
falsely purported to represent her.  Abdesslem, 20, contends in a complaint filed March 8 in
Delaware that Look Models and Wolfgang Schwarz of  Miami Beach , a
principal of the company, set up a website featuring photographs
of her without her permission. She alleges civil fraud and
deceptive trade practices.  “Schwarz refused to stop publishing Ms. Abdesslem’s
pictures on the Internet,” Abdesslem said in court papers filed
by her attorney,  Rex A. Donnelly .  The photos, narrative materials and posted comments were
“perpetrated maliciously” with the aim of “confusing and
convincing” potential clients that there was an affiliation,
according to the complaint.  Abdesslem asked for a  jury trial , unspecified lost profits,
$20 million in punitive damages and an order requiring the
removal of all unauthorized pictures and materials from the
Internet, court papers show.  Officials of Look Models and Schwarz weren’t immediately
available today at their U.S. office in Dover, Delaware, to
comment on the lawsuit, and didn’t answer a telephone at their
office in Vienna, or an e-mail message, after business hours.  “Abdesslem has been recognized as having the talent and
earning potential possessed by very few of the thousands of
models working around the world” and Look Models has allegedly
interfered with her prospects of getting lucrative contracts
with top firms such as the IMG Worldwide Inc. agency and
nightwear maker Hanro International GmbH, according to court
papers.  The case is Abdesslem v. Look Models International Inc.,
11-cv-00198, U.S. District Court, District of  Delaware 
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 