-- 
Loomis May Buy Least-Favored Euro-Region Debt If Prices Decline Enough

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-10T16:23:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/loomis-may-buy-least-favored-euro-region-debt-if-prices-decline-enough.html
Loomis Sayles & Co, which oversees
$152 billion, may buy debt from the euro-region’s most indebted
countries should prices fall enough to offset the risk of
default or restructuring.  Irish 10-year bonds would need to fall to 60 cents of face
value, from about 72 today before he buys, Boston-based Matthew Eagan, a money manager who helps oversee funds including the
Loomis Sayles Bond Fund and Absolute Strategies Fund, said in an
interview in  London  today. He would invest in equivalent-
maturity Portuguese bonds at 70 percent of face value, compared
with 75 percent today, while Greek debt, currently trading at 66
cents on the euro, becomes attractive at 50 cents, he said.  “At that level there’s value for those securities,
factoring in the possibility of a possible restructuring,” he
said. “If you buy and they don’t restructure you’d make a
fortune.”  The value of bonds issued by the most-indebted euro-region
nations have plunged in the past year on concern governments
won’t be able to fully repay their obligations. Ireland followed
Greece last year in taking bailout funds from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund  after their borrowing costs
became unsustainable.    Portugal  will be next to ask for international aid,
according to Eagan. The yield on Portugal’s 10-year bond surged
yesterday to 7.70 percent, the most since before the euro made
its debut in 1999.  ‘Dynamic’ Ireland  Irish 10-year yields fell five basis points to 9.50 percent
as of 4:19 p.m. in London. Equivalent Greek yields were 15 basis
points lower at 12.75 percent, and Portuguese 10-year bonds
yielded 7.49 percent.  Ireland’s bonds have handed investors a loss of 2.2 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  Loomis Sayles owns some Irish, Portuguese and Greek
sovereign bonds, he said, declining to say how much.  Eagan would be “willing to bet on” Ireland, he said.
“It’s a more dynamic economy, more competitive and has some
underlying fundamental strengths to it that I think are lacking
in Portugal and  Greece .”  Boston-based Loomis Sayles is a unit of  Natixis Global
Asset Management  LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 