-- 
Loomis Bets on Asian Currency `Surrender' as Central Banks Fight Inflation

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-10T21:59:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/loomis-bets-on-asian-currency-surrender-as-central-banks-fight-inflation.html
Loomis Sayles & Co. is betting that
food and energy inflation will prompt central banks in emerging
markets including  Indonesia  and South  Korea  to raise  interest
rates  and “surrender” the fight against currency gains.  The Bank of Korea yesterday increased its benchmark rate
for the second time this year after consumer price gains
exceeded its targeted ceiling for two consecutive months. Policy
makers in nations including  China , Indonesia and  Thailand 
already added to borrowing costs in 2011 as food costs climbed
last month to a record. South Africa’s finance minister and
Indonesia’s deputy central bank governor said in February that
stronger currencies may mitigate rising prices.  “We’re seeing a greater likelihood of stronger currency
appreciation in a lot of the emerging markets, including in non-
Japan Asia markets,” said  David Rolley , co-head of global fixed
income at Loomis, which manages $152 billion in assets. “If
you’re going to fight the inflation war, maybe you have to
surrender the currency war,” he said in an interview in Sydney
yesterday.  Economists at  Barclays Capital  estimated in a Feb. 25
report that prices are accelerating at a 6 percent rate in
emerging economies, compared with less than 2 percent in
developed nations.  Food, Oil Prices  An index of 55 food commodities rose 2.2 percent to a
record in February, the eighth consecutive gain, the United
Nation’s Food and Agriculture Organization said March 3. Grain
costs may continue to rise in the next several months, with only
rice keeping the world from a repeat of the crisis three years
ago, the agency said.  At the same time, unrest in North Africa and the Middle
East pushed crude oil for April delivery to $105.44 on March 7,
the highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008.  The Indonesian rupiah has risen 2.4 percent this year to
8,783 per dollar as of 8:36 a.m. in Sydney, the biggest gainer
in  Asia  followed by the Malaysian ringgit,  Singapore ’s dollar
and the Philippine peso. The yuan is the fifth-best performer
with a 0.5 percent advance.  Bank Indonesia on Feb. 4 unexpectedly raised its reference
rate by a quarter-point while the Bank of Thailand increased the
one-day bond repurchase rate on March 9. The People’s Bank of
China boosted borrowing costs by 0.25 percentage point on Feb.
9, the third such change in four months.  Real, Won  Investors seeking to bet on China’s growth may boost
currencies such as those of  Brazil  and  South Korea  as they buy
assets which will benefit from expansion in the world’s fastest-
growing major economy, Rolley said.  Loomis also favors investments in the debt of
communications companies as a cushion against the risk that
surging food and energy prices will dent growth.  “We never want a portfolio to be about a single idea,”
said Rolley. “Something we don’t see as terribly correlated
with the global commodities, terms-of-trade theme that we’ve
been emphasizing would be a completely other industry --
communications.”  Loomis is also buying the debt of hospitals that are likely
to benefit from U.S. health-care legislation requiring everyone
to obtain insurance, Rolley said. That would expand the number
of Americans with private coverage by 16 million, according to
an estimate from the Congressional Budget Office.  The firm owns bonds sold by AT&T Inc., Sprint Nextel Corp.
and Verizon Communications Inc., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on regulatory filings. It also owns 2.6 percent
of the outstanding debt of HCA Holdings Inc., the U.S. hospital
operator that on March 9 said it raised $3.79 billion in its
initial public offering, the data show.    South Africa ’s Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said Feb. 23
that a “rapid” weakening of the rand may fuel inflation. His
comments were echoed a day later by Indonesian central bank
Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono, who said policy makers will let
the rupiah strengthen to help keep prices in check.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net .
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  