-- 
Orange Juice Falls on Surprise USDA Boost in Florida Crop Data

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   C h r i s   P r e n t i c e
-- 
2011-03-10T20:07:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/orange-juice-prices-drop-as-usda-unexpectedly-boosts-florida-crop-forecast.html
  Orange-juice  futures fell to a
three-week low after the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
unexpectedly boosted its estimate of the Florida orange crop,
signaling damage from a December frost was less severe than
estimated.  Growers in Florida, the world’s second-largest producer,
will collect 142 million boxes of oranges in the harvest that
began in October and runs into July, the USDA said today in a
report. That was up 2.9 percent from 138 million projected in
February, marking the first increase in four months.  Five analysts in a Bloomberg News survey projected a crop
of 136.2 million boxes, on average. Two weeks ago, orange juice
reached the highest price since April 2007 after the adverse
weather in  Florida  in December and January. PepsiCo. Inc.’s
Tropicana unit, the largest purchaser of Florida fruit and
juice, plans to raise prices on some products.  “The raised count is so surprising,” said Michael Smith,
the president of T&K Futures & Options Inc. in  Port St. Lucie ,
Florida. “Looking at the crop conditions, I was expecting them
to lower the box count.”  Orange juice for May delivery fell 3.8 cents, or 2.2
percent, to settle at $1.7025 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York , the biggest drop since Feb. 28. Earlier, the
most-active contract touched $1.668, the lowest since Feb. 16.  The price gained 17 percent in the three months ended Feb.
28, reaching $1.82 on Feb. 24, the highest since April 11, 2007.  The commodity may drop to $1.64 in the next few sessions,
Smith said.  ‘Significant Increase’  “Four million is a significant increase, especially when
the market was pricing in unchanged to lower projections,” said  Boyd Cruel , a senior analyst at Vision Financial Markets in  Chicago .  Tropicana said today in an e-mail that it plans to boost
prices by 4 percent to 8 percent. The company said it buys about
a third of Florida’s citrus crop annually.  The USDA last month reduced its estimate for the Florida
crop by 1.4 percent. In the previous season, the harvest totaled
133.6 million boxes, the second-smallest since 1990. A box
weighs about 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  ‘Complicated’ Forecast  “The late-maturing crop and the freeze has complicated the
forecasting,” Michael W. Sparks, the chief executive officer of
 Florida Citrus Mutual , a trade organization in Lakeland, said
today in a statement. “This should put us closer to the final
season number, but the crop estimate is an ongoing process.”  The increase follows an “uptick in early and midseason
varieties,” the organization said.  Yields in Florida will average 1.57 gallons per box,
unchanged from the February estimate and up from 1.56 gallons
last year, the USDA said.  In the four weeks ended Feb. 19, average retail orange-
juice prices rose 5.9 percent to $5.79 a gallon form a year
earlier, the Florida Department of Citrus said in a report on
March 8, citing Nielsen Co. data. Sales U.S. retailers fell 3.8
percent to 47.71 million gallons.  Estimated volume on ICE was 2,527 contracts, compared with
a daily average of 2,802 in the previous three months.    Brazil  is the world’s largest orange grower.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Prentice in New York at 
 Cprentice3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 