-- 
More U.S. Citizens Toss Passports as IRS Seeks Hidden Assets

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-03-11T20:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/more-u-s-citizens-unpledge-allegiance-as-irs-scours-the-world-for-assets.html
The number of U.S. taxpayers
renouncing their citizenship more than doubled to 1,534 in 2010
from 742 in 2009, according to the  Internal Revenue Service .  More taxpayers renounced their U.S. citizenship in 2010
than in the previous three years combined, or in any year since
at least 2003, according to data compiled by Andrew Mitchel, an
 international tax attorney  in Essex,  Connecticut .  The increase was prompted in part by the U.S. government’s
growing efforts to find and tax the hidden assets of U.S.
citizens around the world. Taxpayers who were thinking about
giving up their citizenship now have more reasons to make the
move to put them outside the IRS’s reach, said Peter Connors, a
partner at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP in  New York .  “There’s going to be more expatriation,” he said. “It’s
a general issue of the power of the U.S. and people concluding
they can get what they need by living outside the U.S.”  Every quarter, the IRS publishes in the  Federal Register  a
list of U.S. citizens who expatriate. People who want to give up
their citizenship must appear in person before a U.S. consular
or diplomatic officer in another country and sign an oath of
renunciation, according to the U.S. State Department.  Paying Income Taxes  For 2011, U.S. citizens with a net worth of more than $2
million or with average annual income taxes exceeding $147,000
for the past five years must pay income taxes on the value of
their assets as if they were sold the day before the
expatriation, according to the IRS. They can benefit from an
exclusion of $636,000.  Mitchel said changes in the law in 2008 eliminated
requirements that some expatriates file tax returns for 10 years
after leaving the U.S. The law now allows noncitizens to spend
more time in the U.S. without being taxed as residents.  In recent years, Congress and the IRS have increased their
scrutiny of the offshore financial assets of U.S. citizens. The
IRS recently announced the second round of a voluntary
disclosure program that allows U.S. taxpayers with undisclosed
assets in other countries to pay a penalty and likely avoid
prosecution.  Taxpayers have until Aug. 31 to participate in the program,
which requires those who come forward to pay up to 25 percent of
the highest annual amount in the account from 2003 through 2010,
plus back taxes, interest and other penalties for those years.  Complex Rules  “The U.S. tax rules for U.S. citizens living overseas can
be quite complex,” Mitchel wrote in an e-mail. “The increase
in awareness of the penalties has caused many individuals with
dual citizenship to conclude that their U.S. citizenship is not
worth the stress and hassle of the U.S. tax-filing rules.”  Also, starting in 2013, overseas banks will face a 30
percent withholding tax on income from U.S. assets if they fail
to share information about American account holders. The
potential penalty may prompt U.S. citizens to disclose their
assets.  Adding to the desire for some wealthy taxpayers to give up
their U.S. citizenship was the uncertainty surrounding the fate
of the estate tax for much of 2010, said Scott Michel, a tax
lawyer at Caplin & Drysdale in  Washington .  Congress in December passed, and Obama signed into law,
legislation establishing an estate tax through 2012 with a top
rate of 35 percent and an exemption of $5 million per person. If
Congress hadn’t acted, the tax would have gone to a 55 percent
top rate, with a $1 million exclusion, on Jan. 1.  “In a number of the expatriation cases I’ve seen, you have
people who have accumulated a fairly significant fortune,”
Michel said. “They have a lot of their lives overseas and saw
how much their estate might pay and asked: ‘Why would we do
that?’ They saw it as a steep price for a blue passport.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  