-- 
Moroccan King’s Advisor Sees ‘Historic Opportunity’ for Change

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-10T12:36:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/moroccan-king-s-advisor-sees-historic-opportunity-for-change.html
  Morocco  has a “historical
opportunity” to speed up reforms said André Azoulay, a senior
adviser to King Mohammed VI of Morocco. He spoke late yesterday
at the British Council in London.  On why Morocco is unlikely to see the same kind of unrest as
other Arab countries:  “I feel more than ever confident about my country, and I
feel very excited. The status quo is over everywhere and it
could be over for the better and the good. In my country also,
things will be different tomorrow.  “Let me tell you why the situation is different in Morocco
and why I feel confident.  “We have been in a culture of reforms for at least 20
years. Let me remind you that my country in 1961 was the only
country in the region to make the one party system forbidden by
the constitution, and at that time it wasn’t an easy decision.  “We also decided to have a market economy and not a state-
owned, planned economy.  “In 1962, we made the first amendment to the constitution,
and it was written that men and women are equal and have the
same responsibilities.  “We have enough resources in our history, assets,
experience, and credibility because of all that was done to move
forward and to change things.  “There will be no break in Morocco -- we will move, we
will change, we are ready and we have been in this posture for
such a long time, and we are doing it for ourselves, we aren’t
doing it to please any one or to follow any one.  “We have a historical opportunity to go deeper and speed
up this process of reform that we have been in for such a long
time.”  On the unrest in the rest of the Arab world, and outcome:  The revolution in  Egypt  was “a wake-up call” and there
will be “dramatic and deep changes.”  “It will be up and down, and difficult, and long, but I
have no doubt about the end.  “I am very optimistic because what is emerging will create
a new rhetoric regarding Islam, which is a central issue. We
will finally understand why those who said Islam is a problem
said it was a problem and why they were wrong; and those who
thought Islam was a solution will see the limit of that.  “The theory of the clash of civilizations, of culture,
became part of the international rhetoric and we are touching
the end of it because this building is falling down.  “Modernity is universal and for all of us. It is our
common desire and vision.  “I see this new age, new vision, new realities, and new
deal for tomorrow as the beginning of the real post-colonial
period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 