-- 
Mortgage Brokers Ask Judge to Block Fed Rule on Loan Fees

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-10T23:20:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/mortgage-brokers-ask-judge-to-block-fed-rule-on-loan-fees-1-.html
The National Association of
Mortgage Brokers asked a U.S. judge to block a Federal Reserve
rule limiting commissions for loan officers in mortgage
transactions, alleging it will prevent brokers from paying their
employees.  The  trade group , which represents 70,000 mortgage brokers,
sued the Fed in federal court in  Washington  yesterday saying new
lending regulations scheduled to take effect April 1 unfairly
penalize brokers, who won’t be able to pay loan officers from
consumer-paid fees. The group is asking for a temporary
restraining order and a preliminary injunction.  “Paying loan originators salaries is not workable because
most mortgage brokers do not have sufficient loan volume to make
salaried loan officers an economically viable option,” the
association said in its complaint, adding that the regulation
will drive more business to banks.  The Fed rule, part of the central bank’s ongoing effort to
fix weaknesses in mortgage finance, is aimed at preventing
mortgage originators from receiving more compensation for
selling home loans with higher  interest rates .  The Fed asked the court today to merge the brokers’ case
with a related challenge filed by the National Association of
Independent Housing Professionals on March 8.  Susan Stawick, a Fed spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The brokers group said large banks and other lenders will
be able to offer commission to their employees because the
definition of “loan originator” in the Fed Board of Governors’
rule doesn’t include creditors.  “In carving out this exception, the Board provided no
rational basis for discriminating between mortgage brokers, on
the one hand, and creditors on the other,” the association said
in the complaint.  The case is National Association of Mortgage Brokers v.
Board of Governors of the  Federal Reserve System , 11-cv-00506,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 