-- 
OSC to Focus on `Regulatory' Issues in Review of TMX Sale, Wetston Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-10T17:37:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/osc-to-focus-on-regulatory-issues-in-review-of-tmx-sale-wetston-says.html
The Ontario Securities Commission
will focus on “regulatory aspects” in its review of the
proposed sale of the  TMX Group Inc. (X)  to the  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE) , said commission Chairman Howard Wetston.  “While exchanges operate in a global arena and
consolidation is ongoing, it remains the responsibility of the
local regulators to ensure regulatory oversight continues to be
strong and effective,” Wetston told an Ontario legislative
committee reviewing the sale.  Ontario’s securities regulator was the last to speak to the
committee, capping four days of hearings on the C$3.2 billion
($3.28 billion) takeover of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner by
LSE.  “A number of people seem to be very certain about matters,
which from my perspective are very uncertain,” Wetston said.  The Ontario Securities Commission hasn’t received an
application from the TMX or LSE, which it needs to begin its
review. The London exchange owner agreed Feb. 9 to buy TMX in an
all-stock transaction that would give LSE shareholders 55
percent of the combined company, and TMX investors the rest.  “While it appears that this is uncharted territory, we do
have an established framework that will allow us to examine the
regulatory aspects of the proposed transaction with a view to
assessing whether it is in the public interest to provide the
required approvals.”  OSC Hearing  Ontario’s regulator will continue to oversee  Canada ’s main
stock exchange, and the U.K.’s regulator, the Financial Services
Authority, “will not be regulating our exchange,” Wetston
said.  “There would be no question that we would resist any
watering down or diminution of our regulatory oversight or
responsibility,” Wetston said.  The OSC will hold its own hearing on the deal. The
regulator will consider the final results of the all-party
committee in its review, but won’t consider submissions
presented at the committee, Wetston said.  “If they want us to take into account their
considerations, they’re going to have to appear before the
commission,” Wetston told reporters after the hearing.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Doug
Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloobmerg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  