-- 
Household Worth in U.S. Increases by $2.1 Trillion on Stock Gains, Saving

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-10T20:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/household-wealth-in-u-s-rose-by-2-1-trillion-in-fourth-quarter-fed-says.html
Household wealth in the U.S.
climbed by $2.1 trillion in the fourth quarter of 2010 as share
prices rose and families rebuilt finances tattered by the
recession.  Net worth for households and non-profit groups increased at
a 16.6 percent annual pace to $56.8 trillion after rising at a
9.1 percent rate in the previous three months, the Washington-
based  Federal Reserve  said today in its Flow of Funds report.
American households also cut debt for an 11th consecutive
quarter.  “We’re continuing this slow, grinding process of working
down the degree of leverage in the household sector,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It was a big quarter for the stock
market, so household net worth shot up, and that’s certainly a
plus.”  The 10.2 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index last quarter helped boost household wealth that remains
about $9 trillion below pre-recession levels. Declining home
values and unemployment near 9 percent are prompting Americans
to increase savings and cut debt, curbing spending now while
building a foundation for future growth.  The value of corporate equities owned by American
households increased by $1 trillion in the fourth quarter,
today’s report showed, as the Fed’s planned purchases of $600
billion in Treasuries through June pushed investors into riskier
assets.  Real Estate  The value of real estate held by households slid by $244
billion following the prior quarter’s $629 billion drop, marking
the first back-to-back quarterly declines since early 2009, when
the economy was still in a recession. The 18-month contraction
that ended in June 2009 was the longest since the Great
Depression, according to the  National Bureau of Economic
Research .  Home values may keep falling as unemployment causes
foreclosures to mount. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 U.S. fell 2.4 percent in December from a year
earlier, and 18 of 20 cities showed a year-over-year decline.  Owners’ equity as a share of total real-estate holdings
fell to 38.5 percent last quarter from 39.1 percent in the prior
three months.  Americans have cut debt and increased savings to cope with
an  unemployment rate  that averaged 9.6 percent last year. The
rate fell to 8.9 percent in February, the Labor Department said
last week.    Consumer Spending   Consumer spending rose at a 4.1 percent annual pace in the
fourth quarter, the most in four years, according to Commerce
Department data. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg in February
forecast spending growth of 3.15 percent in the first half of
2011.  A surge in gasoline prices caused by turmoil in the Middle
East may prompt consumers to slow spending, paring economic
growth. The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline at the
pump rose to $3.53 yesterday, the highest since October 2008.  Economists raised their projections for growth this year
after the Obama administration’s December agreement with
Congressional Republicans on extending Bush-era tax cuts. The
accord also included a break on payroll taxes, an extension of
emergency unemployment benefits and corporate depreciation of
100 percent of investments in capital equipment this year.  Corporate Profits  Corporate profits have risen every quarter since the first
three months of 2009 and were up 2.8 percent from July through
September. Through March 8, 68 percent of S&P 500 companies
reporting fourth-quarter earnings had positive surprises,
according to Bloomberg data.  Today’s Fed report showed companies had $1.9 trillion in
cash and other liquid assets at the end of the fourth quarter, a
record.  Household credit fell at a 0.6 percent rate in the fourth
quarter. Mortgage borrowing fell at a 1.3 percent pace,
reflecting rising defaults and less lending, while other forms
of  consumer credit  rose 2 percent.  Total borrowing by consumers, government agencies and
businesses excluding financial firms increased at an annual rate
of 5.1 percent last quarter, led by a 15 percent gain for the
federal government. Borrowing by businesses increased 3.6
percent.  Lending to Small Companies  The Obama administration is seeking to boost lending to
small companies.  The Small Business Lending Fund, passed by Congress in
September, has begun accepting applications from banks for
capital at subsidized rates as low as 1 percent if the banks
expand lending to small companies. The capital, available only
to banks with less than $10 billion in assets, could generate
total new lending of as much as $300 billion, according to the
Treasury Department.  “I think this will help some businesses in some regions,
but is it the whole answer to our economic problems?” Greg
Ohlendorf, president of First Community Bank and Trust in
Beecher,  Illinois , said last week. “No, it’s not. But it will
help.”  To contact the report on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  