-- 
House Panel Approves Measure to Block EPA Carbon Rules

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-03-10T18:32:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/house-panel-approves-republican-measure-to-block-u-s-epa-s-carbon-rules.html
A Republican-led House panel
approved a measure today that would block U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency greenhouse-gas rules and reject the agency’s
finding that carbon-dioxide emissions endanger the public.  The House Subcommittee on Energy and Power approved the
legislation, which will be sent to the full House Energy and
Commerce Committee, by voice vote. A similar bill in the Senate
hasn’t been taken up yet.  President  Barack Obama ’s EPA is under fire from Republicans
and some Democrats who say the rules will hurt the economy and
do nothing to help the environment. The agency began regulating
emissions blamed for climate change in January after Congress
failed to pass cap-and-trade legislation, in which companies
would buy and sell a shrinking supply of pollution rights.  “EPA’s regulations are a back-door attempt by unelected
bureaucrats to implement the highly unpopular cap-and-trade
legislation that was rejected last year,” House Energy and
Commerce Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican
and sponsor of the bill, said before today’s vote.  The House legislation would bar EPA’s rules for industrial
polluters under the Clean Air Act, while allowing a previous
agreement the Obama administration reached with automakers to
cut vehicle tailpipe emissions. The measure declares EPA’s 2009
finding, that  greenhouse gases  pose a health danger, without
merit.  Democratic Representatives Collin Peterson of  Minnesota ,
Nick Rahall of  West Virginia  and Dan Boren of Oklahoma support
the measure.  ‘Logical Response’  The legislation is a “logical response to environmental
overkill,” Representative  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican and
climate-change skeptic, said today during the hearing.  Representative Bobby Rush, an Illinois Democrat, called the
bill “extreme and excessive,” and Representative Henry Waxman
of  California , the ranking Democrat on the committee, said the
measure amounts to a denial of science.  “In short, it is anti-science,” Waxman said. “A know-
nothing, do-nothing approach to the most challenging
environmental problem of our time.”  Representative Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat,
mocked the Republican lawmakers’ stance, questioning whether
they would next try to reverse the physical laws of gravity or
Einstein’s Theory of Relativity.  “With this bill, pollution levels will rise, oil imports
will rise, temperatures will rise,” Markey said.  Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican and
chairman of the Energy and Power subcommittee, said that even if
human-caused  climate change  is real, the EPA regulations would
do nothing to stop it.  ‘They Are Not’  The legislation “isn’t about whether the science shows
global warming to be a problem, it’s about whether EPA’s
regulations are sensible,” he said. “They are not.”  The EPA is regulating greenhouse gases in phases, starting
with large emitters such as  power plants  and oil refineries. The
rules that went into effect Jan. 2 require such polluters to
apply for state permits if they build or expand operations.
Existing facilities aren’t affected.  The decision about what types of controls may be needed to
curb greenhouse gases is made on a case-by-case basis. The EPA,
which has chosen not to regulate all the polluters covered by
the federal  Clean Air Act , has said it will propose a second
phase of the greenhouse-gas rules in July.  Representative John Shimkus, an Illinois Republican, today
called the regulations a “job destroyer.”  Upton, Whitfield  Upton and Whitfield said yesterday that their attempt to
block the greenhouse-gas rules is part of a legislative plan to
stop rising gas prices. The EPA regulations may force oil
refiners out of business, according to the lawmakers.  Representative Mike Doyle, a Pennsylvania Democrat, said it
wasn’t responsible of Republican lawmakers to erroneously
connect EPA’s rule with gas prices.  “Scaring the American people into supporting this bill is
as irresponsible as it is untruthful,” he said today.  Doyle also said he’s willing to work on a compromise EPA
measure that protects U.S. manufacturers.  Markey said legislation to stop EPA will not survive in the
Democratic-controlled Senate.  “This bill will live in the House while simultaneously
being dead in the Senate,” Markey said today. “It will be the
legislative Schrodinger’s cat killed by the quantum mechanics of
the legislative process.”  The bill sponsored by Senator James Inhofe, an  Oklahoma 
Republican who says the idea of man-made climate change is a
hoax, so far has one Democratic co-sponsor, Senator  Joe Manchin 
of West Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  