-- 
House Subcommittee Withholds Lease Approval Pending GSA Data

-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 
2011-03-10T19:16:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/house-subcommittee-withholds-lease-approval-pending-gsa-data.html
A Congressional subcommittee is
refusing to approve new leases for federal office space until it
receives information requested on public buildings from the  General Services Administration .  The GSA has yet to specify revenue generated by the
properties it manages in the  Washington  area, in spite of
repeated requests, Jeff Denham, a California Republican who
heads the subcommittee for public buildings, said today. The
subcommittee, part of the House transportation and
infrastructure committee, also wants the agency to call for bids
to remodel the Old Post Office Building in Washington, he said.  The committee has made reducing spending on vacant and
underused buildings a priority. The federal government, the
largest building owner in the U.S., rents 52 percent of the
space used for its more than 1 million employees not involved in
defense. The Old Post Office, half a mile (0.8 kilometer) from
the White House, is one-third empty, and 15 percent of a
building for Environmental Protection Agency workers is unused.  GSA Public Buildings Commissioner Robert Peck said he will
be able to satisfy requests for revenue information in the
coming days.  Congress passed  legislation  in 2008 to force the GSA to
redevelop the Old Post Office, which was built in 1899 and has a
clock tower that offers a view of the city.    Government Properties Income Trust (GOV) , a Newton,
Massachusetts-based real estate investment trust, JBG Companies,
the biggest federal landlord in Washington,  Highwoods Properties
Inc. (HIW) , a Raleigh, North Carolina-based firm, and Edison, New
Jersey-based  Mack-Cali Realty Corp. (CLI)  are among companies that
lease to government tenants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nishad Majmudar in Washington at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Cary O’Reilly at 
 caryoreilly@bloomberg.net  