-- 
Pennsylvania’s Baby Boomers Stay and Go Gray, 2010 Census Shows

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-03-10T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/pennsylvania-s-baby-boomers-stay-and-go-gray-2010-census-shows.html
While suffering through another
snowy winter in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania , last month, Dolores
Pohl said she’d sometimes wonder how nice the Florida sunshine
would feel on her face. Then the 59-year-old would consider more
basic needs and go back to shoveling.  Pohl and her husband are among a growing number of
Pennsylvanians who have forsaken thoughts of a Sunbelt
retirement because the benefits in their home state are so
generous, population-trend experts say.  Pennsylvania , which has
the third-largest percentage of residents older than 65 in the
U.S., saw its under-18 population decline in the last decade,
according to  U.S. Census Bureau  figures released yesterday.  “I don’t think I could ever leave Pennsylvania,” said
Pohl, whose husband, Jim, 66, retired as a retail clerk from the
state Liquor Control Board. “We feel lucky to live in a state
that provides good services for its older folks.”  Pennsylvania’s overall population grew 3.4 percent in the
last 10 years to 12,702,379, according to the 2010 Census. That
growth, the same as the previous decade, helped it remain the
nation’s sixth-largest state. Philadelphia showed its first
population gain since 1950 with an increase in black, Asian and
Hispanic residents making up for a loss in white population.  Still, the number of residents 17 years old or younger
declined 4.5 percent, census figures show.  Beyond Child-Bearing  “More people have moved beyond their child-bearing
years,” in Pennsylvania than in some other states, said  William Frey , a demographer at the Washington-based  Brookings
Institution . Since more of the baby-boomer generation is
staying, “Pennsylvania’s population will continue to” be
dominated by older residents, Frey said.  That may mean budget battles ahead, as in many states
struggling with shrinking revenue. Medicaid costs escalated to
$5.5 billion in the current budget from about $3.1 billion in
the 2000 fiscal year. Elderly Pennsylvanians account for 15
percent of those enrolled in the program, according to the
Department of Public Welfare.  Frey also found that Hispanics account for 77 percent of
the state’s growth, and the gains are tilted toward the eastern
part, including suburban Philadelphia, Lehigh Valley, Lancaster,
Reading and Harrisburg. Most of the decline in the under-18
population occurred in western Pennsylvania.  White Population Falls  Since 2000, the non-Hispanic white population fell 2.2
percent to 10,094,652, and whites now account for 79.5 percent
of the population, 2010 Census data show. Blacks were up 10.4
percent to 1,327,091 and now make up 10.4 percent of the
population. Asians rose 58.6 percent to 346,288 and make up 2.7
percent. Across the state, the Hispanic population rose 82.6
percent to 719,660, the data show.  The  U.S. population  grew to 308,745,538 residents since the
last census count in 2000. That’s up 9.7 percent, compared with
13 percent the previous decade, figures show. The South and West
gained at the Northeast’s expense in the 2010 census.  The slowing pace of  population growth  in northeastern
states is a decades-long trend spurred, in part, by the region’s
loss of manufacturing jobs, said  Janice Madden , a  University of
Pennsylvania  sociology professor who follows population shifts.
Payrolls at Pennsylvania manufacturers declined 35 percent over
the past 10 years, according to  U.S. Department of Labor  data.  Losing Political Clout  Pennsylvania’s tepid population growth means the loss of
another  U.S. House of Representatives  seat, the eighth-straight
time the state’s congressional delegation has been reduced by a
census count, said Terry Madonna, director of the Center for
Politics and Public Affairs at  Franklin & Marshall College  in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania.  “Pennsylvania, which once had 30 House seats, will be down
to 18” when Republicans finish the state redistricting process,
Madonna said in an interview. Republicans control both houses of
the  state General Assembly  and the governor’s seat.  Mark Critz, a House Democrat who represents Pennsylvania’s
12th Congressional District, is likely to have his seat
redistricted out of existence, Madonna said. Critz won a special
election in May after Representative Jack Murtha died. Critz
worked as a long-time aide to Murtha, an 18-term Democrat from
western Pennsylvania who served as head of a House defense
appropriations subcommittee.  Anemic growth combined with an aging population means
Pennsylvania will “continue to lose seats and lose clout in  Washington ,” Madonna added.  Trailing Florida  Pennsylvania, which trails only Florida and  West Virginia 
in its percentage of residents over 65, had the 12th-biggest
decline compared with other states in the under-18 population
category, according to census figures for 2000 to 2009.  Pennsylvania officials project that by 2020, the number of
residents aged 60 or older will increase by 9 percent to 2.6
million people, according to a  state Department of Aging 
website.  That department oversees services offered to the elderly,
including helping some 65-and-older residents pay prescription-
drug costs and assistance in finding long-term care services.
Pensioners also receive tax breaks from the state.  Cities for Seniors  A  2005 survey  by CNO Financial Group Inc.’s Bankers Life &
Casualty Company unit, which specializes in insurance coverage
for elderly customers, listed two Pennsylvania cities --
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh -- among its top 10 best nationally
for seniors. The survey cited Philadelphia’s “superb assisted-
and independent-living facilities” for helping make the city
attractive to older residents.  Those kinds of services helped persuade Pohl, a part-time
bookkeeper, and her husband, who also worked at Bethlehem Steel
Corp. and then a state liquor store, to stay in Pennsylvania’s
Lehigh Valley, she said.  Patricia Wilczynski, 67, of Browndale, near Scranton, said
she and her husband moved from central  New Jersey  in the past
decade to avoid high taxes and finds “Pennsylvania is good to
seniors.”  Senior benefits include a reduced $10 annual automobile
registration fee and a $250 per-year tax rebate that ultimately
comes from casino revenue in the state, she said.  And as retirees, without earned income, “We don’t pay
Pennsylvania state income tax,” Wilczynski said.  Can’t Move  The recent drop in housing prices spurred by problems with
subprime mortgages also has discouraged some Pennsylvania
seniors from heading south, Massie “Hoot” Gibson, a retired  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft worker from the Philadelphia suburb of
Lansdowne, said in an interview.  “The cost of moving is too high and you can’t sell your
house,” said Gibson, 73. “You fix up your home and you don’t
want to leave it.”  The bulge in elderly residents has some Pennsylvania real-
estate developers considering projects for more 55-and-older
communities across the state, said Stuart Shapiro, chief
executive officer of the  Pennsylvania Health Care Association , a
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania-based lobbying group for long-term care
providers such as nursing homes.  “I talked with a developer recently who wanted to push
ahead with one of these projects now that problems with the
credit markets have eased,” Shapiro said. “I think we’ll see
significant growth in that area over the next decade.”  Nursing Home Boomlet  The state also could see a boomlet in nursing-home
construction by 2020, said Paul Bach, an executive with Kennett
Square, Pennsylvania-based Genesis Healthcare Corp. The company
provides long-term nursing care facilities in 13 states.  The state has about 725 nursing homes with almost 90,000
beds, according to the PHCA. The association’s research shows
those facilities are filled to about 91 percent capacity.  The strong demand for nursing-home beds, coupled with
Pennsylvania’s aging population means “extra capacity will be
required within the next 10 years, if not sooner,” Bach said.  “We believe demand in Pennsylvania for our services will
continue to strengthen” by the time 2020 census takers begin
their work, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  