-- 
Penta May Buy Power, Heat Utilities; Private Equity Fund Focuses on Poland

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-03-10T14:57:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/penta-may-buy-power-heat-utilities-private-equity-fund-focuses-on-poland.html
Penta Investments Ltd., a Czech and
Slovak private equity fund, may bid for Polish utility assets
including a unit of Vattenfall AB as it seeks to expand in the
country where it sees the best opportunities in central Europe.  “We are placing great emphasis on  Poland  in Penta, as it’s
the only country in the region that provides such big and
interesting acquisition opportunities,” Rafal Sosna, Penta’s
managing director for Poland, said in an interview yesterday.  Penta “will try” to participate in the Warsaw municipal
government’s sale of district heat distributor SPEC SA, Sosna
said. While it has analyzed Vattenfall’s Polish assets “very
thoroughly,” Penta isn’t sure whether it will bid, he said. The
fund also wants to help finance Polish boilermaker  Rafako SA (RFK) ’s
planned purchase of power utility ZE PAK SA from the government.  Poland’s 2011 merger and acquisition market will meet or
exceed last year’s record $19 billion as the sale of mobile
phone operator Polkomtel SA may be the biggest leveraged
acquisition deal in  Europe  this year, Deutsche Bank AG said last
week. In the energy sector, in addition to the three deals Penta
is examining the government is negotiating the sale of Enea SA,
its third-largest utility, to Electricite de France SA.  Vattenfall, the Nordic region’s largest utility, is selling
its Polish assets, including a power distribution business in
the industrial south and heat and power plants in Warsaw. SPEC,
the main customer for that unit, operates the European Union’s
largest municipal heating network.  Penta is talking to partners for potential bids in both
sales, Sosna said.  “Across the region Penta is able to execute two to four
transactions a year at an average of 150 million euros ($207
million) of enterprise value,” he said, adding that the first
deal in Poland could be done in July.  Last month the fund agreed to sell Zabka Polska SA,
Poland’s largest convenience-store chain, for 400 million euros.
It may invest further in Polish food production or distribution,
a market with “colossal” opportunities, Sosna said.  “We feel like insiders on this market and we want to use
our experience,” he said.  Penta is also a “great fan” of the banking and health-
care industries, Sosna said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  