-- 
Peru May Raise Rate to 3.75% as Growth, Global Prices Boost Inflation Rise

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/peru-may-raise-rate-to-3-75-as-gdp-surges-global-prices-rise.html
Peru’s central bank will probably
raise its benchmark lending rate for the eighth time in 11
months as surging economic growth may exacerbate inflationary
pressure sparked by global grain and energy prices.  The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, will raise the benchmark rate by a quarter point to
3.75 percent from 3.50 percent, according to all 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, as policy makers across  South America 
move to stem quickening inflation. The board will announce its
decision at about 6 p.m. New York time.  Booming demand for credit, goods and services in South
America’s sixth-largest economy risks causing a surge in
inflation after crude oil rose to a 29-month high. The $153
billion economy will likely expand 8 percent in the first
quarter and about 7 percent this year, leading growth in the
region, Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said Feb. 21. Yields
on sol-denominated bonds have risen for eight weeks.  “The bank will maintain its preventative stance,”  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru, the country’s third-
largest bank, said in an interview from  Lima . “It’s moving
rates to a neutral position more quickly than expected to
prevent external shocks from raising inflation expectations.”  Policy makers across the continent are seeking to cool
domestic demand amid accelerating growth and rising inflation
expectations, setting aside concern that higher  interest rates 
may spur additional inflows and strengthen their currencies.    Colombia ,  Brazil   Colombia’s central bank unexpectedly raised its rate for
the first time in ten meetings last month. Chilean policy makers
said they may need to increase the pace of rate increases in the
coming months.  Brazil’s central bank signaled it will raise its benchmark
rate for a third straight meeting next month after it increased
borrowing costs to a two-year high last week.  Higher food prices kept  Peru ’s monthly inflation close to a
two-year high last month and will probably drive the annual rate
to the top of policy makers’ 1 percent to 3 percent target range
in 2011, according to the central bank.  About two-thirds of last month’s rise was linked to the
higher cost of imported food, according to the national
statistics agency.  Annual inflation accelerated to a five-month high of 2.23
percent in February as prices rose 0.38 percent from the
previous month. Peru’s inflation in 2011 will probably be the
region’s lowest despite higher import prices, Benavides said
Feb. 21.  Commodity Prices  Central bank policy makers are raising the benchmark rate
to prevent higher grain and crude  oil prices  from contaminating
other parts of economy amid “very strong” domestic demand,
Velarde said Feb. 24.  Economic growth that’s run above 8 percent for the last 10
months could turn a problem of supply-led inflation into one
fueled by demand, unless policy makers rein in economic
activity, said Guerrero.  Growth accelerated in the fourth quarter as investment in
projects including  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s $1.47 billion Antapaccay copper
mine fueled construction activity.  Gross domestic product rose 2.2 percent from the third
quarter, the government said Feb. 28.  ‘Red Hot’  Peru’s imports rose 34 percent in February to $2.6 billion
from a year earlier, spurred by demand for construction
materials, the state tax and duty collection agency said March
6.  The Andean country’s “red hot” economy risks a “sudden
explosion” in consumer prices, especially after the rally in
crude oil, said  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based economist at
4Cast Inc., in a Feb. 28 note to investors.  Peru’s government has reacted to surging costs of grain and
oil imports by freezing fuel prices, eliminating import tariffs
on some food products, and proposing a fuel  tax cut .  The government also lowered the sales tax to 18 percent
from 19 percent last month, a move Benavides has said will
bolster growth and may slow inflation.  The tax cut sparked criticism from banks including Banco de
Credito, the country’s largest lender, which said last week the
measure may increase the fiscal deficit and undermines the
central bank’s efforts to ease consumer demand.  ‘Spending More’  “Consumers are spending more, so it isn’t healthy to be
lowering tax at this point in the cycle,” said Gerardo Solis,
head of investments at Credifondo SAF, Peru’s largest mutual
fund company, in a March 3 interview. “The cut in the  sales tax 
is worrying. It’s made the market nervous.”  The central bank increased banks’ average reserve
requirement for a fifth time since August this month to cool
demand for loans.  Annual growth in credit, including loans by overseas units
of Peruvian banks to Peru-based clients, rose 21 percent from a
year earlier, the central bank said in a Feb. 25  report .  The central bank will probably increase the benchmark rate
to around 4.5 percent in the first half of this year, raising
more quickly than investors were anticipating, Solis said. “The
increase is going to be quite aggressive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  