-- 
Philippine Bonds Drop as Crude Oil Prices Climb; Peso Weakens

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-03-10T09:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/philippine-bonds-drop-as-crude-oil-prices-climb-peso-weakens.html
Philippine bonds dropped, with the
yield on six-year notes increasing the most in more than a week,
on speculation the central bank will begin raising borrowing
costs as  oil prices  climb.  Crude oil prices in  New York  rose for the first time in
three days as escalating violence in Libya renewed concern that
supply disruptions will spread to the Middle East. The peso
closed at its lowest level in more than a week as a report
showed export growth eased in January.  “One thing is certain:  interest rates  will creep up slowly
as inflation is gaining traction,” said Marcelo Ayes, a Manila-
based senior vice president at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp.  The yield on the 7 percent bond due January 2016 climbed
five basis points, the most since Feb. 28, to 6.15 percent as of
2:13 p.m. in  Manila , according to Tradition Financial Services.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Philippine central bank, which will review its monetary
policy on March 24, has less scope to maintain the overnight
borrowing rate at a record-low 4 percent, Governor Amando
Tetangco said this month. Inflation in the Southeast Asian
economy accelerated to a nine-month high of 4.3 percent in
February, official data showed this month.  The Philippine peso lost 0.3 percent to 43.475 per dollar
in Manila, its lowest close since March 2, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc.  Shipments abroad grew 11.8 percent from a year earlier to
$4 billion after rising a revised 26.5 percent in December, the  National Statistics Office  said in Manila today. That compares
with the median estimate for a 20.3 percent gain in a Bloomberg
News survey of 10 economists. Exports account for about a third
of the  Philippines ’ $161 billion economy.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 