-- 
Philippines May Import More Rice Than Planned as Global Food Costs Advance

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-03-10T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/philippines-rice-imports-may-beat-target-amid-rising-global-food-costs.html
The  Philippines  may import more
rice than planned as it seeks to secure supplies amid record
global costs, according to the nation’s grain-buying agency.  “Many countries are in a stockpiling mode,” National Food
Authority Administrator Angelito Banayo said in an interview in
Manila yesterday. Rising prices are “a cause for worry,” he
said, declining to specify how much the country will buy.  Countries across  Africa  to  Asia  are increasing imports to
rebuild state reserves to cope with the impact of food prices
that reached a record last month. This year’s surge has driven
millions into extreme poverty, according to the  World Bank , and
fueled unrest in the Middle East and Africa. Rice costs have
risen 6.8 percent in  Chicago  in the past year, lagging behind
the 58 percent jump in wheat and 92 percent surge in corn.  The Philippines is seeking to more than halve imports to
860,000 tons of rice this year, from about 2.5 million tons in
2010, amid forecasts for a bigger harvest, Banayo said March 7.
National Food will buy 200,000 tons and the remaining 660,000
tons will be purchased by private traders. Officials will meet
with President Benigno Aquino this week to “validate” the plan
“in light of rising commodity prices globally,” Banayo said.  The country may start tendering for rice as early as this
month and may accept delivery of imported rice by the end of
May, Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala said on March 9.  ‘Politically Sensitive’  “The high cost of food is a politically sensitive issue in
our country,” Philippine Senator Edgardo Angara said in a March
9  statement . About 80 percent of the nation’s population allots
60 percent of their expenditure on food, with half of that
budget spent on rice, he said.  Some nations may shift to rice, pressuring supplies and
prices, if wheat costs continue to climb, Banayo said.  “We have to start buying before the rainy season” he
said. “Harvests in  Thailand , Vietnam and Cambodia have begun.
We shouldn’t wait for the lean months.”  Rice prices reached a record in January in  Indonesia , the
world’s fourth-most-populous nation, prompting the government to
suspend import tax on the grain, the United Nations Food &
Agriculture Organization said last week. Prices stayed at record
highs last month in  Bangladesh , the largest buyer in  South Asia ,
because of low inventories, according to the report.  Price Gains  Futures for May delivery were little changed at $13.535 per
100 pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade at 11:07 a.m. in  Singapore . Prices climbed 21 percent in the second half of 2009
as the Philippines boosted imports to a record.  National Food will allow private traders to bid as early as
this month for a so-called service charge that will entitle them
to import rice without a 40 percent tax, Banayo said. The agency
may hold a tender or enter into government-to-government deals
for its purchases, he said.  The government is seeking to recast National Food as rising
rice purchases sold at lower prices sunk the state-owned company
into debt. It may absorb the agency’s debts, which stood at 161
billion pesos on Dec. 31, and infuse fresh capital, Banayo said.  The plan must be approved by Congress, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in  Manila  at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  