-- 
Philippine Stocks Rally Unlikely to Last on Rising Crude, Union Bank Says

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T03:21:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/philippine-stock-rally-unlikely-to-last-on-oil-union-bank-says.html
 Philippine stocks, which rallied
to a six-week high yesterday, have a “very low” chance of
sustaining their gains as Middle East turmoil pushes up  oil
prices , Union Bank of the  Philippines ’s Michael Garcia said.  “Nobody knows when the political unrest will end and as a
tactical measure we have taken money off the table,” Garcia,
who manages the nation’s best-performing stock fund in the past
12 months, said in a phone interview in Manila yesterday. “We
quadrupled the proportion of cash we hold,” he said, declining
to provide exact figures.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index lost 1 percent as of 11
a.m. in Manila today, snapping a six-day climb that drove it to
the highest level since Jan. 28 yesterday. The gauge is up 4.1
percent this month as companies from  Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. (BDO) 
to  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI)  posted higher profits and investors
speculated the central bank would take steps to curb inflation.  Stocks gained in March even as oil surged 6 percent in New
York trading during the same period on concern escalating
violence in  Libya  will disrupt supplies. Crude settled on March
7 at $105.44 a barrel, the highest level since September 2008.  The Philippines is one of the world’s “main losers” from
rising crude prices because the country produces little or no
oil, Citigroup Inc. analysts Geoffrey Dennis and Jason Press
wrote Feb. 28. Oil’s ascent raises the import bills of many
Asian countries, shrinking their trade surpluses and lifting
demand for U.S. dollars to pay for the fuel.  Stock Value  “The probability of a sustained rally amidst this
uncertainty is very low while the probability of a significant
market dip on the back of an oil price shock is increasing,”
said Garcia, who helps manage $700 million at Manila-based Union
Bank.  This month’s gains drove valuations of stocks in the
Philippine index yesterday to 12.8 times estimated profit, the
highest level in more than a month. Garcia said the market
presents an “opportunity for good returns” when the price-to-
earnings multiple is at 10.  Garcia predicted Sept. 22 the benchmark equity gauge would
rise to new highs because valuations at 15.3 times estimated
earnings were “undemanding.” The index climbed a further 8.5
percent to reach a peak of 4,397.3 on Nov. 4, before tumbling 15
percent to last month’s low on Feb. 24.  The stock gauge sank 10 percent in the first two months of
2011 as the central bank didn’t join its Southeast Asian
counterparts in raising borrowing costs. Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco, who has kept the nation’s
interest rate at 4 percent for more than a year, said March 4
that February’s inflation rate of 4.3 percent supports the view
that “the scope for keeping rates steady has narrowed.”  ‘Behind the Curve’  “The central bank’s pronouncements were a welcome
development because investors have been afraid it’s behind the
curve in containing inflation,” Alex Pomento, strategist at  Manila  unit of Macquarie Group Ltd., said by phone yesterday.
Investors also realized that the equity sell-down in January and
February was overdone, he said.  Pomento maintained his forecast for the Philippine  stock
index  to rise to 5,000 in the next 12 months. That’s a 26
percent advance from yesterday’s close of 3,959.94.  Union Bank’s Garcia said he owns shares of companies with
stable cashflow and that enjoy “robust demand,” including
utilities.  The fund manager’s UBP Large Capitalization Philippine
Equity Portfolio has returned 81 percent in the past year, the
most among Philippine stock funds tracked by Bloomberg and
triple the equity gauge’s 27 percent advance. The fund has
declined 5.4 percent this year, compared with a 5.7 percent loss
for the benchmark index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  