-- 
Playtech to Buy Software Business From Co-Founder Sagi

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-03-10T17:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/playtech-agrees-to-buys-software-business-from-co-founder-sagi.html
  Playtech Ltd. (PTEC) , the Internet-
gambling software maker that has a venture with  William Hill
Plc (WMH) , agreed to buy a software business from a company owned by
its co-founder and biggest shareholder, Teddy Sagi.  Playtech will pay as much as 280 million euros ($387
million) for PT Turnkey Services Ltd., the Isle of Man-based
company said in a statement today. Full-year net income dropped
6.9 percent, as Playtech wrote down the value of investments,
the company said in a separate statement. The shares fell the
most since Jan. 25.  The Turnkey deal, to be paid in cash in instalments, will
allow Playtech to become a single-source supplier of services
including marketing, web hosting, payments and search-engine
placement, Chief Executive Officer Mor Weizer said in a
telephone interview.  “In newly regulated markets, the leading local brands,
land-based operators, are very much interested in becoming
online operators,” he said. PT Turnkey will let customers set
up Internet gambling operations right away, he said.  The deal qualifies as a related-party transaction as the
seller, World Online Enterprises Ltd., is beneficially owned by
Sagi, who owns 40.4 percent of Playtech through Brickington
Trading Ltd. Playtech is paying a fair price, based on an
opinion from its adviser, Collins Stewart Plc, Weizer said.  ‘Suspicious’    Nick Batram , an analyst with Peel Hunt, wrote that offering
a comprehensive range of services is appealing to clients.  “The alternative view is that the deal will dilute the
pure technology-software story and, furthermore, the market is
often suspicious of connected-party transactions,” wrote
Batram, who has a “hold” recommendation on the company.  Playtech dropped 15.75 pence, or 4.3 percent, to 352.25
pence in  London . The shares have declined 17 percent this year,
giving it a market value of 854.7 million pounds ($1.4 billion).  Full-year net income was 64.7 million euros, or 25.7 cents
per share, compared with 69.5 million euros, or 28 cents, a year
earlier. Sales increased 24 percent to 142.3 million euros.  Casino sales grew 26 percent to 96.7 million euros as the
company added 76 new games. Poker revenue fell 19 percent to
27.4 million euros as competition grew, the company said. Bingo
sales gained to 10.9 million euros from about 200,000 euros a
year earlier.  Revenue from its online venture with William Hill climbed
37 percent to 30.8 million euros, the company said.  On Feb. 22, William Hill said it secured an interim
injunction against Playtech, saying that company is seeking to
amend its agreements. It also cited “speculation” about talks
between Playtech and William Hill rival,  Ladbrokes Plc. (LAD)   Weizer said today he couldn’t comment on the William Hill
legal action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  