-- 
Qaddafi’s End Requires One Power to Step Up: Annette Heuser

-- B y   A n n e t t e   H e u s e r
-- 
2011-03-10T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/qaddafi-s-end-depends-on-one-power-stepping-up-annette-heuser.html
The turmoil in much of the Arab
world has grown into more than a regional protest by peoples
seeking to overthrow repressive regimes. Successful uprisings in
Tunisia and  Egypt  have spurred demonstrations from  Morocco  to  Iran  and now, tragically, conflict in Libya which increasingly
looks like civil war.  The criminal acts of that country’s leader,  Muammar Qaddafi , demand foreign intervention. With that, comes an
opportunity for the U.S. to restore its prestige and political
leadership on the world stage.  U.S. efforts to maintain stability in this strategic region
have for decades trumped more high-minded notions of democracy
and freedom. America’s presence there -- whether military or
civilian -- often engenders, at best, suspicion and, at worst,
violence. The 2003 invasion of  Iraq  and the persistent
instability in that country have served mainly to cement --
justifiably or not -- this hostile view of U.S. intentions.  It can come as no surprise, then, that  Washington ’s genuine
concern for the well being of the people of Libya -- manifested
in a debate on implementing a no-fly zone over that country --
initially received few kudos among Arabs. Only now, as an
entrenched Colonel Qaddafi escalates his attacks and reports of
massacres proliferate, is vehement rejection of U.S. involvement
softening among some leading Arab organizations.  Equally disappointing is the lack of stronger support for
U.S. action among its European allies. The European Union seems
to be paralyzed again by the usual internal struggle to find a
common position on a foreign-policy and security issue. EU
leaders appear to be back to their bad habit of putting their
heads in the sand, hoping for a United Nations resolution, and
preventing more refugees from reaching their shores.  NATO Intentions  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization also is hamstrung.
Ahead of meetings today and tomorrow of NATO defense ministers
in Brussels, there is no consensus within the alliance for any
military move similar to the action that put a halt to genocide
in the former  Yugoslavia  in 1999. The U.S. is unlikely to find
many European brothers-in-arms to stop Qaddafi’s murderous
assaults on his people.  The UN is also an improbable forum for real action. Russia
and  China , though each for its own reasons, are as suspicious of
U.S. intentions as the average Arab man and woman on the street.
European hopes for global cover are almost certain to be
shattered by vetoes from Moscow and Beijing.  My Wish  As a European, I still dream of a strong and united Europe
that stands shoulder-to-shoulder with the U.S. to demonstrate
that Western democracy is more than an esoteric concept. I long
for a day when the transatlantic partners stand behind their
words and put into deeds their commitment and dedication to
freedom and human rights for all.  But let’s face facts: The partnership looks like it works
best on economic issues. So if the U.S. makes a move in  Libya ,
it’s likely to do so, again, essentially alone.  There are many valid reasons for the Barack Obama
administration to approach Libya warily. But as Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  noted in recent testimony before the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the U.S. is in worldwide
competition with emerging powers. That competition transcends
economic and financial strength. It’s also a contest about
political systems.  With the Middle East and North Africa in the throes of
revolt, now is the time for a full-throated support of
democracy. Some regimes have already been overthrown; others are
likely to follow. The U.S. should unequivocally champion those
long oppressed who now struggle to eject their oppressors. This
moral clarity would go a long way toward restoring America’s
image.    Europe ’s Gaze  The U.S. doesn’t err in standing up again for the
principles for which it has often fought in the past. Its desire
for a broad international consensus on Libya while considering
action is understandable. But events on the ground are outpacing
the ability to forge any international mandate.  Europe may be undergoing another round of dithering self-
reflection on its role and influence in the world, and others
may view any U.S. move with distrust and enmity. That can’t and
shouldn’t stop America from acting.  (Annette Heuser is executive director of the Bertelsmann
Foundation in Washington. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Annette Heuser at  info@bertelsmann-foundation.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  