-- 
Qaddafi's Forces Have Momentum in Libya War on Rebels, U.S. Officials Say

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/qaddafi-will-prevail-over-rebels-in-long-war-clapper-says-2-.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
better-equipped forces have gained momentum against the rebels
trying to drive him from power, senior U.S. intelligence
officials said.  Appearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee
yesterday, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said
that Qaddafi’s forces have superior logistics and that the
“regime will prevail” if the war goes on for a long time.
Clapper said this was his personal assessment and not that of
the U.S. government, adding that Qaddafi has shown he’s “in
this for the long haul.”  After Clapper completed his testimony on  Capitol Hill ,
President  Barack Obama ’s national security adviser and his press
secretary said that the intelligence chief was giving an
analysis of the current situation and that steps being taken by
the U.S. and its allies would change the dynamic in  Libya .  “Change is the order of the day in the Middle East,”
national security adviser Tom Donilon said on a conference call.
“A static, uni-dimensional analysis does not take into account
the steps that can be taken in cooperation with the opposition
going forward.”  Donilon offered a broad defense of the administration’s
response and argued that the turmoil in North Africa and the
Middle East presented “an opportunity to transform the
narrative that defined the Arab world for decades.” He outlined
a five-point plan to increase pressure on Qaddafi and insisted
that economic progress was just as important as political reform
to help democracy take root in the region.  ‘Tightly Focused’ Efforts  “We are very tightly focused on a range of efforts here to
promote economic change and economic reform,” Donilon said.  Press secretary Jay Carney said in a separate briefing that
while Qaddafi is “hunkering down,” asset freezes, an arms
embargo and the possibility of military steps will “enhance the
pressure on him to force him to leave.”  The testimony by Clapper and Army Lieutenant General  Ronald
Burgess , director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, may
increase pressure for the U.S. to take military steps to support
anti-government forces that are holding territory in eastern
Libya. The rebels fled an oil hub on the Mediterranean coast in
the face of a counterattack by troops loyal to Qaddafi.  Burgess said momentum “has started to shift” to Qaddafi.  “Whether or not it has fully moved to Qaddafi’s side is
not clear at this time,” he said. “But we have now reached a
state of equilibrium where the initiative may actually be on the
regime side. We are watching that.”  Qaddafi “seems to have staying power,” Burgess said.  Air Strikes  Qaddafi’s forces yesterday resumed air strikes in the
central area of Libya’s coastline that marks the east-west
dividing line in the fighting, as the U.S. and its allies
discussed whether and how to intervene.  “My own view is that the important dimension is logistics,
and I think the regime has more logistical forces in terms of
the first-line equipment,” Clapper said.  Qaddafi is relying primarily on two special brigades
“which are very, very loyal,” Clapper said. “They are the
most robustly equipped with Russian equipment to include air
defense, artillery, tanks, mechanized equipment, and they appear
to be more disciplined about how they treat and repair that
equipment.  ‘‘So I just think from the standpoint of attrition that
over time, I mean -- this is kind of a stalemate back and forth,
but I think over the longer term that the regime will prevail,’’
Clapper said.  Burgess said the Pentagon is tracking those units, the 32nd
and 9th brigades.  A Divided Country  Clapper said a stalemate could result in Libya being
divided, with Qaddafi’s regime based in his Tripoli stronghold
and the rebels holding the territory around the eastern city of
Benghazi. A more chaotic outcome, similar to Somalia, was also
possible, he said.  Senator  Joe Lieberman , an independent from  Connecticut ,
said a division of Libya could make it ‘‘fertile ground for al-
Qaeda’’ and called for the world to intervene quickly.  Pressed by Arizona Republican Senator  John McCain , who has
advocated imposition of a no-fly zone, Clapper declined to
speculate about how long it would take to establish an air
umbrella over Libya.  Any no-fly zone would have to start with an attack on
Libyan air defenses, some of which are in the hands of rebels,
so that would need to be sorted out, Clapper said.  ‘Not Helpful’  While McCain and Lieberman cited Clapper’s assessment to
argue for intervention,  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina
Republican, said Clapper was ‘‘not helpful’’ to those opposing
Qaddafi. Obama should replace Clapper who, ‘‘if he felt the need
to say what he did,’’ should have done so in a closed-door
setting, Graham said.  Carney said the U.S. and its allies in the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization will get plans for military options,
including imposition of a no-fly zone, on March 15.  In the meantime, the U.S. is planning to send disaster
assistance teams into eastern Libya to help with humanitarian
aid, Donilon said. That effort won’t have any military component
and is being done with the cooperation of rebel leaders, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  