-- 
Trade Deficit in U.S. Widened More Than Forecast in January

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-10T13:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/trade-deficit-in-u-s-widened-more-than-forecast-in-january.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  widened more
than forecast in January to the highest level in seven months as
a surge in imports led by costlier crude oil overshadowed record
exports.  The gap in goods and services increased 15 percent to $46.3
billion, from $40.3 billion in December, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. Imports jumped 5.2 percent,
the most since March 1993, while exports grew 2.7 percent. The
deficit was wider than the most pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Imports were the highest since August 2008, reflecting a
jump in oil prices and purchases of business equipment and
consumer goods that may be sustained as the world’s largest
economy expands. Exports of American-made goods are getting a
boost from the weaker dollar and growth in Asia and Latin
America, benefiting companies like  Deere & Co. (DE)   “There’s no doubt the trade deficit will continue to widen
through the quarter,” said  Chris Low , chief economist at FTN
Financial in New York. “The big increase in oil prices could
cause some temporary pain. Companies are betting that demand will
continue to be strong this year,” which will fuel gains in non-
oil imports, he said.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
January deficit of $41.5 billion. Estimates of 74 economists
ranged from $39 billion to $46 billion after a previously
reported December shortfall of $40.6 billion.  Jobless Claims Rise  First-time claims for jobless benefits rose more than
forecast last week from an almost three-year low, highlighting
the uneven nature of the improvement in the labor market.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  increased by 26,000
to 397,000 in the week ended March 5, the Labor Department said
today. Economists forecast claims would climb to 376,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Stock-index futures extended losses after the claims
figures, with the March contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropping 0.6 percent to 1,307.5 at 8:56 a.m. in  New York .
Treasuries rose, pushing down the yield on the benchmark 10-year
note to 3.45 percent from 3.47 percent late yesterday.  Exports increased to $167.7 billion, boosted by record
shipments of industrial supplies and more deliveries of motor
vehicles and food.  Imports climbed to $214.1 billion from $203.6 billion in the
prior month. Purchases of capital goods rose to a record $41.7
billion in January, while auto imports were the highest since
February 2008.  Effect on Growth  Faster import growth explains why the trade balance may keep
widening. Net exports helped to reduce the gap in the fourth
quarter, adding 3.4 percentage points to economic growth, the
most since 1980, Commerce Department figures showed last month.
The U.S. grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the period.  The January trade figures showed the U.S. imported 290.7
million barrels of crude oil, the most since August. The value of
oil imports increased to $24.5 billion from $22.5 billion. The
average price per barrel of imported crude reached $84.34, the
highest since October 2008.  Even after eliminating the influence of prices, which are
the numbers used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit widened to $49.5 billion from $46 billion.  The trade gap with  China  grew to $23.3 billion from $20.7
billion as imports rose and U.S. exports declined.  The U.S. shortfall with OPEC nations widened to $9.9 billion
as imports increased to the highest level since October 2008.  Higher Oil  Crude  oil prices  are climbing as escalating violence in  Libya  raises concern that supply disruptions may spread through
the region. Crude oil for April delivery was $104.37 a barrel
yesterday at the close of floor trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract touched $106.95 on March 7, the
highest intraday price since Sept. 26, 2008.  The trade gap with the European Union and Japan narrowed in
January, today’s report showed. The trade deficit with  Canada 
shrank, while the gap with  Mexico  widened.  Since reaching a one-year high on June 7, the dollar has
fallen 9 percent against a trade-weighted basket of currencies.
The drop makes American goods cheaper to buyers abroad and may
keep spurring manufacturing, which expanded in February at the
fastest pace since May 2004, according to the Institute for
Supply Management’s factory index.  Among firms expanding overseas operations is Deere, the
world’s largest maker of agriculture equipment. The Moline,
Illinois-based company last month announced plans to almost
double sales to $50 billion by 2018 by expanding outside the U.S.  Emerging Markets  “Where our efforts are going to be focused is in places
like  Asia , South America, and in addition to continuing to extend
our position in  North America ,” Chief Financial Officer James M.
Field said in a March 8 presentation. Deere got 35 percent of
sales from outside the U.S. and Canada in the fiscal year ended
Oct. 31.  Overseas demand is being complemented by a pickup in  consumer spending , the biggest part of the  U.S. economy , which is
prompting companies to replenish inventories.  President  Barack Obama , who has set a goal of doubling
American exports in five years, yesterday said he will nominate
Commerce Secretary Gary Locke to be the next U.S. ambassador to
China, putting him at the forefront of managing one of the
nation’s “most critical” relationships.  China’s trade surplus with the U.S. remains a thorny
subject.  China’s economy  passed Japan’s to become the world’s
second-largest last year, and the Asian nation is the second-
biggest U.S. trading partner after Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  