-- 
Gupta Takes Leave From New Silk Route Amid SEC Charges

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-03-10T23:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/rajat-gupta-takes-leave-from-new-silk-route-partners-amid-sec-charges-1-.html
Rajat K. Gupta, the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of  insider trading  by U.S.
regulators, took a leave of absence from New Silk Route
Partners, the $1.4 billion private-equity firm he co-founded.  Gupta voluntarily took the leave to “avoid any distraction
and ensure New Silk Route’s continued focus on the execution of
its investment strategy,” according to a statement today from
the New York-based firm. The move is effective immediately.  Gupta, 62, started  New Silk Route  in 2006 with partners
including Raj Rajaratnam, the billionaire hedge-fund manager who
went on trial this week in  New York  for insider trading. The
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Gupta on March 1,
accusing him of passing on confidential information regarding
Goldman Sachs to Rajaratnam.  “The matters involving Mr. Gupta have nothing to with New
Silk Route or any of our portfolio companies,” Chief Executive
Officer Parag Saxena said in the statement. “The allegations
relate to the U.S. public markets, while New Silk Route is
focused on investing in private companies in the Indian sub-
continent.”  Gupta didn’t return telephone messages seeking comment.  SEC Charges  Gupta, the former head of consulting firm McKinsey & Co.,
resigned last week from Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s
board. He had stepped down from Goldman Sachs’s board last year.  The SEC accused him of leaking confidential information
about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5 billion investment in Goldman
Sachs in 2008, as well as quarterly earnings for the New York-
based bank and for Procter & Gamble. The tips generated more
than $18 million, the regulator said.  Gupta was a direct or indirect investor in some of
Rajaratnam’s hedge funds at the time of the tips, the SEC said.
Lawyers for Rajaratnam and Gupta have said their clients aren’t
guilty. Gupta hasn’t been criminally charged.  New Silk Route focuses on investments in  South Asia , as
well as the Middle East, and has offices in Mumbai, Dubai and
Bangelore,  India , according to its website. Gupta leads the firm
with Saxena and senior adviser Victor Menezes.  Gupta’s involvement in New Silk Route was a “big
attraction” for investors, Saxena said an October 2009
interview. “He knows a lot of people in the areas we were going
to invest in.”  Saxena said in the interview that Rajaratnam cut ties with
the firm when it abandoned plans to start a hedge fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  