-- 
Gupta Takes Leave From New Silk Route Amid SEC Charges

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-03-10T23:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/rajat-gupta-is-placed-on-leave-from-new-silk-route-following-sec-charges.html
(Corrects headline to show Gupta is on a voluntary leave.)  Rajat K. Gupta, the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director who U.S. regulators accused of  insider
trading , has taken a voluntary leave of absence from New Silk
Route Partners, the $1.4 billion private-equity firm he co-
founded.  Gupta said he was taking the leave to “avoid any
distraction and ensure New Silk Route’s continued focus on the
execution of its investment strategy,” according to a statement
from the company today. The move is effective immediately.  Gupta, 62, started  New Silk Route  in 2006 with partners
including Raj Rajaratnam, the billionaire hedge-fund manager who
went on trial this week in  New York  for insider trading. The
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1 accused Gupta
of passing on confidential information regarding Goldman Sachs
to Rajaratnam.  Gupta didn’t return telephone messages seeking comment.
Rupa Ranganathan, a spokeswoman for New Silk Route, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  Gupta, the former head of consulting firm McKinsey & Co.,
resigned last week from  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s board. He had
stepped down from Goldman Sach’s board last year.  The SEC accused him of leaking confidential information
about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5 billion investment in Goldman
Sachs in 2008, as well as quarterly earnings for the New York-
based bank and for Procter & Gamble. The tips generated more
than $18 million, the regulator said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Saijel Kishan in New
York at   skishan@bloomberg.net ; Cristina
Alesci in New York at   calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  