-- 
Rajaratnam Giggles, Talks of Deals in First Insider Tapes

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-10T19:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/rajaratnam-laughs-talks-of-deals-as-first-tapes-played-at-insider-trial.html
The recorded voice of Galleon Group
LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam -- giggling, asking about the stock market,
questioning a friend about a public company -- rang out in a
federal courtroom as the government began presenting evidence
against him in his insider-trading trial.  Prosecutors this morning introduced the first three wiretap
recordings of the hedge fund co-founder, who is on trial in
federal court for trading on inside information. Diane Wehner, a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  special agent who was the first
government witness, told jurors today how agents made the
recordings of Rajaratnam’s cell phone calls in 2008.  “We know because one of our guys is on the board,”
Rajaratnam told his friend, Rajiv Goel, during an Oct. 7, 2008,
call. The two men are discussing the acquisition of
PeopleSupport Inc. and Rajaratnam is telling Goel that he bought
30,000 shares for Goel’s account, according to the tape.  In another conversation played by prosecutors for jurors in
the  Manhattan  courtroom, Rajaratnam asked his friend Anil Kumar,
“Should I buy a million?” after Kumar tells him about a
transaction involving  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)   “You cannot go wrong,” Kumar replied. “There will be
such a boost from this announcement.”  Market Talk  Rajaratnam is the central figure in the largest
investigation of hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The
Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million
from confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and
hedge-fund traders. Rajaratnam may spend as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of fraud.  Prosecutors, in their opening statements yesterday, said
Rajaratnam used an illegal network of secret sources to earn
millions of dollars in illicit profits, while his defense
claimed he made decisions based only on publicly available
information. The prosecution is relying on wiretaps it made of
Rajaratnam’s phone conversations as well as testimony from
Rajaratnam’s alleged accomplices.  “How’s the market treating you today?” Rajaratnam asked
Galleon trader Adam Smith in another tape played for jurors
after they discussed a deal involving Vishay Intertechnology
Inc.  “Like a baby treats a diaper,” Smith replied, prompting
giggles from Rajaratnam.  ‘Snippets’  The recordings were just “snippets” of Rajaratnam talking
with two friends and two Galleon traders, said defense attorney
Terence Lyman during his cross-examination of Wehner. While
questioning of Wehner, Lyman sought to show that the
conversations were innocent and not corrupt.  For instance, after prosecutors played a one-minute portion
of a taped conversation between Rajaratnam and Smith, the
defense attorney highlighted two additional minutes in which
another Galleon trader briefed Rajaratnam on the market’s
performance and the hedge fund’s holdings that day.  In the Goel conversation about PeopleSupport, Lyman sought
to show that Rajaratnam was buying stocks for his longtime
friend and complaining that the brokerage he used had
overcharged Goel.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  