-- 
Kumar Tells Jurors of Secret Consulting Deal With Rajaratnam

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-10T21:48:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/rajaratnam-jury-hears-kumar-describe-secret-500-000-consulting-deal.html
Ex-McKinsey & Co. director Anil Kumar told a jury that Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam secretly hired him as a consultant in 2003 for
$500,000 to be paid into a Swiss bank account, in violation of
McKinsey rules.  Kumar, testifying today at Rajaratnam’s insider-trading
trial in  New York , said the hedge-fund billionaire pulled him
aside after a 2003 charity event and offered to pay Kumar to
contact him every four to six weeks.  Kumar declined at first, saying McKinsey didn’t permit
outside consulting work.  “If you could get someone on the outside to accept it,
then McKinsey doesn’t have to know about it,” Rajaratnam
replied, according to Kumar.  Kumar said he found a friend in  Europe , whom he didn’t
identify, who agreed to sign a consulting agreement with Galleon
for $500,000 a year. That entity, called Pecos Trading Co., had
a bank account in  Switzerland , he said.  Rajaratnam’s payments to Pecos were invested in Galleon’s
Buccaneer’s Offshore Ltd. in an account in the name of Kumar’s
housekeeper, Manju Das, Kumar said.  Rajaratnam didn’t say at the time that he would require
inside information about McKinsey clients, Kumar testified.  “After it was set up, it changed its nature,” Kumar said
of the arrangement. He testified earlier that he began providing
inside information to Rajaratnam in 2004.  Biggest Crackdown  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and hedge
fund traders. His trial started March 8.  Kumar in 1983 obtained a master’s degree in business
administration from the Wharton School at the  University of
Pennsylvania , where he met Rajaratnam.  The former McKinsey director pleaded guilty to leaking tips
to Rajaratnam about  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  deals, including
its acquisition of ATI Technologies Inc. in 2006. He also
admitted telling Rajaratnam about a deal in which AMD was
getting an investment from Mubadala Development Co., an Abu
Dhabi government investor.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at
   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 