-- 
Rand Snaps Two-Day Advance as European Debt Concern Hurts Emerging Markets

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-10T14:21:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/rand-snaps-two-day-advance-as-european-debt-concern-hurts-emerging-markets.html
The rand weakened for the first day
in three as speculation European leaders will struggle to agree
on debt-crisis measures curbed investor appetite for risk and
South African January manufacturing figures missed estimates.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy declined as much
as 0.7 percent to 6.9208 per dollar and traded 0.2 percent
weaker at 6.8855 by 4 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The euro depreciated to the lowest level in a week against
the dollar after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded  Spain 
ahead of a European Union leaders’ meeting tomorrow on measures
to resolve the region’s debt crisis. Growth in South African
manufacturing missed economists’ forecasts, accelerating an
annual 1.3 percent in January compared with the 1.9 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “The rand is still taking its cue from offshore
developments, especially from euro-dollar movements,” analysts
led by Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan at Standard Bank,
Africa’s largest rand trader, said in an e-mailed note. Before
manufacturing data was released, Keenan said the rand could
weaken further should it “disappoint.”  The rand may depreciate to as low as 7.03 per dollar in
coming days,  Standard Bank  said.  Foreign investors were net sellers of 2.6 billion rand
($377.9 million) of South African bonds yesterday, according to
the JSE Ltd., which manages the nations equity and bond
exchanges. South African stocks fell, with the FTSE/JSE Africa
All Share Index plunging 2.5 percent to its lowest intraday
level in 14 weeks.  “If non-resident bond-holders continue selling, the rand
could weaken,” Keenan said.  The 13.5 percent government bond maturing September 2015
dropped 6 cents to 120.95, pushing the yield up 1 basis point to
7.88 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  