-- 
Rapper-Backed Law Easing Overseas Drug Sales Approved By Canada Lawmakers

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-10T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/rapper-backed-law-easing-overseas-drug-sales-approved-by-canada-lawmakers.html
Canadian lawmakers approved  a bill 
aiming to ease the process that lets generic drug manufacturers
produce patented medicines for export to poor nations at cheaper
prices in a move the pharmaceutical industry says could
undermine intellectual property rights.  The legislation amends  Canada ’s so-called “access-to-
medicines” law, which was enacted in 2004 and meant to make it
easier for generic drug producers to get licenses to produce
patent-protected drugs for export. The bill, introduced by an
opposition lawmaker from the  New Democratic Party , has passed
the  House of Commons  and still must be approved by the
Conservative-controlled Senate before it can become law.  The measure is “a significant step to save lives” from
treatable diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/AIDS,
said New Democrat lawmaker Paul Dewar in a statement after the
vote yesterday. “There is no reason for the Senate to delay the
passage of this bill.”  A coalition including former Canadian ambassador to the U.N.
Stephen Lewis and Canadian rapper  K’Naan  pushed for the bill’s
passage. Canada’s  Research-Based Pharmaceutical Companies , the
association that represents the industry in Canada and counts  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Novartis AG (NVS)  among its members, says the it risks
fueling black-market sales, encouraging production of
counterfeit products and removes “safeguards” on intellectual
property.  The bill opens “the doors to export of a wider range of
medications to developed countries that do not have a
humanitarian crisis,” Russell Williams, president of the
association, known as Rx&D, said in an e-mailed statement.  Already Working  Williams said the industry is already working with
governments and non-government agencies to provide medicines at
no cost or a non-profit basis in poor nations.  The legislation was supported primarily by opposition
lawmakers, while most legislators from the governing
Conservatives opposed it.  “I don’t think this bill is helpful,” Industry Minister
Tony Clement told reporters, adding there is a “lot to go”
before the legislation would be signed into law.  Clement said he’s concerned the bill will serve the
“commercial” interests of generic companies, and not deal with
the humanitarian issues. Clement also said he doesn’t think
Canadian companies can produce generic drugs cheaply enough for
the legislation to be effective.  Apotex Inc., a Canadian generic pharmaceutical company that
is the only manufacturer to have sought a license to export
drugs to poor countries under the current law, released a March
8  statement  backing the proposed changes.  “Apotex is the only company to have attempted to work
through this complex legislation and it took four long years to
send the first shipment of medicines via this cumbersome
process,” the company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 