-- 
Referees From St. John’s-Rutgers Game Quit Big East Conference Tournament

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-10T22:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/referees-from-st-john-s-rutgers-game-quit-big-east-conference-tournament.html
The three referees who missed
violations during the final seconds of yesterday’s Big East
Conference tournament game between  St. John’s  University
and  Rutgers University  have “voluntarily withdrawn” from
the rest of the basketball championship.  St. John’s advanced to the quarterfinals of the
tournament with a 65-63 win after two separate officiating
errors at the end of the game, Big East Commissioner John Marinatto said yesterday.  Justin Brownlee of St. John’s stole an inbounds pass
by Rutgers, then appeared to travel and step out of bounds
with 1.7 seconds remaining as he threw the ball in
celebration. Neither infraction was called, preventing
Rutgers from getting a final chance to tie or win the game.  “In the best interests of everyone involved --
including coaches, student-athletes, game officials and Big
East member institutions -- the officials who were assigned
to the St. John’s-Rutgers game Wednesday have voluntarily
withdrawn for the remainder (of the championship),”
Marinatto said in an e-mailed statement.  Although television replays showed the violations, the
judgment calls can’t be reviewed or reversed under National
Collegiate Athletic Association rules. Referees Tim
Higgins, Jim Burr and Earl Walton left the floor at Madison
Square Garden in  New York  as time expired.  “Three great officials, I’ve had them all throughout
the year, impeccable reputation, it’s unfortunate,”
Rutgers coach Mike Rice said after the game. “There is
going to be blood coming through my tongue, but it is what
it is.”  St. John’s-Syracuse  St. John’s (21-11) lost 79-73 today to Syracuse in the
conference quarterfinals. Rutgers fell to 15-17 in what may
have been its final game of the season.  “If the game should have been one more play, does
that mean we’re going to win? Certainly not,” Rice said.
“It was a mistake and that’s what happens in basketball. I
made a ton of mistakes in the last 48 hours.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  