-- 
Reliance Industries Says It Hasn’t Been Paid for Solar Power

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-10T10:11:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/reliance-industries-say-it-hasn-t-been-paid-for-solar-power.html
  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s
biggest company by market value, said it hasn’t received a
single payment from the Rajasthan state government for solar
power it has been producing from its first plant.  The company started generating power from the 5-megawatt
plant in July, Rabindra Satpathy, president of the company’s
solar unit, said today at a conference in Mumbai. “We’ve yet to
see one rupee from the government,” he said.  The default underscores concerns that banks and investors
have expressed about whether projects in India’s nascent solar
sector will be able to extract payments from financially
troubled state-run power purchasers. Tata Power Co., India’s
largest non-state producer, said in December that such concerns
are preventing banks from financing the sector and that power-
purchase agreements intended to protect investors of projects
and creditors are “unbankable.”  “There is no problem with payment” and the state has the
funds to pay, said M.M. Vijayvergia, executive director of the
state-run Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corp.    India ’s government aims to develop 20,000 megawatts of
solar power by 2022, or the equivalent of about 18 new nuclear
reactors, under its Solar Mission program. Financing bottlenecks
and regulatory uncertainties threaten to stymie those ambitions,
Satpathy said.  Purchase Agreement  Reliance signed a 25-year agreement with Rajasthan’s state-
run distribution company to sell power from the plant at an
agreed tariff, Satpathy said.  “Where is the sanctity” of the contract, Satpathy said.
“This is preventing investors from going ahead and making
investments in the Solar Mission.”  Such problems “need to be addressed so investors are
comfortable they’ll get their money returned to them in the 25-
year tenure of the power purchase agreement,” he said at the
UBM Renewcon Solar India conference in Mumbai.  Reliance’s project was delayed by almost a year,
invalidating the tariff, said Rajasthan Renewable Energy’s
Vijayvergia. The company applied to the government for a tariff
extension but has not yet signed a new power purchase agreement
or presented a bill, he said.  “How can the distribution company pay if they haven’t
signed the power purchase agreement or presented a bill?"
Vijayvergia said. Reliance will be paid ‘‘if they comply.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  