-- 
RenCap Cuts Russian Forecast on Slowing Sales, Falling Incomes

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-10T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/rencap-cuts-russian-forecast-on-slowing-sales-falling-incomes.html
  Renaissance Capital , the investment
bank partly owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , cut its
forecast for Russian economic growth after incomes fell and
retail sales stalled.  Gross domestic product will probably expand 5 percent in
the second quarter, less than the 6 percent estimated a month
ago, Moscow-based RenCap said today in an e-mailed report. At
the same time, RenCap raised its estimate for this quarter’s
expansion to 4.5 percent from 4.3 percent.  “Real economic indicators continue to suggest that any
anti-inflationary measures should be undertaken with extreme
caution,” RenCap analysts led by Anton Nikitin wrote in the
report, which was co-written by Moscow’s New Economic School.  Consumer prices rose an annual 9.5 percent in February,
down from 9.6 percent the previous month. Real disposable
incomes fell 5.5 percent in January, eating into  consumer
spending . Retail sales advanced 0.5 percent from a year earlier
in February, unchanged from a month earlier, RenCap said.  Russia’s central bank deployed its “whole arsenal”
against inflation last month, widening the ruble’s trading
corridor, boosting mandatory  reserve requirements  and hiking its
key operation rates by a quarter percentage point.  “We believe that the central bank actions are mostly aimed
at cutting future inflationary risks rather than reducing
current inflation,” RenCap said in the report.  February’s slowdown in inflation was due to state measures
including sales of stockpiled grain, price caps on socially
significant food products and antitrust investigations into fuel
prices, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in  London  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 