-- 
Clean Energy Thwarted as Much as Coal by Rules, Group Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-03-10T18:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/renewable-energy-thwarted-as-much-as-coal-by-rules-lobby-group-says.html
Renewable-energy projects such as
wind farms and solar fields are just as hard to build in the
U.S. as coal-fired  power plants  because of regulatory obstacles
and activists’ protests, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said.  Energy projects valued at $576.6 billion were abandoned,
delayed or challenged by the state governments or
environmentalists, according to a Chamber report released today.
Wind, solar, hydropower, ethanol, biomass and geothermal
projects accounted for about 45 percent of the challenged
investments, according to the Washington-based  trade group .  “If our great nation is going to begin creating jobs at a
faster rate, we must get back in the business of building
things,” Bill Kovacs, senior vice president for environment,
technology and regulatory affairs, said in the report. “We also
need to figure out how to do it without years and years of
permit delays related to our complex regulatory process that
allows almost anyone to impede or stop any energy project.”  The Chamber, the nation’s biggest business lobbying group,
is urging lawmakers to rein in “excessive regulation” and
President Thomas Donohue has led criticism of regulations
enacted during the Obama administration.  The report listed 351 projects delayed by state and federal
action or by local protests.  Save Jones Beach , a Wantagh, New
York-based citizens’ group, opposed a 940-megawatt wind farm off
the coast of  New York ’s Long Island proposed in 2008. The state
of  New Mexico  denied a permit for a 35-megawatt biomass project
in Torrance County, because a local community complained about
the expected emissions, the report said.  Nuclear Plant  Electricite de France SA lost a partner for planned
construction of a nuclear reactor in  Maryland  after Baltimore-
based  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  withdrew from the
investment amid “burdensome” federal-loan guarantee
conditions, according to the Chamber of Commerce.  EDF will seek a U.S. partner to add a third reactor at the
Calvert Cliffs plant in Lusby, the Paris-based company said in
Dec. Under U.S. law, the NRC can’t grant a license to a company
“owned, controlled or dominated” by a foreign entity.  Environmental groups such as the  Sierra Club  opposed Green
Path North Transmission Line in  California , abandoned in March
2010, and a 600-megawatt coal-fired power plant proposed by
Southwestern Electric Power Co. in Arkansas.  The San Francisco-based  Sierra Club  in 2010 obtained a
temporary restraining order to halt the construction of the  Arkansas  plant, according to the Chamber’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  