-- 
Riversdale Plans $2 Billion Debt Sale Should Rio Tinto Takeover Bid Fail

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-03-10T22:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/riversdale-plans-2-billion-debt-sale-should-rio-tinto-takeover-bid-fail.html
Riversdale Mining Co., the subject
of a takeover bid from Rio Tinto Group, plans to sell $2 billion
of bonds to U.S. investors to fund two coal projects in  Africa 
should shareholder opposition cause the offer to fail.  “We have been looking at the bond market for the past 18
months and there’s strong demand,” Michael O’Keeffe, chairman
and chief executive officer of the Sydney-based company, said in
an interview. “If Rio falls away, I would suggest we would go
straight to the bond market.”  Rio raised its bid yesterday to A$3.9 billion ($3.9 billion)
as stock purchases by Riversdale’s two biggest shareholders
threaten to scuttle the deal. The Australian company needs the
$2 billion to build its Benga and Zambeze projects in  Mozambique 
and may be attracted to sell bonds to finance production at the
lowest relative yields for resource companies since 2007.  “Zambeze is the world’s largest single coking coal
resource as far as we can see,” Steve Mallyon, Riversdale
Managing Director told Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg TV’s ‘On the
Move.’ “Markets are always ready for a world-class project.”  Riversdale rose 3.2 percent to A$15.61 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney yesterday. Rio fell 2.4 percent.  Australian mid-tier mining companies are turning to North
American bond markets, where demand is rising for debt linked to
surging commodity prices. Riversdale has appointed an adviser to
help with a potential bond sale, O’Keeffe said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt of
resource companies instead of similar-maturity  government bonds 
dropped 65 basis points, or 0.65 percentage point, since Sept. 1
to 153 basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The spread on Australian corporate debt shrank 55 to
164, while international dollar bonds narrowed 26 to 101.  Record Offerings  Equinox Minerals Ltd., coal miner Aston Resources Ltd.,
copper producer OZ Minerals Ltd. and iron ore producer Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. are among the companies considering bond sales,
following on last quarter’s record offerings.  Riversdale is likely to need A$400 million to fund its
share of developing stages 2 and 3 of the Benga project and not
less than $2.9 billion for the Zambeze project, the company said
in January in its target statement.  Riversdale has raised the funding for the Benga mine and
needs more capital for the associated rail and barge
construction, Mallyon said in an interview.  First Stage  Construction for the first stage of Benga is targeted for
completion in the second half of this year, with production
forecast at 5.3 million metric tons, the company said in January.
An initial study of the Zambeze project is also set for
completion next half and production isn’t expected to start
before mid-2014, Riversdale said.  Rio raised its bid by 3 percent to A$16.50 a share and
removed all conditions except a minimum acceptance of 50.1
percent. It extended its offer, recommended by the Riversdale
board, by two weeks to April 1. Gaining control of Riversdale’s
Mozambique projects would boost Rio’s reserves of steelmaking
coal as prices double.  Rio holds 17.5 percent of Riversdale, according to
Bloomberg data.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  holds 27.1 percent and  Cia
Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) , or CSN, as the Brazilian steelmaker is
known, has a 19.9 percent stake. Both companies have increased
their stakes since Rio made its offer for Riversdale.  Tata Steel also owns 35 percent of the Benga project.
Riversdale ended talks with Wuhan Iron & Steel Corp. on a
potential $800 million investment in the Zambeze project, the
company said in December.  “Rio will be successful,” O’Keeffe, who now expects
acceptances to gain momentum, said yesterday. “CSN and Tata
wanted Rio to drop some of their conditions, put some more on
the table and get people to come in and commit their shares.”  Rio is being advised by Macquarie Group Ltd. and Riversdale
by UBS AG. Rio is the world’s second-largest mining company by
sales, behind BHP Billiton Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  