-- 
Romanian Inflation Accelerates More Than Expected in February

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-03-10T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/romanian-inflation-accelerates-more-than-expected-in-february.html
Romania’s inflation rate rose in
February more than economists had forecast as higher global fuel
and food costs put pressure on domestic consumer prices.  The rate increased to 7.6 percent, after dropping 1
percentage point to 7 percent in January, the Bucharest-based
 National Statistics Institute  said today in an e-mailed
statement. The annual rate exceeded the median estimate of 7.4
percent in a Bloomberg survey of six economists. Prices advanced
a monthly 0.8 percent.  Romanian policy makers have been struggling to tame
inflation driven by a government increase in a value-added tax
last year, which prevented the central bank from cutting its
key rate of 6.25 percent further to give a boost to the
recession-hit economy. The central bank has reasons to be
concerned about inflation because of surging food and oil prices
worldwide, Governor Mugur Isarescu said yesterday in Bucharest.  “Given rising concerns about food and commodity prices, we
believe the balance of risks associated with our inflation
forecast is slanted to the upside,” Citigroup Inc. economists
Ilker Domac and Gultekin Isiklar wrote in a note to clients
today before the release. “Looking ahead, we expect inflation
to decline to around 4 percent by the end of the year, which is
more pessimistic than the National Bank of  Romania ’s forecast.”  Food Prices  Food-price inflation accelerated to an annual 8.8 percent
in February compared with 7.2 percent in January, driven by
surging bread and vegetable costs, the institute said. Prices
for services rose an annual 6 percent compared with 5.9 percent
and non-food prices advanced 7.3 percent, compared with 7.2
percent the previous month, boosted by higher tobacco prices.  “Inflation is an extremely insidious disease and we have
to keep it under control, I cannot say the central bank is
optimistic,” Isarescu said. “After the drop in January, the
rate will stay between 7.2 percent to 7.5 percent until the
summer, before hopefully falling below 4 percent by year end.”  The country’s central bank raised its inflation forecast on
Feb. 7 for this year to 3.6 percent from a November forecast of
3.4 percent because of rising global fuel and food prices,
Isarescu said. The rate will probably drop to 3.2 percent in
2012.  -- With assistance from Zoya Shilova in Moscow and Barbara
Sladkowska in Warsaw. Editors: Douglas Lytle, Alan Crosby  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  