-- 
Troops Use Paintball Guns, Lasers to Avoid Afghan Citizen Deaths

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-10T19:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/troops-use-paintball-guns-lasers-to-avoid-afghan-citizen-deaths.html
The U.S.-led coalition in  Afghanistan  has lowered the odds that civilians would be killed
or injured in its operations by closely tracking casualties and
incorporating non-lethal tactics such as paintball guns, an
analysis shows.  While the civilian death toll in Afghanistan rose 20
percent in 2010 compared with the year before, more than 90
percent of the increase was caused by insurgents, according to
an analysis of coalition data published in the journal Science.
The  analysis  is similar to the findings of a separate United
Nations report released yesterday.  The coalition of 48 nations has often switched from using
deadly force to other techniques, author John Bohannon wrote in
the Science report, released today. The odds of civilian
casualties declined even as the U.S. coalition doubled the
number of troops.  A directive last year ordered guards at checkpoints to use
options such as laser dazzlers, chalk bullets or paintball guns
before resorting to gunfire to warn drivers approaching a post.  “By all accounts, the war has grown deadlier for Afghan
civilians,” Bohannon reported. Still, “deaths due to
escalation of force dropped by 50 percent in the eight months
after the April 2010 directive went out, compared with the same
eight months in 2009.”  The civilian casualties database, known as CIVCAS, and the
resulting lessons learned have allowed the U.S. and its partners
to add almost 40,000 ground troops last year without a
corresponding increase in deaths and injuries.  Nine Boys Killed  Incidents such as the deaths of nine Afghan boys mistaken
for Taliban in an American helicopter strike last week become
propaganda fodder for the insurgents and heighten tensions
between the U.S. and Afghan President  Hamid Karzai . U.S. Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  earlier this week apologized for the
deaths during a visit to the war zone, saying, “This breaks our
heart.”  The Science analysis, by a team of experts, marks the first
time the coalition has released its raw data publicly, wrote
Bohannon, who went to Kabul and the southern provincial capital
Kandahar in October as an embedded reporter to study the data
collection system and meet with medical personnel. The coalition
also has provided full access to the database in the past year
to the UN and certain human rights groups, he said.  The database shows 2,537 civilians killed and 5,594 wounded
in Afghanistan in the two years that ended Dec. 31, with 80
percent attributed to insurgents, Bohannon reported.  Death Toll  Data provided by the United Nations Assistance Mission in
Afghanistan counted 5,191 civilian deaths during the two years,
with more than 70 percent caused by anti-government militants
and 20 percent by pro-government forces.  The fact that the coalition doesn’t operate in all 34 of
the country’s provinces probably accounts for some of the
discrepancy with the UN’s figures, Bohannon wrote, citing a
spokesman for U.S. Army General David Petraeus, the top U.S. and
NATO commander in Afghanistan.  One of the biggest discrepancies is in casualties from air
engagements. The UN figures reflect 529 civilians killed by
“air attacks,” while the coalition data shows 136 civilians
killed by jets and helicopters. In some cases, the coalition
forces may not be able to count bodies, according to the report.  The number of civilians killed in air strikes dropped by
half last year to 171, according to the UN data, Bohannon wrote.
The coalition’s tracking shows a decline of 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  