-- 
RTL Full-Year Profit Rises Threefold on Advertising Recovery, German Sales

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-03-10T07:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/rtl-full-year-profit-rises-threefold-on-advertising-recovery-german-sales.html
Bertelsmann AG’s  RTL Group SA (RTL) ,  Europe ’s biggest television broadcaster, said full-year profit
rose threefold helped by booming advertising sales and audience
share gains in Germany.  Net income rose to 611 million euros ($845 million) from
205 million euros a year earlier, the Luxembourg-based company
said in a statement today. Revenue rose 8.4 percent to 5.59
billion euros. Analysts had expected profit of 585 million euros
on sales of 5.46 billion euros.  RTL, which operates 40 TV channels and 33  radio stations  in
10 countries, has benefitted from rising spending by consumers
and booming advertising sales in the wake of Europe’s economic
recovery. The earnings increase was particularly driven by RTL’s
units in Germany,  France , the Netherlands and  Belgium , the
company said today. RTL proposed to pay a dividend of 5 euros
per share after 3.50 euros a share a year earlier.  The results “reflect a stronger than expected rebound in
the Western European TV advertising markets, the enduring impact
of our significant cost savings in 2009 and the leading market
positions of our families of channels in our key territories,”
Chief Executive Officer Gerhard Zeiler said in the statement.
“We’ve capitalized on the economic recovery because our TV
channels emerged stronger from the crisis than before.”  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization, or Ebita,
rose 40 percent to a record 1.11 billion euros, resulting in an
operating margin of 19.9 percent after 15.4 percent a year
earlier. Ebita in  Germany  rose 51 percent to 551 million euros.  Growth Prospects  The company said it is “not possible to give reliable
full-year guidance for 2011 at this point in time,” adding that
it “remains cautious while at the same time being very
optimistic about the TV industry’s overall growth prospects.”  CEO Zeiler said RTL aims to further “strengthen” its
FremantleMedia unit, which produces the “Pop Idol” and “The
price is right” shows, through “targeted acquisitions.” The
company will also “continue to invest in new programmes, new
channels and in our rapidly growing new media activities.”  RTL is a unit of Bertelsmann, Europe’s biggest media
company, which owns 91 percent of the broadcaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  