-- 
Rupiah Drops on Concern High Oil Costs Will Slow Global Economy

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-03-10T08:39:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/rupiah-advances-on-speculation-central-bank-tolerating-gains.html
Indonesia’s rupiah fell, retreating
from the strongest level in almost four years, as higher  oil
prices  offset the appreciation spurred by speculation the
central bank is tolerating gains to control inflation.  The currency erased its earlier gains as the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of regional stocks slumped and crude costs
increased after Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces carried
out air and artillery strikes on central oil facilities. The
risk of the global economy slowing exists because of turmoil in
the Middle East, according to Lindawati Susanto, head of
foreign-exchange trading at PT Bank Resona Perdania.  “The violence in  Libya  is increasing the oil prices, which
is not good for Indonesian economy,” Susanto said in Jakarta.  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 8,785 per dollar as of 3:15
p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 8,766, the strongest level since June 2007.  Inflation moderated to 6.84 percent in February from a year
earlier after having accelerated to a 21-month high of 7.02
percent the previous month.  The rupiah has advanced 1 percent since Feb. 24, when Bank  Indonesia  Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said policy makers
will allow appreciation to help keep imported inflation in check.  The government’s benchmark bonds rose, with the yield on
the 8.25 percent bond due July 2021 dropping three basis points
to 8.35 percent, according to midday prices from the Inter-
Dealer Market Association.  Overseas funds have increased their holdings of Indonesian
government debt to 202 trillion rupiah ($23 billion) as of March
8, from 196 trillion rupiah at the end of last year, according
to the  finance ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  