-- 
RWE Urges U.K. to Give Power Makers Long-Term Guarantees

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-10T17:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/rwe-urges-u-k-to-focus-on-long-term-contracts-with-power-makers.html
  RWE AG (RWE) , producer of about 10
percent of the U.K.’s power, urged the government to focus the
nation’s strategy on offering long-term guarantees to limit the
risks faced by developers of nuclear and renewable power.  The U.K., seeking 200 billion pounds ($324 billion) of
investment to replace aging power stations, plans to set new
rules for its  electricity market  this year. The government is
taking comments through today on proposals including a minimum
levy for carbon-dioxide emissions, pollution limits on new power
stations, payments to reduce electricity demand, and fixed
payments for nuclear and wind generation.  “The government wants to pull a lot of levers all at the
same time,” Volker Beckers, chief executive officer of RWE’s
U.K. unit, said in an e-mailed comment. “I would say pull only
one at a time. That way, you remain in control.”  RWE, based in Essen,  Germany , has a joint venture with  E.ON
AG (EOAN) , Germany’s biggest utility, to build 6,000 megawatts of
nuclear capacity at two U.K. sites by 2025. To encourage the
private sector to invest the sums required to build nuclear
reactors, the government has proposed so-called contracts for
difference, which compensate generators when power prices are
not economical, and subsidies known as premium feed-in-tariffs
to give investors predictable revenue streams.  ‘Best Suited’  “A contractual revenue support mechanism is best suited to
satisfying the requirement of investors to have stable,
predictable and transparent returns commensurate with project
risk,” RWE said in its response to government. “A contract for
difference appears to most closely offer the regulatory
certainty our investors are seeking.”  Power prices are about half what’s needed to warrant
building new nuclear  power plants , analysts at Citigroup Inc.
said. An electricity price of 90 pounds a megawatt-hour is
required, according to recent construction cost estimates, Peter Atherton, a London-based managing director of Citigroup’s
investment research, said by telephone today. That compares with
power for tomorrow trading at 49.15 pounds a megawatt-hour as of
2:45 p.m. in  London .  Britain, which pledged an 80 percent drop in emissions by
2050 compared with 1990 levels, now gets 80 percent of its power
from coal and natural-gas fed stations. The rest comes from
nuclear and renewable sources such as wind farms. About a third
of the country’s fossil-fueled and atomic stations are scheduled
to switch off over the next decade, and the government committed
to get 15 percent of its energy from renewable sources to comply
with a European Union target for 2020.  RWE, with two of the U.K.’s three oil-fueled power stations
used as back-up generation, said the government plans to start
making payments to ensure adequate supplies will “undermine”
the market’s ability to deliver the lowest cost power.  “Experience around the world suggests that capacity
mechanisms have a number of undesirable effects on the economic
and efficient operation of electricity markets,” the company
said in the e-mail. The system could weaken the development of  energy efficiency , demand-response and interconnection, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  