-- 
Sara Lee Sell-Offs Attract ‘Extra Care’ From Regulators, EU Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-03-10T10:55:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/sara-lee-sell-offs-attract-extra-care-from-regulators-eu-says.html
  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) ’s sale of its
insecticide unit to S.C. Johnson & Son Inc. is among the
company’s divestments that’s required “extra care” from
regulators, the European Union’s antitrust chief said.  The bug-killer deal is the latest Sara Lee sell-off to be
examined in-depth by the European Commission after the regulator
imposed conditions on Unilever’s plan to buy its shower-gel and
European detergents.  The EU has “had to look into these deals with extra care”
because the companies are active in the same industry, said  Joaquin Almunia , the EU competition commissioner, in a Brussels
speech today. Unilever’s pledge to sell the Sanex brand in  Europe  to win EU approval is “an example of our preference for
remedies that are clear cut, structural and immediately
effective.”  The EU’s antitrust agency can block deals if the combined
company would have the power to fix prices or prevent new rivals
emerging. Sanex was main reason why Unilever did the deal, said
Andy Smith, an analyst at MF Global in  London , in an interview
earlier this month.  The commission extended its probe into the insecticide deal
in December amid concerns the transaction may lead to
“substantial overlapping activities” in Spain, France,
Belgium, Greece and the  Czech Republic .  Under the terms of the transaction, Sara Lee, based in  Downers Grove , Illinois, would get 153.5 million euros ($212.4
million) for the insecticide business sought by closely held
S.C. Johnson, the maker of Ziploc bags and Windex glass cleaner.  ‘Compete Closely  The companies’ “household insecticide brands compete
closely with each other in these countries, where the removal of
an important competitor may lead to increased prices and less
choice,” the commission said, adding that an offer last year of
antitrust remedies by S.C. Johnson, maker of the Raid bug
killer, “did not remove” competition concerns.  The EU agency has set a May 12 deadline to rule on the
deal.  In today’s speech on merger review policy, Almunia said EU
regulators would avoid calls for it to take into account trade
or political concerns when it probes deals.  He said the EU approved  Prysmian SpA (PRY) ’s bid for cablemaker
rival  Draka Holding NV (DRAK)  “exclusively on competition analysis”
without examining a parallel cartel investigation into the two
companies or allegations that a rival Chinese bidder received
Chinese state subsidies.  Almunia also said the commission is studying a possible
extension of EU merger rules to encompass minority
shareholdings. The EU’s antitrust agency currently only looks at
deals that give a company control of another.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 