-- 
Saudi Arabia Police Break Up Rally in East, Activist Says

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-10T20:46:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/saudi-arabia-security-police-break-up-rally-in-al-qatif-activist-reports.html
Saudi Arabian security forces broke
up a rally in the eastern city of al-Qatif, a day before what
anti-government demonstrators have called a “Day of Rage,”
Ibrahim al-Mugaiteeb, a local activist, said.  Al-Mugaiteeb, president of the al-Khobar, Saudi Arabia-
based Human Rights First Society, said a doctor who attended to
the wounded told him that two people were injured at the rally,
in the Shiite Muslim-dominated city. He didn’t have details on
how the injuries occurred. Interior Ministry spokesman Major
General Mansour al-Turki had no immediate comment.  Regional unrest, which has so far toppled the leaders of
Tunisia and Egypt, has reached  Saudi Arabia ’s neighbors Yemen,
Oman and Bahrain, the island-kingdom where a Sunni family rules
the majority Shiite population. In  Libya ,  Muammar Qaddafi  is
fighting rebels who seek to end his four-decade rule.  Crude oil futures pared losses after the  Associated Press 
reported that police in Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil
exporter, opened fire to disperse protesters.  Crude oil for April delivery declined $1.45, or 1.4
percent, to $102.93 a barrel at 2:21 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 25 percent from a year ago.
Oil traded at about $101.50 before reports of the gunfire.  Police faced the protesters and fired percussion bombs,
followed by gunfire, which caused the crowds to flee, the AP
reported, citing a witness who wasn’t identified by name.  U.S. officials said Saudi authorities used “less-than-
lethal” means on protesters, CNBC said, without naming the
officials. The security forces fired rubber bullets, CNBC
reported.  Protests are outlawed in the kingdom, whose ruling family
applies a strict version of Sunni Islam. Shiites are a minority
in the country.  Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said yesterday his
government believes dialogue is the best way to solve problems
in the kingdom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 