-- 
Scene Last Night: Yacht Club Warms to Oyster Boy, Harbor School

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-10T17:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/scene-last-night-yacht-club-warms-to-oyster-boy-harbor-school.html
In the model room of the  New York
Yacht Club  last night, the crowd threw around some big numbers.  “A billion, we want a billion,” said Alpha Francois.  The high-school senior at the  Urban Assembly New York
Harbor School  was referring to the number of oysters his school
hopes to grow in the harbor.  As Francois explained at the public school’s fundraiser,
student and volunteer scuba divers are planting oysters at five
sites around Governors Island, home to the school.  He first tasted an oyster when he was a freshman. “I was
tricked into it,” he said. “You had to eat it to pass.”  As for whether those billion oysters will drive down the
price of one’s next romantic night at the raw bar, the answer is
no.  The oysters are planted to rejuvenate the harbor. The gooey
creatures act as filters that keep the water clean.  Also there: the man whose passion had inspired many guests
to attend, Murray Fisher, co-founder of the Harbor School and
president of the New York Harbor Foundation; honoree Alex Matthiessen, former head of  Hudson Riverkeeper  who now runs his
own environmental consulting firm, Matthiessen Strategies;
honoree Rob Pirani, executive director of  Governors Island
Alliance ; and the school principal, Nathan Dudley.  Near a glass vitrine filled with America’s Cup vessels
rendered in miniature, Jayni Chase, a benefit co-chairman and
wife of actor  Chevy Chase , told of a recent expedition to the
Galapagos with marine biologists.  Smart Octopus  “Octopus are extremely intelligent,” she said. “In one
study, an octopus climbed out of his tank and got to the one
next door to get food.”  Food was closer at hand for guests: sushi, rigatoni and
roast beef.  Sarah Mason, who by day works for an investment manager and
by night has started her own gluten-free baking company, Mason
Made, donated the dessert she and a friend prepared for all.
Exiting guests received little cardboard boxes containing her
cupcakes: one “Perfect Pearl Vanilla” and one “Regatta Red
Velvet.”  The school is hosting a fundraising regatta around  Governors Island  on Sept. 22.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 