-- 
Schapiro Says Becker Should’ve Avoided Madoff Policy Work

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-10T22:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/schapiro-says-ex-counsel-should-ve-avoided-madoff-policy-work.html
Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said David M. Becker, the agency’s former
general counsel, should’ve declined to work on policy related to  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme because of his family’s ties to
the imprisoned money manager.  “I wish that Mr. Becker had recused himself, absolutely,”
Schapiro told lawmakers at a House Oversight and Government
Reform subcommittee hearing today. “It would have been
appropriate.”  Becker, 63, stepped down last month after he was sued over
$1.5 million in profits he and his brothers reaped when they
liquidated their parents’ Madoff holdings after their mother
died in 2004. Becker said the lawsuit played no role in his
decision to leave the SEC and that his Madoff work had been
cleared by the agency’s ethics counsel.  Schapiro, who promised a “top-to-bottom” review of the
SEC’s ethics program, told lawmakers that she had agreed after
Becker was hired as general counsel in 2009 that his work on
Madoff policy wouldn’t constitute a conflict of interest.  “At the time, from my perspective, a closed account from a
long-since deceased relative, it didn’t appear to me to raise a
conflict of interest,” she said.  Later in the hearing, Schapiro told the panel that she
couldn’t remember whether Becker had told her that he got an
inheritance from the account.  “It’s two years ago, I just don’t recall,” said Schapiro
who told lawmakers in written responses to inquiries about
Becker that she has been unable to review documents or talk with
“relevant witnesses” after putting the Becker matter in the
hands of the SEC’s inspector general.  Issa  Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who
leads the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said that
reviews of Becker’s involvement with Madoff will ultimately
reveal a major lapse by the SEC.  “The committee has become aware of what could be the
greatest challenge to the SEC’s credibility since  Bernie Madoff 
managed to dupe so many Americans,” Issa said in an opening
statement. “We’re not willing to accept that this can ever
happen again.”  Schapiro’s testimony on Becker followed two earlier
hearings where lawmakers questioned the SEC chairman and her top
lieutenants about agency spending amid Republican efforts to
slash its budget by $25 million over the next six months.  Case for Funding  In remarks before a Senate Banking subcommittee, Schapiro
pressed the agency’s case for funding to carry out new duties
imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act and boost market oversight after
missing Madoff’s fraud. SEC unit chiefs including Enforcement
Director  Robert Khuzami  and Trading and Markets Director  Robert Cook  made similar pleas in testimony before a House Financial
Services subcommittee.  “Most people there are working their hearts out day and
night, trying to do the right thing,” Schapiro told the
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, expressing
frustration over lawmakers’ focus on things such as the Becker
matter and reports that employees accessed online pornography.  After calling the Becker case “a small thing like this,”
she corrected herself, saying it was “not so small.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 