-- 
SEC Faces Congress's Scrutiny on Spending, Ethics Questions on Pornography

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/sec-faces-congress-s-scrutiny-on-spending-ethics-questions-on-pornography.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will come under congressional scrutiny today in a set
of hearings ostensibly about the agency’s spending that may
detour into explorations of ethical questions surrounding a
former general counsel and use of pornography by employees.  House and Senate lawmakers have called SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and five unit chiefs to  Capitol Hill  amid Republican
efforts to cut their budget by $25 million over the next six
months to trim the federal deficit. The House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee said it may also “explore current
and historical problems with the SEC’s management practices”  The hearings will bring Schapiro and her top lieutenants
before lawmakers who have questioned the agency over ex-general
counsel David M. Becker’s involvement in SEC policy decisions
related to  Bernard Madoff ’s fraud after he inherited profits
from his parents’ holdings with the convicted money manager.
Becker stepped down last month after he was sued by the
bankruptcy trustee unwinding Madoff’s business.  In prepared remarks for the House Financial Services
Committee, the division chiefs and office directors tell
lawmakers the agency needs money promised by the Dodd-Frank Act
to handle responsibilities imposed by the regulatory overhaul.
Even without Dodd-Frank, the SEC’s “tools for collecting data
and overseeing markets do not even incorporate readily available
technology currently used by those the commission regulates,”
Trading and Markets Director  Robert Cook  said in his statement.  Taking on oversight of hedge fund advisers, over-the-
counter derivatives and credit-rating firms “will require
significant additional resources or a substantial reduction in
the performance,” Schapiro said in her submitted testimony.  Budget Standoff  Federal spending for the current fiscal year -- including
the SEC budget -- has been frozen at fiscal 2010 levels by a
congressional standoff after Republicans took control of the
House on a vow to slash spending.  “This restricted funding has required the SEC to severely
restrain any new hiring this year, even to replace staff who
leave the agency; to postpone most technology initiatives; and
to limit its base mission operations” Schapiro said in her
prepared remarks.  President  Barack Obama ’s 2012 budget, released Feb. 14,
seeks a $305 million increase over the SEC’s 2010 level and a 16
percent increase in agency staff.  Republican spending cuts would “dramatically” undermine
the SEC’s abilities, said Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey
Democrat who urged lawmakers not to use the budget to punish the
agency for other perceived failings.  “If we don’t have a cop on the beat, then we won’t have
integrity in the marketplace,” Menendez told reporters in a
conference call yesterday. Menendez is a member of the Senate
Banking Committee, which is scheduled to hear from Schapiro.  ‘Inexplicable Failure’  In her prepared remarks, Helen Davis Chaitman, a Becker &
Poliakoff LLP partner who represents about 500 people who lost
money in Madoff’s fraud, points to the agency’s “inexplicable
failure” to stop the  Ponzi scheme  and faults Becker’s work on a
legal opinion that victims’ investments should be adjusted for
inflation.  “That proposal, if adopted, would certainly have benefited
Mr. Becker by reducing his clawback exposure,” she said.  Irving H. Picard, the bankruptcy court trustee unwinding
Madoff’s business, is trying to recover $1.5 million of what he
called fraudulent profit reaped by Becker and his brothers.
Becker, 63, said the lawsuit played no role in his decision to
step down last month.  The oversight committee’s hearing may “examine the way
management handled 2010’s employee pornography scandal” in
which SEC workers accessed online pornography at work, according
to the hearing notice.    Darrell Issa , the committee’s chairman, told Schapiro in a
Jan.7 letter referring to the matter that she “must terminate
employees who perform poorly or violate policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 