-- 
Senator Paul Says Regulator ‘Busybodies’ Clogging His Toilets

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-10T21:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/senator-paul-says-regulator-busybodies-clogging-his-toilets.html
U.S. Senator  Rand Paul ’s toilets
don’t work. And, he says, it’s the government’s fault.  “Frankly my toilets don’t work in my house,” Paul, a
Kentucky Republican, told a top Energy Department official today
at hearing on efficiency of products such as light bulbs and
appliances. “I blame you and people like you who want to tell
me what I can install in my house, what I can do.”  Paul directed his ire at Kathleen Hogan, deputy assistant
secretary for energy efficiency and renewable energy, during a
hearing of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
The Energy Department has spent two years developing energy-
efficiency appliance standards that may save consumers as much
as $300 billion in the next 20 years, Hogan testified.  Paul and Republicans have protested efficiency mandates as
limits on consumer choice. They cite a 2007 law that sets
lightbulb efficiency standards, effectively phasing out the use
of the familiar incandescent bulbs in favor of compact
fluorescent light bulbs.  “I find it really appalling and hypocritical,” Paul told
Hogan. “There should be some self-examination from the
administration on the idea that you favor a woman’s right to an
abortion, but you don’t favor a woman or a man’s right to choose
what kind of lightbulb, what kind of dishwasher, what kind of
washing machine.”  Congress is determining the government’s role in
encouraging  energy efficiency . The committee today considered
legislation that would set standards for 14 products --
overlapping with the Energy Department’s efforts -- and a
measure that would repeal parts of the 2007 law on lightbulb
efficiency standards.  $43 Billion Saved  Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Jeff Bingaman, the New Mexico Democrat who introduced the bill for
the standards in February, has said higher efficiency standards
for appliances such as air conditioners, heaters, freezers and
washers and dryers may save consumers $43 billion in energy
costs by 2030.  Senator Mike Enzi, a Wyoming Republican and sponsor of the
measure to repeal the lightbulb standards, has said the 2007
energy law will ban sales of incandescent bulbs when standards
take effect on Jan. 1.  “Rather than allowing members of Congress to dictate what
light bulbs must be used in every American’s home, my
legislation allows the market to work,” Enzi, who isn’t on the
Energy committee, said in a statement submitted to the panel.  Government, Light Bulb  “Government doesn’t need to be in the business of telling
people what light bulb they have to use,” Enzi said in a Feb.
17 press release.  The Republican-led House is considering similar
legislation.  Republicans have complained about the costs associated with
compact fluorescent lamps, which meet the efficiency standards.
Senator James Risch, an Idaho Republican, said “free people”
ought to be able to decide which lightbulb to use.  Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska , the panel’s top
Republican, said the quality of light from compact lamps is
inferior to the flow from incandescent bulbs. “And, they
contain mercury, which we all know is a hazard,” she said.  Manufacturers such as  General Electric Co. (GE)  of Fairfield,  Connecticut , have started shifting production to meet the
efficiency standards. The more-efficient light bulbs are changed
less frequently, producing almost $6 billion in savings for
consumers by 2015, Hogan said. Enzi’s bill “could cost
consumers and manufacturer money and detrimentally affect the
nation’s economy,  energy security , and environmental
perspectives,” she said in testimony.  Bipartisan Discussions  Hogan defended the practice of energy efficiency standards,
which she said was produced after bipartisan discussions.  “I really do not believe that the appliance standards end
up restricting personal choice,” she told Paul.  Hogan’s comments failed to convince Paul. “You busybodies
always want to do something to tell us how we can live our lives
better,” he said. “Keep it to yourselves. Try to convince us
through persuasion, but don’t threaten to put us in jail or put
us out of business if we don’t accept your way of thinking.”  Hogan didn’t mention jail or fines at the hearing, and
offered Paul some assistance:  “I can help you find a toilet
that works,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 Bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  