-- 
Serbia Raises Benchmark Rate on Inflation Concerns

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-03-10T11:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/serbia-raises-rates-as-inflation-outweighs-growth-job-concerns.html
(Corrects amount of increase in first paragraph.)    Serbia ’s central bank raised  Europe ’s highest benchmark rate by a quarter-point as it
struggles to anchor inflation expectations.  The Belgrade-based  Narodna Banka Srbije  increased its two-
week repurchase rate to 12.25 percent. Eight of 22 economists in
a Bloomberg survey forecast a half-point rise, while 13 expected
no change and one saw a half-point cut. Inflation accelerated to
a 27-month high of 11.2 percent in January.  Pressures stemming from regulated prices, including this
month’s 13.5 percent increase in electricity prices, will push
the inflation rate to “about 14.5 percent by the end of the
first quarter or early in the second quarter,” Societe Generale
analysts said in a note to investors before the decision.  Central banks around the world are struggling to contain
inflation as food prices advance and the price of oil rises amid
turmoil in the Middle East. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last week an increase in the ECB’s rate
from a record low 1 percent is “possible.” The Serbian central
bank targets inflation of 3 percent to 6 percent.  The Serbian rate decision followed a series of statements
by top officials, including central bank Governor Dejan Soskic,
who expressed concern over further dinar gains, triggered by six
rate increases by a total of 4 percentage points since August.
Soskic also said he is worried that higher rates and a stronger
dinar may pressure exporters and erode their competitiveness.  “The NBS inflation target of 6 percent at the end of 2011
seems challenging amid high food and rising energy prices, and
uncertainties on their future movements, as well as a pre-
election atmosphere in the country which usually triggers higher
public spending,” the Societe Generale note said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  