-- 
Charlie Sheen Sues Warner Bros. for $100 Million Over Firing

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T00:26:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/sheen-sues-producer-warner-bros-for-ending-two-and-a-half-men-series.html
Actor Charlie Sheen, the star of
“Two and a Half Men,” sued  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s WB Studio
Enterprises unit and the producer of the television series for
$100 million over his firing from the top-rated comedy.  Sheen accused Warner Bros. and Chuck Lorre, the show’s
creator, of breach of contract and retaliation, among other
claims, in a complaint filed today in California state court in  Santa Monica . He also sued on behalf of the entire cast and the
crew of the show that was halted last month before all the
episodes for the current television season had been finished.  “Two and a Half Men,” produced by Warner Bros. for  CBS
Corp. (CBS) , is the most-watched comedy on television. Warner Bros.
fired Sheen, 45, on March 7 after a series of interviews in
which he denounced Lorre.  “The suspension and termination of Mr. Sheen occurred only
after Mr. Sheen had finally been provoked into criticizing Lorre
in response to his harassment and disparagement campaign which
had been going on for years,” according to the actor’s
complaint.    Paul McGuire , a spokesman for  Warner Bros. Television ,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  “The allegations in the complaint against Mr. Lorre are as
recklessly false and unwarranted as Mr. Sheen’s rantings in the
media,” Howard Weitzman, Lorre’s lawyer, said in a statement.
“These accusations are simply imaginary. This lawsuit is about
a fantasy ‘lottery’ pay-day for Charlie Sheen.”  Sheen, who starred in 177 episodes of the show, claims that
Warner Bros. didn’t want to fire him when he was facing felony
charges last year, nor when he was undergoing rehab and when he
was “the subject of salacious gossip stories” after being
accused of trashing a hotel room in  New York .  ‘Interesting Approach’  “If that is the case, it makes it more difficult for
Warner Bros. to come forward now and claim they fired him over
his conduct,” Jeffrey Spitz, an entertainment lawyer with
Greenberg Glusker Fields Claman & Machtinger LLP in  Los Angeles ,
said in an interview. “It’s an interesting approach and
potentially advantageous for Sheen.”  The lawsuit makes it less likely that Warner Bros. and
Sheen will reconcile, allowing the actor to return to “Two and
a Half Men,” said Spitz, who isn’t involved in the case.  “That bridge is slowly getting burned,” Spitz said.  CBS and Warner Bros. stopped work on the season’s last four
episodes on Feb. 24 “based on the totality of  Charlie Sheen ’s
statements, conduct and condition,” the companies said at the
time. Warner Bros. was weighing the future of the show without
Sheen, McGuire said March 7.  Sheen said in the complaint that Warner Bros. fired him
after he had undergone private rehab treatment at the studio’s
request. After he was sober, passed several drug tests, and was
“ready, willing and able to return to work,” he was told
“No,” according to the complaint.  The case is Sheen v. Lorre, SC111794, California Superior
Court (Santa Monica).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 