-- 
FIFA Starts Proceedings Against Game Officials in Match-Fix Investigation

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-03-10T11:39:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/soccer-s-governing-body-starts-match-fixing-investigation-of-six-referees.html
FIFA, soccer’s governing body, said
it started disciplinary proceedings against six game officials
as part of a match-fixing investigation.  The probe concerns two exhibition games held in Antalya,  Turkey , on Feb. 9. Estonia and  Bulgaria  tied 2-2 and Latvia beat
Bolivia 2-1, all seven goals coming on penalty kicks.  “The proceedings were opened following an evaluation of
all documentation and information received by FIFA, in relation
to a possible match-fixing situation in these matches,” FIFA
said in an e-mailed statement. “The FIFA disciplinary committee
will be in charge to deal with the matter.”  The soccer body didn’t identify the officials or specify
what the disciplinary proceedings will entail.  FIFA legal affairs director Marco Villiger in June said
match-fixing is “the biggest threat to the game.” The group
monitored World Cup matches last year in  South Africa  for
possible cheating, and found none. FIFA worked with betting
companies, Interpol and other bodies to create an early-warning
system.  In November 2005, German referee Robert Hoyzer was
sentenced to two years and five months in jail for match-fixing
as part of a betting ring. Hoyzer admitted that he had accepted
bribes to fix four matches, including a German Cup game in which
SC Paderborn 07 rallied from 2-0 down to win 4-2 against SV
Hamburg, a club two divisions above it at the time.  Earlier this year, the Court of Arbitration for Sport
upheld a lifetime suspension given to a Ukrainian referee who
failed to report a bribe offer in a Europa League match that he
officiated.  Referee Suspended  An investigation by the prosecutor in Bochum,  Germany ,
revealed repeated contact between Oleg Oriekhov and a group
involved in betting fraud, the court said. The probe found that
the referee was offered about 50,000 euros ($69,200) to
“manipulate” the group match between FC Basel and CSKA Sofia
in 2009. Basel won 3-1.  UEFA , European soccer’s ruling body, suspended Oriekhov for
life for failing to immediately report the bribe offer. The
referee then appealed to the Lausanne, Switzerland-based CAS,
sport’s top court.  Last year, German prosecutors indicted two suspects on
fraud charges related to claims they were part of a Europe-wide
conspiracy to pay referees and players 350,000 euros to fix 24
matches.  The two men, who weren’t identified, were among the leaders
of the match-fixing ring and made more than 1.45 million euros
betting on games, the prosecutors said.  German prosecutors and police arrested 17 people in
November as the probe expanded to leagues in nine countries,
including Germany, Turkey and  Switzerland . Wiretaps and 50 raids
conducted at the time yielded evidence pointing to 200 suspects.
Of the 24 matches that prosecutor say were fixed, 10 were in
Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  