-- 
Sony Promotes Games-Division Chief Hirai as Possible Successor to Stringer

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-03-10T08:51:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/sony-promotes-kazuo-hirai-stringer-to-remain-chief-executive-president.html
  Sony Corp. (6758)  promoted gaming chief
Kazuo Hirai to oversee a new unit combining cameras, televisions
and other consumer electronics, paving the way for him to
succeed Howard Stringer as chief executive officer.  Hirai, credited with turning around the PlayStation
consoles business in his over four years in charge, will also
run the Bravia TV business and the Vaio laptop computer business
from April 1, Stringer  told reporters  in Tokyo today. Stringer
said Hirai is gaining the “leadership position” to replace him
and the company could still consider more candidates for the
three positions he holds - of CEO, president and chairman.  The promotion of the 50-year-old Hirai signals that
Stringer may be preparing for retirement after almost six years
battling  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. Hirai, a 27-year
Sony veteran, is the only non-engineer among Stringer’s so-
called “Four Musketeers,” his nickname for his top
lieutenants. He slashed the cost of making PlayStation consoles
to boost profitability.  “Hirai looks like he’s got the inside track to be
Stringer’s successor,” said  Koichi Ogawa , chief portfolio
manager at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo. “Stringer must
have valued Hirai’s performance in turning around Sony’s game
division.”  ‘Complicated Company’  Hirai’s appointment takes him past Hiroshi Yoshioka as the
highest-ranking lieutenant of Stringer, who turned 69 last
month. The appointment may lighten his work and travel load as
Sony prepares for an eventual leadership change at Japan’s
largest exporter of consumer electronics.  The board of the Tokyo-based company talked a lot about
looking at talents outside Sony, Stringer said.  “Since we promoted many young executives, I think it will
be destructive to bring an outside player. It will be
destructive to the morale and it will be destructive to
performance,” he said. “It’s a very big, complicated company.
Coming in from outside isn’t easy.”  Hirai was not available to respond to Bloomberg’s interview
request, according to Mami Imada at Sony.  Sony fell 0.9 percent to close at 2,870 yen in Tokyo, its
fourth consecutive decline, as the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average dropped 1.5 percent.  Fluent in English  As part of the overhaul, Sony will combine all consumer
electronics and networked-service functions under the umbrella
of Hirai’s Consumer Products & Services Group, it said.
Broadcast and professional products, as well as components such
as batteries and chips, will be part of the Professional &
Device Solutions Group under Yoshioka, it said.  Hirai was named representative corporate executive officer
and executive deputy president. He will also be responsible for
sales and marketing, common software platforms and design
operations, according to the statement.  Hirai, fluent in Japanese and English, started his career
at a joint venture between Sony and CBS Inc., now called Sony
Music Entertainment Inc., in 1984. He moved to the U.S. games
division in 1995 and became its chief in 1999. In 2006, he was
promoted to president of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.,
replacing Ken Kutaragi, the developer of the PlayStation.  PlayStation Drive  The company last month reported third-quarter earnings that
exceeded analysts’ estimates after the PlayStation games
division’s profit more than doubled. That cushioned a slump in
TV prices, which had also eroded earnings at Samsung Electronics
Co. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)   Yoshioka, who currently oversees the consumer products
group that includes TVs and camcorders, will retain his title of
executive deputy president, Sony said.  “This new organizational and management structure is
intended to enable Mr. Stringer to continue to implement his
group-wide strategic vision, while also empowering the next
generation of Sony’s management to focus on current operations
as well as long-term growth and development of the company’s
core businesses,” Sony said.  According to people familiar with the matter in November,
Sony planned to search for a new president who could eventually
succeed Stringer. Hirai and Yoshioka were the leading internal
contenders, the people said at the time.  Hirai is “loyal on one hand and well educated in the
convergence products and I think he has a charming
personality,” Stringer said.  The Musketeers  Since 2009, Stringer has been grooming four executives as
he pushes Sony’s divisions to marry hardware products with film,
TV, game titles and music from the company’s entertainment
businesses. With the exception of Hirai, Sony’s “musketeers”
are all engineers by trade. The other “musketeers” are
Yoshihisa Ishida, head of TVs, and Kunimasa Suzuki, who leads
Sony’s Vaio personal-computer operations.  Stringer replaced division leaders to spur cooperation and
cut 30,000 jobs to revive earnings. Sony has been trying to
boost sales by promoting 3-D products and being first in
offering Internet-oriented TVs that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG)  software
and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  chips.  Stringer travels frequently between his main office in  New
York , Sony’s Tokyo headquarters, the movie division in  Los
Angeles  and  London  where his family lives. He said in 2009 he
wanted to remain on the job until Sony completes its business
plan ending in March 2013.  Oldest ‘Musketeer’  Yoshioka, the oldest of the “musketeers” at 58, has
overseen the consumer products group that includes TVs, stereos,
DVD and Blu-ray players and camcorders.  Stringer, who holds master’s and bachelor’s degrees in
history from Oxford University, joined Sony in 1997 after a
career spanning two decades at CBS. The Welsh-born U.S. citizen
became chairman and CEO in 2005 after winning the endorsement of
his predecessor, Nobuyuki Idei, who oversaw the loss of more
than 60 percent of Sony’s market value over five years as Apple
and Samsung gained market share.  Stringer scored a victory over  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , which
abandoned its HD DVD technology in 2008, handing the high-
definition video market to Sony’s Blu-ray. It was the
entertainment industry’s largest format tussle since VHS beat
Betamax in the 1980s.  Stringer also oversaw the biggest recall in the consumer-
electronics industry in 2006 when some of the company’s
batteries overheated. He led Sony during the company’s first
back-to-back annual losses since its listing. Under Stringer,
the company’s flagship PlayStation 3 was outsold by Nintendo’s
Wii, and sales of Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle trumped those of
Sony’s rival electronic-book reader.  Under Akio Morita and Masaru Ibuka, who co-founded Sony in
1946, the company created Japan’s first transistor radio and the
world’s first compact disc player. Morita’s admirers included
Apple founder  Steve Jobs , according to John Sculley, former CEO
of Apple.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  