-- 
South Africa Won't Nationalize Its Mining Industry, Minister Shabangu Says

-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 
2011-03-10T23:22:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/south-africa-won-t-nationalize-its-mining-industry-minister-shabangu-says.html
  South Africa  won’t nationalize its  mining industry  even after members of the ruling  African
National Congress  called for such a move, Mineral Resources
Minister Susan Shabangu said.  The ANC agreed last year to officially debate
nationalization after  Julius Malema , the leader of the party’s
youth arm, called for the policy.  “The youth league, informed by challenges of poverty,
challenges of unemployment amongst the young people and
pressures of needs and people seeing democracy but not being
able to tangibly benefit from that, they think that one aspect
is to nationalize the mines,” Shabangu said yesterday in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  “Government policy is clear: it’s a mixed economy; the
state will participate in the sector, but we will not
nationalize,” she said.  Malema has said that the country doesn’t derive enough
benefit from mining. South  Africa ’s mineral reserves are valued
at about $2.5 trillion, more than any other country, according
to  Citibank NA  estimates last year. South Africa is the largest
producer of platinum and the second-biggest miner of palladium,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Supporters of nationalization are “advocating the road to
ruin,” Cynthia Carroll, chief executive officer of London-based
mining company  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , South Africa’s largest
private employer, said last month. Mining companies won’t invest
unless they can be assured the assets they create are secure,
Carroll told a mining conference in  Cape Town .  ‘Just Calls’  Calls for nationalization “are just calls,” said
Shabangu, 55. “We can’t say they are calls that at the end will
influence or formulate policy. Formulation cannot be imposed; it
must be discussed, and that debate must go on sensibly.”  “This debate is unfortunate,” said Senzeni Zokwana,
president of the  National Union of Mineworkers , who was among
the delegation accompanying Shabangu in New York. “It does not
reflect the views of mineworkers and mining communities.”  The ANC is scheduled to discuss nationalization at a
meeting next year. The state should own at least 60 percent of
all the country’s mining assets, according to an ANC Youth
League policy document. While the country has the largest
economy in Africa, it has 24 percent unemployment.  Under current so-called black-empowerment legislation,
mining companies have a 2014 deadline to ensure black investors
have a 26 percent interest in the companies’ South African
assets.  South African Assets  Anglo American, which was founded in South Africa in 1917
and moved its stock-exchange listing to  London  in 1999, may
split its South African units from the company’s other assets,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a report in July. Merrill
cited the debate of black empowerment, a dispute over
prospecting rights involving Anglo American’s  Kumba Iron Ore
Ltd. (KIO)  unit, and shortages of electricity.  The South African government has been working with power
generators and consumers to avoid a repeat of the blackouts in
2008 that reduced the country’s mining production. The power
crisis was one reason the country lost the interest of some
potential investors before the global financial crisis, Shabangu
said.  Following that crisis, the government revived a state-owned
mining company, African Exploration, Mining and Finance Corp.,
to help secure energy supplies. The company has interests in
coal and uranium, and plans to start producing coal for delivery
to state-owned power company Eskom Holdings Ltd. by June.  “We are confident we will not encounter the same problem”
with power supplies, Shabangu said.  Shabangu also said the government will lift a moratorium on
the issuing of mine-prospecting licenses at the end of March in
all provinces except Mpumalanga. Companies will be able to apply
for licenses from April 1 using a new website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 