-- 
S. Korea to Increase Overseas Farming on Record Food Costs

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-10T09:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/south-korea-expects-more-overseas-farming-on-record-food-costs.html
South Korea, the world’s third-
biggest corn buyer, may increase grain production overseas as
the country seeks to boost  food security  amid record global
prices, the government said.  “The need to develop overseas agricultural resources has
never been felt more because global grain prices are rising
rapidly,” the Ministry for Food, Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries said in an e-mailed statement today. “The government
will give companies as much support as possible,” it said,
without elaborating.  South Korea, which relies on imports for almost all its
corn and wheat, is attempting to boost supplies as surging
global food costs helped drive inflation above the central
bank’s target for the past two months. Record prices may be
sustained because of high oil costs and smaller crops, the
United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization said on March 9.    South Korea  is looking to overseas farming to ensure
stable supplies because its grain self-sufficiency is very low
and there’s limited room to boost production at home,” said Kim
Wha Nyeon, a research fellow at Samsung Economic Research
Institute in Seoul.  About 60 companies were involved in farming in 16 countries
by the end of 2010, harvesting about 87,000 metric tons of grain
from 24,000 hectares of farmland, the ministry today, without
naming the firms.  Ruined Crops  Global food costs advanced to an all-time high in February,
according to an index compiled by the FAO. Prices surged as bad
weather ruined crops from  Canada  to Australia and  Russia  banned
grain exports after its worst drought in a half-century. The
increase help spur riots across North Africa and the Middle East
that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .  South Korea has assisted companies to farm abroad since
2009 under a 10-year plan after prices surged to records in
2008, the ministry’s statement said. Korean companies are
engaged in farming mostly in Russia and Southeast Asian
countries, according to the ministry.  South Korea,  Asia ’s second-biggest grain importer after
Japan, is forecast to import 8.5 million tons of corn this year,
or 99 percent of its needs, beating  Mexico  as the world’s
second-largest buyer of the grain used in animal feed, according
to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The country is also
Asia’s third-biggest buyer of wheat, set to import 95 percent of
its needs this year, the USDA data shows.  Corn prices have gained 91 percent in the past year and
soybeans gained 40 percent. Corn for May delivery was 0.4
percent lower at $6.98 a bushel at 3:33 p.m.  Seoul  time on the
Chicago Board of Trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  