-- 
South Africa Manufacturing Expands 1.3% in January Amid Low Interest Rates

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-10T13:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/south-african-manufacturing-rebounds-expanding-1-3-in-january.html
South African manufacturing
rebounded in January, expanding 1.3 percent from a year ago, as
interest rates at a 30-year low helped spur  consumer spending  in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  Growth accelerated from 0.2 percent in December, Pretoria-
based  Statistics South Africa  said on its website today. The
median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
expansion of 1.9 percent. In the month, output rose a seasonally
adjusted 0.4 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate three
times to 5.5 percent last year to help support the economy’s
recovery. The rebound in manufacturing, which accounts for 15
percent of the gross domestic product, may strengthen further
with the Purchasing Managers Index, an indicator of factory
output, climbing to a 10-month high of 54.8 in February, Kagiso
Securities Ltd. said on March 1.  “A lot will depend on global demand” and the strength of
the rand, said Nicky Weimar, an economist with Nedbank Group
Ltd., the Old Mutual Plc-controlled lender. “If the rand
remains firm, manufacturers have to compete against growing
imports, which they haven’t been successful at.”  After rallying 15 percent against the dollar in the second
half of last year, the rand has weakened 3.7 percent this year.
The currency maintained today’s losses after the manufacturing
figures were released, declining 0.1 percent to 6.8772 rand per
dollar at 2:44 p.m. in Johannesburg trading.  The rebound in manufacturing may help to boost economic
growth, which accelerated to an annualized 4.4 percent in the
third quarter from 2.7 percent in the previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 