-- 
Soybeans Head for Worst Losing Streak in 10 Months on Outlook for Supply

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-03-10T13:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/soybeans-extend-worst-losing-streak-in-10-months-on-global-supply-forecast.html
Soybeans fell, heading for the
worst losing streak in 10 months, on forecasts for bigger
stockpiles of the world’s most-used oilseed, easing food
inflation that sparked riots across North Africa and the Middle
East.  Global inventories will reach 59.32 million metric tons on
Oct. 1, 1.9 percent more than previously forecast, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  will say today, according to the
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts. When the
USDA cut its forecast by 0.1 percent last month, soybeans
futures jumped to their highest price since July 2008.  The decline in soybeans is helping to ease a surge in
agricultural prices the United Nations says sent global food
costs to a record last month, sparking protests across North
Africa and the Middle East. The acceleration in food inflation
drove 44 million more people into extreme poverty since June,
the  World Bank  says. More crop supply also means lower feed
costs for livestock producers including Tyson Foods Inc.  “The harvest is happening now and the crop is just
excellent, adding quantity to each growing field,” said
Jonathan Bouchet, an analyst at OTCex Group, a commodity broker
and adviser in Geneva. “We should definitely see soybeans
correcting further in the coming days.”  Soybean futures for May delivery fell 12.75 cents, or 1
percent, to $13.3625 a bushel at 6:22 a.m. local time on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. The contract fell 5.5 percent over four
days, the longest losing streak since May. Prices touched a 30-
month high of $14.5575 on Feb. 9.  Brazilian production is expected to grow to 70.3 million
tons, up from a February forecast of 70.1 million tons and 68.7
million tons a year earlier, the Agriculture Ministry said
today. Corn production is expected to drop to 55 million tons,
down 1 million tons from last year, according to the ministry’s
crop forecasting agency, known as Conab.  Improved Crops  Soybeans may fall as low as $11.50 in the next four months
because of the prospect of improved crops in Brazil,  Argentina 
and  India , said Murali Krishna, chief executive officer of
Hyderabad, India-based Transgraph Consulting Pvt. Ltd., which
provides commodity risk management to companies including the
India unit of  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and Cadbury Plc.  Speculators are also anticipating lower prices, cutting
their net-long position, or bets on higher prices, by 6.3
percent to 164,840 contracts in the week ended March 1,
according to data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. That was a third consecutive weekly drop, and took
the net-long position to its smallest since September.  Chinese Purchases  Soybeans climbed 40 percent in the past year on record
Chinese purchases and reduced production of oilseed crops in  Russia ,  Canada , the U.S. and parts of  Europe . Rainfall in  South
America  last month may have improved expectations for crops in  Brazil , the biggest exporter after the U.S., according to Oil
World, an oilseed forecaster based in Hamburg.  Inspections of the oilseeds for overseas delivery from
ports in the U.S., the world’s biggest shipper, fell 46 percent
to 26.4 million bushels in the week that ended on March 3 from
the prior seven days, according to the government. That’s the
lowest amount since September.    China  imported 2.32 million metric tons of soybeans in
February, a 55 percent decline from a month earlier, according
to customs data posted today. That’s the smallest monthly amount
since October 2008, the data show.  “The low February figure can be explained by the Chinese
Lunar New Year festival, which is why some buying was brought
forward,”  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  said in a report today.  Prospects Improved ‘Decisively’  South American soybean prospects improved “decisively” in
February as rainfall improved crop conditions, Oil World said in
a report March 1. Output in Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, Bolivia
and Uruguay will total 131.13 million tons, up 2.8 percent from
a January estimate, Oil World said.  The USDA’s monthly crop report is due at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington . It may also show an estimate for corn stockpiles of
121.81 million tons, compared with an earlier forecast of 122.51
million tons, according to the Bloomberg survey. Wheat
inventories may be estimated at 177.56 million tons, from 177.77
million tons, the survey shows.  “The weather has been quite favorable in Argentina and
Brazil,” Sudha Acharya, an analyst at Kotak Commodity Service
Ltd., said by phone from Mumbai today. “We don’t see any major
upside in prices.”    Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  said on Feb. 4 that operating margins in
the chicken unit may decline as grain costs rise $500 million in
the current fiscal year. The company, which reported better-
than-expected earnings on rising pork and chicken sales, said
cost-cutting and higher prices will help ensure its poultry unit
remains profitable. Shares yesterday gained 4.3 percent to
$19.61.  Wheat futures fell 5.5 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $7.5325 a
bushel and corn dropped 1.4 percent to $6.915 a bushel in
Chicago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  