-- 
Spain Credit Rating Cut One Level to Aa2 by Moody’s on Bank Bailout Costs

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-03-10T08:24:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/spain-s-credit-rating-cut-one-level-by-moody-s-on-bank-restructuring-costs.html
  Spain ’s credit rating was cut to
Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, which said the cost of shoring
up the banking industry will eclipse government estimates. The
euro fell and Spanish bond yields rose.  Spain will spend as much as 50 billion euros ($69 billion)
shoring up savings banks, Moody’s forecast, more than double the
20 billion-euro price set by the government. The risks to
government finances remain “skewed to the downside,” the company
said in a statement today. The outlook is “negative,” suggesting
more rating cuts are under consideration.  As Spain tries to convince investors that struggling
savings banks won’t overburden its public finances, European
leaders have set a March 25 deadline to approve a package of
measures to end the sovereign debt crisis. The Bank of Spain is
due to announce today the capital shortfalls of lenders.  “The crisis in the euro region is going to take a long
time to resolve, and the rating downgrade of Spain is a
reflection of that,” said  John Stopford , head of fixed income
at Investec Asset Management in  London , which manages about $80
billion. “Any expectation that meetings in March are going to
lead to a quick solution is a bit naïve.”  The gap between Spanish and German borrowing costs widened
9 basis points today to 231 basis points, the highest in five
weeks as the yield on 10-year notes rose 3 basis points to 5.50
percent. The euro slid 0.6 percent to $1.3825 as of 7:18 a.m. in
London.  Moody’s had put Spain’s rating on review on Dec. 15, after
lowering its credit grade to Aa1 from Aaa in September.  Fitch
Ratings , which calls Spain AA+, changed the outlook to
“negative” on March 4.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the nation AA,
after stripping it of its top AAA grade in January 2009.  Capital Requirements  As part of its effort to regain investors’ confidence, the
government tightened capital requirements for lenders on Feb.
18, setting core capital ratios of 8 percent for listed banks
and 10 percent for lenders that don’t have shareholders and
depend on wholesale funding.  Spain’s economy emerged from an almost two-year recession
last year, before contracting again in the third quarter as the
deepest austerity measures in at least three decades undermined
the recovery. The government forecasts economic growth of 1.3
percent in 2011, even as the  unemployment rate  remains above 20
percent.  Spain is trying to cut the  budget deficit  to 6 percent of
gross domestic product this year -- in line with  France ’s
targeted shortfall -- from 9.2 percent last year when it was the
third-largest in the euro region. While the central government
beat its budget goal last year, regional administrations, which
control health and education and employ half of public workers,
overstepped their combined target, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  