-- 
SPAIN DAYBOOK: Bank of Spain Reports Lenders’ Capital Shortfalls

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-03-10T06:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/spain-daybook-bank-of-spain-reports-lenders-capital-shortfalls.html
The Bank of  Spain  will publish
lenders’ capital shortfalls under new banking rules approved by
the government last month.  *Spain’s Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero meets
Poland’s Prime Minister Donald Tusk in Madrid, followed by a
joint news conference at 6:15 p.m.  ECONOMY:
*The Bank of Spain will publish the capital shortfall of lenders
that don’t meet new capital requirements. No news conference is
scheduled and the time of the release is to be confirmed.
*Spain’s National Statistics Institute reports January retail
sales at 9 a.m. CET.
*The European Union is close to agreeing on the final wording of
a reworked plan to raise the region’s competitiveness and
tighten economic cooperation, two French government officials
said.
*The euro may reverse gains versus the dollar as Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis pushes the single currency toward a
“tipping point,” according to Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  EQUITIES:
  Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas SA (FCC)  and Italy’s Astaldi
SpA head a group of companies that won a 255 million-euro
($353.5 million) contract to build the first stage of a new
metro line in Bucharest, Negocio reported, citing unidentified
people from the industry.
  Grupo Ezentis SA (EZE) , a Spanish engineering company, publishes a
2010-2013 strategic plan at the Stock Exchange in Madrid at
11:30 a.m. CET.
  Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR) , the world’s largest owner of wind
parks, was cut to “hold” from “buy” at Caja Madrid Bolsa.  MARKETS:
*The  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  fell 0.1 percent to 10,559.5.
*The spread between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
widened to 222, the most since the end of February.  -- Editor: Chris Peterson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  