-- 
Santander’s Saenz Suspended From Banking for Three Months

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-03-10T16:44:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/spain-court-says-saenz-suspended-from-banking-3-months-correct-.html
Spain’s Supreme Court upheld a
conviction against  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  Chief Executive Officer
Alfredo Saenz and suspended him from banking for three months.  Santander will appeal the sentence handed down to Saenz for
making a false accusation, an official for the bank said in a
telephone interview, while the lender said in a filing to
regulators its board backed Saenz to continue as CEO. As well as
suspending him from his banking duties, the Madrid-based court
imposed a three-month jail term on Saenz, although he’s unlikely
to serve it, a court official said in a phone interview.  Saenz, 68, has been CEO of Spain’s biggest bank since 2002,
helping Chairman Emilio Botin lead acquisitions in the U.K. and  Brazil  that have enabled the lender to become the second biggest
in  Europe  by market value and diversify its earnings beyond
Spain. Botin described Saenz, who has helped Santander more than
triple its profit since 2002, as the “best chief executive in
banking” in a speech in February.  “With maximum respect for the judicial decisions, the
board confirms its confidence in Mr. Alfredo Saenz so that he
may continue to carry out his responsibilities as the bank’s
chief executive officer,” Santander said in a statement.  The case relates to efforts made by Banesto, a consumer-
banking unit of Santander, to recover loans in 1994. During the
proceedings, the company sued for fraud, prompting counter-
allegations of false accusation, Banesto said in 2009, when news
of Saenz’s conviction by a court in Barcelona first broke.  Saenz Appeal  The proceedings initiated by Banesto were begun with the
blessing of Saenz, who was chairman of the bank at the time,
according to the original ruling by the Barcelona court. That
court handed Saenz and two others a six-month jail term and a
fine on a single count of making a false accusation, according
to the ruling.  The Bank of  Spain , the banking regulator, declined to
comment on the ruling. According to a 1995 Royal decree,
“professional virtue” is a prerequisite for those working in
the industry and can be lost by anyone with a criminal record.  Santander is awaiting approval by the U.K. Financial
Services Authority for Saenz’s appointment as non-executive
director of its British unit, which is led by Botin’s eldest
daughter, Ana Patricia Botin. When banks put forward candidates
for roles that carry significant influence, the FSA takes into
account different factors to see if he or she is fit and proper,
said a spokeswoman for the U.K.’s financial regulator.  U.K. Role  If someone has a criminal conviction, it doesn’t
necessarily follow that the person is unfit, although the FSA
will examine the facts of the case because integrity is one of
the factors it weighs when approving banking appointments, the
spokeswoman said. The FSA only comments on its general policy
and not on individual cases, she said.  Saenz will appeal the  Supreme Court  sentence at the
constitutional court and will ask the government to commute it,
said a spokesman for the bank, who asked not to be named in line
with company policy. He will also ask the Barcelona court to
suspend imposing the sentence while the appeal goes through, the
bank said.  Saenz, accused with two others, was also fined 400 euros
($553), the Supreme Court ruling said. The ruling carried a
dissenting vote from one of the five judges, the court said.
Saenz, who has accrued pension rights of 85.7 million euros at
the bank, is obliged to observe Santander’s group general code,
which regulates compliance with laws and ethical behavior.  “It’s negative because Santander really wants to be an
industry leader from a reputational point of view,” said
Bernhard Bauhofer, founder of Sparring Partners GmbH, which
advises financial companies on managing their reputations.  Assuming the Barcelona court agrees to suspend the carrying
out of the sentence for now, the appeal presented by Saenz may
take two to four years to proceed, Santander said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Charles Penty at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at  