-- 
Sri Lanka Openers Plunder Record to Lift Team Into World Cup Quarterfinals

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-11T00:27:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/sri-lanka-beats-zimbabwe-by-139-runs-as-dilshan-tharanga-set-batting-mark.html
Tillakaratne Dilshan and Upul Tharanga shared a record opening stand of 282 at the Cricket
World Cup as  Sri Lanka  beat  Zimbabwe  to reach the quarterfinals.  Dilshan top scored with 144 and then took four wickets for
four runs yesterday to guide his team to a 139-run victory at
Pallekele stadium in Kandy, Sri Lanka.  Together with fellow opener Tharanga, who made 133, Dilshan
eclipsed the previous highest opening-wicket World Cup stand of
194 by  Pakistan ’s Saeed Anwar and Wajahatullah Wasti in 1999. It
was also the first time at cricket’s world championship that
both openers scored a century as Sri Lanka racked up 327-6.  “This is the best match of my career,” Dilshan said after
being presented with the man-of-the-match award. “Everyone’s
performing well, we are in a good position.”  Sri Lanka, seeking its second  World Cup  title after winning
the 1996 tournament, leads Group A with seven points and is
guaranteed a place in the final eight. The top four teams of
each of the two seven-team groups move to the quarterfinals
after a round robin.  The top eight nations in the International Cricket
Council’s one-day  rankings  currently occupy the quarterfinal
spots. Group winners will face the fourth-ranked team from the
other pool in the last eight, with the second and third-place
teams facing each other.  New Zealand and Pakistan are on six points through four
games, with defending champion  Australia  in Group A’s fourth and
last qualifying spot on five points from three matches. Zimbabwe
and  Canada  have two points after four matches.  Boundary Blitz  Dilshan, 34, smashed one six and 16 fours in his 131-ball
innings yesterday, while left-hander Tharanga, 26, struck 17
boundaries during his 141-ball stay at the crease. His dismissal
left the openers only four runs short of the highest ever first-
wicket stand in one-day internationals, which Tharanga set with
Sanath Jayasuriya against  England  in 2006.  Zimbabwe’s openers guided their team to 116-0 in reply
before the African team slumped to 188 all out in 39 overs.
Brendan Taylor top scored with 80 runs off 72 balls. Dilshan was
denied a hat trick with the ball when Mahela Jayawardene spilled
a catch at slip.  “Dilshan has been an important player for us over the last
10 years,” Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara said at the
presentation ceremony. “Today he had that magic touch with bat,
ball and on the field.”  Sri Lanka faces  New Zealand  on March 18 in its last group
match. In today’s Group B matches, Ireland faces West Indies in
Mohali,  India , and Bangladesh hosts England in Chittagong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  