-- 
Green Mountain Soars on Starbucks Coffee Distribution Deal

-- B y   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-03-10T21:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/starbucks-to-sell-products-for-green-mountain-brewing-system.html
  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) 
surged 41 percent, the most in almost 18 years, in Nasdaq
trading after agreeing to distribute  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s coffee
and teas for its single-serve Keurig brewing systems.  Starbucks, the world’s biggest coffee chain, jumped 9.9
percent. The companies will sell Starbucks and Tazo tea K-Cup
portion packs at retailers in the U.S. and  Canada  this year,
according to a statement today. Starbucks K-Cup packs and the
Keurig system will be available at Starbucks outlets and through
the companies’ websites by 2012, they said.  The deal gives Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain the
chance to recruit new users with a premium coffee and access
through Starbucks’ more than 11,000 outlets. The company, led by
Larry Blanford, is the largest player in the U.S. single-serve
coffee market, which generated almost $2 billion in sales last
year.  “For Starbucks, it provides needed distribution within a
growth market, which should help it build upon its consumer
products business,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in  New York . “For Green
Mountain, it reduces the risk that Starbucks pushes its own
hardware, and it adds a high-end product for its leading
machinery.”  Green Mountain advanced $18.07 to $61.71, the most since
its 1993 initial public offering, at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. Starbucks, based in Seattle, rose $3.43 to
$37.97, the largest gain since 2009.  Legal Spat  Starbucks won an appeals court ruling last month that
upholds a decision allowing it to end a deal under which  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT)  distributed Starbucks coffee to grocery stores. Kraft
sued in December to prevent Starbucks from ending the
arrangement prior to arbitration. In January, U.S. District
Judge Cathy Seibel rejected Kraft’s contention that it would be
irreparably harmed if Starbucks were to end the agreement.  More than 80 percent of Starbucks customers don’t own a
single-cup brewing system, Starbucks Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said in today’s statement. Green Mountain has
about 80 percent of the U.S. single-cup coffee market. Schultz
said in a memo last month that there were “no demonstrated,
long-term winners” yet in the single-cup industry, comments
that sent Green Mountain shares tumbling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  