-- 
States May Avoid Health-Law Mandates by Matching Coverage

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-03-10T20:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/states-may-avoid-health-law-mandates-by-matching-coverage-1-.html
U.S. states will be able to avoid
mandates in the health-care overhaul starting in 2017 by
matching or exceeding the law’s expansion of insurance coverage
and maintaining its consumer protections.  Under rules to be issued today by the Obama administration,
states may dodge provisions that have sparked debate such as a
mandate that most Americans purchase insurance. To gain
approval, the states also will have to prove their plans won’t
add to the deficit.    Vermont ’s governor, Democrat Peter Shumlin, has said he
seeks to use an escape clause in the law to create a government-
run health system that would cover every resident and put
private insurers, including  Cigna Corp. (CI) , out of business in that
state.  The “innovation waivers” the government may issue in six
years enact that clause and will “empower states to take the
lead on implementing” the law, said Kathleen Sebelius,
President Barack Obama’s health secretary, in a statement.  The plan still gives the U.S. government final say over
what states must do to gain an exemption, said Michelle Dimarob,
a spokeswoman for House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, Republican of  Michigan . The administration’s offer “is
wrought with U-turns that lead back to the same place, the
federal government,” she said.  The 2017 effective date is three years after the law’s top
insurance provisions kick in, including an expansion of Medicaid
and the creation of a network of insurance “exchanges” where
Americans can buy subsidized coverage.  2014 Opt-Out  Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, an independent, has said
his state shouldn’t have to comply with two sets of changes and
is proposing legislation that would allow states to opt out and
gain innovation waivers beginning in 2014.  Oregon Democratic Senator Ron Wyden and Massachusetts
Republican Scott Brown are sponsoring a similar proposal.
Brown’s state already operates an insurance exchange selling
subsidized policies. Less than 5 percent of Massachusetts
residents are uninsured, according to the  Kaiser Family
Foundation  in  Menlo Park ,  California .  The Obama administration supports efforts to push the dates
up three years, though wants the law to be changed by Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 