-- 
Steve Jobs’s Best App Might Be Succession Plan: Eric Jackson

-- B y   E r i c   J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-03-10T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/steve-jobs-s-hottest-app-may-be-succession-plan-eric-jackson.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  suffers from a Steve Jobs discount, and it’s not fair.  Ever since Jobs, the chief executive officer, disclosed
that he had a rare form of pancreatic cancer in August 2004,
Apple’s stock has been underpriced. That assertion may seem
absurd, given that the shares have risen more than 2,000 percent
since then and the company’s market value of $325 billion is
second only to that of Exxon Mobil Corp. Apple’s share price is
now hovering at about $355.  It should be much higher. Since 2004, Apple earnings have
gained 134 percent a year on average. In 2009, net income rose
35 percent, during the biggest economic collapse since the Great
Depression. And they increased 70 percent last year. Yet Apple’s
price-earnings ratio based on expected earnings in fiscal 2012
is only 11, compared with the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index’s
average of 15. Trading at the S&P 500 multiple, Apple’s stock
should be more like $480.  Although Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  is regarded as a
very capable successor, many see Jobs like some sort of shaman,
impossible to replace. Most pundits point out that Apple’s
product plans are probably set for the next four years at least.
But that reassurance is a back-handed compliment, suggesting
that all bets are off on product innovation after that.  Succession Plan  Recently, the Central Laborers’ Pension Fund of
Jacksonville,  Illinois , put a proposal on Apple’s proxy asking
the company to more specifically spell out its  succession plan ,
the Financial Times reported.  The influential shareholder
advisory service, Institutional Shareholder Services, backed the
proposal. And on the day of the shareholder vote two weeks ago,
judging by the media coverage that morning, you would have
thought the vote’s approval was a done deal. (It wasn’t. It was
voted down by a 2-to-1 margin.)  The intense speculation about the nature of Jobs’s health
and the calls for Apple’s board to release his medical records
to the public are macabre and unprecedented in the corporate
world. It speaks to the high regard with which he is held. But
this anxiety has also weighed on the stock.  Why is it assumed that Apple doesn’t have a  succession
plan , though? Just because it hasn’t disclosed it doesn’t mean
one doesn’t exist. Almost every corporate board these days sees
it as one of their primary jobs to know what they would do if
the CEO was hit by a bus. Given the performance of the company
in the last 10 years and the outside directors on Apple’s board
-- including Bill Campbell of Intuit Inc., Mickey Drexler of J.
Crew Group Inc., Andrea Jung of Avon Products Inc., Art Levinson
of Genentech Inc., Ron Sugar of Northrop Grumman Corp., and
former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore  -- it would seem they have
earned the benefit of the doubt on this.  Control Freak  What I find remarkable is that while the business media
often refer to Jobs as a control-freak obsessing over minor
details of products and marketing campaigns, they assume he
isn’t equally focused on who will succeed him. Given his
attention to detail -- and his personal experience of watching
how former Apple CEO Gil Amelio almost killed the company Jobs
started -- I would assume Jobs has the CEO spot, as well as all
other key management positions at Apple, mapped out for the next
decade just in case something ever happened to him.  There is real management talent at Apple that gets
overlooked due to our fascination with Jobs: Cook, Jonathan Ive,
Philip Schiller, Scott Forstall,  Ron Johnson  and Peter Oppenheimer. These are all very capable managers who have been
with Apple for at least a decade. All have various strengths.
None is a replacement for Jobs, but that’s an impossible task.  Close to Vest  Apple has always held its product plans, communications
and thoughts on management succession close to the vest. This
shouldn’t be a surprise. Critics have previously complained that
Apple’s retail-store strategy would fail. We now see how the
iPad is able to compete so effectively on price with its
competitors partly because of its network of retail stores.  People complained that Apple wasn’t doing anything with its
cash reserves, which amounted to $60 billion at the end of last
year. Now, we know the company has been using its cash to sign
long-term supplier contracts for the iPad, enabling it to
dominate the tablet market. Last year,  Steve Jobs  said that
Apple TV was a “hobby” and cautioned against expecting much.
Today, it is obvious the company sees that product as a core
part of its future strategy.  With Jobs’s appearance last week at the iPad 2 kick-off
event, investors paid more attention to him than the other Apple
executives in attendance. But, if past is prologue, his final
act as leader of Apple, whenever that may be, is likely to be an
unexpectedly masterful succession plan, not a killer app.  (Eric Jackson, an investor in Apple shares, is the founder
and managing member of Naples, Florida-based hedge fund Ironfire
Capital LLC. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Eric Jackson at  emj@ironfirecapital.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  