-- 
Tsvangirai Says Zimbabwe Coalition Dysfunctional After Minister Arrested

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-03-10T14:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/tsvangirai-says-zimbabwe-coalition-dysfunctional-after-minister-arrested.html
Zimbabwean Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai said the arrest of Energy Minister Elton Mangoma
“strikes to the heart” of the nation’s coalition government.  “There’s obviously a breakdown in the relationship between
parties,” Tsvangirai told reporters today in Harare, the
capital. “We’ve reached a moment where we’re saying ‘let’s
agree that this coalition isn’t working. It’s dysfunctional.’”  Mangoma is a senior official in Tsvangirai’s Movement for
Democratic Change, which formed a power-sharing government with
President Robert Mugabe’s  Zimbabwe  African National Union-
Patriotic Front in 2009 after disputed elections. While the
coalition helped end a decade of recession it has often come
close to breaking down. The southern African country is meant to
hold new elections after a constitution is agreed to.  Zimbabwe should make arrangements for an election under a
roadmap designed by the  Southern African Development Community 
so it can have a “clear, legitimate government,” Tsvangirai
said. “It’s necessary for the parties to agree on a clean
divorce and an election roadmap is the only way out. Mangoma’s
arrest is nothing but a continued assault on the people of
Zimbabwe.”  Mangoma was arrested earlier today by plain-clothed police
officers under unclear circumstances. Police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena said he didn’t have details of the arrest when
Bloomberg News phoned for comment today. He faced accusations in
the state-controlled media that he awarded a fuel-supply
contract to a South African company without going through a
tender process.  Nullified  All fuel deals had been discussed and approved by the
Cabinet, Tsvangirai said.  A Zimbabwean court nullified the appointment of MDC
lawmaker Lovemore Moyo as speaker of Zimbabwe’s Parliament
earlier today. Moyo’s appointment had been challenged by Zanu-
PF, which lost a March 2008 parliamentary election to the MDC,
forcing Zanu-PF onto the opposition benches for the first time
since Zimbabwe’s independence in 1980.  Tsvangirai said he won’t recognize the court ruling.  “We won’t accept the decisions of some Zanu-PF politicians
masquerading as judges because Zanu-PF is just subverting the
courts to regain what it lost in elections,” he said today.  Zanu-PF didn’t answer calls to their switchboard when
Bloomberg phoned for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in London at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  