-- 
Swatch Says LVMH Should Invest More in Watch-Parts Production

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-03-10T13:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/swatch-says-lvmh-should-invest-more-in-watch-parts-production.html
  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s
largest watchmaker, said rivals including  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  should invest more in watch component
production, as it aims to lift a regulatory requirement that
forces it to sell parts to competitors.  Swatch Group is continuing talks with  Switzerland ’s
competition regulator, known as Comco, to lift the obligation to
sell watch movements, the mechanisms that make timepieces run,
to third parties, Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said at a
press conference in Biel, Switzerland today.  Comco started making Swatch Group sell components to third
parties in 2004 because of the watchmaker’s dominant position in
the watch component industry. Some of the requirements expired
at the end of last year, and the company has been asking the
regulator since 2009 to let it decide to whom it will sell
finished movements.  “We want to be able to choose to whom we deliver so it’s
not like a supermarket where everyone can help themselves,”
Hayek said. “If LVMH spent 10 percent of the money they’re
spending on Bulgari on training and watch production, that would
be a good thing.”  Swatch Group would never have spent as much as LVMH did for
its 4.3 billion-euro ($6 billion) purchase of Italian jewelry
maker  Bulgari SpA (BUL) , Hayek said.  “Jewelry is much less sexy than making watches,” Hayek
said. “That’s not to say it doesn’t interest Swatch Group, as
we do have our own jewelry. Making watches is more
interesting.”  Liquidmetal License  The company also said it obtained a license to use alloys
made by  Liquidmetal Technologies Inc. (LQMT)  in watches, gaining access
to metal that’s moldable like plastic.  Liquidmetal alloys can be molded at a lower temperature,
Marc Hayek, head of the Blancpain and Breguet brands, said. The
final product is harder and corrodes less than other metals, he
said. Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed.    Apple Inc. (AAPL)  completed a patent-licensing agreement with
Liquidmetal Technologies in August.  Swatch Group may reach annual sales of 10 billion Swiss
francs ($10.7 billion) within three years, without taking into
account possible acquisitions, Nick Hayek said. The strength of
the Swiss franc stripped 100 million francs off sales in the
first two months of the year, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 