-- 
Swiss Market Index Drops for Fourth Time in Five Days; UBS, Geberit Slide

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-10T17:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/swiss-market-index-drops-for-fourth-time-in-five-days-ubs-geberit-slide.html
Swiss stocks fell for the fourth
day in five as Moody’s Investors Service’s downgrade of Spain
added to concerns about European debt problems.    UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, dropped for a second
day as MF Global Holdings Ltd. downgraded the shares.  Geberit AG (GEBN) 
slumped the most in almost a month after earnings missed analyst
expectations.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies slid 0.7 percent to 6,404.62 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich, erasing its gain for the year. The broader
Swiss Performance Index lost 0.8 percent.  “A peak in lead indicators, a sovereign crisis and a
rising oil price have unnerved investors,”  Karen Olney , a
strategist at UBS in London, wrote in a note today.  Even after crude for April delivery tumbled the most in
almost four months in New York today, prices are up 23 percent
from a year ago.  Spain’s credit rating was cut to Aa2 by Moody’s, which said
the cost of shoring up the banking industry will eclipse
government estimates. The euro fell and Spanish bond yields
climbed.  First-time claims for jobless benefits in the U.S. climbed
last week from an almost three-year low, highlighting the uneven
nature of the improvement in the labor market. Applications for
first-time  unemployment benefits  rose by 26,000 to 397,000 in
the week ended March 5, Labor Department figures showed today.  Economic Growth  Shares dropped even after a report from BAK Basel Economics
showed the Swiss economy may expand at a faster pace than
previously projected this year as companies and consumers step
up spending. Swiss gross domestic product may rise 2.4 percent
this year instead of a previously projected 1.7 percent, the
research institute said.  UBS tumbled 2 percent to 17.39 Swiss francs, the lowest in
more than a month, as MF Global downgraded the stock to “sell”
from “buy.”  Investment-banking earnings “appear vulnerable to a
slowdown in equities underwriting and a limited seasonal uptick
in trading volumes compared to previous years,”  Simon Maughan ,
co-head of European equities at MF Global, wrote in a note to
clients.  Geberit, the Jona, Switzerland-based maker of urinals,
dropped 5.1 percent to 196 francs after reporting 2010 results.
Net income rose to 406.8 million francs ($435.7 million),
missing the average analyst estimate for profit of 414 million
francs. The company plans a dividend of 6 francs.  A gauge of European insurers tumbled 2.1 percent today.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s largest insurer,
lost 1.4 percent to 261.30 francs. Swiss Re, the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, dropped 2.3 percent to 53.60 francs. CA
Cheuvreux downgraded the stock to “underperform” from
“outperform.”    Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG (PWTN)  decreased 3.8 percent to
114.70 francs. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut the  freight
forwarder  to “buy” from “conviction buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  