-- 
Villiger Courts Cigar Snobs From Switzerland to Gain Approval From Smokers

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-03-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/switzerland-s-villiger-courts-cigar-snobs-to-gain-acceptance.html
Joseph Barras, like most cigar
connoisseurs, prefers handmade premium brands, leaving  Switzerland ’s Villiger Soehne AG battling an image built on 9-
cent cigarillos.  “It’s either a good cigar or no cigar for me,” Barras
said as he left the Davidoff tobacco shop in Geneva clutching a
box of Puro d’Oro Sublimes. Villiger isn’t “what I consider a
really good cigar,” said the 52-year-old financial consultant
who refers to himself as a “cigar snob.”  Villiger, founded in 1888 in Pfeffikon, wants to compete in
Europe against  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  and  Swedish Match AB (SWMA) ,
which dominate the $2 billion market for higher-margin premium
cigars. While spending on luxury brands such as Montecristo and
Romeo y Julieta has grown with the economic pickup in countries
led by Germany, Swiss-made cigars, unlike Patek Philippe watches
and  Lindt & Spruengli AG (LISN)  chocolate, are viewed as second rate.  “It’s essential to offer premium cigars to be considered
an authentic and real cigar maker, but consumers don’t consider
Villiger a premium brand,” Chairman  Heinrich Villiger  said.
“We intend to build up this business step by step,” he said,
adding that the company has new products in the pipeline.  While Villiger sales climbed 1.5 percent to 139 million
euros ($192 million) last year, hand-rolled stogies costing at
least $5 each represented less than 1 percent of the 1 billion
cigars sold, Villiger, 80, said in an interview at the factory
some 55 kilometers (34 miles) west of Zurich.    Fidel Castro   Tobacco gained popularity in  Europe  ever since Christopher Columbus carried the product back to  Spain  after observing the
inhabitants of San Salvador smoking in 1492, according to the
Cigar Association of America Inc. Cigars have since been
immortalized by  Winston Churchill , who favored Romeo y Julieta
and La Aroma de Cuba, and Fidel Castro, who preferred Cohibas
before he quit smoking in 1985.  While premium cigars are handmade and rolled using whole
tobacco leaves, machine-made cigarillos blend the ground-up
remains of larger leaves and often contain flavorings.  Villiger, which processes more than 350 tons of tobacco
from countries, including Cuba, the  Dominican Republic  and  Indonesia , benefited from the economic slowdown that prompted
cigar smokers to seek cheaper alternatives. The company’s market
share climbed to 20 percent in Germany last year from 14 percent
in 2009 as it sold more cigars through discount grocery chains
such as Aldi Group and Lidl.  “It’s impossible to move from a mass-market cigar producer
with the same name to a premium,” said Sophie Cabo-Broseta, an
equity analyst at AlphaValue in Paris. “In the mind of the
consumer, you aren’t worth the price of the product.”  Old Blanket  Raymond Woolums, 67, who worked until 1992 for  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Allison Gas Turbines manufacturing helicopter
engines and turbojets for the Hercules C-130 cargo plane,
disagrees. He prefers Villiger Brazil cigarillos, which he buys
online for $24 for a box of 10, to more expensive cigars.  “What Villiger lacks in price, they more than make up in
quality,” Woolums said by phone from Indianapolis. “I once was
gifted with a cigar that cost $35, and I thought it tasted and
smelled like an old army blanket smoldering.”  Sales of premium brands have increased in recent months,
said Imperial Tobacco spokesman Simon Evans. The Bristol, U.K.-
based company reported a 9.4 percent drop in sales to 2.4
billion cigars in the year through September.  Imperial Tobacco 
declined to give a revenue figure.  Operating margins for premium brands can be as high as 40
percent, more than twice those for large machine-made cigars,
said Erik Bloomquist, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .  ‘Halo Effect’  “If you’re selling mass-market cigars, having a respected
premium offering brings a halo effect, some added credibility,”
said Jonathan Fell, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in London.
“It enhances a company’s reputation among both consumers and
retailers.”  While Villiger has cigars with goose-quill mouthpieces and
others designed to fit a Swiss soldier’s ammunition belt, the
only handmade cigar bearing the company’s name is the 1888.
Introduced two years ago to bolster the company’s presence in
the premium market, 1888 joins brands such as La Meridiana, La
Libertad and Bock that are made for Villiger in the Dominican
Republic,  Nicaragua  and  Honduras .  The company also has teamed up with Cuba’s  Habanos SA  in a
joint venture that is the biggest importer of premium cigars to  Germany , according to Villiger.  Premium cigars have become more important as Germany plans
to increase the  sales tax  for a pack of 17 cigarillos by 26
percent to as much as 1.45 euros in May. That may hurt sales,
said Villiger, who enjoys shooting Sika deer and wild boars on
his estate in southern Germany.  Villiger, who smokes two or three cigars a day, says he
wants to improve the company’s position in the premium market
before handing over to his daughter Corina, who joined the board
in 1996.  “I’ll continue as long as I can,” he said. “We will not
be cracking the market for premium cigars, but we at least want
to be present.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at  jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  