-- 
U.A.E. House Prices May Drop an Additional 30% on Population, Rasmala Says

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-03-10T13:41:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-a-e-house-prices-likely-to-drop-an-additional-25-to-30-rasmala-says.html
  House prices  in the United Arab
Emirates may drop an additional 25 percent to 30 percent as
population growth stagnates and more properties are put onto the
market, according to Dubai investment bank Rasmala.  Prices have declined as much as 55 percent from their peak
in 2008 and both Dubai and Abu Dhabi, the biggest of seven
sheikhdoms in the U.A.E., are affected by “a low appetite for
new housing as financing remains tight and negative equity
concerns linger,” analysts Saud Masud and Divya Arora wrote in
a report dated today. “The good news is that much of the
property correction is already accounted for.”  Dubai home price slumped 62 percent from their peak in mid-
2008 after the global credit crisis caused mortgage lending to
dry up and speculative demand waned, Deutsche Bank AG said on
Feb. 14. In neighboring  Abu Dhabi , prices slid 45 percent, Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. estimated. The “peak-to-trough” price
decline in Dubai will be 70 percent, the Rasmala analysts said.  Rasmala initiated coverage of  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  and  Drake & Scull International (DSI)  with “buy” ratings, while  Arabtec
Holding Co. (ARTC)  was started with a “hold” recommendation. Abu
Dhabi-based developers  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH)  were rated “hold.”  Uncertainty about political unrest spreading across the
Middle East may further hurt stocks of real-estate developers
and contactors in the U.A.E. as investors try to avoid risk.
That may also spill over to companies with regional operations
such as Emaar, Drake & Scull and Arabtec as the “unrest
contagion may lead to investors heavily discounting their
respective international franchise values,” the report said.  Stocks Decline  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  dropped 11 percent since the
beginning of 2011. That compares with a 24 percent slump in the
Dubai Financial Market Real Estate Index during the same period.
Property stocks in Abu Dhabi slumped 38 percent so far this
year, compared with 4 percent drop for the general index.  Rasmala estimates 26 percent of Emaar’s value is tied to
international projects, while Drake & Scull and Arabtec have 69
percent and 52 percent of their order books in the Middle East,
North Africa and South Asia belt, the report said.  Dubai’s population will probably fall by 5 percent a year
“for the foreseeable future,” the analysts wrote. “Mitigating
the outflow will depend directly on net new  job creation ,
especially by filling in the economic gap left from the
construction and property sectors.”  Real estate and construction industries represent as much
as 30 percent of Dubai’s economy and nearly as much as 50
percent of total employment in the emirate, the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  