-- 
U.K. Premium at CO2 Auction Shows Concern About Futures, IDEACarbon Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-10T15:48:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-k-premium-at-carbon-auction-may-show-concern-about-futures.html
The U.K. sold European Union carbon
allowances today at a premium over the price of March futures,
suggesting traders prefer to buy at government auctions, an
analyst at IDEAcarbon said.  The U.K.,  Europe ’s second-biggest emitter, sold 4.4 million
spot carbon-dioxide permits for 15.59 euros ($21.56) a metric
ton at the auction, according to figures from the Debt
Management Office. That’s 39 euro cents more than the March
contract, which expires on the 28th, on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. The U.K. sold permits at auctions in January
and February at a discount to the March contract.  The loss of about 4 million tons of allowances in online
hacking attacks since November forced the closure of EU carbon
registries and slashed spot trading volumes, forcing emitters to
use auctions and the March futures contract to comply with EU
pollution limits in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program.  Factories and power stations in the program must submit
allowances to match 2010 emissions by April 30. Trading on
BlueNext, the spot exchange in Paris, fell 74 percent in the
past month, compared with the month before trading was halted on
Jan. 19, according to data from the exchange.  “People are uncertain of the ICE and other exchanges’
ability to get untainted EU allowances,” Alessandro Vitelli,
director of strategy at IDEAcarbon in  London , said today in a
phone interview. The thefts are “a problem for the whole
market, not just spot.” IDEAcarbon rates emission offsets.  Elaine Bailey, a spokeswoman for ICE, declined in January
to say whether any missing allowances ended up in its clearing
house. She didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for
comment today.  Traders are building new March positions. Open interest, a
measure of those positions, rose 7.2 percent yesterday to a
record 3.18 million tons, ICE said today. Carbon futures trading
on ICE dropped 10 percent to 591.1 million tons in the first two
months of the year.  Spot Trading Hampered  Spot trading remains hampered after the European
Commission, the market regulator, closed the 30 registries that
track ownership of allowances on Jan. 19. Fifteen have since
reopened. Allowances have been stolen from registries including
those in  Romania , the Czech Republic and  Italy  since November.
The 4 million would be valued at 63 million euros at today’s
benchmark price of 15.73 euros a metric ton.  Volumes were also hurt because the market has been stuck in
a range, Vitelli said. Since the end of March 2009, permits have
traded from 12.95 euros and 17.35 euros.    Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment bank said on Jan. 31 it had
stopped buying carbon-permit forwards and some futures from
certain customers after the reported thefts.  Barclays Capital 
has traded 5 billion tons of carbon since the EU program started
in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  