-- 
U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index Declines; Home Retail, Standard Life Lead Retreat

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-03-10T10:06:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-k-s-ftse-100-index-declines-home-retail-standard-life-lead-retreat.html
U.K. stocks fell for the fourth
time in five days after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded  Spain ’s government debt and earnings from  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) 
and Standard Life Group Plc disappointed investors.  Home Retail, the owner of Argos stores, retreated the most
since May, and Standard Life, Scotland’s biggest insurer, had
the biggest decline since August.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  dropped 6.1
percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the maker of technology
components is at risk from a shortfall in tablet sales.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 36.17, or 0.6
percent, to 5,901.13 at 10:05 a.m. in London. The  FTSE All-Share
Index (ASX)  dropped 0.7 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.3
percent.  The FTSE 100 has rallied 68 percent since the equity market
rally began two years ago, returning 83 percent when including
reinvested income from dividends, as the global economy
recovered from recession and corporate earnings rebounded.
Still, the gauge has fallen 3.3 percent from this year’s high on
Feb. 8 as  oil prices  jumped amid violence in Libya and Egypt.  Spain’s credit rating was cut to Aa2 by Moody’s, which said
the cost of shoring up the banking industry will eclipse
government estimates.  Home Retail plunged 7.4 percent to 195.2 pence after the
company lowered its full-year earnings forecast. Pretax profit
for the year ended Feb. 26 is now seen at between 250 million
pounds ($404 million) and 255 million pounds, the company said.  ‘Nothing But Caution’  “Nerves for investors in the retail sector are being
tested further following today’s update from Home,” said  Keith Bowman , analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in London.
“A lowering of current-year profit expectations combined with
nothing but caution for the outlook has left investors running
for cover.”  Standard Life dropped 4.5 percent to 233.7 pence, the
biggest decline since August. The insurer said full-year profit
more than doubled on higher revenue from fees at its U.K.
pensions business and earnings at its investment-management
division. Still, operating cash and capital generation came
below expectations, said analysts at Morgan Stanley.  ARM declined 6.1 percent to 539 pence as JPMorgan said the
U.K. company is most at risk from any disappointment in tablet
sales from producers other than Apple Inc. ARM’s stock has
rallied so fast that the designer of chips that help power
Apple’s iPhone is now the most expensive takeover target in the
semiconductor industry since 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The shares rose 151 percent in the past 12 months through
yesterday, about double the next best performance in the MSCI
World Information Technology Index, as demand surged for
semiconductors in mobile devices such as iPhones and iPads and
speculation grew that Apple, Oracle Corp. or  Intel Corp . will
try to buy the Cambridge, England-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 