-- 
U.K. Lawmaker Says RBS’s Goodwin Obtained ‘Super Injunction’

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-03-11T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-k-lawmaker-says-rbs-s-goodwin-obtained-super-injunction-.html
Former  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  Chief Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin  obtained a “super-
injunction” that prevents the media from identifying him as a
banker, according to a U.K. lawmaker who called for a review of
the country’s media laws.  John Hemming, a Liberal Democrat member of the House of
Commons, said at a debate in Parliament yesterday that Goodwin
had won the order at a “secret hearing.”  “Will the government hold a debate, or make a statement,
on freedom of speech, and whether there is one law for the rich,
such as Fred Goodwin, and another for the poor,” Hemming said
on the floor of the House of Commons.  Celebrities have been granted an increasing number of
injunctions barring U.K. newspapers from writing or identifying
them in stories since Formula One President Max Mosley in 2008
won a case against the News of the World over an article about
whether he participated in a Nazi-themed sex party, said Eric
Metcalfe, human rights policy director at Justice, a U.K. group
that promotes legal reforms. A  London  judge last year lifted an
injunction that had stopped newspapers writing about the
relationship between England soccer player  John Terry  and a
teammate’s ex-girlfriend.  Geraldine Proudler, a lawyer for Goodwin at Olswang LLP in
London, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.
Olswang spokeswoman Lily Federico confirmed Goodwin was a
client, and that he was being represented by Proudler. She
declined to comment further.  Freedom of Expression  Leaving the issue for the courts to interpret European
Union privacy laws may curtail the media’s freedom of
expression, Metcalfe said in a telephone interview. If lawmakers
were to decide that greater weight should be given to freedom of
expression, EU and U.K. courts would respect that, he said.  Parliament has “given the impression that there is nothing
they can do about this,” he said. “This is wrong.”  Edinburgh-based RBS posted the biggest loss in corporate
history in 2008 and required the largest bank bailout in the
world following the bank’s 73.3 billion-euro ($101 million)
acquisition of  ABN Amro  of the Netherlands.  Goodwin was cleared of responsibility in December in a
report by the Financial Services Authority on RBS’s 45.5
billion-pound ($73 billion) bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 