-- 
U.K. Mortgage Lending Curbs Hit New House Sales Hardest, Homebuilders Say

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-03-10T08:14:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-k-mortgage-lending-curbs-hit-new-house-sales-hardest-homebuilders-say.html
U.K. homebuilders say their sales
are suffering because of mortgage lending restrictions that make
it easier for first-time buyers to purchase secondhand
properties than new ones.  Annual home sales would increase by about 10 percent at  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  if lending terms were equal, Chief
Executive Officer Mark Clare said in an interview in  London .
Some of the U.K.’s biggest mortgage lenders ask for down
payments of about 20 percent for newly built homes and 10
percent for previously owned real estate.  “There is no shortage of people who want to buy,” Clare
said. “The problem is that they just can’t get access to the
money to do it.”  U.K. banks reined in mortgage lending after mounting losses
and plunging asset values forced several to accept government
bailouts. Lenders became more wary of new properties, where
riskier real-estate speculation and buy-to-let arrangements had
been concentrated prior to the financial crisis.  At Barratt, the U.K.’s biggest homebuilder by volume,
completions in the last six months of 2010 fell 4.4 percent to
4,832.  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , the second biggest, sold 5.9 percent
fewer homes in 2010.  The mortgage lending units of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  and Lloyds Banking Group Plc offer loan-to-value ratios as
high as 90 percent for a secondhand home and around 80 percent
for a new-build property, according to the banks. Most of the
U.K.’s major banks offered loans equal to 100 percent of a
property’s value prior to the economic slump.  Bad Reputation  “Some of the lenders got burned by certain apartment
schemes in new-build and they were sensitive to that,” Taylor
Wimpey Chief Executive Officer Peter Redfern said on March 3.
Mortgage discrimination “still sits there, but it’s smaller
with certain lenders,” he said. “It was a more significant
issue in 2008 early 2009. So that gap has gradually eroded.”  Homebuilders have called on the U.K. government to use its
ownership in retail banks to pressure them into improving access
to mortgage finance. The state owns 83 percent of RBS and 41
percent of Lloyds following taxpayer-funded bailouts of the
lenders.  The companies are competing for a smaller pool of buyers
overall. U.K. mortgage approvals fell 4 percent in December from
the previous month, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said in
February. Lenders granted 39,900 mortgages in the month, down 37
percent from a year earlier. First-time buyers have plummeted to
about 200,000 annually from 600,000 a decade ago, according to
the  Home Builders Federation .  Unpredictable Values  “The value of new-build properties has been unpredictable
in recent years,” Michelle Palmer, a spokeswoman for RBS, said
by e-mail. “The chance of customers incurring negative equity
on a new build has been greater.”  Nicholas Osbourne, a Lloyds TSB spokesman, said separate
terms for new-build properties are “necessary” and common
across the industry.  Banks may demand even larger deposits on new-build
properties if homebuilders offer incentives such as kitchen
appliances that increase the home’s value relative to the size
of a loan.  “Lenders need to know about” such incentives “so they
can be sure that they’ve got a complete picture of what they’re
advancing a loan on,”  Council of Mortgage Lenders  spokesman
Bernard Clarke said by phone.  Officials from Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s conservative-
led government met with representatives of the homebuilding and
banking industries last month to discuss how to improve mortgage
availability for first-time buyers. Housing minister Grant Shapps ruled out using government money to promote lending, CML
Director General Michael Coogan said after the Feb. 15 meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 