-- 
U.K. Manufacturing Resumes Expansion With Biggest Jump Since March 2010

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-10T09:37:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-k-manufacturing-resumes-expansion-with-biggest-jump-since-march-2010.html
U.K. manufacturing production
jumped in January by the most in 10 months, a sign the economy
is resuming growth after a winter freeze dented the recovery.  Factory output rose 1 percent from December, when it shrank
0.1 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 0.6 percent increase. The index of
manufacturing rose to 92.9, the highest since October 2008.    Bank of England  officials said in forecasts last month that
goods export growth has been “buoyant” and that manufacturing
was less affected than other parts of the economy by the coldest
December in a century. Policy makers will still probably
maintain emergency stimulus today to aid the recovery through
the government’s spending squeeze, economists say.  “With easier monetary conditions and the effects that will
have for the  exchange rate , that should support export-led
growth,”  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  London , said before the announcement. “The key is
the strength of external demand, but at the moment, there seems
to be enough momentum in the global economy.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent today as of 9:33 a.m. in London.
The yield on the 10 year government bond fell 4 basis points to
3.623 percent.  Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, 10 rose and three
declined in January from the previous month, the statistics
office said. The gain was led by chemical and man-made fibers,
and non-metallic mineral products such as ceramics and bricks.    Industrial Production   From a year earlier, manufacturing expanded 6.8 percent,
the most since 1994, the statistics office said. Overall
industrial output, which includes mining and quarrying and
utilities, increased 0.5 percent on the month and 4.4 percent on
the year.    Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , a maker of pumps for the oil industry, said
on March 8 that it’s “on track” to double profit by 2014
compared with 2009 earnings.  GKN Plc (GKN) , the U.K. maker of aircraft
components for Airbus SAS, said on March 1 that full-year
earnings more than doubled as global car production recovered.  The goods-trade gap shrank in January to 7.06 billion
pounds ($11.4 billion) after exports surged to a record, the
statistics office said yesterday.  Bank of England Deputy Governor Charles Bean said last week
that the “substantial depreciation of sterling should, over
time, help to boost the contribution of net exports to U.K.
growth” and that “we have seen some of the fruits of that in
the robust performance of manufacturing over the past year.”  U.K. central bank officials will announce their monthly
policy decision today, with all 61 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey forecasting that policy makers will leave the
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5
percent. They will also keep their emergency bond-purchase plan
at 200 billion pounds, according to a separate survey. The
decision will be announced at noon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  