-- 
U.K. Planning 860 Million-Pound Investment in Renewable Heat

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-03-10T17:52:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-k-plans-incentives-to-spur-7-2-billion-in-renewable-heat-programs.html
The U.K. government set out
incentives aimed at spurring 4.5 billion pounds ($7.2 billion)
of investment in  renewable heating  systems by 2020, the first
program of its kind in the world.  The Department of Energy and Climate Change said it would
grant subsidies worth 860 million pounds for geothermal heat
pumps, solar thermal plants and biomass boilers. The measures
first will be targeted at 25,000 households by July, and the
full program will be in place by October 2012.  The program is part of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
efforts to stimulate “green economy” jobs and curb fossil fuel
emissions blamed for damaging the climate. Heating accounts for
47 percent of U.K. energy demand and 46 percent of the nation’s
output of carbon dioxide.  “Renewable heat is a largely untapped resource and an
important new green industry of the future,” Energy Minister  Chris Huhne  said in a statement in  London  today. “It’ll help
the U.K. shift away from fossil fuels, reducing emissions and
encouraging innovation, jobs and growth.”  Utilities  E.ON AG (EOAN)  and British Gas, part of Centrica Group
Plc, welcomed the news. Gaynor Hartnell, chief executive officer
of the Renewable Energy Association, said “thousands” of
companies will benefit.  ‘Vital’  “It’s absolutely vital that we start weaning ourselves off
an over-reliance on gas boilers,” Graham Bartlett, managing
director of energy solutions at E.ON, said in a statement. E.ON
U.K., which owns five gas-fired  power plants  in Britain, has
installed more than 2,000 heat pumps to date.  The incentive will shift renewable heat into the
mainstream, said Gearoid Lane, managing director of British Gas
New Markets. “People across Britain will benefit from cheaper
and greener sources of heat,” he said.    Good Energy Group Plc (GEGP) , a U.K. retailer of clean energy,
said it’s concerned that the full incentive won’t start until
October 2012.  “A lengthy gap which may spook potential investors,
especially given the latest uncertainty around the feed-in-
tariff,” Juliet Davenport, CEO of Good Energy, said in an e-
mail.  PriceWaterHouseCoopers LLP said a restriction keeping the
incentives from applying to waste-to-energy facilities will
“significantly” limit benefits to that industry, John Gibbs,
partner from PwC, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Program Details  The  “Renewable Heat Incentive”  will include a tariff
paying a fixed amount per kilowatt-hour of heat produced over a
20-year period. It will apply to heating systems installed by
homes, industry and government since July 15, 2009, DECC said.  Following parliamentary approval for the rules due in July,
15 million pounds will be made available to help cover the price
of renewable heating systems for consumers. The rest of the
incentives will be phased in over the following 1 1/2 years.  Solar thermal installations of less than 200 kilowatt
thermal in size for industry, businesses and large organizations
will receive 8.5 pence per kilowatt-hour, according to DECC.  Large Pumps  Large ground-source heat pumps for thermal capacity of 100
kilowatts or more will receive 3 pence per kilowatt hour. Large
biomass installations of 1,000 kilowatts or more will receive
2.6 pence per kilowatt hour, DECC said.  Forever Fuels, a British supplier of wood pellets, said
today it’s investing 2 million pounds to boost production at its
factories, as a direct result of the Renewable Heat Incentive.  “We really see this as being underpinned by a strong
industrial strategy, generating a new sector in Britain,” Greg
Barker, a junior energy minister, said today at a press
briefing. “We will work with British-based manufacturers to
make sure that British-manufactured kit gets an increasing part
of this nascent market.”  Tariff rates will be reduced over time as the costs of
equipment and installation drop through economies of scale, said
Barker. The government plans in October to publish details of an
“automatic deployment-based degression” system to avoid a
boom-and-bust situation, he said. “I would expect a gently
lowering rate of degression, steady over a period of time.”  Outlook for Subsidy  Falling subsidies would be a sign of success and not
failure, Huhne said at the briefing. “It will mean we will have
been jump starting the industry very effectively,” he said.
“It’s a really significant part of our attempt to reduce  carbon
emissions  and it’s equivalent by 2020 of taking 20 gas-fired
power stations off the national grid.”  The government on Feb. 7 started a review of above-market
rates it pays for electricity from small-scale clean energy
facilities. It may result in a cut in the premium prices paid
for electricity from renewable sources. The move has seen
several private equity players suspend funds established to
exploit the tariff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  