-- 
U.S., NATO Allies Say They Lack Authority to Impose No-Fly Zone Over Libya

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-03-11T07:40:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-s-nato-allies-say-they-lack-authority-to-impose-no-fly-zone-over-libya.html
The U.S. and its NATO allies said
they lacked the authority to impose a no-fly zone over  Libya  to
ground Muammar Qaddafi’s air force, as European governments
squabbled over the best response to the intensifying conflict.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s  28  defense
ministers agreed to deploy ships off Libya and said more
planning and a  United Nations  mandate were needed to establish a
no-fly zone. European Union leaders at a summit today may issue
a statement condemning Qaddafi and move to establish contact
with rebel leadership in Benghazi, British officials said.  “I can’t imagine the international community and the
United Nations will stand idly by if Colonel Qaddafi continues
attacking his people systematically,” NATO Secretary General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen said yesterday in Brussels. “But I have
to say we do not look for intervention in Libya and we will need
a clear legal basis for any action.”  The NATO decision doused calls for more aggressive military
action as rebels in the oil hub of Ras Lanuf retreated under air
and artillery fire from Qaddafi’s forces, Al-Jazeera showed in a
broadcast. The French government, which along with the U.K. has
called for a no-fly zone, raised the pressure by unilaterally
recognizing Libya’s opposition leaders.  For now, the alliance will move ships closer to Libya to
observe what Qaddafi’s forces are doing and police the UN arms
embargo.  No Unilateral Action  NATO won’t act alone militarily, U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said. “A number of ministers made clear that we
wanted to put ourselves in a position to assist the  Arab League ,
the  African Union  or the UN in this endeavor,” Gates said.  EU leaders received a letter from French President Nicolas Sarkozy and British Prime Minister David Cameron late yesterday
calling on them to press on with plans for a “no-fly zone or
other options against air attacks.” They repeated their plea
that Qaddafi quit the country and backed the rebels’
transitional council as “valid political interlocutors.”  NATO will get a report March 15 on military options
regarding Libya, as the U.S. and its allies continue to examine
a full range of possibilities, Jay Carney, spokesman for
President  Barack Obama , said in  Washington  yesterday.  Libyan government troops focused their attacks on the
central area of the country’s coastline that marks the east-west
dividing line in the conflict. Libya, which holds Africa’s
largest oil reserves, has seen its crude output drop by about 1
million barrels a day.  Oil prices  have risen more than 20
percent as the conflict rages.    France  Isolated  NATO’s position, as well as steps by the EU yesterday to
ratchet up sanctions, papered over disagreements between Western
allies about how far to go to stop Qaddafi. France roiled an EU
foreign ministers gathering, first by saying it would recognize
a Libyan rebel group and then with media reports that it wanted
to bomb Qaddafi’s strongholds.  “The French position didn’t muster any consensus,”
Belgian Foreign Minister Steven Vanackere told reporters. “In
fact, there were some voices against it. The general view is
that  Europe  has to act together, and you can’t have countries
going off on their own.”  U.K. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said NATO leaders have a
responsibility to plan for more aggressive military measures.  “What would be unforgivable is if we politically agreed it
was necessary and we hadn’t done the planning to act,” Fox said
with respect to preparations for the no-fly option.  Rasmussen expressed concern about the broader consequences
of a breakdown of the Libyan state.  “There is the risk of division within the country and the
risk of seeing a failed state in the future that could be the
breeding ground of extremism and terrorism,” he told reporters.  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  was more blunt
about the risks of Western involvement. “We don’t want to get
sucked into a war in North  Africa ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Brussels at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  