-- 
U.S. Apologizes for Okinawa Comments, Removing Japan Desk Head From Post

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 
2011-03-10T06:47:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-s-apologizes-for-okinawa-comments-fires-japan-desk-head.html
The U.S. apologized to Japan for
reported comments by an American diplomat about Okinawa that
were denounced by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government, and
relieved him of his position.    Kurt Campbell , assistant secretary of state for East Asia,
said he expressed “deep regret” in meetings today with Foreign
Minister Takeaki Matsumoto and Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa. He spoke to reporters at the American embassy in
Tokyo, which was cordoned off by police as right-wing activists
drove by in trucks with loudspeakers, denouncing the U.S.    Kyodo News  reported on March 6 that Kevin Maher, head of
the State Department’s office of Japan affairs, called Okinawans
“masters of manipulation and extortion” in a speech at an
American university late last year, based on written notes from
some of the students. Maher told Kyodo the account was “neither
accurate nor complete.”  Okinawa houses more than 75 percent of the U.S. military
 bases  in Japan, which has caused tensions with local residents
who complain of noise, pollution and crime. Okinawans oppose a
U.S.-Japan  agreement  to relocate a Marine air facility from one
part of the island to another, and in December re-elected a
governor who promised to move it elsewhere.  ‘Unacceptable’  Maher’s reported remarks were condemned by Kan and other
administration officials. Matsumoto, who took over as foreign
minister yesterday, said at a press conference late last night
that the comments “if true, are unacceptable” and “hurt the
feelings of not only Okinawans but all Japanese.”  Ambassador to Japan John Roos flew to Okinawa today “to
personally apologize,” Campbell said. “We do believe this has
caused some harm.”  Rust Deming, a former deputy chief of the U.S. Embassy in
Tokyo, is replacing Maher as the head of Japan affairs, the U.S.
Embassy said in a statement. Maher “remains with the State
Department,” Campbell said without elaborating.  While Japan and the U.S. first reached agreement to move
the Futenma Air Base to a new facility at Camp Schwab, near the
Okinawan village of Henoko in 1996, construction has yet to
begin. Moving the base to a less-populated area is part of a
$10.3 billion plan that would eventually relocate 8,000 Marines
from Okinawa to  Guam . The U.S. has almost 50,000 military
personnel in Japan as part of a 50-year-old security treaty.  ‘Adds a Layer’  The uproar over the comments “adds a layer to an already
existing problem,” said Robert Dujarric, director of the
Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies at  Temple University ’s
Tokyo campus. “It makes it even harder for Kan to press for a
settlement on the issue of getting Henoko done. What is a minor
thing in  Washington  is bigger in Japan.”  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano welcomed the Obama
administration’s handling of the matter.  “The quick response shown by the apology, the ambassador’s
Okinawa trip and the replacement of the Japan desk head shows
the importance the U.S. government places on Japan-U.S.
relations,” Edano told reporters today in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  