-- 
U.S. Appeals for Delay in 30-Day Order on Drill Permits

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-03-10T18:21:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-s-asks-appeals-court-to-delay-30-day-order-on-drill-permits.html
U.S. offshore regulators asked a  New Orleans  appellate court to postpone a judge’s March 19
deadline for them to act on certain Gulf of Mexico drilling
permits delayed by the Obama Administration’s drilling ban.  The Interior Department had asked U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman , also of New Orleans, to delay his own order so
that the  U.S. Court of Appeals  would have time to review it.
When Feldman didn’t respond to that request, the U.S.
turned to the appellate court.  “The 30-day deadline is a clear abuse of discretion,’’
lawyers for the agency said in their filing today at the New
Orleans appeals court. Meeting Feldman’s deadline would require
the agency to act “nearly as quickly as it did prior to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster, even though the enormously negative
consequences of inadequate containment planning in that incident
unquestionably altered the landscape for consideration of such
applications,’’ they said.  U.S. offshore regulators said they may deny the seven  Gulf
of Mexico  drilling permits Feldman singled out for quick action
if they’re forced to act by the judge’s deadlines. Feldman
ordered government action by March 19 on five permits and by
March 31 on two additional permits.  Regulators claim the permitting process is a cooperative
dialogue between the agency and operators, which can take days
or months to complete. These seven permit applications are
incomplete and “cannot be approved in their current state,’’
according to a March 4 filing by the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement.  Shallow-Water Permits  As of Feb. 25, the agency had 270 shallow-water permits and
52 deep-water permits awaiting regulatory approval, the
government lawyers said. The office has just six drilling
engineers to process all permit applications pending in the Gulf
of Mexico, they said.  “The court’s orders have created a situation in which
these applications must take a back seat’’ to the seven permits
singled out for rapid decisions by Feldman, Michael Saucier, the
agency’s Gulf of Mexico regional field operations supervisor,
said in a statement attached to the March 4 filing.  This reprioritization of the agency’s resources isn’t fair
to shallow-water drillers with less complicated applications or
to operators with more urgent needs for permits, Saucier said.
The end result could be a further delay in the resumption of
widespread Gulf drilling activity, not the acceleration the
judge intends, he said.  Obama Administration  The Obama Administration suspended all drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet in May in response to the worst offshore
oil spill in U.S. history. More than 4.1 million barrels of
crude leaked into the Gulf after the Deepwater Horizon exploded
and sank while drilling a subsea well for  BP Plc (BP/)  off the  Louisiana  coast in April.  After offshore companies and regional business and
political leaders sued in June, Feldman threw out the
government’s moratorium as overly broad and punitive to the Gulf
Coast economy.  Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar immediately announced
he’d find a new way to block offshore drilling and, in July,
imposed an almost identical ban. When that ban was also
challenged in court, Salazar withdrew it in October before
Feldman could rule on its validity.  Feldman’s Order  When  oil companies  and offshore drillers -- led by Ensco
Offshore Co. -- complained that regulators were continuing a de
facto drill ban by refusing to process new permits, Feldman
ordered quick action on the seven stalled permits tied to
companies leading the legal challenge. Some of these permits had
been pending for as much as nine months, when prior to the BP
spill, regulators took, on average, two weeks to approve
drilling applications.  Sean O’Neill, vice president of Ensco, didn’t immediately
return a phone call today seeking comment on the government’s
request for an emergency stay of the judge’s order.  Regulators defended the delays as necessary and prudent
until the oil industry improves offshore drilling safety and  oil-spill  cleanup capabilities. Feldman, in his Feb. 17 order to
jump-start the permitting process, said while some delay was
reasonable, “not acting at all is not a lawful option.’’  The U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement approved the first drilling permit since the
Deepwater Horizon disaster on Feb. 28.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ; Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at +1-
   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 