-- 
U.S. Economy: Trade Gap Widens, Consumer Comfort Drops

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-10T21:20:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-s-trade-gap-widens-as-oil-price-jump-weighs-down-on-consumer-confidence.html
Rising  oil prices  took a toll on
the U.S. economy as the cost of imported crude helped widen the
trade gap and  consumer confidence  was shaken by the most
expensive gasoline since 2008. Jobless claims also rose.  The deficit in goods and services increased 15 percent in
January to $46.3 billion from $40.3 billion the month before,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 44.5 in the
period to March 6, from the prior week’s minus 39.7, which was
close to the highest in almost three years.  Stocks slumped, extending a global decline, as the reports
added to negative economic data that included slower Chinese
export growth. At the same time, the trade figures signaled
underlying strength in the  U.S. economy , with record American
shipments overseas and increased imports that show higher energy
costs have yet to put a dent in demand.  “Fundamentally, the recovery is in decent shape though the
uncertainty created by higher oil prices presents a headwind,”
said Conrad DeQuadros, a senior economist at RDQ Economics LLC
in New York. “Imports are signs of strength in demand. Higher
gasoline prices certainly have some impact, but it’s more on
consumer confidence than on  consumer spending .”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to the lowest
in a month, with sentiment suffering the most among respondents
who lacked a full-time jobs or any employment and those earning
less than $50,000 a year.  Higher Gasoline  Gasoline costs have increased every day except one since
mid-February. The average price of regular gasoline at the pump
climbed 14 cents to $3.51 a gallon in the week ended March 6,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.
That followed a gain of 20 cents in the prior period, which was
the biggest one-week jump since the aftermath of Hurricane
Katrina in 2005.  Imports increased 5.2 percent in January, the most since
March 1993, reflecting a gain in oil prices and purchases of
business equipment and consumer goods. Exports of American-made
goods rose 2.7 percent, helped by the weaker dollar and growing
economies in  Asia  and Latin America that are benefiting
companies like  Deere & Co. (DE)   The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called for a
January deficit of $41.5 billion. Estimates of 74 economists
ranged from $39 billion to $46 billion after a previously
reported December shortfall of $40.6 billion.  First-time claims for jobless benefits rose more than
forecast last week from an almost three-year low, highlighting
the uneven nature of the improvement in the labor market.  Jobless Claims  Applications for  unemployment benefits  increased by 26,000
to 397,000 in the week ended March 5, the Labor Department said
today. Economists projected 376,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slumped 1.9 percent to
11,984.61 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York . The Dow slipped
228.48, the biggest drop since Aug. 11. Treasuries rose, pushing
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 3.36 percent from
3.47 percent late yesterday.  Imports climbed to $214.1 billion from $203.6 billion in
the prior month. Purchases of capital goods rose to a record
$41.7 billion in January, while auto imports were the highest
since February 2008.  The January trade figures showed the U.S. imported 290.7
million barrels of crude oil, the most since August. The value
of oil imports increased to $24.5 billion from $22.5 billion.
The average price per barrel of imported crude reached $84.34,
the highest since October 2008.    Libya  Violence  Crude prices have climbed as escalating violence in Libya
raised concern about regional supply disruptions. Oil for April
delivery touched $106.95 on March 7, the highest intraday price
since Sept. 26, 2008. The contract was $101.45 a barrel at 12:18
p.m. today on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The U.S. shortfall with OPEC nations widened to $9.9
billion as imports increased to the highest level since October
2008.  The  trade gap  with  China  grew to $23.3 billion from $20.7
billion as imports rose and U.S. exports declined. The deficit
with the European Union and Japan narrowed in January, today’s
report showed. The trade gap with  Canada  shrank, while the
deficit with  Mexico  widened.  Since reaching a one-year high on June 7, the dollar has
fallen 9 percent against a trade-weighted basket of currencies.
The drop makes American goods cheaper abroad and may keep
spurring manufacturing, which expanded in February at the
fastest pace since May 2004, according to the Institute for
Supply Management’s factory index.  U.S. exports increased to $167.7 billion, boosted by record
shipments of industrial supplies and more deliveries of motor
vehicles and food.  Deere Expanding  Among firms expanding overseas is Deere, the world’s
largest maker of agriculture equipment. The Moline, Illinois-
based company last month announced plans to almost double sales
to $50 billion by 2018.  “Where our efforts are going to be focused is in places
like Asia, South America, and in addition to continuing to
extend our position in  North America ,” Chief Financial Officer
James M. Field said in a March 8 presentation. Deere got 35
percent of sales from outside the U.S. and Canada in the fiscal
year ended Oct. 31.  President Barack Obama, who has set a goal of doubling
American exports in five years, yesterday said he will nominate
Commerce Secretary Gary Locke to be the next U.S. ambassador to
China, putting him at the forefront of managing one of the
nation’s “most critical” relationships.  Unexpected Deficit  China today reported an unexpected $7.3 billion trade
deficit, the biggest in seven years, buttressing the
government’s case against U.S. arguments for faster gains in the
yuan.  Exports rose 2.4 percent in February from a year before,
the least since 2009, as Lunar New Year holidays disrupted
shipments, and imports climbed 19.4 percent, customs bureau data
showed. Central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said that the full-year  trade surplus  will shrink from the 2010 level.    China’s economy  passed Japan’s to become the world’s
second-largest last year, and the Asian nation is the second-
biggest U.S. trading partner after Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  