-- 
Three Somali Men Charged by U.S. With Piracy, Murder of Four Americans

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-07-08T23:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-s-charges-14-with-piracy-linked-to-seizure-of-yacht-off-oman-last-month.html
Three men from Somalia were charged
in an updated indictment with the murder of four Americans on
the yacht S/V Quest in February, the  Justice Department  said.  Ahmed Muse Salad, 25, Abukar Osman Beyle, 20, and Shani
Nurani Shiekh Abrar, 29, face charges related to the armed
takeover of the Quest, prosecutors said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The men were among 14 defendants originally charged in
March with piracy, conspiracy to commit kidnapping and other
crimes. The new 26-count superseding indictment adds charges of
kidnapping and hostage taking resulting in death, which carry
the death penalty or mandatory life in prison. The pirates
seized the boat off the coast of Oman, killing the four American
hostages four days later on Feb. 22, prosecutors say.  “The superseding indictment accuses these three men of
summarily executing the hostages -- without provocation -- while
the military was attempting to negotiate their release,” U.S.
Attorney Neil MacBride in Alexandria,  Virginia , said in the
statement.  The Americans aboard the Quest were Scott and Jean Adam,
who owned the yacht, from  Marina del Rey ,  California , and
Phyllis Macay and Bob Riggle of Washington state.  Stephen Hudgins, a lawyer for Abrar, and Lawrence Woodward,
an attorney for Beyle, didn’t immediately return voice-mail
messages after regular business hours. Paul Gill, an attorney
for Salad, also didn’t immediately return a call after regular
business hours.  The case is U.S. v. Salad, 11-cr-00034, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in  San Francisco  at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  