-- 
U.S. Concerned Chinese Companies May Be Aiding Iran Nuclear Weapon Effort

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-03-10T08:40:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-s-concerned-chinese-companies-may-be-aiding-iran-nuclear-weapon-effort.html
The U.S. government is concerned  Iran  may be working with Chinese companies to obtain sensitive
technology that may be useful for developing a nuclear weapons
capability, Robert Einhorn, the State Department’s special
adviser for nonproliferation and arms control, said yesterday.  Einhorn’s comments are the latest reflection of unease
among U.S. officials and proliferation experts that China
remains a gap in enforcing United Nations sanctions on Iran,
which the government in Beijing supported last year.  “Implementation is not uniform,” said Einhorn, speaking
at an event sponsored by the nonprofit  Arms Control Association 
at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in  Washington .  China responded by saying relations with Iran don’t violate
any international treaties or regulations.  “On  China ’s military exports, we take a cautious and
responsible attitude,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu
told reporters today in Beijing.  The U.S. believes that “Iran is moving to the threshold”
of making a nuclear weapon, regardless of whether its leaders
decide they want to make one, Einhorn said. Iran insists that
its nuclear work is for energy and medical purposes.  “We don’t see breakout” -- a term referring to the
ability to make a nuclear weapon -- “as imminent at this
stage,” Einhorn said.  ‘Iran’s Drive’  A Defense Intelligence Agency assessment scheduled for
release to Congress today concludes that “international
economic sanctions are not stopping Iran’s drive to enrich
uranium,” according to an advance copy of the 2011 World Wide
Threat Assessment.  The U.S. and its allies were frustrated by what they saw as
Iran’s refusal to negotiate seriously at nuclear talks held in
January in Istanbul, and now have “no choice but to increase the
cost to Iran” by tightening implementation of existing penalties
and expanding “sanctions in a variety of ways,” Einhorn said.  As multinational energy companies have responded to UN, U.S.
and European sanctions by withdrawing investment in Iranian oil
and gas activities, China’s state energy companies appear to
have taken a “go-slow” approach to involvement in Iran’s oil
industry, Einhorn said.  China’s position is that it’s “prepared to live up to the
terms” of last year’s UN Security Council sanctions resolution,
yet “not prepared to go beyond” that by adopting unilateral
sanctions, Einhorn said.  China Violations  During a visit to Beijing last September, Einhorn discussed
with officials the U.S. concern that certain Chinese companies
were violating UN sanctions against Iran, perhaps without the
knowledge of the Chinese government.  U.S. and European officials credit the sanctions with
hindering Iran’s efforts to acquire carbon fiber and maraging
steel, an alloy that can be used to make centrifuges that enrich
uranium to fuel a nuclear bomb. Iran may be running out of
maraging steel, according to David Albright, a nuclear physicist
who inspected Iran’s nuclear facilities for the UN’s atomic
energy agency in the 1990s.  While the U.S. and  Europe  have developed  law enforcement 
and export-control networks to detect Iranian front companies
attempting to buy dual-use technology or materials, in China “a
large amount” of equipment and materials reaches Iranian buyers,
Albright, president of the  Institute for Science and
International Security  in Washington, said at a forum in January.  Smuggling Efforts  An unclassified Pentagon review of Iran’s military power
last year found that both China and  North Korea  had assisted
Iran “in developing and expanding its missile program,” and
made reference to smuggling efforts through China.  Einhorn said Iran’s oil production is declining and “it’s
not going to pick up without” the return of foreign investment.
“We hope that as the costs mount that thoughtful Iranians
realize” that a nuclear weapons program isn’t worth the
penalties the country is paying in diplomatic and economic
isolation, he said.  Speaking at the same forum, John Limbert, an Iran expert
and former State Department deputy assistant secretary for Near
Eastern affairs, suggested that the Obama administration’s
efforts at engagement with Iran have failed because of the
simultaneous imposition of tougher sanctions.  Referring to the administration’s so-called dual-track
approach on Iran, Limbert said, “I’ve never seen a train that
can run on two tracks.”  ‘Problem With Sanctions’  “The problem with sanctions is they overtook this idea of
engagement,” said Limbert, a professor at the U.S. Naval
Academy, who was among hostages held in the U.S. embassy in Iran
from 1979 to 1981. Limbert said the U.S. and its allies missed
an opportunity by rejecting Iran’s counter-offer to swap uranium
stockpiles for nuclear material to use in a medical research
reactor in Tehran.  He said it isn’t clear whether sanctions can persuade Iran
to abandon its nuclear program or break the deep freeze in
relations with the U.S. “They haven’t in 30 years,” Limbert
said.  Kenneth Katzman, an analyst for the nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service , said sanctions have had a
discernible impact on the  energy industry  in Iran, where new
investment has essentially dried up.  “Iran is now viewed by international businessmen as a
third rail -- you touch it, you die,” he said, citing a
reported 75 percent to 80 percent drop in sales of refined
gasoline to Iran following U.S. sanctions last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 