-- 
U.S. House Republicans to Introduce Energy Proposals

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-03-10T20:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/u-s-house-republicans-to-introduce-energy-proposals-1-.html
Republicans in the U.S. House said
they plan to introduce a series of energy bills that would
attempt to expand domestic oil exploration as gasoline prices
continue to rise.  The proposals will include legislation that would increase
access to domestic energy sources, speed regulatory review for
new pipelines and wells, and expand all forms of energy in the
U.S., House Speaker  John Boehner  and other Republicans said at a
news conference today.  Republicans will offer their proposals in “bite-sized
chunks,” rather than as a comprehensive plan, Boehner said.  “The days of big, comprehensive bills I think should be
over,” he told reporters in Washington.  Boehner, of  Ohio , accused President  Barack Obama  of
standing in the way of domestic energy exploration. “The Obama
administration has consistently blocked American energy
production that would lower costs and create new jobs,” he
said.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  made similar remarks
in a speech on the Senate floor today. “Some in the
administration are actively working to prevent us from
increasing our own oil production here at home,” he said.  White House press secretary Jay Carney dismissed the
Republicans’ statements, saying that U.S. production was the
highest last year since 2003.  ‘Responsible Production’  “This president is committed to responsible production of
energy, including oil in this country,” Carney said.  Representative Ed Markey of  Massachusetts , ranking Democrat
on the House Natural Resources Committee, said in a statement
that “this is about OPEC, not Obama,” referring to the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  “Despite the Republican rhetoric, the oil and gas industry
has more leases to drill for oil in the U.S. than they can even
make use of,” Markey said.  Gasoline costs have increased every day except one since
mid-February. The average price of regular gasoline at the pump
climbed 14 cents to $3.51 a gallon in the week ended March 6,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  A House subcommittee today approved a measure that would
block U.S. Environmental Protection Agency greenhouse-gas rules
and reject the agency’s finding that carbon-dioxide emissions
endanger the public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 