-- 
Lukoil Considers Listing in Asian Markets, May Issue Yuan Debt

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-10T21:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/lukoil-considers-listing-in-asian-markets-may-issue-yuan-debt.html
OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s largest non-
state controlled oil producer, is considering listing shares in  Hong Kong  or  Singapore , said Vice President Leonid Fedun.  The “timing of the listing will depend on how long the
legal process takes,” Fedun said in the interview in New York
after the company’s 2010 earnings presentation. “I do believe
in Hong Kong very much because China has been opening to it.”  Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil producer after OAO
Rosneft, may borrow in yuan and would consider selling ruble-
denominated bonds “if the market offers  interest rates  that
make economic sense,” Fedun said. The “importance of yuan will
be increasing,” he said.  Moscow-based United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum
producer, raised $2.24 billion in January 2010 in the first
initial public offering by a Russian company in  China , selling
shares at HK$10.80 each. The stock rose to HK$13.62, the highest
level, on Feb. 14 and traded at HK$12.38 as of 1:51 p.m. in New
York yesterday.  Fedun is the world’s 133th- richest  man with a fortune of
$7.1 billion, according to Forbes magazine.  Lukoil’s ruble-denominated shares rose 26 percent in the
past year through March 10, compared with a 24 percent gain in
Russia’s 30-stock Micex Index.  Lukoil fell 2.8 percent to 1,981.6 rubles after it missed
analysts’ estimates for net income. The company reported income
of $2.19 billion, less than the $2.73 billion average estimate
of eight analysts, based on Bloomberg calculations from full-
year results released yesterday.  The company may pay an additional dividend next year
because of higher-than-expected crude prices, Chief Executive
Officer Vagit Alekperov told investors at the presentation in  New York  yesterday.  Production Levels  The company’s oil production may drop about 1 percent this
year, Alekperov said in an interview today in New York. Natural
gas output will hold at 2010 levels or increase, said Alekperov,
Russia’s eighth-richest man and the world’s 50th- richest  with a
fortune of $13.9 billion, according to Forbes magazine. Lukoil’s
gas output will depend on availability of transportation
capacity, he said in the interview.  The Moscow-based company has no plans to change its
investment strategy for 2011, which was based on an oil price
estimate of $76 a barrel, he said.  “This may allow us at the end of 2011 to look at the
possibilities of paying additional dividends,” Alekperov said.  Oil Gains  Oil futures are up 25 percent from a year ago. Crude for
April delivery has been trading above $100 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  since Feb. 23 as unrest in the Middle
East and North Africa sparked supply concerns. Oil touched $100
a barrel in New York for the first time in two years on Feb. 23.  Urals crude, Russia’s main export blend, has been above
$100 per barrel for three consecutive weeks. Ural closed above
$100 per barrel on Feb. 26 for the first time since Sept. 26,
2008. Oil, along with natural gas, accounts for a quarter of
Russia’s economic output.  Lukoil said on its website today that it produced record
free cash flow of $6.9 billion last year as is follows a plan to
scale back output growth and keep more money through 2019. It
plans to boost dividend payout ratios by more than 30 percent in
that period.  “Theoretically they could pay out part of it as
dividends,” Pavel Sorokin, an oil and gas analyst at  Alfa Bank 
in Moscow, said by telephone.  Sorokin said that plans to build the cash position further
may be at risk. Lukoil needs to invest in international projects
and manage declines in domestic output, he said.  Exploration Spending  The company plans to spend $8.5 billion next year mostly on
exploration and production, according to the presentation to
investors in New York yesterday. Lukoil is exploring deepwater
blocks off the coast of West Africa.  Net income rose 27 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier to $2.19 billion, buoyed by rising crude, according
to Bloomberg calculations based on full-year earnings released
by the Moscow-based company today. The profit missed a mean
estimate of $2.73 billion from a Bloomberg survey of eight
analysts. Revenue increased 18.1 percent to $28.7 billion.    Standard & Poor’s  removed the company from “creditwatch”
in November after it sold $1 billion in Eurobonds. S&P had
signaled the possibility of a rating cut after Lukoil agreed to
buy back 7.6 percent of its own stock from ConocoPhillips for
$3.4 billion last year.  Lukoil along with a company related to Alekperov and an
investor group including UniCredit Bank AG bought an additional
5 percent of company shares from Conoco for $2.4 billion last
year.  “These shares should not come back on the market,” Fedun
told investors in New York. “We will keep them as reserves or
we can use them for merger deals, which would be rather in a
distant future and with the guarantee that the partner that
accepts the shares is not to put them back on the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  