-- 
Lukoil May Pay Extra Dividend on Oil Price, Alekperov Says

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-10T18:54:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/lukoil-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-on-higher-urals-prices.html
OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s largest non-
state controlled oil producer, may pay an additional dividend
next year because of higher-than-expected crude prices, Chief
Executive Officer Vagit Alekperov said.  The Moscow-based company has no plans to change its
investment strategy for 2011 that was based on  oil prices  at
$76, he said.  “This may allow us at the end of 2011 to look at the
possibilities of paying additional dividends,” Alekperov said
in  New York .  Lukoil produced record free cash flow of $6.9 billion last
year, the company said on its website today, as it follows a
plan to scale back output growth and keep more money through
2019. The producer plans to boost dividend payout ratios by more
than 30 percent in that period.  “Theoretically they could pay out part of it as
dividends,” Pavel Sorokin, an oil and gas analyst at  Alfa Bank 
in Moscow, said by telephone.  In practice, the company had immaterial increases in free
cash flow in the fourth quarter, and plans to build the cash
position further may be at risk, Sorokin said. Lukoil must
invest in international projects and manage declines in output
rates domestically, he said.  Exploration Spending  The company plans to spend $8.5 billion this year and next,
mostly on exploration and production, according to a
presentation. Lukoil is exploring deepwater blocks off the coast
of West Africa.  The company wrote off $68 million from a dry well in  Ivory
Coast , according to a regulatory filing.  It wants to stabilize output in West Siberia, where Lukoil
produces over half its oil, in the next three years after
production fell 3.8 percent last year, Lukoil Vice President
Leonid Fedun said.  Net income in the fourth quarter rose 27 percent to $2.19
billion against the previous year after crude prices rose,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on full-year earnings
released by the Moscow-based company today.  That missed a mean estimate of $2.73 billion from a
Bloomberg survey of eight analysts. Revenue increased 18.1
percent to $28.7 billion.    Standard & Poor’s  removed the company from ‘creditwatch’ in
November after it sold $1 billion in Eurobonds. S&P raised the
possibility of a ratings downgrade after Lukoil agreed to buy
back 7.6 percent of its own stock from ConocoPhillips for $3.44
billion last year.  Lukoil and an investor group including UniCredit Bank AG
and a company related to Alekperov bought an additional 5
percent of the company’s shares from Conoco for $2.4 billion
last year.  The company is considering listing shares in  Hong Kong  or  Singapore , Fedun said, without giving a timeline.  The average price for Russia’s Urals export oil blend
increased 15 percent to $85.23 a barrel in the fourth quarter
from the previous year, according to Bloomberg data.  Lukoil said it had free  cash flow  of 2.36 billion in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  