-- 
Mumbai's Home Prices May Decline 35% in Next Two Years, Liases Foras Says

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-03-10T02:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/mumbai-s-home-prices-may-decline-35-in-next-two-years-liases-foras-says.html
  Mumbai  home prices may decline as
much as 35 percent over the next two years as record prices and
high interest rates deter buyers and developers slash prices to
offload rising inventories, according to Liases Foras Real
Estate Rating & Research Pvt.  Mumbai’s residential property market will stagnate over the
next couple of years until prices decline to match affordability
and income levels rise, Mumbai-based Pankaj Kapoor, founder of
 Liases Foras  said.  “We will see two types of correction in the market, a
price correction of about 25 percent in the next two quarters
and a time correction where prices will remain flat over the
next two years,” Kapoor said in an interview yesterday.  Home inventory levels have climbed to 28 months in Mumbai,
the highest among the six cities tracked by Liases Foras, a real
estate research company whose clients include  Housing
Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’s largest mortgage lender.
Developers sold 252 million square feet of homes in cities
including Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai and Pune
in the 12 months to December, while home supply is 498 million
square feet, Kapoor said.  Pune has the lowest inventory level at 16 months. That’s
still higher than the norm of eight months of inventory,
according to Kapoor.  Mumbai home prices may decline as much as 20 percent over
the next six months, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit
said in a report on March 8.  Distressed Offices  Property prices in some markets have surpassed their 2007
peaks, Mahesh Nandurkar, a real-estate analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets in Mumbai, said in November.  India ’s central
bank increased the benchmark interest rate to a two-year high in
January and signaled further gains in borrowing costs as it
raised the inflation forecast.  The office segment will be distressed for the next four
years because of the huge supply created by developers across
India in this asset class, Kapoor said. Rental values may
decline between 10 percent and 15 percent while capital values
could drop 35 percent, Kapoor estimates.  The yearly absorption of  office space  in Mumbai is about 10
million square feet while there is 44 million square feet of
space available which could take between four to five years to
get absorbed at the current rate, Kapoor said.  Absorption across six Indian cities including Mumbai,
Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai and Pune was at 32 million
square feet in the 12 months to December while supply stands at
about 146 million square feet, he said.  “As long as home loan rates remain above 10 percent I
don’t see demand coming back,” Kapoor said. “I don’t see
interest rates coming down over the next one year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  