-- 
United Technologies CEO ‘Encouraged’ by Obama Business Focus

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-11T00:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/united-technologies-boosts-bottom-of-2011-profit-forecast-1-.html
  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  Chief
Executive Officer Louis Chenevert welcomed President  Barack Obama ’s “renewed focus” to support U.S. business, saying it
would help the recovery by spurring investment.  The Obama administration has become more business-friendly
with steps such as a willingness to look at cutting the budget
deficit and more permanent tax credits for research and
development, Chenevert said today in an interview in New York.  “I’m encouraged, actually, to see the renewed focus to
support large businesses like ours,” he told reporters, noting
that the Hartford, Connecticut-based company has more than
75,000 employees in the U.S.  Obama has worked to build bridges with CEOs in recent
months after attacks from business groups such as the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce. The president named  General Electric Co. (GE) 
CEO  Jeffrey Immelt , a self-described Republican, to lead his
outside panel of economic advisers in January.  Chenevert, 53, who like Immelt accompanied Obama on a trip
to India in November, said the Obama administration’s “recent
shift” to a more pro-business stance would help nurture the
U.S. economic recovery by encouraging CEOs to make more
investments.  “Predictability is always a good thing for companies,”
Chenevert said. “Uncertainty is your enemy.”  While some CEOs such as  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ’s
David Cote have said the president got too little credit for
helping the U.S. avoid a depression in 2009, others have
assailed his approach to business. 3M Co.’s George Buckley told
the Financial Times last month that Obama was “hostile” and
“Robin Hood-esque.”  The U.S. Chamber spent more than $30 million on the 2010
elections, mostly to back Republicans, and accused Obama of
being anti-business. Obama signed an executive order in January
calling for a government-wide review to remove or revise
regulations that stifle growth without helping consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in  New York  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 