-- 
Turkish Lira Snaps Three-Day Gain After Moody's Spain Downgrade, Oil Rises

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-03-10T09:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/turkish-lira-snaps-three-day-gain-after-moody-s-spain-downgrade-oil-rises.html
The Turkish lira weakened, snapping
a three-day rally, and stocks dropped after Spain’s rating was
downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service and violence in Libya
drove up oil prices.  Turkey’s currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.5855 per
dollar at 11:29 a.m in Istanbul. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  of
stocks fell 0.4 percent to 62,265.87, snapping two days of
gains. Yields on two-year bonds fell 4 basis points to 8.97
percent, according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index.  Turkey imports almost all its energy needs and higher oil
prices threaten to push up inflation, slow growth, and widen a
current-account deficit that hit a record in December. Violence
in Libya, Africa’s biggest oil producer, has sent  Brent crude  to
around $115 per barrel, compared with the Turkish central bank
forecasts for $95 a barrel this year.  “One of the prevailing factor hurting the lira at present
is the surge in oil amidst Middle East and North  Africa 
political unrest,”  Elisabeth Gruie , emerging market strategist
at BNP Paribas in London, said in e-mailed comments. “Not only
does the strong oil price worsen the current account outlook but
it will start to erode growth prospects for Turkey.”  Moody’s Investor Services lowered its  credit rating  for
Spain by one step to Aa2, the third highest investment-grade
ranking, and assigned a negative outlook to the debt, according
to a statement released today. Moody’s said the cost of shoring
up Spain’s banking industry will be more than the government
expects.  Turkey’s current-account deficit widened in December to
$7.5 billion, the biggest since records began in 1984. A year
earlier it had been $3.2 billion. The deficit will widen further
in the coming months, central bank governor Durmus Yilmaz said
yesterday in Istanbul.  The central bank is due to publish January current account
data at 10 a.m. tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in  London  at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  