-- 
Valero Said to Buy Chevron’s U.K. Refinery for $2 Billion

-- B y   J e s s i c a   R e s n i c k - A u l t   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-10T17:42:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/valero-said-to-buy-chevron-u-k-refinery-for-about-2-billion.html
  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the largest
U.S. oil refiner, plans to buy  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s U.K. refinery for
about $2 billion, said two people with knowledge of the deal.  An announcement was scheduled for today, and now may come
as soon as tomorrow, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the deal hasn’t been made public. Chevron has
been seeking a buyer for the Pembroke refinery in Wales, its
last European plant, for almost a year. The offer, expected to
be in cash, includes the plant’s inventory of crude oil and
refined products, the people said.  “I can say that we’ve been very explicit about our desire
to explore our options in  Europe ,” said  Bill Day , a spokesman
for San Antonio-based Valero. Day said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation about potential purchases.  Chevron, based in San Ramon,  California , is among oil
companies selling refineries to cut debt and redeploy spending
to oil exploration and development in higher growth regions.
Valero hasn’t bought a refinery since its 2005 acquisition of
Premcor Inc., and has sold four refineries in that time, two on
the U.S. East Coast.  Chevron’s view is that “you get better returns upstream
than you do downstream,” said Mark Samter, an analyst at CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets in Sydney who covers refiner  Caltex
Australia Ltd. (CTX) , half-owned by Chevron. “Refining is a pretty
ugly business. In good cycles, you make a decent return,
probably three or maybe four years every decade, and arguably
we’re going structurally into a cycle that’s broken.”  Stanlow Sale  The refinery’s almost $2 billion price tag is about twice
the amount offered by  India ’s Essar Group for  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ’s Stanlow refinery in the U.K., when adjusted for size.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, said on March
21, 2010, that it planned to sell Pembroke. The refinery can
process 210,000 barrels of crude a day, or about 11 percent of
total U.K. capacity, according to Bloomberg data.  Sean Comey, a spokesman for Chevron, declined to comment in
an e-mail yesterday.  While margins from turning crude into fuel may improve
during the next 12 months to 18 months, countries are adding
more refining capacity to increase energy security, “not on an
economic rationale,” CLSA Asia-Pacific’s Samter said by phone
today.  Valero fell 51 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $27.20 at 8:34
a.m. in  New York , before the start of regular trading on U.S.
markets. Chevron fell $1.04, or 1 percent, to $101.10 at 8:37
a.m.  Valero Chief Executive Officer Bill Klesse told analysts at
a conference last month that Valero would only pay cash for any
refineries it purchased. The company ended 2010 with over $3
billion in cash available on hand. Valero has expressed interest
in acquiring a European refinery for more than six years, and
failed in a bid to buy a stake in  Total SA (FP) ’s Vlissingen plant in
the Netherlands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  