-- 
Viacom Must Face `Real World' Suit Because of Drinking Claim, Judge Rules.

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-10T00:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/viacom-faces-5-million-real-world-lawsuit-by-drunken-guest-from-show.html
  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  must face a $5 million
lawsuit brought by a makeup artist who appeared on  MTV ’s “The
Real World” because the woman may have been intoxicated when
she signed away her rights to sue, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler today denied  New York- 
based Viacom’s request to force Golzar Amirmotazedi into
arbitration to settle allegations that her privacy was violated
and her reputation harmed in episodes and outtakes of “The Real
World” that aired last year.  Amirmotazedi said she was filmed by the show’s camera crew
after drinking alcohol with cast members at a Washington bar in
September 2009. Amirmotazedi said she had consumed eight to 10
alcoholic drinks and was drunk when she signed and dated an
arbitration agreement before entering the show’s house in the
DuPont Circle neighborhood.  “Under both  District of Columbia  and California law,
voluntary intoxication is a type of mental capacity defense that
permits an individual to avoid a contract if she was so
intoxicated at the time of the formation that she could not
understand the terms and conditions of the agreement,” Kessler
said in her ruling.  “The Real World” is a reality television show filmed in a
different city each season. MTV Networks Inc., the Viacom unit
that broadcasts the show, and Bunim/Murray Productions, which
produces it, are also defendants in the lawsuit.  Amirmotazedi, according to the lawsuit, appeared in two
episodes from the season filmed in Washington.  ‘Hot Mess’  In the episodes, cast members referred to Amirmotazedi as a
“hot mess” and “that ugly girl,” according to court filings.
Amirmotazedi also said the show aired comments she made about
herself that she intended to keep private, such as “I was
bullied in high school” and “I have anxiety and I freak out”
when she takes off her sunglasses.  Viacom said in court papers that producers who were at the
house when Amirmotazedi was filmed didn’t believe she was
intoxicated and that it’s the program’s policy to keep
intoxicated individuals from entering or remaining in “The Real
World” residence.  Jason Ehrenberg, a lawyer for Amirmotazedi, said “it is my
understanding that we will be moving into discovery.”  Carl Folta, a spokesman for Viacom, didn’t immediately
return a phone message seeking comment.  The case is Amirmotazedi v. Viacom Inc., 10-cv-00765, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia   Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  