-- 
Volkswagen Adding Shifts on ‘Strong’ First Quarter Demand

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-10T10:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/volkswagen-chief-winterkorn-adds-shifts-on-strong-first-quarter-demand.html
  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chief Executive
Officer Martin Winterkorn said he’s adding extra shifts at
factories to keep up with rising demand from customers.  “Our group is expecting a strong first quarter on all
fronts,” Winterkorn said in a statement prepared for delivery
today at VW’s annual press conference in Wolfsburg, Germany.  Two-month global sales at VW, which also includes the Audi
luxury brand and Czech division Skoda, increased 18 percent to
more than 1.2 million cars, the CEO said. VW’s order books are
“well filled” and production is running “at full stretch.”  Volkswagen is counting on growth in  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India 
and China to narrow its gap with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
biggest carmaker. VW forecasts sales will grow 5 percent this
year after reporting a record 7.2 million deliveries of cars and
sport-utility vehicles in 2010. Sales in  China , VW’s biggest
market, last year advanced 37 percent to 1.92 million cars.  “VW is expanding operations in lucrative emerging
economies,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of
Automotive Management at the University of Applied Sciences in
Bergisch-Gladbach, Germany. “They’re well represented in future
markets.”  VW traded down 2.70 euros, or 2.3 percent, to 115.75 euros
as of 11:19 a.m. in Frankfurt trading, valuing  Europe ’s largest
carmaker at 51.1 billion euros.  VW Investments  The manufacturer will invest 53.5 billion euros in its
automotive business over the next five years, with another 10.6
billion euros to be spent through its two Chinese joint ventures
in the world’s biggest auto market. VW will hire more than
50,000 workers through 2018 to increase sales to more than 10
million vehicles.  VW reaffirmed today it expects 2011 revenue to exceed year-
ago levels and operating profit to surpass the 2010 record of
7.14 billion euros. VW proposed a 2010 dividend of 2.20 euros
per common share and 2.26 euros per preferred share.  Net income surged sevenfold last year to 6.84 billion euros
($9.46 billion) from 960 million euros in 2009, VW said Feb. 25.
Revenue rose 21 percent to 127 billion euros, powered by gains
at the Audi and VW brands.  VW is operating special shifts “in many locations” to
meet growing demand, the CEO said. The carmaker halted
production on Jan. 31 at its main Wolfsburg factory and a plant
in Emden amid tight component supplies stemming from parts-
makers’ struggle to keep up with vehicle demand.  ‘Profitable Growth’  “VW moved into the fast lane in 2010 and that is where we
intend to stay in the current year,” Winterkorn said. “We’re
now laying the foundations for profitable growth in all segments
and business fields.”  Volkswagen is doing “all it can” to promote efforts to
forge an alliance between truckmaker  MAN SE (MAN)  and Swedish rival  Scania AB (SCVB) , though a decision on the nature of a future alliance
or possible investment plans hasn’t been made yet, the CEO said.
VW is MAN’s biggest investor with a 29.9 percent stake and has a
controlling interest in Scania.  The combination between VW and sports-car maker Porsche SE
“will definitely happen” even as legal hurdles and taxation
issues continue to thwart the planned merger, Winterkorn said.  Integration of the two carmakers, scheduled to happen in
the second half, will probably be delayed until 2012 because of
legal investigations into share-price manipulation allegations
at the sports-car manufacturer, Porsche said Feb. 23.  Legal Hurdles  “The tax and legal hurdles still to be overcome along the
way are not insubstantial,” the CEO said. Efforts to conclude a
5 billion-euro stock sale at Porsche to help trim the carmaker’s
debt “are fully on schedule,” Winterkorn, who also runs
Porsche, said.  Porsche and VW agreed to combine in August 2009 following a
failed attempt by the Stuttgart-based sports-car maker to
acquire its larger rival. Investors claim Porsche misled them by
denying through much of 2008 it intended to acquire VW. Porsche
said in October of that year it controlled most of VW’s common
stock, causing the shares to surge as short-sellers raced to
cover their positions. Porsche has denied the charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Wolfsburg,  Germany  via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  