-- 
Wal-Mart to Open ‘Hundreds’ of Small Stores Over Three Years

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-03-10T21:10:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/wal-mart-plans-to-open-hundreds-of-small-stores-in-next-three-years.html
  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, will ramp up development of smaller stores as
it looks to jump-start sales in the U.S.  The retailer plans to add “hundreds” of smaller-format
stores over the next three years, U.S. Chief  Bill Simon  said at
an investor conference in New York today. Wal-Mart is
considering acquisitions that could add to that growth, Simon
said, declining to name specific targets.  Chief Executive Officer Mike Duke is seeking to spur growth
in the U.S. as comparable-store sales at Wal-Mart’s namesake
locations have fallen for seven straight quarters. The retailer
had said it planned to open 30 to 40 smaller units this year in
rural and urban areas and that there were “thousands” of
potential sites in the U.S.  “The recent tepid U.S. sales growth increases the urgency
to explore new store formats,” said Tim Hoyle, director of
research at Haverford Investments. “But I remain skeptical that
they could develop enough real estate in the near-term to move
the needle.” Hoyle is based in Philadelphia and helps oversee
$6 billion in assets, including Wal-Mart shares.  Wal-Mart, based in  Bentonville ,  Arkansas , fell 2 cents to
$52.65 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have fallen 1.8 percent over the past 12 months.  Express Expansion  Next week in Arkansas, Wal-Mart will start building its
first three Express stores, a format less than a 10th the size
of an average supercenter, according to building permits
obtained by Bloomberg News. The first urban Express store will
open this summer on  Chicago ’s South Side, Crain’s reported
yesterday.  Wal-Mart spokesman Steve Restivo confirmed the Arkansas
store openings in an e-mail yesterday. He didn’t respond to e-
mailed questions yesterday or today about stores in Chicago.  The new stores will include mid-sized Neighborhood Market
locations of 30,000 to 60,000 square feet, and the rest will be
smaller. Simon said today that the Neighborhood Market format
will be renamed “Walmart Market.” The company also will
introduce more stores on university campuses, he said.  Simon has said that “there are hundreds, if not thousands
of opportunities in the U.S.” for stores smaller than the
retailer’s supercenters, which accounted for more than three-
fourths of Wal-Mart’s U.S.  locations  as of Jan. 31. Supercenters
average 185,000 square feet with about 142,000 items, according
to the company’s website.  Wal-Mart is building out small-format stores abroad partly
through acquisitions, including the 778 million pound ($1.2
billion) agreement last year to buy the Netto discount chain in
the U.K.  Separately, Wal-Mart today said it debuted a nationwide
program for same-day pickup of items ordered online. The
 program , dubbed “Pick Up Today,” will be available in 3,600
stores by June and encompass as many as 40,000 items across
categories including toys, electronics, and home décor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  New York  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  