-- 
Wealthy U.S. Individuals Invest in Commercial Property in Quest for Yield

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/wealthy-u-s-individuals-invest-in-commercial-property-in-quest-for-yield.html
When Sumeet Parekh bought a retail
property in  Manhattan ’s TriBeCa neighborhood in January,
individual investors provided about a quarter of the financing.    Morgan Stanley (MS)  put up a little more than half of the $6
million purchase price, and Parekh contributed about $1.25
million. He got the rest from wealthy investors, who contributed
increments of $100,000 to $625,000 in hopes of a 10 percent
annual return and a portion of the building’s appreciation, said
Parekh, a principal at San Diego-based  HP Investors , which owns
and invests in commercial properties.  High-net-worth individuals invested $2.1 billion in
commercial real estate last year, up from $579 million in 2009,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based
research firm. Apartments were the properties most sought after
by investors last year, accounting for 32 percent of deals they
were involved in, according to Real Capital, which has tracked
more than $5 trillion in global sales transactions since 2001.  “Commercial property looks damn attractive versus other
asset classes right now,” said  Dan Fasulo , managing director at
Real Capital. “Everyone’s looking for some form of inflation
protection. They’re buying gold, they’re buying oil, or you can
buy property. It has inflation protection characteristics, plus
it gives you a check every month.”  Prices for commercial property have dropped 42 percent
since their peak in October 2007 through December, according to
the Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index. The index
posted gains in three of the last four months of 2010 as
individual and institutional investors including the Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. bet on a rebound.  Apartment Demand  Demand for apartment buildings has risen as the foreclosure
crisis forces more people to rent and the children of baby-
boomers move from college dorm rooms to their first residences.
Rents climbed 4.3 percent in the last three months of 2010, the
most since the third quarter of 2006, according to Dallas
research firm Axiometrics Inc., while U.S. homeownership rates
in December remained at a 10-year low, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Axiometrics projects a 6 percent increase
in U.S. rental revenue by the end of 2011 from December 2010.  “There’s a lot more equity that wants to get in the real
estate market, particularly from high-net-worth individuals,”
who want the higher returns without the onus of managing a
property, said Robert Knakal, chairman of the New York-based
commercial property brokerage Massey Knakal Realty Services.
“They don’t want to get a call at four in the morning that
something is broken, or there’s a fire or the toilet is stuffed
up,” Knakal said.  Low CD Yield  Low yields on other investments are driving investors to
real estate, said Knakal. “Look at what your options are: Are
you going to buy a CD and get 50 basis points on your money? Or
buy a 10-year Treasury and get 3.46 percent?” he said.  The average capitalization rate on commercial properties
excluding hotels was 7.2 percent as of the fourth quarter last
year, Real Capital data show. Cap rates are a property’s net
income divided by the purchase price.  Investment-grade U.S. corporate bond yields were 4.01
percent as of March 7, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index. Rates for 10-year certificates of deposit averaged
1.48 percent as of March 7, according to Market Rates Insight,
based in  San Anselmo , California.  Clients from athletes to entrepreneurs have moved 3 percent
to 5 percent of their cash into real estate deals in the last
year as a way of adding assets that may protect portfolios from
inflation and stock market volatility, said Rick Flynn, head of
the family office group for  Rothstein Kass , an accounting and
advisory firm in Roseland, New Jersey, serving those with a net
worth of at least $10 million.  Not Complicated  “Families are really excited because everything else
they’ve been sold in the last five years had a lot of
complicated structures that they never really understood,
whether it’s a hedge fund or a structured product,” said Toby
Moskovits, chief executive officer of Heritage Equity Partners
in  New York , whose firm has advised families who invested $30
million in apartment deals in the past six months.  The building Parekh bought has a major tenant, Petco Animal
Supplies Inc., he said. Investors have an equity stake in a
partnership that owns the property and get a share of its  cash
flow  and future appreciation based on how much they contributed,
said Parekh. His firm told investors they would receive at least
a 10 percent return on their investment annually after it
collected the monthly rent and paid bank debt.  Holding Period  Individuals are tying up their money for an estimated
holding period of 10 years to 15 years, according to the
operating agreement, Parekh said. The property may be sold
earlier, he said. Parekh takes a fee of less than $350 a month
for managing the property and a portion of the property’s cash
flow after investors are repaid, he said. Parekh, 34, used to
acquire and manage real estate investments in New York for
Washington-based  Carlyle Group , the world’s second-biggest
private-equity firm, he said.  Investors who concentrate their money in one or several
properties may take on more risk, while investing in a real
estate investment trust, or a REIT, provides more diversity
across the market and greater liquidity, said Craig Leupold,
president of real estate research firm Green Street Advisors
Inc. in  Newport Beach ,  California . The Bloomberg REIT Index of
124 publicly traded property owners, including apartments,
office buildings and shopping centers, climbed 23 percent in the
past year.  “You have to be very careful of being lured by yield,”
said Lew Altfest, president of New York-based Altfest Personal
Wealth Management, whose clients have a minimum of $1 million in
investable assets. If a property owner defaults, a family could
end up managing a property, be involved in litigation and incur
legal costs before a property can be repossessed and put up for
sale, Altfest said.  Illiquid Asset  “Anytime someone purchases real estate they have to
understand they are buying an illiquid asset,” said Jeff Sica,
president of Sica Wealth Management in Morristown,  New Jersey .
Sica said he helped in real estate deals with a combined value
of $200 million for four families in the last year with an
average holding period of 10 years. He seeks apartment buildings
with a cap rate of 6 percent to 9 percent annually.  Families should compare what they may be charged in
“promotes,” which are similar to carried interest fees paid to
private equity and hedge funds, to other investments, said Wayne
Heicklen, an attorney and chairman of the real estate department
at the law firm Pryor Cashman LLP. Heicklen said he has worked
on deals including Parekh’s purchase in TriBeCa.  Investors should also investigate the sponsor and inspect
the property, said Heicklen. “They were offering great yields
yet the tenant wasn’t there for the full time and the location
was bad,” he said of one property his clients were evaluating.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 