-- 
Wells Fargo's Sloan Avoids Spiders, Octopuses to Emerge as CEO Candidate

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-10T15:25:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/wells-fargo-s-sloan-avoids-spiders-octopuses-in-his-rise-to-finance-chief.html
Timothy J. Sloan’s rise to chief
financial officer at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  may have been cemented by
what he didn’t do, not just what he did.  “Our business is really pretty simple,” Sloan, 50, said
in an interview last week at the bank’s San Francisco
headquarters. “When you look at the deal and its structure
looks like an octopus or a spider, just don’t do it. That kept
us out of a lot of things.”  Sloan was appointed to the job Feb. 8 after the surprise
resignation of CFO Howard Atkins, 60, for undisclosed personal
reasons. A Wells Fargo employee since 1987, Sloan most recently
had been chief administrative officer, and led commercial real
estate and securitization at a time when rivals were chasing
multibillion-dollar property deals that later soured.  His decision to stay out of those overheated markets helps
explain his rise at the fourth-largest U.S. bank, customers and
colleagues say. Now Sloan is among likely candidates to
eventually succeed Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, two
people within the bank said. They asked not to be named because
discussions about succession are private.  “You want good intellect and you want an easygoing,
consistent style, and Tim has all of that,” Peter Briger, 47,
co-chairman of New York-based Fortress Investment Group LLC and
a former partner at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said in an
interview. “What you’re really hoping for is judgment and the
ability to put situations in the context over the long term.”  Summer Job  Sloan started working as a summer teller for Standard
Federal Savings and Loan Association between semesters at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , where he earned
undergraduate and business school degrees. His first formal job
was at Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co. in 1984
-- just as bad loans to  oil companies  were driving the lender
into what was then the largest bank collapse in U.S. history.  He landed a spot in the workout group where his boss “gave
me a pile of credit files and said, ‘Here, go figure this stuff
out,’ ” Sloan said. “Everybody should spend some time in
workouts. You look at other people’s mistakes and then you learn
from them.”  Almost 25 years later, he was one of two senior executives
from Wells Fargo’s wholesale division charged with examining
Wachovia Corp.’s commercial and investment bank as Wells Fargo
considered purchasing the lender as it teetered near bankruptcy.  Concerns about loans in those businesses led Wells Fargo
executives to delay their bid for Wachovia in the final week of
September 2008, former Chairman Richard Kovacevich told the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in an interview. The
additional due diligence allowed Wells Fargo later that week to
formulate a $15 billion bid that beat out  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Bigger Bank  The acquisition, in which Wells Fargo added an investment
bank with a specialty in real estate, propelled the combined
lender to 12th in 2010 among underwriters of U.S. bonds and 13th
in global equity offerings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In 2008, before the purchase, Wells Fargo failed to
crack the top 30 in either category.  Wells Fargo doesn’t disclose profits or losses for the
units Sloan managed. The entire division, overseen by Dave Hoyt,
earned $9.7 billion, or 36 percent of Wells Fargo’s $27.2
billion in profit over the past two years, according to a
yearend filing. The business brought in almost $43 billion in
revenue, or 24 percent of the bank’s total.  Takeovers  Sloan has shown a sharp eye for strategic acquisitions,
said Ronald Havner, 53, CEO of Public Storage, citing Wells
Fargo’s 1999 purchase of Eastdil Realty LLC, which Sloan led.  Six years later, Wells Fargo bought Secured Capital Corp.
and merged the two firms. The combined real estate investment
bank, Eastdil Secured, was the most active brokerage for large
deals last year, playing a part in $15.5 billion of
transactions, according to Real Estate Alert.  “Eastdil Secured is seeing all the deal flow and then
Wells Fargo has the lending platform behind it,” said Havner,
who runs the No. 2 U.S. real estate investment trust by stock-
market value and said he’s a golfing partner of Sloan’s. “That
was a very strategic, very smart move.”  Wells Fargo doesn’t always get it right, Sloan said. The
bank made commercial property loans in hard-hit states like
California and  Florida , where bad loans have piled up. The
lender held about $119 billion in commercial real estate loans
at the end of 2010, excluding some Wachovia loans, and of those
$7.9 billion, or about 6.6 percent, were delinquent, according
to the company’s yearend filing.  Pencils Down  “I’d like to say that every lending decision or every  investment decision  has turned out well -- it hasn’t,” Sloan
said. “The wholesale business started to reduce our exposures
to some of the riskier areas sooner than everyone else. Did we
do enough? No, you step back and say, ‘Gosh I wish we’d put our
pencils down a little earlier.’ ”  Even with Sloan putting on the brakes, commercial loan
losses reached $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009,
according to the bank’s presentation. Problem commercial loans
cost the bank $2.6 billion through the end of last year.
Business loans in the U.S. not paying interest reached an apex
of $12.5 billion, or 4.36 percent of total loans, in the third-
quarter of 2010.  Sloan went from wholesale, where he oversaw 25 business
lines with more than $200 billion in assets, toward Stumpf’s
inner circle. He became chief administrative officer in
September and then CFO when Atkins quit. The departure was
“unrelated to the company’s financial condition or financial
reporting,” Wells Fargo said in a statement. Sloan wouldn’t
elaborate.  Buffett’s Scrutiny  The announcement led billionaire  Warren Buffett , chairman
of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Wells Fargo’s largest shareholder,
to spend four hours poring over the bank’s annual filing in
search of red flags before concluding there was nothing amiss
financially, according to a transcript of a March 2 CNBC
interview.  Last month, Wells Fargo awarded Sloan more than $716,000 in
restricted stock rights. His career trajectory shows top
executives see him as a CEO candidate, said Gary Mozer, a
principal at George Smith Partners, a Los Angeles real estate
investment firm.  Sloan has “had some of the best jobs in the bank,” Mozer
said in an interview. “They’re grooming him for the top spot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 