-- 
Wheat Output in Western Australia May Grow 29%, Premier Says

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-03-10T08:11:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/wheat-production-in-western-australia-may-grow-29-by-2016-premier-says.html
Wheat output in  Western Australia ,
the nation’s biggest exporting state for the grain, may increase
29 percent by 2016 as producers respond to expanding global
demand, Premier  Colin Barnett  said.  “We could increase wheat production on average from around
7 million tons to around 9 million tons by further improvements
in farm technology,” Barnett said in an interview in Tokyo. The
target could be achieved in five to six years, he said.  Food output will have to climb by 70 percent by 2050 as the
population swells to 9 billion and rising wealth boosts meat and
dairy consumption, according to the United Nations Food &
Agriculture Organization. The world food price index compiled by
the body rose to a record in February, while food inflation
fueled unrest across North Africa and the Middle East that
toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt , the largest wheat importer.  “High prices will encourage wheat growers to increase
planting this year globally. If weather conditions aren’t as bad
as last year, the harvest this year will grow, leading to a drop
in Chicago futures to as low as $5 a bushel,” said Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research firm JSC Corp. in Tokyo.  Japan,  Asia ’s largest wheat importer after  Indonesia , is
the biggest export market for Western Australian wheat. The
state normally supplies about 850,000 metric tons a year to
Japan mainly for noodle production, Barnett said.  Wheat for May delivery was little changed at $7.585 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 5:06 p.m. Tokyo time.
The price climbed 58 percent in the past year as drought in  Russia  and flood in  Canada  reduced supplies. Australia is the
world’s fourth-largest shipper after the U.S., European Union
and Canada, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  ‘Drought-Tolerant’  “An increase in production will come from improving the
whole farming process, but also the development of more drought-
tolerant varieties that can survive in low-rainfall areas,”
Barnett said yesterday. He was in Japan to meet customers for
mineral and agricultural products from the state.  Wheat production in Western Australia slumped to 4.58
million tons in 2010-2011 because of dry weather, according to
the state’s Grain Industry Association. Drought-tolerant wheat
varieties under development in the state use conventional plant-
breeding technology, not genetic modification, Barnett said.  Maharashtra Hybrid Seeds Co ., an Indian seed breeder partly
owned by  Monsanto Co. (MON) , plans to develop the country’s first
genetically modified wheat and rice that can withstand drought
and salinity. In the U.S., the largest wheat shipper, the
National Association of Wheat Growers and U.S. Wheat Associates
adopted principles in 2008 for the eventual commercialization of
biotech wheat.  Japanese Consumers  “Japanese consumers are very conscious about that,”
Barnett said, explaining the reason for the state not to adopt
gene-modification technology for food crops. Western Australia
has allowed farmers to grow modified canola and cotton.  The  Flour Millers Association  in Japan has said it won’t
buy modified wheat because of consumer resistance. GMO crops
contain a gene from another organism, giving the plants a
resistance to herbicides and the ability to produce their own
toxins to kill pests. Critics say there may be health and
environmental consequences over time.  Western  Australia  usually supplies  China , the world’s
largest wheat grower, between 200,000 and 400,000 tons. As China
continues to urbanize, limiting domestic grain production, wheat
demand from the country is expected to increase, Barnett said.  “I don’t see a sudden jump” in Chinese wheat imports, he
said. “The biggest growth will come from the Gulf region.”  Middle Eastern countries such as  Saudi Arabia  may overtake
Japan as the largest destination of Western Australian wheat, as
demand in the region is growing at a faster pace because of
rising population, urbanization and changing diets, Barnett said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  