-- 
Wisconsin Vote on Unions Corrupts Democracy, Trumka Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-03-10T17:15:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/wisconsin-vote-on-worker-rights-corrupts-democracy-afl-cio-s-trumka-says.html
The  Wisconsin  Senate’s action to
strip collective bargaining rights for most government unions is
a “corruption of democracy,” AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka 
said.  The Wisconsin vote without any Democrats yesterday to curb
collective bargaining shows how far Governor Scott Walker and
Republicans will go to “pay back their corporate donors,”
Trumka said today at a labor meeting in  Washington . He heads a
federation of unions with 12.2 million members.  Walker’s “overreaching” has ignited labor unions, and may
help them focus on creating jobs, Trumka said. He urged the U.S.
government to increase investment in public projects such as
roads and airports to spur employment opportunities. President
Barack Obama has so far failed to meet his job-creation goal,
Trumka said.  The AFL-CIO is considering legal action to challenge the
vote in Wisconsin because lawmakers violated several laws,
including failure to provide proper legal notice, Trumka said in
an interview after the speech.    Scott Walker  didn’t win,” Trumka said. “It’s not over
until we say it’s over.”  The labor federation will be involved in efforts to recall
elected officials. Trumka said. State laws also may have been
violated in Ohio on its collective bargaining bill, he said.  Wisconsin Senate Republicans voted 18-1 yesterday to pass a
measure stripping government unions of most collective
bargaining power. Democrats had sought to block action by
leaving the state on Feb. 17. Republicans control the chamber
19-14.  Walker has said his bill would save $30 million for the
state this fiscal year.  Union Protests  Unions protested the proposed cuts to collective
bargaining, and the effort led to protests in states where
similar legislation is under consideration. The  Ohio  Senate
passed a bill last week curbing collective bargaining for
government employees with a 17-16 vote. Democrats and six
Republicans objected.  The campaign to create jobs will draw strength from the
union rallies in Madison, Wisconsin, and in Indiana and Ohio,
Trumka said at the Summit on Jobs & America’s Future, sponsored
by the  Campaign for America’s Future , a Washington-based group
that backs what it calls progressive change.  Public workers have rallied against Republican governors
seeking to curb collective bargaining and shore up budget
shortfalls. Forty-four states and the  District of Columbia  face
a $125 billion deficit for fiscal 2012, according to the  Center
on Budget & Policy Priorities.   ‘Spinning Deficits’  “Every day that politicians spend spinning deficits is
another day they ignore our jobs problem,” Trumka said.  Republicans led by U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  have
proposed cutting $61 billion from the federal budget, which
Trumka said also will eliminate 700,000 jobs.  Trumka said the AFL-CIO will fight Republican-proposed cuts
in Social Security and Medicare. Boehner said his budget will
curb Medicare and Social Security, according to an interview
published in the March 4 Wall Street Journal.  Obama in February named Trumka and business leaders such as
Kenneth Chenault, chief executive officer of American Express
Co. andRichard D. Parsons, chairman of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , to a 23-
member Council on Jobs & Competitiveness that will provide
advice on bolstering the economy and creating jobs.  Unemployment through January exceeded 9 percent for 21
straight months, the longest stretch since records began in
1948. It fell to 8.9 percent in February, according the Bureau
of Labor Statistics.  “The fire in Madison was sparked by intense fear and anger
and insecurity about jobs,” Trumka said. “We sent  Barack Obama 
to the White House to win change we could believe in. To the
American people, that meant jobs. But we have been in a jobless
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 