-- 
Wisconsin Senate Republicans Bypass Democrats to Pass Public Union Measure

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-10T02:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/wisconsin-senate-republicans-pass-curbs-on-public-union-bargaining-power.html
  Wisconsin ’s Senate Republicans
bypassed absent Democrats to pass a measure stripping government
unions of most collective-bargaining power, ending a weeks-long
stalemate that drew thousands of protesters to the capital and
focused a national debate on the issue.  The Senate voted 18-1 to pass the measure, according to the
Wisconsin Journal Sentinel  website , with Richland Center Republican Dale Schultz the only opponent. The Assembly is set
to take up the bill tomorrow.  “I applaud the Legislature’s action today to stand up to
the status quo and take a step in the right direction to balance
the budget and reform government,” Governor Scott Walker, a
Republican elected in November, said in an e-mailed statement.  The measure was taken from Walker’s “budget repair” bill,
which Democrats had stalled by leaving the state because at
least 20 had to be present to permit a vote, the Journal
Sentinel said. Republicans control the chamber 19-14. Passage in
Madison, Wisconsin’s capital, followed a vote in  Michigan  to
give state-appointed emergency managers the ability to overturn
labor agreements in some areas.  Opponents of the Wisconsin measure condemned the move.  “Tonight, 18 Senate Republicans conspired to take
government away from the people,” Senator Mark Miller, a Monona
Democrat, said in a statement. “In 30 minutes, 18 State
Senators undid 50 years of civil rights in Wisconsin.”  Labor groups also condemned the vote, saying it takes away
the ability of workers to negotiate over wages and benefits.  “Losing badly in the court of public opinion and failing to
break the Democratic senators’ principled stand,  Scott Walker 
and the GOP have eviscerated both the letter and the spirit of
the law and our democratic process to ram through their payback
to their deep-pocketed friends,” the state AFL-CIO said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  