-- 
Wisconsin Assembly Minority Leader Seeks State Probe of Anti-Union Law

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-03-10T21:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/wisconsin-assembly-minority-leader-seeks-state-probe-of-anti-union-law.html
  Wisconsin  Assembly Minority Leader
Peter Barca asked the Dane County district attorney to
investigate and reverse the state Senate’s passage of a bill
curbing collective bargaining for most government workers.  The state Senate voted 18-1 yesterday for a modified
version of Governor  Scott Walker ’s “budget repair bill.”
Republicans stripped the measure of some fiscal measures to
circumvent a requirement that three-fifths of members be
present. The chamber’s 14 Democrats left the state Feb. 17 to
prevent a quorum.  Yesterday’s vote violated the state’s open meetings law by
failing to give 24-hours’ notice, Barca said in a complaint
filed with Dane County District Attorney Ismael R. Ozanne in
Madison, Wisconsin, today. Barca said he was informed of the
session considering the bill less than two hours before it
convened. The state assembly is considering passage of the bill
today.  “The  district attorney  has the authority to enforce the
open meetings law,” Tamara Packard, Barca’s attorney, said in
an interview. Barca is seeking “an order declaring the vote is
void,” she said.  Lacking Power  “The next step is for us to look into the allegations and
that’s what we’re doing,” Ozanne said in a phone interview
today. The district attorney’s office doesn’t have the power to
void the vote, he said. “That would be determined by a court.”  If his office finds a violation, it could file a complaint
in court seeking an injunction voiding the vote, he said.  Barca and 10 other legislators also wrote Ozanne yesterday
protesting the state senate’s vote. “This evening’s actions by
the Wisconsin State Senate have called into question the very
legitimacy of our democracy,” they wrote. “At this time, we
ask that you investigate and prosecute to the greatest extent
this assault on transparent government.” Barca filed a formal
complaint today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 