-- 
McLeod May Buy Tea Gardens in Africa to Meet Rising Demand, Executive Says

-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 
2011-03-10T11:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/world-s-biggest-tea-grower-mcleod-seeks-african-expansion-to-boost-output.html
  McLeod Russel India Ltd. (MCLR) , the
world’s biggest tea grower, is scouting for acquisitions in
Africa after making five purchases in as many years to boost
output as demand for the beverage exceeds supply.  McLeod, which owns 38,000 hectares (93,900 acres) in  India ,  Vietnam  and  Uganda , is seeking state estates in countries such
as  Rwanda , Managing Director Aditya Khaitan said yesterday.  “Given the present market conditions, assets are going to
get expensive,” he said in an interview. “The best thing is to
look at nations that are going in for privatization in Africa.”  The 142-year-old company is expanding overseas as output in
India last year fell to the lowest level since 2005 because of
pest attacks in the nation’s biggest growing region. Prices at
auctions have almost doubled on average in the past five years,
data from the state-owned Tea Board of India show.  “Acquisitions have become expensive over the last three
years,” said Anup Ranadive, an analyst at Mumbai-based Tower
Capital & Securities Ltd. “Land prices are cheap in  Africa 
compared with India, which explains the rationale for scouting
for assets there.” He has a ‘buy’ rating on McLeod’s shares.  Production in India is forecast to decline to 967 million
kilograms in the year to March 31 from 980 million kilograms a
year ago. Adverse weather has damaged crops in Africa and  Sri
Lanka , pushing prices up by as much as 10 percent, said Khaitan.  “Everybody is short on tea,” he said. “There will be
strong demand from domestic and international market. Prices
will go up.” India will start the new season in April with a
deficit of 100 million kilograms, he said.  Shares Rally  McLeod’s shares have gained 16 percent this year, and are
the third-best performers on the BSE-200 Index in the period.
The stock added 1 percent to 251.55 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai.  Jayshree Tea & Industries Ltd. (JTI)  rose 3.3 percent
to 163.9 rupees.  The company can pay for the acquisition by leveraging about
2 billion rupees of cash it generates every year, said Khaitan.
The last five purchases cost the company 5.5 billion rupees, he
said. McLeod, including units, held 515.80 million rupees in
cash and short-term investments on March 31, 2010, according to
data on the Bloomberg.  Group debt may fall to 2 billion rupees in the year from
April 1, said Khaitan, from about 3 billion rupees this year.  Group net income may climb about 9 percent to 2.5 billion
rupees in the year to March. Sales will probably increase 17.5
percent to 13 billion rupees, said Khaitan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  