-- 
Yuan Halts Two-Day Drop on Speculation Interest Rates to Rise

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-10T02:52:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/yuan-halts-two-day-drop-on-speculation-interest-rates-to-rise.html
The yuan halted a two-day losing
streak after interest-rate increases in  Thailand  and South  Korea 
fanned speculation  China  will also boost borrowing costs further
in its fight to rein in inflation.  The  Bank of Korea  raised its benchmark rate by a quarter of
a percentage point today and the Bank of Thailand announced a
similar-sized move yesterday, the monetary authorities’ second
increases of 2011. The People’s Bank of China lifted its one-
year deposit rate by a quarter-point to 3 percent in February,
widening the gap with the  Federal Reserve ’s near-zero rate.  “Asian countries’ moves have refueled expectations that
China will roll out more tightening measures such as rate hikes
to deal with inflation,” said Kenix Lai, a foreign-exchange
analyst at Sung Hung Kai Securities Ltd. “It adds to
appreciation pressure for the yuan.”  The yuan traded at 6.5703 per dollar as of 10:40 a.m. in  Shanghai , from 6.5721 yesterday, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. It’s gained 0.5 percent this year and
touched 6.5628 on March 7, the strongest level since China
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The central bank set the  reference rate  0.05 percent
stronger at 6.5713. The currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5
percent on either side of the official rate.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed
at 6.4185 per dollar, reflecting bets the currency will
strengthen 2.4 percent in a year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yuan Convertibility  China should aim for full yuan convertibility over 10 years,
and seek to have the currency account for 3 percent to 4 percent
of total international reserves by 2020, Xia Bin, a central bank
monetary adviser, was cited as saying in the Wall Street Journal.  The longer-term aim must be full integration with the
global floating-exchange-rate system, Xia said. Revaluation of
the yuan is beneficial in limiting inflation, the Journal
reported.  China is due to announce its February trade figures today.
Export growth slowed to 27.1 percent from 37.7 percent in
January, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The trade deficit is forecast to have narrowed
to a 10-month low of $4.9 billion, the poll showed.  --Fion Li. Editors: James Regan, Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  