-- 
Yuan Forwards Weaken After China Reports Surprise Trade Deficit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-10T09:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-10/yuan-forwards-weaken-after-china-reports-surprise-trade-deficit.html
Yuan forwards weakened the most in
a month after  China  reported a surprise trade deficit for
February, easing pressure on the currency to appreciate.  China reported an unexpected $7.3 billion trade deficit in
February after a Lunar New Year holiday disrupted exports, the
customs bureau said. Today’s number compares with a $6.5 billion
surplus in January. Exports increased 2.4 percent from a year
earlier and imports climbed 19.4 percent.  “If deficits are sustained, that would damp appreciation
pressures,” said  Patrick Bennett , a strategist in Hong Kong at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. “With an emphasis on domestic
consumption in the new five-year plan, along with continued
commodity demand for infrastructure building, we might expect
generally lower surpluses in the months and indeed years
ahead.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards declined 0.3 percent
to 6.4398 per dollar as of 4:51 p.m. in  Hong Kong , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest drop since Feb.
11. The contract traded at 6.4170 per dollar before the trade
data was released.  China’s trade surplus will fall to $150 billion this year
and account for less than 1 percent of gross domestic product in
one to two years, central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said in Beijing
today. He added that it’s “reasonable” for the yuan to have a
5 percent to 6 percent annual gain.  The yuan slid 0.04 percent to 6.5747 per dollar in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
currency earlier strengthened as much as 0.04 percent after
interest-rate increases in  Thailand  and South Korea fanned
speculation China will also boost borrowing costs in its fight
to tame inflation.  “Nominal currency appreciation is still required to curb a
likely higher inflation print going forward,” said  Nizam Idris ,
a Singapore-based currency strategist at UBS AG.”  The People’s Bank of China today raised the yield on three-
month bills for the second consecutive week in open-market
operations, to 2.7944 percent. The increase supports speculation
policy makers will lift  interest rates  as soon as April, said
Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale
SA in Hong Kong.  The People’s Bank raised interest rates by 25 basis points
on Feb. 9, for the third time in four months. The benchmark one-
year lending rate is 6.06 percent, and the one-year deposit rate
is at 3.0 percent.  --Sonja Cheung. Editors: Sandy Hendry, Dirk Beveridge  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Cheung in Beijing at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  