-- ‘Hunger Games’ Leads Box Office Again With $33.1 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-09T21:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/-hunger-games-leads-box-office-again-with-61-million.html
“The Hunger Games” was the top
film for a third-straight weekend in U.S. and Canadian theaters
over the Easter holiday, beating a 3-D makeover of  James Cameron ’s Oscar-winning epic “Titanic.”  “The Hunger Games” generated $33.1 million in weekend
sales, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-
mailed statement. “American Reunion,” the fourth film in the
“American Pie” series, opened second with $21.5 million, and
“Titanic” took in $17.3 million to finish third.  “The Hunger Games,” based on Suzanne Collins’ best-
selling novel about teens forced to fight to the death on live
television, has had sales of $302.5 million since it opened
March 23. The film from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  is the
first since “The  Dark Knight ” in July 2008 to sell more than
$30 million in tickets three weeks in a row, Hollywood.com said.  “This movie is doing unprecedented business, particularly
for a movie that opened in March,” said Hollywood.com’s  Paul Dergarabedian  in a telephone interview.  The release date has allowed it “unfettered” access to
audiences without competition from “summer-style”
blockbusters, while favorable reviews and word-of-mouth also
helped, Dergarabedian said. The movie has helped domestic
cinemas sustain a 20 percent increase in ticket sales this year.  ‘American Reunion’  The film features  Jennifer Lawrence , who was nominated for
an Oscar in the 2010 film “Winter’s Bone,” as Katniss
Everdeen, a girl from an impoverished region who volunteers to
take her younger sister’s place in the annual competition. The
film is the first of as many as four in Collins’s trilogy of
young-adult novels. Liam Hemsworth, Josh Hutcherson and Woody Harrelson co-star.  In “American Reunion,” from Comcast Corp.’s  Universal
Pictures , four buddies from a small Michigan town get together
one more time for a high school reunion. The film features
original cast members Jason Biggs, Chris Klein, Alyson Hannigan
and Eugene Levy.  Third place’s “Titanic” stars  Leonardo DiCaprio  as a
struggling artist who woos an upper-class passenger, portrayed
by  Kate Winslet , away from her wealthy fiancé as the doomed ship
steams toward an iceberg. The film won 11 Academy Awards,
including the Oscars for best picture, best director and best
visual effects.  Paramount Pictures , a unit of  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , is distributing
“Titanic” in the U.S. and  Canada .  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Twentieth
Century Fox is handling overseas distribution. The studios co-
financed the original film.  3-D Fan Club  Studios have been reissuing older hits in a three-
dimensional format, or 3-D, including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s animated
“The  Lion King ” and “Beauty and the Beast.” “The Lion
King” makeover, released last September, took in $94.2 million
in the U.S. and Canada. “Beauty and the Beast” had $47.4
million, according to Box Office Mojo.  “Audiences seem to love the opportunity to see their
beloved classics on the big screen and, with the added bonus of
3-D, it certainly is working,” Dergarabedian said.  “Wrath of the Titans,” a sequel to 2010’s “Clash of the
Titans,” fell to fourth place from second with $14.7 million in
sales for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.  Sam Worthington  plays
the part-god Perseus, who must rescue his father, Zeus, from the
underworld. Liam Neeson co-stars as Zeus and  Ralph Fiennes  plays
Hades.  “Mirror Mirror,” a tongue-in-cheek take on the story of
Snow White, dropped to fifth from third in its second weekend
with $11.1 million in receipts. The film from Relativity Media
LLC stars  Julia Roberts  as the evil queen and Lily Collins, the
daughter of rock ‘n’ roll singer Phil Collins, as Snow White.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 13 percent to
$116.6 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Year-to-date U.S. box-office sales have risen 20 percent to
$2.81 billion while attendance is up 23 percent.  The amounts below are based on tickets sales for April 6 to
April 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  