-- Ahmadinejad Defends Iran Nuclear Progress, Condemns Israel, U.S.
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-04-08T15:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/ahmadinejad-defends-iran-nuclear-progress-condemns-israel-u-s-.html
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said
 Iran  will keep its right to scientific progress and proceed with
its nuclear program, while he attacked  Israel  and its allies for
having atomic weapons and threatening his country.  “Certain countries in the region not only possess nuclear
technology but also have the atomic bomb,” Ahmadinejad said
today on the occasion of Iran’s nuclear technology day,
addressing industry officials. “However there is no mention of
them and no one is bothering them.”  None of the three nuclear powers in Iran’s neighborhood --
Israel,  Pakistan , and  India  -- has signed the nuclear Non
Proliferation Treaty. Iran, which doesn’t consider Israel a
legitimate state, condemns the “double standard” and what it
sees as unconditional U.S. backing of Israel.  “Many of these very countries that are seeking to stop the
progress of the Islamic Republic themselves have atomic weapons
and they have also created the Zionist regime and equipped it
with the atomic bomb,” Ahmadinejad said. “Then, every day they
are saying that all options are on the table against Iran,” he
said, according to the official  Islamic Republic News Agency .  Ahmadinejad comments were a reference to western nations
and Israel, which has neither confirmed nor denied it has
nuclear weapons. Israel has threatened military strikes against
Iran’s nuclear facilities to forestall that development and U.S.
officials have refused to rule out the use of force against it.  Increasing Sanction Pressure  Ahmadinejad spoke days before nuclear talks between his
country and the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council plus  Germany  planned for April 13-14 in
Istanbul. The negotiations would be the first since a January
2011 meeting between Iran and the so-called 5+1 group, which
broke down without agreements or commitments for further rounds.  Since then, Iran has come under increasing pressure with
the piling up of trade, financial and energy sanctions from the
U.S. and the European Union to force the Persian Gulf country to
abandon its  uranium enrichment .  Iran, a signatory to the nuclear NPT, says its nuclear
program is aimed at securing electricity for a growing
population and fro medical research. The U.S. and its allies
accuse the Iranian government of seeking to build nuclear
weapons.  “Iran wants to use its natural right to use science and
its path is clear. The nation will continue its course on which
it is advancing and in which it has invested with force,”
Ahmadinejad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  