-- American Universities Infected by Foreign Spies Detected by FBI
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 2012-04-08T21:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/american-universities-infected-by-foreign-spies-detected-by-fbi.html
Michigan State University President
Lou Anna K. Simon contacted the Central Intelligence Agency in
late 2009 with an urgent question.  The school’s campus in  Dubai  needed a bailout and an
unlikely savior had stepped forward: a Dubai-based company that
offered to provide money and students.  Simon was tempted. She also worried that the company, which
had investors from  Iran  and wanted to recruit students from
there, might be a front for the Iranian government, she said. If
so, an agreement could violate federal trade sanctions and
invite enemy spies.  The CIA couldn’t confirm that the company wasn’t an arm of
Iran’s government. Simon rejected the offer and shut down
undergraduate programs in Dubai, at a loss of $3.7 million.  Hearkening back to Cold War anxieties, growing signs of
 spying on U.S. universities  are alarming national security
officials. As schools become more global in their locations and
student populations, their culture of openness and international
collaboration makes them increasingly vulnerable to theft of
research conducted for the government and industry.  “We have intelligence and cases indicating that U.S.
universities are indeed a target of foreign intelligence
services,” Frank Figliuzzi,  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
assistant director for counterintelligence, said in a February
interview in the bureau’s Washington headquarters.  ‘Academic Solicitation’  While overshadowed by espionage against corporations,
efforts by foreign countries to penetrate universities have
increased in the past five years, Figliuzzi said. The FBI and
academia, which have often been at loggerheads, are working
together to combat the threat, he said.  Attempts by countries in East Asia, including China, to
obtain classified or proprietary information by “academic
solicitation,” such as requests to review academic papers or
study with professors, jumped eightfold in 2010 from a year
earlier, according to a 2011 U.S.  Defense Department report .
Such approaches from the  Middle East  doubled, it said.  “Placing academics at U.S. research institutions under the
guise of legitimate research offers access to developing U.S.
technologies and cutting-edge research” in such areas as
information systems, lasers, aeronautics and underwater robots,
the report said.  World-Class Talent  Welcoming world-class talent to American universities helps
the U.S. sustain global supremacy in science and technology,
said University of Maryland President Wallace Loh. He chairs the
U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s academic advisory
council, which held its first meeting March 20 and is expected
to address such topics as federal tracking of international
students.  Foreign countries “can never become competitive by
stealing,” he said. “Once you exhaust that technology, you
have to start developing the next generation.”  Foreigners on temporary visas made up 46 percent of science
and engineering graduate students at  Georgia Institute of
Technology  and Michigan State and 41 percent at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in 2009, according to a federal survey.
 China  sent 76,830 graduate students to U.S. universities in
2010-2011, more than any other country and up almost 16 percent
from the prior year, according to the Institute of International
Education in  New York .  Finding Recruits  While most international students, researchers and
professors come to the U.S. for legitimate reasons, universities
are an “ideal place” for foreign intelligence services “to
find recruits, propose and nurture ideas, learn and even steal
research data, or place trainees,” according to a 2011  FBI
report .  In one instance described in the report, the hosts of an
international conference invited a U.S. researcher to submit a
paper. When she gave her talk at the conference, they requested
a copy, hooked a thumb drive to her laptop and downloaded every
file. In another, an Asian graduate student arranged for
researchers back home to visit an American university lab and
take unauthorized photos of equipment so they could reconstruct
it, the report said.  A foreign scientist’s military background or purpose isn’t
always apparent. Accustomed to hosting visiting scholars,
Professor Daniel J. Scheeres didn’t hesitate to grant a request
several years ago by Yu Xiaohong to study with him at the
 University of Michigan . She expressed a “pretty general
interest” in Scheeres’s work on topics such as movement of
celestial bodies in space, he said in a telephone interview.  Unaware of Credentials  She cited an affiliation with the  Chinese Academy of
Sciences , a civilian organization, Scheeres said. The Beijing
address Yu listed in the  Michigan  online directory is the same
as the Academy of Equipment Command & Technology, where
instructors train Chinese military cadets and officers. Scheeres
said he wasn’t aware of that military connection, nor that Yu
co-wrote a 2004 article on improving the precision of anti-
satellite weapons.  Once Yu arrived, her questions made him uncomfortable, said
Scheeres, who now teaches at the  University of Colorado . As a
result, he stopped accepting visiting scholars from China.  “It was pretty clear to me that the stuff she was
interested in probably had some military satellite-orbit
applications,” he said. “Once I saw that, I didn’t really tell
her anything new, or anything that couldn’t be published. I
didn’t engage that deeply with her.”  Wrote About NASA  Yu later wrote a paper on the implications for space
warfare of the NASA Deep Impact mission, which sent a spacecraft
to collide with a comet. She couldn’t be reached for comment.  American universities have also trained Chinese researchers
who later committed corporate espionage. Hanjuan Jin, a former
software engineer at Motorola Inc., was found guilty in February
in federal court of stealing the Schaumburg, Illinois-based
company’s trade secrets and acquitted of charges she did so to
benefit China’s military. She is scheduled for sentencing in May
and has also filed a motion for a new trial.  Jin joined the company, now known as  Motorola Solutions
Inc. (MOT) , after earning a master’s degree from the University of
 Notre Dame  in South Bend,  Indiana . While at Motorola, she
received a second master’s, this time in computer science, from
the  Illinois Institute of Technology  in  Chicago . IIT’s own
research wasn’t compromised, institute spokesman Evan Venie said
in an e-mail. A Notre Dame spokesman declined to comment.  Study Abroad Targets  More Americans are heading overseas for schooling, becoming
potential targets for intelligence services, Figliuzzi said.
More than  270,000 Americans  studied abroad for credit in 2009-
2010, up 4 percent from the year before. President Barack Obama
has announced an initiative to send 100,000 American students to
China, and China has committed 10,000 scholarships for them.  As a junior at Grand Valley State University in Allendale,
Michigan, Glenn Duffie Shriver studied at East China Normal
University in  Shanghai . After graduation, he fell in with
Chinese agents, who paid him more than $70,000. At their
request, he returned to the U.S. and applied for jobs in the
State Department and the CIA. He was sentenced to four years in
prison in January 2011 after pleading guilty to conspiring to
provide national-defense information to intelligence officers of
the People’s Republic of China.  “Study-abroad programs are an attractive target. Foreign
security services find young, bright U.S. kids in science or
politics, it’s worth winning them over,” Figliuzzi said.  Front Companies  Unlike its counterparts in other countries, which rely on
their own operatives, China’s intelligence  service  deploys a
freelance network including students, researchers and false-
front companies, said David Major, president of the Centre for
Counterintelligence and Security Studies in Falls Church,
 Virginia  and a former FBI official.  China has “lots of students who either are forced to or
volunteer to collect information,” he said. “I’ve heard it
said, ‘If it wanted to steal a beach,  Russia  would send a
forklift. China would send a thousand people who would pick up a
grain of sand at a time.’”  China also has more than 3,000 front companies in the U.S.
“for the sole purpose of acquiring our technology,” former CIA
officer S. Eugene Poteat, president of the Association of Former
Intelligence Officers in McLean, Virginia, wrote in the
fall/winter 2006-2007 edition of “Intelligencer: Journal of
U.S. Intelligence Studies.”  U.S. and Canadian universities reaped $2.5 billion in 2011
from licensing technology, up from $222 million in 1991,
according to the  Association of University Technology Managers 
in Deerfield, Illinois.  ‘Opened Some Eyes’  Universities “may not fully grasp exactly who they’re
spinning off their inventions to,” Figliuzzi said. “The
company could be a front for a foreign power, and often is. We
share specific intelligence with university presidents, and
we’ve opened some eyes.”  Michigan State’s Simon learned to be wary of front
companies by serving on the National Security Higher Education
Advisory Board, established by the FBI and CIA in 2005. It
“makes you more aware that you need to look below the surface
of some of these offers,” she said. “A short-term solution may
turn into an institutional embarrassment.”  Arizona  State University President Michael Crow also sits
on the board. “It’s all a little perplexing and overwhelming,”
he said.  “We’re in the business of trying to recruit more
students from China. We’re operating at a total openness mode,
while we recognize there are people working beyond the rules to
acquire information.”  The Chinese embassy in  Washington  and the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs in Beijing didn’t respond to e-mailed questions.  Enabling China  Over the years, American universities have enabled China
“to leapfrog into the cutting edge of military capability on
the way to superpower status,” Richard Fisher, senior fellow on
Asian Military Affairs at the International Assessment and
Strategy Center in Alexandria, Virginia, said in an e-mail.  Chen Dingchang, the head of a Chinese military-sponsored
working group on anti-satellite technology, led a delegation in
1998 to the University of  Florida  to learn about diamond-coating
manufacturing, used in missile seekers and other systems, said
Mark Stokes, executive director of the  Project 2049  Institute in
Arlington, Virginia, which studies Chinese aerospace technology.
In a 1999 report in a Chinese journal, the authors, including
Chen, said the university’s cooperation would assist in
overcoming a technical bottleneck in China’s development of
anti-satellite warheads.  ‘Unlikely to Advertise’  “A university may not know that a visiting engineer could
be conducting sponsored research on a military program that
could hurt Americans in the event of a conflict,” Stokes said.
“An engineer supporting a People’s Liberation Army program is
unlikely to advertise his or her purpose.”  The University of Florida is “unable to verify” the
incident, spokesman Stephen Orlando said.  Chen is a technology adviser at China Aerospace Science and
Industry Corp., which didn’t respond to an interview request.  University administrators have traditionally viewed their
role as safeguarding academic freedom and making sure that all
students, domestic or foreign, are treated the same.  “I’ve been to campuses where deans would say to Chinese
students, ‘The FBI is coming to talk to you. You have no
responsibility to talk to them,’” Major said. “Very hostile
environments.”  Some faculty members remain uneasy about a partnership with
federal investigators. “The FBI thrives on a certain degree of
paranoia, and it operates in secrecy,” said  David Gibbs , a
history professor at the University of Arizona. “The secrecy
goes against so much of what universities are about, which is
openness and transparency.”  Stanford University  Stanford University  avoids seeking contracts for “export-
controlled” research, which only Americans can work on without
a license because it has implications for economic or national
security.  “Stanford does not, nor will it, restrict participation of
students on the basis of citizenship,” President John Hennessy
testified at a January 2010, congressional hearing in Palo Alto,
 California . More than half of Stanford’s doctoral candidates in
the physical sciences and engineering come from outside the
U.S., he said.  Asked by Dana Rohrabacher, a Republican congressman from
California, if he had read that Chinese military intelligence
uses Chinese students, Hennessy said, “I am aware of that.”  “Universities need to think that they are patriotic
Americans, too,” Rohrabacher responded.  Hennessy is on sabbatical and unavailable to comment, Lisa
Lapin, a Stanford spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  More Collaboration  After becoming Pennsylvania State University president in
1995, Graham Spanier sought closer collaboration with law
enforcement. Reading that a president at another state
university expressed shock that a faculty member was under
investigation for terrorist ties, he resolved not to be
similarly taken aback. He arranged a meeting with
representatives of national security agencies including the FBI,
CIA, Secret Service and Naval Criminal Investigative Service.  “This had never occurred before,” Spanier said in a phone
interview. “Nobody from higher education had reached out.”  If they were making inquiries at Penn State, they should
let him know, and he would help, Spanier told them. “That began
a very fruitful collaboration,” he said.  Shifting priorities after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to
terrorism and espionage from organized crime and kidnapping, the
FBI expanded the Penn State model into a national board.  Handpicked Board  Spanier approached other university presidents, and 90
percent agreed to serve, he said. Michigan State’s Simon took
over as chair after Spanier stepped down as Penn State president
last November in the wake of a scandal over sex-abuse
allegations against a former assistant football coach. Simon and
the FBI and CIA have agreed to expand the board and start a
subcommittee on cyber-hacking.  The FBI handpicks universities for the board, Figliuzzi
said. It looks at how much research they conduct, as well as
“sensitive cases -- where is there a potential problem? Then we
make an invitation.”  Board members must have security clearances. FBI officials
brief them about cases on their campuses, and the presidents in
return guide federal investigators through the thickets of
higher education.  Problem Solved  When a foreign entity compromised the computer system of a
major university, the bureau contacted the school’s information-
technology administrators, who denied that they had a security
breach. The FBI consulted Spanier, who persuaded the
university’s president to meet with the bureau.  “That opened the door to a higher level of cooperation,”
he said. “The problem was solved.”  Similarly, the bureau warned Simon that research in
behavioral science by a foreign graduate student at Michigan
State “might breach the security of corporate America,” she
said. “We were able to find a way for the student to complete
his research and still modify it in a way that took away the
national security issues.”  Beyond resolving such cases, the FBI has also alerted board
members to the overall threat, most dramatically through a
presentation by a former Russian spy. As a colonel in Russian
intelligence and its deputy resident in New York from 1995 to
2000, Sergei Tretyakov set his sights on  Columbia University  and
New York University, according to “Comrade J: The Untold
Secrets of Russia’s Master Spy in America After the End of the
 Cold War ” (2008), by Pete Earley.  Mingled With Professors  “We often targeted academics because their job was to
share knowledge and information by teaching it to others, and
this made them less guarded than, say, UN diplomats,” Earley
quoted Tretyakov as saying. A typical task was to obtain
information about “a study of genetically engineered food being
done at New York University.”  At the board meeting, Tretyakov described to the presidents
how Russian spies used to go to campus events and mingle with
professors. “It certainly seemed very bold to me that they felt
they could interact with faculty and students and attend
seminars,” Spanier said. “We never really think about that
happening on our campuses.”  In 2009, around the time Tretyakov was briefing the
presidents, a Russian spy, Lidiya Guryeva, was pursuing a
master’s degree in business at Columbia under the name  Cynthia
Murphy , the 2011 FBI report said. Russian intelligence
instructed her to strengthen “ties w. classmates on daily basis
incl. professors who can help in job search and who will have
(or already have) access to secret info,” and to report on
their potential “to be recruited by Service.”  Columbia and NYU declined to comment.  Tretyakov died in June 2010. That month, Guryeva was
arrested for acting as an agent of a foreign power and deported
to Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  