-- Man. United Takes Eight-Point League Lead as City Loses
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-08T23:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/manchester-utd-extends-league-lead-to-8-points-as-city-loses.html
Manchester United  beat 10-man Queens
Park Rangers 2-0 yesterday to extend its advantage atop soccer’s
Premier League to eight points as second-place Manchester City
lost 1-0 at Arsenal.  Wayne Rooney , with a penalty kick, and Paul Scholes got
goals for United, which is seeking a record-extending 20th
championship. QPR’s Shaun Derry was red-carded after 14 minutes.
A Mikel Arteta goal gave Arsenal its victory against City, which
had  Mario Balotelli  dismissed late on.  “The sending-off didn’t help us at all,” United manager
 Alex Ferguson  told MUTV. “I was actually more confident before
that in terms of the speed of our play and the movement of the
team which was very good. The second goal from Scholes calmed
everyone down.”  United has 79 points, City remains on 71, with third-place
Arsenal on 61. Tottenham has 59, with Chelsea and Newcastle on
56.  United has now taken 34 points from a possible 36 since
suffering back-to-back losses to Blackburn and Newcastle and is
on a run of eight straight league victories. City is on a three-
game winless run.  At Old Trafford, the defending champion pinned QPR back in
its own half in the early stages, with goalkeeper Paddy Kenny
needing to make a save from a Rooney free kick.  Penalty  United took the lead after Ashley Young fell under a
challenge by Derry and a penalty was awarded. Referee Lee Mason
also decided to dismiss Derry, with Rooney converting the spot
kick for his 29th goal of the season.  “The boy’s just got a little tug on Young, not a great
deal but enough to get us the penalty,” Ferguson said. “And
unfortunately he was the last defender and had to be sent off.”  The hosts continued to apply pressure, but QPR’s defense
held out for the remainder of the first half, with  Patrice Evra ,
 Danny Welbeck  and Scholes all failing to get shots on target.  Welbeck put the ball into the net in the opening minute of
the second half, although his effort was ruled out for offside.  Kenny made more saves from Rooney, Rafael and Welbeck
before Scholes scored his third goal since ending his retirement
in January. The 37-year-old former England midfielder fired a
25-yard shot past Kenny at 68 minutes after Rafael stole the
ball from QPR’s Adel Taarabt.  Michael Carrick almost added a third goal for United, but
his long-range shot smashed against a post and bounced clear.  Relegation  The defeat leaves QPR on 28 points, only outside the three-
team relegation positions on goal difference ahead of Blackburn
and Wigan. Last-place  Wolverhampton Wanderers  are a further six
points back. Bolton is one point ahead of QPR, with  Aston Villa 
on 34 points.  “I am really pleased with what we produced even if the
game as a contest was over after 15 minutes,” QPR manager Mark
Hughes told reporters.  A low 25-yard shot from Arteta after 87 minutes condemned
City to its defeat at the Emirates Stadium in north London. Two
minutes later, Balotelli was red-carded after receiving his
second caution of the match.  City manager  Roberto Mancini  told reporters after the match
that Balotelli is unlikely to play for the club again this
season and he may look to sell the striker.  “Every time, we risk one sent off, like today, but he can
score also in the last minute,” Mancini said. “I am finished.
We have six games and he will not play in the next six games.”  Aaron Ramsey  should have increased Arsenal’s advantage in
injury time as the Gunners quickly broke forward, but he fired
wide.  Arsenal had created the most opportunities throughout the
match. Robin van Persie had a goalbound header on 16 minutes
that hit teammate  Thomas Vermaelen  and the bar and he came even
closer in the second half with a header against the base of a
post.  Theo Walcott had a shot tipped against a post by City
goalkeeper Joe Hart on 76 minutes, with Vermaelen and  Yossi
Benayoun  unable to force the ball into the net.  Mancini refused to admit defeat in the title race.  “No, it’s not mathematically over, but it’s clear now that
it’s very difficult,” Mancini told  Sky Sports . “Never say
never in football.”  The bottom five teams all lost this weekend, while Villa
tied 1-1 at Liverpool. Wolves lost 2-1 at Stoke, Blackburn was
beaten 3-0 by West Bromwich Albion, Bolton was defeated 3-0 by
Fulham, and Wigan lost 2-1 against Chelsea.  In other games, Tottenham tied 0-0 against Sunderland, and
Norwich drew 2-2 with Everton. Newcastle beat Swansea 2-0 on
April 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 