-- Manchester United Beats 10-Man QPR to Extend Premier League Lead
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-08T15:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/manchester-united-beats-10-man-qpr-to-extend-premier-league-lead.html
Manchester United  beat 10-man Queens
Park Rangers 2-0 to extend its lead over Manchester City to
eight points atop English soccer’s Premier League.  Wayne Rooney  and Paul Scholes got goals at Old Trafford for
United, which is seeking a record-extending 20th championship.
QPR’s Shaun Derry was red-carded after 14 minutes, with Rooney
scoring from the resulting penalty.  City can reduce the gap to five points if it beats Arsenal
later today. It has 71 points, with United at 79. Third-place
Tottenham has 59, Arsenal 58, with Chelsea and Newcastle two
points further back.  United has now taken 34 points from a possible 36 since
suffering back-to-back losses to Blackburn and Newcastle and is
on a run of eight straight league wins.  The defending champion pinned QPR back in its own half in
the early stages, with goalkeeper Paddy Kenny needing to make a
save from a Rooney free kick.  United took the lead after Ashley Young fell in the penalty
area while being challenged by Derry and a penalty was awarded.
Referee Lee Mason also decided to dismiss QPR’s captain.
Rooney converted the spot kick for his 29th goal of the season.  Applying Pressure  The hosts continued to apply pressure, but QPR’s defense
held out for the remainder of the first half, with  Patrice Evra ,
 Danny Welbeck  and Scholes all failing to get shots on target.  Welbeck put the ball into the net in the opening minute of
the second half, although his effort was ruled out for offside.  Kenny made more saves from Rooney, Rafael and Welbeck
before Scholes scored his third goal since ending his retirement
in January. The 37-year-old former England midfielder fired a
25-yard shot past Kenny at 68 minutes after Rafael stole the
ball from QPR’s Adel Taarabt.  Michael Carrick almost added a third goal for United, but
his long-range shot smashed against a post and bounced clear.  The defeat leaves QPR on 28 points, only outside the three-
team relegation positions on goal difference ahead of Blackburn
and Wigan. Last-place  Wolverhampton Wanderers  is a further six
points back.  Bolton is one point ahead of QPR, with  Aston Villa  on 34
points.  The bottom five teams all lost this weekend, while Villa
tied 1-1 at Liverpool. Wolves lost 2-1 at Stoke, Blackburn was
beaten 3-0 by West Bromwich Albion, Bolton was defeated 3-0 by
Fulham, and Wigan lost 2-1 against Chelsea.  In yesterday’s other games, Tottenham tied 0-0 against
Sunderland, and Norwich drew 2-2 with Everton. Newcastle beat
Swansea 2-0 on April 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 