-- AT&T, CWA Remain in Talks After Labor Contracts Expire
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-04-08T22:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/at-t-says-talks-continue-after-failing-to-agree-on-cwa-contract.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone
company, failed to reach agreement to renew four contracts with
one of its unions and said it will extend negotiations to reach
a deal.  AT&T, based in  Dallas , and the  Communications Workers of
America  didn’t agree before the expiration of the East, Legacy
T, Midwest and West contracts, the carrier said in a statement.  The  Communications Workers of America  is renegotiating four
separate contracts with AT&T, affecting a total of 40,000
workers. On March 31, union members  voted  to authorize CWA to
call strikes if agreements on new contracts weren’t be reached.
The parties “have agreed to continue to negotiate,” AT&T said
in the statement earlier today.  “We’re committed to continuing to work together with the
union to reach an agreement that will allow us to continue to
provide and protect” jobs, Marty Richter, a spokesman for AT&T,
said in an e-mail after 5 p.m.  The union is focusing on local and economic issues such as
health care, pensions and pay, Candice Johnson, a spokeswoman
for the CWA, said in telephone interviews.  “We’re just going to keep pushing forward and that’s what
happened today,” she said in a late-afternoon interview.  Declining Margins  The union, which represents about 16 percent of AT&T’s
256,000 workers, has been organizing rallies and meetings to
help push for a deal to address issues ranging from guaranteed
weekend days off to health-care benefits. In 2004, it led a
four-day stoppage at SBC Communications Inc., which bought AT&T
the following year.  “Unions are trying to maintain many things they’ve gained
over the years, and it’s hard,” Ivan Smith, a partner at Lewis
 Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP (1277L) , said in an interview. “In
general, the strike is the last thing a union wants. If the
employer can withstand a strike, you lose all the leverage you
had. You don’t make that move unless there’s no other
recourse.”  AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are negotiating new
union contracts amid declining margins and rising network
investment costs. In 2011, AT&T’s total operating revenues rose
1.9 percent to $126.7 billion while capital expenditure climbed
3.1 percent to $20.1 billion.  Current Contracts  Last August, CWA called an end to a two-week strike by
35,000 members at Verizon and  Verizon Wireless , when the
companies agreed to extend the workers’ current contracts and
 resume bargaining . Verizon and Verizon Wireless, the unit it co-
owns with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , and the union are  yet  to reach a
new agreement.  AT&T and Verizon regularly negotiate with unions
representing larger parts of their workforce. About 55 percent
of AT&T’s employees are represented by CWA, the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or other unions, according to
the company’s  annual report .  Contracts covering about 120,000 employees will expire
during 2012, according to AT&T.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  