-- Mazda Asset Sales Loom for Japan Unprofitable Automaker
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-04-09T09:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/mazda-asset-sales-loom-for-japan-s-unprofitable-automaker-cars.html
Should  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  dump the
Hiroshima  Carp ?  Two weeks after selling $1.8 billion in new stock to
replenish its depleted capital, Japan’s only unprofitable
automaker said last month it will sponsor the All-Star baseball
game in July. Mazda is the only Japanese carmaker to own control
of a team in the league and also has a professional  soccer club ,
a hospital and more than $5 billion in land.  The diversity of Mazda’s assets illustrates why scrutiny
may intensify on President Takashi Yamanouchi’s plans to revive
a company that’s forecasting its biggest annual loss in 11 years.
Hiroshima-based Mazda, the nation’s most export-reliant carmaker,
has struggled under Yamanouchi after he defied the appreciating
yen by keeping production in Japan and as Mazda’s 30-year
partnership with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  crumbled.  “This comes at the worst time,” said Kazuyuki Terao,
chief investment officer at Allianz unit RCM Japan. “People
might think if they don’t cut spending on baseball, they may
also not worry about other expenses.”  Investors have reason to be concerned. Though all of the
nation’s major carmakers saw their shares drop last year
following natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand , Mazda’s 42
percent fall was the steepest because of its vulnerability to
the yen. The company produces almost 70 percent of its cars in
Japan, of which 80 percent are shipped overseas, the highest
ratio in the industry.  Under Performer  Revenue probably fell 12 percent to 2.05 trillion yen ($25
billion) in the year ended March 31, worse than the 2.3 percent
drop at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and 10 percent decline at  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) , according to the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The stock is extending the under-performance this year,
trading unchanged from the end of 2011, compared with the 13
percent advance by the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The
cost of insuring against default on Mazda’s bonds using credit-
default swaps is at the highest in almost three years.  Last March, Mazda sold 151.2 billion yen of new stock -- a
record for the company -- as four years of losses drained away
so much capital it faced a debt-rating downgrade, which would
raise borrowing costs for the industry’s most indebted carmaker.
When unprofitable companies sell stock via public offerings to
boost capital in the balance sheet, they also dilute the value
of existing shares. In Mazda’s case, the number of outstanding
shares rose by about 70 percent.  Ties to Hiroshima  Mazda’s investments reflect the deep ties the carmaker,
Hiroshima’s biggest company, has with the city where it was
founded 92 years ago, spokeswoman Kozue Nitta said. The company
said after the atomic bomb devastated the city in 1945, it lent
its  headquarters  to the Hiroshima government for about a year.  “We started to run the hospital and investing in baseball,
soccer teams to make contributions to the local community,”
Nitta said. “We have many reasons to hold on to each asset.”  Mazda owns 34 percent of the Carp baseball team -- a three-
time winner of the Japan Series -- and 22 percent of the
 Sanfrecce  Hiroshima soccer club, according to the  company  last
year. The unprofitable carmaker also owns welfare facilities,
including a hospital and dormitories, worth 20.5 billion yen and
432.3 billion yen in real estate.  By comparison,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  shut an employee
hospital in Okayama during 2009 after its recall crisis forced
the company to sell 780 billion yen of new stock.  Daiei Inc. (8263) 
sold the Hawks baseball team in 2005 to mobile-phone operator
 Softbank Corp. (9984)  after the supermarket operator needed a
government bailout.  Rotary Engine  Mazda’s finances are a contrast to four years ago, when the
developer of the rotary engine and the RX-7 sports car was
coming off record profits. Then the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  sparked a global recession and the yen appreciated
more than any major currency for two straight years.  The company is scaling back spending as Mazda plans to
reduce new hires of college graduates by 71 percent this fiscal
year and offered buyouts to U.S. employees. The Nikkei newspaper
reported March 24 that Mazda plans to halt manufacture of
commercial vehicles, although spokesman Toyota Tanaka declined
to confirm the report.  The carmaker may have further room to cut costs. Selling,
general and administrative expenses accounted for about 19
percent of revenue in the year ended March 2011, the third
highest spending ratio in the industry after Honda and  Suzuki
Motor Corp. (7269) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Fanatical’ Fans  Mazda is also increasingly turning to  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  for financial aid after
Ford Motor Co. cut its stake in Mazda to 3.5 percent in 2010
from 33 percent in 2008, dismantling an alliance spanning three
decades. Mazda said in June it plans to stop making sedans at a
Michigan plant shared with Ford since 1992.  “It will take time for Mazda to expand overseas because
Ford has taken care of such tasks for a long time,” said
Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at a research firm Carnorama Japan.
“I doubt Mazda really means to stay in  Japan . Foreign
production may increase gradually after a few years.”  The company’s reliance on the yen may decline starting next
fiscal year, when a factory in  Mexico  is scheduled to begin
production. The company is also counting on fuel-efficient
models such as the  CX-5  sport-utility vehicle that went on sale
in February, the first vehicle to be fully fitted with its so-
called “SkyActiv” technology. The technology is enough to keep
Mazda competitive for the next 5 to 10 years, Kurt Sanger, an
analyst at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , wrote in a report late last year.  While the yen may be reversing gains -- it’s the worst
performing major currency this year -- Mazda should give
investors a better indication that management is spending the
company’s money wisely, said Tokyo-based  Tachibana Securities Co. (TSCLZ) 
strategist  Kenichi Hirano .  “Given the situation, Mazda may need to consider selling
the Carp and weather the backlash from the team’s fanatical
fans,” Hirano said. “They should be reviewing what assets they
can sell, but I can’t see them having made an effort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  