-- Barak Says Sanctions Won’t Halt Iran's Nuclear Work
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-04-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/barak-says-sanctions-won-t-persuade-iran-to-end-nuclear-w.html
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
said he doesn’t think the current sanctions against  Iran  will
persuade the Islamic Republic to abandon its nuclear program and
that Israel hasn’t decided how to respond.  “I don’t believe that this amount of sanctions and
pressure will bring the Iranian leadership to the conclusion
that they have to stop their nuclear military program,” Barak
said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program.  Israel has threatened military strikes against Iran’s
nuclear facilities to prevent Iran from building a nuclear
weapon, and U.S. officials have refused to rule out the use of
force against Iran.  “We don’t have any decision about what to do or a date for
decision,” Barak said in the interview, taped April 5 for
broadcast today. “But it’s clear that, for us, it’s critical.”  Israel  is convinced that dealing with a nuclear-armed Iran
“will be much more complicated, much more danger, much more
costly in terms of both the human life as well as the financial
resources,” Barak said.  Iranian lawmaker Gholamreza Mesbahi Moghadam said Iran has
the capability to produce nuclear weapons, though it won’t do
so, the  Associated Press  reported yesterday, citing an interview
with the Iranian parliament’s website, icana.ir.  Limited Time  “We have limited time,” Barak said on CNN. “We don’t
have to make a decision next week and we cannot wait years.”
He said he doesn’t “believe in containment, so I don’t see how
easily it’s going to be solved.”  Nuclear talks with Iran and the so-called P5+1 group, made
up of the five permanent members of the  United Nations Security
Council  and  Germany , had been set to start April 13 in Istanbul.
Then Iran demanded the talks be moved elsewhere because of
Turkey’s support for rebels against  Syria , an ally of Iran.  The talks would be the first since the breakup of a January
2011 meeting between Iran and the six-nation group. Since then,
Iran has come under increasing pressure with mounting trade,
financial and energy sanctions from the U.S. and the European
Union to force the Persian Gulf country to abandon its uranium
enrichment activity.  “The tightest possible sanctions and steps against Iran
should be ratcheted in a way that will effectively corner
them,” Barak said on CNN.  Iran, a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,
says its atomic program is aimed at producing electricity for
its growing population. The U.S. and its allies say the Iranian
government is seeking to build nuclear weapons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  