-- Baroness Nourishes Writers, Mourns Old Europe: Interview
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-04-08T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/baroness-nourishes-writers-mourns-old-europe-interview.html
“May I offer you coffee? Water?
Vodka?” asked Baronessa Beatrice Monti della Corte as she
welcomed me into her apartment on  New York ’s Upper East Side.  Monti, the widow of the fabled novelist of old Europe
Gregor von Rezzori, led me into her book-strewn living room
where she sat down, flanked by a polished-stone Noguchi
sculpture to her left and a wheezing pug to her right.  A slender woman with elegantly coiffed silver hair, Monti
has been in the thick of artistic ferment for over half a
century.  Monti, now in her mid-eighties, is eager to talk about her
 Santa Maddalena Foundation , a writers’ retreat held on her
estate. The splendid property in Tuscany, with cook and swimming
pool, has attracted such literary superstars as Nobel Prize-
winner  Orhan Pamuk ,  Michael Cunningham , Edmund White, and Zadie
Smith.  By now, she’s hosted almost 150 writers from more than 40
countries, raising fellowship funds to support the activities of
her non-profit foundation.  She spoke to me a few days before leaving for Santa
Maddalena where preparations for the arrival of this year’s
artists were already under way.  Tarmy: You’re known for your writers’ retreat, but you’ve
also had a career in art.  International Gallery  Monti: I had a gallery in Milan for 20-something years,
where I introduced American and British artists to  Italy .  I showed  Robert Rauschenberg  in 1962. At that time, Milan
was the capital of culture, not just of fashion. It was a
wonderful place to have a gallery.  Everyone was there: Eugenio Montale, the poet, and Italo
Calvino, the author, would just come by my gallery.  Tarmy: Why did you shut down it down?  Monti: My husband preferred Tuscany -- he never wanted to
go to Milan. So I closed the gallery, right at the moment when
art dealers were becoming millionaires.  Leo Castelli said it was incredibly stupid of me, but I
don’t regret it. I began to work for magazines instead. I’m
still on the masthead of  Vanity Fair  as a contributing editor,
actually.  Tarmy: You’re part of a Europe that in many respects no
longer exists. Does the aristocracy still have a place in
society?  Monti: We have categories for everyone else, dentists,
doctors, this, that, why not the aristocracy? Look, I’m as left-
wing as you can be, but if you destroyed what remains of the
aristocracy, what would it be replaced by?  We already know: a little bourgeoisie who wants to become a
big bourgeoisie. And that’s pitiful. Better keep it as it is.  Total Decadence  Tarmy: Do you think culture is in decline?  Monti: It’s very difficult to think otherwise -- we’re in a
period of total decadence. I remember after the war there was
such hope, when we thought everyone could do their bit to build
a better world.  And look at  Europe  now. All of the places I lived, all of
the places I traveled to, they’re all destroyed.  Tarmy: Do you see your writers’ retreat as a response to
this destruction?  Wild Boar Sightings  Monti: I know it’s not very humane or very grand, but I
want to create a happy little island where writers can go out,
see a wild boar, stroll in nature, a small utopia where they can
be happy for six weeks.  They eat well, they enjoy the olive oil we make -- it’s a
moment of pleasure and one of total freedom.  Tarmy: How did you get the idea to start the retreat?  Monti: Bruce Chatwin gave me the idea, without either of us
really realizing it. He used to visit Santa Maddalena to write.  When my husband died, I realized I still wanted my house to
be a place where writers like Bruce could come and work. For the
first year I invited my friends, simply because it was the
easiest thing to do. And it grew from there.  Tarmy: Do you enjoy having all of these people come and go?  Monti: After being married to a writer for so many years, I
understand the needs of the artist.  I know how selfish they are, I know how large their egos
are, but I also know that they create beauty. They create what
makes me -- makes all of us -- happy. So I do what I can do to
facilitate that.  If there are some extraordinary pages that come out of
Santa Maddalena, then I’m happy.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 