-- Bio-Rad Labs Takeover Seen With Low Valuation: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-04-08T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/bio-rad-life-sciences-takeover-seen-with-low-valuation-real-m-a.html
Bio-Rad Laboratories Inc. (BIO)  is
presenting potential buyers with the most affordable acquisition
in the U.S. life-science equipment industry as investors bet the
family-run company will now be open to a sale.  Even with the shares almost tripling in the last decade,
Bio-Rad is valued at 7.4 times earnings, the least expensive of
any life-science equipment maker in America with a market value
of at least $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Dougherty & Co. says Bio-Rad, of Hercules,  California , is now a
likely takeover target after Chairman David Schwartz, who
founded the maker of tools for blood testing and laboratory
research in 1952, died last week at the age of 88.  Bio-Rad, which manufactures more than 5,000 life-science
tools and 3,000 diagnostic-test products, has boosted  revenue 
every year since 1994 and analysts project  record profit  next
year. While the family still controls more than 50 percent of
the voting power and David Schwartz’s son Norman is chief
executive officer, shares of Bio-Rad rose 11 percent on April 3
amid takeover speculation. The $3.2 billion company’s diagnostic
business may lure  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO)  as it seeks
bolt-on acquisitions, according to Miller Tabak & Co., and  Life
Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  may also be interested, said Dougherty.  “People are lining up their bets on this one,” Junaid Husain, an analyst for Minneapolis-based Dougherty, said in a
telephone interview. “Potential suitors know that this is a
diversified company and it’s very prudently managed. That’s why
it’s a piece of property that everybody wants.”  Blood Typing  Bio-Rad CEO Norman Schwartz was not available for comment,
according to Tina Cuccia, a spokeswoman for the company.  Ron O’Brien, a spokesman for Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Thermo Fisher, declined to comment on whether the company is
considering a takeover of Bio-Rad. Suzanne Clancy, a spokeswoman
for Carlsbad, California-based Life Technologies, didn’t respond
to a phone call or e-mail seeking comment.  Bio-Rad, founded by David Schwartz and his wife Alice
Schwartz, a biochemist, became a publicly traded stock in 1966.
The company makes everything from laboratory instruments to
reagents for blood typing and its products are used by hospitals,
research centers, science classrooms and biotechnology companies.
Bio-Rad gets about  two-thirds  of its sales from clinical
diagnostics.  Analysts are  projecting  Bio-Rad’s  net income  will climb 16
percent next year to a record $186.5 million on an adjusted
basis, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Attractive’ Valuation  Bio-Rad shares rose the most in 40 months on April 3, after
the company disclosed that David Schwartz had passed away on
April 1. The stock has climbed 189 percent in the last 10 years
to $112.27 as of last week, compared with a 133 percent gain for
the  Standard & Poor’s Midcap Health Care Index. (S4HLTH)   “The stock reaction would suggest that some investors feel
they’re more likely to be acquired now,”  Les Funtleyder , a New
York-based health strategist and portfolio manager at Miller
Tabak, which oversees $800 million, said in a phone interview.  Even after the stock gain, the company’s $3.1 billion in
 equity and net cash  is valued at 7.4 times its $416 million in
 earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s cheaper than
the 14 other U.S. life-science equipment companies with market
values higher than $1 billion, for which Ebitda multiples are
available. The group has a median multiple of 13, the data show.  Based on its Ebitda  multiple , Bio-Rad is “low versus the
peer group, so it would be attractive,” Dougherty’s Husain said.
“A lot of companies would look at this and see that they can
easily integrate Bio-Rad’s tools business into their own and
then its critical diagnostics would be a nice, easy way into the
critical diagnostics market.”  Bolt-On Acquisitions  Thermo Fisher , the largest maker of laboratory instruments,
might be interested in adding Bio-Rad to its diagnostics
business, Miller Tabak’s Funtleyder said. The $20 billion
company, which acquired Sweden’s Phadia AB last year for $3.5
billion to expand in testing for allergies and autoimmune
diseases, will continue to seek bolt-on acquisitions, CEO Marc Casper said in an interview with Bloomberg News in February.  Life Technologies, which makes lab supplies for scientists
and researchers, may also consider acquiring Bio-Rad to increase
revenue from lab tools and enter the clinical diagnostics
business, said Husain and Christi Bird, an analyst at  Frost &
Sullivan .  “If you look at some of the bigger companies, such as
Thermo Fisher and Life Technologies, they aim to be a complete
provider of life science tools,” Bird said in a phone interview.
“Life Technologies obviously has a very aggressive M&A strategy
and is not afraid to go after some of the big companies. Thermo
Fisher would also be in that area.”  Schwartz Family  Even if the Schwartz family decides to put the company up
for sale, it “would take quite a bit of time” before a deal
takes place, despite the stock’s immediate reaction last week,
said  Miller Tabak ’s Funtleyder.  David Schwartz’s wife, who sits on the  board , and his son,
the CEO and a director, may not be willing sellers, Jerome Dodson, San Francisco-based president overseeing $6.1 billion at
Parnassus Investments, said in an e-mail. Parnassus owned  shares 
of Bio-Rad as of December.  The Schwartz family controls the majority of the stock’s
voting power, according to a filing last week with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Alice Schwartz is 85 years
old and Norman Schwartz is 62, as of the company’s April 2  proxy
statement .  ‘Green Light’  While it may be too soon for the family to seek out a deal,
Bio-Rad is likely to be sold in the future as life sciences and
pharmaceutical companies look for acquisitions to help maintain
revenue and profit expansion, according to Sachin Shah, a merger
arbitrage and special situations analyst at Tullett Prebon Plc.  “This is an emotional time for them and they’re going to
need time to grieve,” Shah said in a phone interview from
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  Still, “I’m sure acquirers are watching the situation to
see what Norman and the board do,” he said. “If they give that
green light, I’m sure their peers and potential acquirers are
going to make those inbound calls. The business is very
attractive. In the future it’s not likely to be a standalone
entity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan Flinn  in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 