-- Bosnia’s Come a Long Way, Don’t Be Fooled by War Memories
-- B y   T i m   J u d a h
-- 2012-04-08T22:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/bosnia-s-come-a-long-way-don-t-be-fooled-by-war-memories.html
There’s been a rash of news coverage
lately to mark the 20th anniversary of the start of the siege of
Sarajevo, and pretty much all of the reports have followed a
similar pattern.  First, they remind us of just how awful the war was and,
more often than not, that the journalist was there to live it.
Then they describe today’s Bosnia and Herzegovina as a sad and
divided place, in which children from the different communities
mostly don’t go to school together.  And that’s about it.  The siege of Sarajevo and the war in Bosnia were indeed
terrible. But what’s missing in these essentially nostalgic
accounts by journalists, who long since went on to do other
things, is that Bosnia is no longer the same place it was two
decades ago. Hence the outpouring of reports assembled from
tear-stained memories and, all too often, mistaken cliches.  A favorite is that before the war, Sarajevo was a throbbing
multicultural hub of a city. It wasn’t. It was a quiet and dull
provincial Yugoslav city, where Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks -- as
Bosnia’s Muslims are now called -- got on well. Today, Sarajevo
and Bosnia have reverted to being something of a backwater, but
to an extent that’s for the better. No news is good news, in
Bosnia’s case.  Almost Miraculous  Seen as a whole, the story of Bosnia since the end of the
war has been more good than bad. Clearly it remains rather poor
and divided, but given the orgy of killing that took place there
between 1992 and 1995, the transformation since has been almost
miraculous.  The  Dayton Peace Agreement  that ended the war split the
country into two so-called entities. These are the Bosniak-Croat
Federation, which is subdivided into 10 cantons, and the ethnic-
Serb-dominated Republika Srpska. There is also a self-governing
town called Brcko. So it’s complicated. Bosnia’s leaders are a
stubborn, macho and relatively uncompromising lot. Milorad Dodik, Republika Srpska’s president, periodically says what most
Bosnian Serbs think, which is that they should secede from
Bosnia.  Bosniak leaders by contrast argue that more power should be
given to the country’s weak central government. Serbs and Croats
see this as a subterfuge that would give Bosniaks the upper
hand, because there are more of them. Many ethnic-Croats would
like to see a third entity formed, which would give them control
of a specifically Bosnian Croat part of the country.  With a population of 3.8 million, Bosnia in an ideal world
would be run (brilliantly) by one mayor and a town hall. But as
we don’t live in an ideal world, Bosnians have to live with the
structures that the war left them -- unfair, stupid and
cumbersome as these may be. And, here’s the thing: For all the
lingering resentments and differences between the communities,
disputes have remained within the political realm since 1995.
They have never spilled back into violence.  Bosnian postwar history has had a number of phases. In the
immediate postwar years the old leaders and old order prevailed.
In the second period, huge advances were made in putting the
country back together and making it somewhat functional. The
last six years have seen setbacks and stagnation. But,
Cassandras who warned that Bosnia would collapse unless the West
took action have proved consistently wrong.  Paddy Ashdown, who was the international community’s high
representative in Bosnia between 2002 and 2006, has been warning
since he left office that things were going downhill fast. On
April 5, for example, he told us again: “We know now the dangers
of 1992. It is vital that we in the international community do
not allow ourselves to sleep walk back to them.” I don’t mean
to mock Ashdown. He’s right to make such warnings, because doing
so helps to keep Bosnia on the radars of Western chancelleries,
and that has an effect.  End of Violence  But  Gerald Knaus , the co-author of a book called “Can
Intervention Work?” and a perennial Bosnia optimist, is right,
too. He says that while still ”poor, politically isolated and
internally divided,” the country has seen ”no interethnic
violence for a decade, despite the almost total withdrawal of
international peacekeepers.”  Bosnians went to the polls in October 2010, and it took
them more than year to form a government. This was serious, but
most everyday administration is done at the so-called entity
level anyway. In that sense Bosnia and  Belgium , a similarly
divided, hyperfederalized and dysfunctional place, have a lot in
common. Nor are Bosnia’s debates over secession unique. With
Scots voting in a referendum on independence, probably in autumn
2014, the breakup of the U.K. is a far more likely scenario than
the breakup of Bosnia, because it does not entail the risk of
violence.  Another counterweight to the teary 20-years-on stories of
last week is the altered regional context, which many foreign
journalists returning to Sarajevo for the anniversary
overlooked. The European Union has its troubles for sure, but
the accession process makes for a clear goal to work toward,
limits the extremes of political discourse and gives officials
thousands of generally good and useful things to do to make
their countries better places. If EU entry criteria had been as
demanding in the late 1970s and early 1980s as they are today,
 Greece  might not be in the mess it’s in.  Croatia  will join the EU in 2013. Serbia and Montenegro are
candidates. Bosnia may well apply for candidacy later this year.
Unlike 20 years ago, when Serbia and Croatia were driven by
leaders who wanted to rip off and annex chunks of Bosnia, now
their strategic interest is to keep Bosnia moving forward toward
Brussels and to keep doing business with it. Serbia and Croatia
are the second and third largest foreign investors in Bosnia.  Bosnia is afflicted by high unemployment, low levels of
foreign investment and weak demand for exports to the troubled
euro area. But the problems most people face in their everyday
lives are the same as those of their ex-compatriots in the rest
of the former  Yugoslavia . It isn’t surprising then that, in the
real world as opposed to that of nostalgic foreign journalists,
a ”Yugosphere” has re-emerged. This encompasses commerce,
media, entertainment and political cooperation, and Sarajevo is
at the heart of it.  So remember the war’s 100,000 victims, for sure. But let’s
not pretend that 2012 is 1992, because it isn’t. In the general
scheme of things, Bosnia’s glass is half full.  (Tim Judah is an author and journalist. He writes about
foreign affairs and covers the Balkans for The Economist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on how better  toilets can save 
lives ; William D. Cohan on stifling  Wall Street innovation ; 
 Albert R. Hunt   on Obamacare ;  Mark Buchanan  on  economic theory 
and the weather ;  Noah Feldman  on  strip searches ; Steven 
Greenhut on  high-speed rail .  To contact the writer of this article:
Tim Judah at  timjudah@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 