-- Bubba Watson Wins Masters in Playoff for First Major Golf Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-09T04:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/bubba-watson-beats-oosthuizen-in-playoff-to-win-masters-golf.html
Bubba Watson turned to what he calls
“Bubba golf” to win the  Masters Tournament  in a playoff over
Louis Oosthuizen, his first victory at one of golf’s four annual
major championships.  Watson, who has never taken a golf lesson, hooked an
approach shot from out of the trees to 10 feet (3 meters) of the
cup on the second extra hole, setting up a two-putt par for the
win after Oosthuizen made a bogey.  “My caddie has always called it Bubba golf,” Watson said
of his untraditional style of play after receiving the
ceremonial winner’s green jacket yesterday at Augusta National
Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia. “That’s why we play the game of
golf, to pull off the amazing shot.”  Watson’s victory capped a final round in which Oosthuizen
made the fourth double-eagle in the tournament’s 76-year
history,  Phil Mickelson ’s chances of a fourth Masters title were
derailed by an early triple-bogey and four-time winner  Tiger
Woods  had his worst performance as a professional at the
season’s first major championship.  It was the fourth U.S. PGA Tour victory in the past three
years for Watson, a Florida native who attended the University
of Georgia and uses a driver with a pink head and shaft in
support of  cancer research . Watson’s triumph comes less than two
weeks after the 33-year-old golfer and his wife, Angie,
announced they had adopted a baby boy, who they named Caleb.  “I never got this far in my dreams,” Watson, who received
$1.44 million, said about the victory. “It’s a blessing to go
home to my new son. It’s going to be fun.”  Masters Playoff  The playoff was the 15th in the 76-year history of the
Masters and the ninth since the tournament went to a sudden-
death format in 1976.  Watson shot a 4-under-par 68 in yesterday’s final round to
finish the tournament at 10-under par. Oosthuizen also finished
10 under after a final-round 69.  Watson had entered the fourth round at 6-under par, three
shots behind  Peter Hanson  of  Sweden , two behind Mickelson and
one back of Oosthuizen, the 2010 British Open winner from  South
Africa . Oosthuizen quickly moved into the lead with his double
eagle at the second hole, where he holed his approach shot with
a 4-iron from 253 yards.  Watson then tied Oosthuizen with four birdies from the 13th
to the 16th holes. Mickelson finished two shots out of the
playoff, tied with  Lee Westwood ,  Matt Kuchar  and Hanson for
third place at 8-under par.  With his victory, Watson prevented Oosthuizen from becoming
the fourth South African to win the Masters. He also kept
Mickelson from joining  Jack Nicklaus ,  Arnold Palmer  and Woods as
the only golfers with at least four Masters wins. Nicklaus has a
record six titles, while Palmer and Woods each have four.  Playoff Holes  On the first playoff hole, the par-4 18th, both players had
birdie attempts. Oosthuizen’s putt from about 10 feet missed on
the right side, while Watson’s try from six feet dipped below
the cup on the left side.  The duo then headed to the 10th tee, where both hit their
drives into the trees on the right side of the fairway.
Oosthuizen’s ball came out, leaving him 231 yards to the hole,
and his second shot came up short of the green.  Watson then pulled off a shot that symbolizes how he plays
the game, curving his approach out of the trees from about 150
yards and rolling it up near the hole. When Oosthuizen missed
his par attempt and tapped in for bogey, Watson had two putts to
win. He briefly stopped to compose himself before sinking his 6-
inch attempt for the victory, saying he was thinking of the one-
foot putt I.K. Kim missed with a chance to win the LPGA Tour’s
first major of the season earlier this month.  ‘Unbelievable Shot’  “He hit an unbelievable shot,” Oosthuizen said in a
televised interview. “He deserves it.”  Watson shed tears as he took the ball out of the cup and
shared embraces with his caddie and his mother, Molly, as the
crowd chanted his name. Watson then walked off the green and
hugged fellow golfers Rickie Fowler and Ben Crane, who starred
with Watson in the  “Golf Boys”  music video.  Watson, who entered the Masters at 16th in the Official
World Golf Ranking, is the third winner in the past 22 years who
didn’t play the fourth round in the final group.  He’s the second American in a row to win a major title,
following Keegan Bradley at the 2011  PGA Championship . Before
Bradley’s win, golfers from outside the U.S. had won six
consecutive major championships.  In three prior visits to Augusta, Watson’s best result was
a tie for 20th in his 2008 debut. He was 42nd in 2009 and tied
for 38th last year.  Men-Only Controversy  This year’s tournament played out against the renewed issue
of Augusta National’s all-male membership.  Bloomberg News first reported the conflict between
Augusta’s men-only membership and International Business
Machines Corp.’s new Chief Executive Officer, Virginia Rometty,
on March 28, setting off a nationwide debate on whether she
should be admitted.  The previous four CEO’s of IBM have been Augusta National
members.  Billy Payne , Augusta National’s chairman, repeatedly
refused to discuss the club’s membership during a news
conference on April 4, the day before the tournament started.  Pre-event hype about a possible showdown between Woods and
 U.S. Open  champion Rory McIlroy turned out to be misplaced.  Woods, seeking his 15th major title, and McIlroy, who won
the U.S. Open in June after blowing a final-round lead at
Augusta National a year ago, both finished 5-over par and never
factored in the final round.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta,  Georgia , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  