-- Chavez Departs for More Radiation, Plans Return for Coup Date
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-04-08T03:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/chavez-departs-for-more-radiation-plans-return-for-coup-date.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he’s leaving for more radiation therapy in Cuba to treat an
undisclosed cancer and will return as soon as April 11 in time
to commemorate the 2002 coup that briefly ousted him from power.  Chavez, speaking yesterday on state television, said he
plans to be back April 11 or 12 to commemorate the 10th
anniversary of the coup. He didn’t give any more details on his
health as he leaves for his third round of radiation treatment.  “It was all set,” Chavez said about plans to assassinate
him during the coup while holding an image of Christ he says he
carried during those days. “I have a lot of faith that Christ,
my lord, will repeat the miracle of giving me life to defeat
this disease.”  Chavez, who has undergone three operations as part of his
treatment since June, seeks to recover from the cancer in time
to campaign for re-election in October in a bid to extend his
13-year rule until 2019. The government hasn’t disclosed any
succession plans in case Chavez, 57, isn’t healthy enough to
participate in the elections.  Chavez, during the meeting with ministers at the
presidential palace in Caracas yesterday, also said he’s raising
the country’s minimum wage 32 percent this year by Sept. 1 to
2,048 bolivars ($476) from 1,548 bolivars.  The minimum wage will be raised 15 percent effective May 1,
the country’s labor day, and another 15 percent starting Sept.
1, Chavez said.  ‘Real Threat’  Speaking at a Catholic mass in his home state of Barinas
April 5, Chavez wiped tears from his face as he pleaded for life
in his fight against cancer. Chavez said cancer is a “real
threat” that takes many lives and that he has faith that he
will win the battle against the disease.  “If this was necessary, may it be welcome,” Chavez said
at the mass for his health. “But I ask God to give me life,
however painful. I can carry 100 crosses, your crown of thorns,
but don’t take me yet. I still have things to do.”  Chavez may travel to  Brazil  for medical treatment after
having a reaction to the radiation therapy, Merval Pereira, a
columnist for O Globo newspaper reported April 5, without saying
where he got the information.  Chavez is also having intestinal problems, which might be a
sign the cancer is spreading, Pereira added.  Appropriate Treatment  Brazilian and Venezuelan doctors have clashed with Cubans
on the medical team over whether radiation therapy is the
appropriate treatment for Chavez, Nelson Bocaranda, a journalist
who frequently reports on the president’s health in the absence
of details from the government,  wrote April 5  on his blog.  Chavez received a phone call from former Brazilian
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  on April 3 in which the
Venezuelan leader said he would like to visit Brazil soon to
meet with Lula and President  Dilma Rousseff ,  Venezuela ’s  Foreign
Ministry  said in a statement sent by e-mail.  Apart from Lula, Chavez spoke this week by phone with
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Bolivian President  Evo Morales 
and Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa  about his health and
events and projects in the respective countries, according to
Foreign Ministry statements sent by e-mail.  Chavez, who returned April 4 from Cuba after undergoing the
second round of radiation, said on his arrival that his body had
no adverse reactions from the treatment and that all tests
showed his recovery was going well.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  