-- Crude Oil Declines on Economic Outlook; Brent Slides
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-04-09T12:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/crude-oil-declines-in-new-york-trading-brent-slides-in-london.html
Oil fell for the third time in four
days after  Iran  agreed to resume talks on its nuclear program
and economic reports in the U.S. and  China  raised concern about
fuel demand.  Futures slid as much as 1.6 percent as trading resumed
after the Easter holiday weekend. International negotiations
with Iran’s government are scheduled to start this week. China
said inflation in March accelerated more than forecast, reducing
the government’s leeway to boost the economy. The U.S. created
120,000 jobs in March, fewer than forecast and the smallest
increase in five months, an April 6 report showed.  The American payroll data “raises the old question mark
about the speed of the U.S. recovery,” and whether it will
depress oil demand,  Olivier Jakob , managing director of
Switzerland-based consultant Petromatrix GmbH, said by telephone
today.  Oil for May delivery fell $1.53, or 1.5 percent, to $101.78
at 7:58 a.m. in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , after dropping as low as $101.61. The contract gained
1.8 percent to $103.31 on April 5, the latest settlement. Prices
have gained 2.9 percent this year.  Brent crude for May settlement slid $1.63 to $121.80 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
premium of the European benchmark to  New York  futures was at
$20.02. Markets were closed in New York and London on April 6
for holidays.  Iran Talks  Iran and the five permanent United Nations Security Council
members plus Germany will meet for nuclear talks starting April
14 in Istanbul,  Michael Mann , a European Union spokesman, said
yesterday. Their last meeting was in January 2011. The
government in Tehran is under increasing economic pressure from
trade, financial and energy sanctions, including U.S. penalties
on banks that process payments for Iranian crude.  President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said Iran will continue its
nuclear course even if the whole world stands opposed, state-run
Al Alam TV reported today.  Iranian officials “don’t want the oil price to come
down,” said Jeremy Friesen, a commodity strategist at Societe
Generale SA who forecast oil in New York will average $125 a
barrel in the second half of the year. “The best strategy for
them is to keep a high oil price.”  Brent crude  may rise to $135 a barrel if there is no
release from strategic petroleum reserves held by developed
nations while sanctions are imposed on Iran, Friesen said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  China Inflation  Consumer prices in China rose 3.6 percent from a year
earlier after gaining 3.2 percent in February, the National
Bureau of Statistics said on its website today. That was more
than the median 3.4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 33
economists. Faster inflation may limit the government’s options
to stimulate growth in the second-largest crude user.  “The high price of oil and commodities is still
problematic in the West and the  Far East ,” said Jakob of
Petromatrix.  In the U.S.,  job creation  in March lagged behind the median
estimate of 205,000 in a Bloomberg survey.  “The payroll number seems to be quite negative, so
probably people are thinking there will be a slowdown in the
economy in the U.S.,” said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund
manager at  Astmax Ltd. (8734)  in Tokyo. “It might be regarded as a
downside risk for the oil market and also for oil demand.”  Stockpiles Rise  Speculators reduced bullish bets on oil by the most in more
than three months as U.S. output grew to the highest level since
1999, boosting stockpiles, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on April 6.
Money managers reduced net long positions, or wagers on rising
prices, by 10 percent in the seven days ended April 3, for the
biggest drop since Dec. 20, the report showed.  Hedge funds  and other money managers cut bullish bets on
Brent crude by 11,809 contracts in the week ended April 3,
according to data from ICE exchange.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 139,074 lots,
ICE said today in its weekly Commitment of Traders report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net 
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  