-- Dubai Index Drops to Week-Low as U.S. Data Weighs; Tadawul Falls
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-04-08T13:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/dubai-index-set-for-week-low-before-earnings-as-u-s-data-weighs.html
Dubai shares retreated to a one-week
low ahead of first-quarter earnings and after a U.S. jobs report
missed estimates, fueling concern about the strength of the
global economic recovery. Saudi shares tumbled.  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC) , the United Arab Emirates construction
company whose shares have more than doubled this year, declined
4.4 percent.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank
complying with Shariah rules, fell to the lowest since January.
The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  decreased 1.1 percent to 1,668.62 at the 2
p.m. close in the emirate, the lowest since April 2.  Saudi
Arabia (SABIC) ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell 1.8 percent, the most
since Aug. 20, to 7,717.72. The index is up 20 percent in 2012.  Today’s declines are “a mixture of the effect of recent
weakness in international markets and the anticipation of the
first-quarter results for U.A.E. companies,” said Tariq Qaqish,
deputy head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital.  Emerging market stocks  declined 0.5 percent last week and
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  retreated 0.7 percent after the
 Federal Reserve  signaled it will refrain from further monetary
stimulus and concern intensified that Europe’s debt crisis may
worsen. The U.S. Labor Department said employers added 120,000
jobs, the fewest in five months and less than the median
economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The U.S. market was
closed April 6 for a holiday.  Saudi Drop  The earnings season in the Persian Gulf has started, with
companies in  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar reporting results.  Almarai
Co. (ALMARAI)  slumped the most in more than a year yesterday, and extended
losses today, dropping 1.8 percent to 67 riyals after Saudi
Arabia’s largest food producer by market value reported profit
that fell short of the median forecast of three analysts
 compiled by Bloomberg .  “Indicators were overbought to extreme levels,” said Musa Haddad, head trader at the  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC ’s
asset-management group. “This is very healthy in order for the
market to gain more strength and continue its move higher. As
long as the market sustains above the 7,000 level, then the
uptrend is still intact.”  Arabtec fell to 3.29 dirhams, the lowest since April 2.
Dubai Islamic lost 1.5 percent to 2.03 dirhams, the lowest since
Jan. 26.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  fell 1.1 percent and Qatar’s  QE
Index (DSM)  declined 0.5 percent, while Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
was little changed. Kuwait’s  gauge  rose 0.1 percent, Oman’s
benchmark stock  index  increased 0.3 percent and Bahrain’s
 measure  gained 0.2 percent. In North Africa, Egypt’s  EGX30 Index (EGX30) 
fell 2.2 percent, the fourth day of losses.  Election Confusion  “The market had rallied on catalysts that haven’t come
through yet, such as the International Monetary Fund loan and
Mobinil’s acquisition by France Telecom,” said Mohamed Radwan,
head of international sales at Cairo-based Pharos Holding for
Financial Investment. “The confusion surrounding the
presidential elections scene is also adding more vagueness to
the outlook.”  Egypt is seeking a $3.2 billion loan from the IMF,
negotiations for which started in January.  France Telecom (FTE)  SA
reached an agreement in February to buy most of billionaire
Naguib Sawiris’s stake in their Cairo-based wireless venture
Mobinil. Shares valued at 235 million pounds changed hands
today, compared with a daily average of about 448 million pounds
since the start of the year.  In Israel, the  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  slipped 0.7 percent, while the
yield on the country’s 5.5 percent notes due January 2022
declined five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.63
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  