-- Economists Have a Lot to Learn From the Weather
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2012-04-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/economists-have-a-lot-to-learn-from-the-weather.html
Almost five years after a financial
crash nearly thrust the world into depression, a peculiar
paradigm still dominates economic thought.  Known as the neoclassical school, it aims to give  Adam Smith ’s notion of the invisible hand its mathematical form. It
asserts that markets naturally seek an equilibrium that
harnesses individual self interest to allocate investment
capital in an optimal way. Even if that perfectly efficient
ideal is never reached, the logic goes, markets work better
insofar as they approach it.  Anyone who thinks our recent financial travails would have
discredited this vision is underestimating the mental inertia of
theoretical economics. To this day, the  Federal Reserve  and the
 European Central Bank  go right on making plans using so-called
general equilibrium  models  of the economy. In these models,
financial firms don’t exist, asset bubbles are inconceivable and
there’s no such thing as an international market in derivatives
-- despite the obvious reality of one with a total notional
value of around $700 trillion.  The economics profession hasn’t tried too hard to develop
more realistic alternatives. But history tells us they can be
found. In the 1950s, even as economists lashed themselves to the
mast of equilibrium thinking, scientists studying the movement
of air in the atmosphere turned in a very different direction.  Dominant Paradigm  How does air move around the planet? Back in 1735, an
English lawyer and amateur scientist named George Hadley
suggested a  model  that became the dominant paradigm: Warmer air
near the equator should rise skyward, flow toward the poles in
the upper atmosphere, and then descend and cool near the poles,
afterwards flowing back toward the equator at the surface.  This balanced equilibrium explained many observations, such
as the trade winds -- steady westerly flowing winds near the
equator -- on which navigators had depended for centuries.
Indeed, Hadley’s balance was so satisfying that it took about a
century for scientists to notice that it was mostly wrong, or at
least seriously incomplete.  In fact, the looping flow Hadley described stretches only
from the equator out to about 30 degrees latitude -- that’s
around  Florida  in the northern hemisphere, and  South Africa  in
the southern. In the mid latitudes beyond, there’s no stable
balance, but ceaseless change, storms and weather fronts,
meandering cyclones and anti-cyclones.  The basic story identifying the source of all this
turbulence emerged only in the 1950s, long after scientists had
understood seemingly far more esoteric subjects such as nuclear
physics. This actually makes sense: The weather is a tough
problem, because nothing in it can be reduced to a state of
balance or equilibrium (as a simple atomic nucleus can). Therein
lies the key insight for atmospheric flow.  Storms and weather fronts aren’t accidental and unimportant
“details” of the atmospheric flow at all. They are central to
the way the Sun’s energy, once absorbed on Earth, flows about
the planet. The jet streams that race around the planet at high
altitude can’t remain stable. They have an inherent tendency to
wander north and south, making a wavy pattern. Ultimately, this
phenomenon, arising from something called baroclinic
instability, creates large swirling vortices of air that drift
through the middle latitudes, transporting huge quantities of
heat and water all over the planet, and causing our
unpredictable weather.  No mathematician can “solve” the complex equations for air
in the atmosphere. Confidence in the explanation I just
described came only in 1955, when a scientist named Norman
Phillips used an early computer to simulate a virtual atmosphere
based on a crude approximation of the equations of fluid
dynamics.  Atmospheric Flows  Phillips did an  experiment  in which the air started at rest
and gradually sped up as the earth passing beneath dragged it
into motion, and as temperature differences made it rise and
fall. The simulation, which took 12 hours to run, showed that
baroclinic instability really does account for the fundamental
character of atmospheric flows. Stable flows always fell apart,
creating cyclonic storms and weather fronts just as we see.  It’s natural to wonder if a similar mechanism might be
driving the financial crises and business cycles that typify the
economic “weather” we’ve experienced over the centuries.
Unfortunately, today’s equilibrium theories refuse to entertain
the possibility.  While an appreciation of instability propelled atmospheric
science forward, economics was binding itself into a rigid
framework. One year before Phillips’ experiment, economists
Kenneth Arrow and Gerard Debreu offered  mathematical proofs  that
an abstract market model really does have an equilibrium with
certain “optimal” properties. Yet when studies in the 1970s
found that this equilibrium is generally unstable -- and so
should tend to fall apart just like Hadley’s looping flow --
theorists for the most part simply ignored this inconvenient
fact and went on as before. Most still do.  American economist  Milton Friedman  set the tone. “The study
of the stability of general equilibrium is unimportant” because
“it is obvious that the economy is stable,” he was  quoted  as
saying. Friedman was notoriously mischievous and slippery in his
argument, so I’m not sure he really believed what he said. But
most economists today act as if they do.  This is too bad, because a focus on the origins of
instability just might help financial economics achieve a
conceptual liberation akin to that which atmospheric scientists
achieved in the 1950s. Economists might come to accept that
equilibrium doesn’t describe everything, or even very much, and
that natural elements of instability and turbulence drive the
outcomes that matter most.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on how better  toilets can save 
lives ; William D. Cohan on stifling  Wall Street innovation ; 
 Albert R. Hunt   on Obamacare ;  Noah Feldman  on  strip searches ; 
 Steven Greenhut  on  high-speed rail ; Tim Judah on  Bosnia’s 
rejuvenation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 