-- Hedge Funds Cut Commodity Bets on Fed’s Stimulus Signals
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-04-09T20:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/hedge-funds-cut-wagers-as-fed-signals-less-stimulus-commodities.html
Hedge funds  reduced bullish bets on
commodities for a second consecutive week as the  Federal Reserve 
signaled it may refrain from more monetary stimulus, increasing
concern that growth will slow and curb demand for raw materials.  Money managers lowered net-long positions across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 2.8 percent to 1.1 million  contracts  in
the week ended April 3, data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. Bets on higher corn prices fell to the lowest
since February, while those on hogs dropped by the most since
May. Speculators cut wagers on costlier crude oil for a third
week, and are now the least bullish in two months.  Minutes from the March 13 Fed policy meeting released April
3 showed policy makers will probably hold off on increasing
monetary accommodation unless the U.S. economic expansion
falters. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities rose
more than 80 percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as the
central bank set rates at a record low and bought $2.3 trillion
of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing. The  U.S. economy 
will accelerate this quarter and the next, economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market is addicted to stimulus,” said Jeffrey Sica,
the Morristown, New Jersey-based president of SICA Wealth
Management who helps oversee $1 billion of assets. “This market
has risen because of the liquidity push and the market will
decline when it’s deprived of liquidity.”  Steepest Decline  The S&P GSCI index rose less than 0.1 percent last week
after tumbling 2 percent the day after the Fed minutes were
released, the steepest decline since mid-December. Cocoa,
cotton, wheat and gold led the declines as corn, nickel and
soybean futures advanced. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities slid 1.6 percent, and Treasures returned 0.2 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s commodity research team, led by
 Jeffrey Currie  in London, cut its three-month recommendation on
raw materials to “neutral” on March 28, warning that the
economy will “soften” this quarter. The S&P GSCI has retreated
1.5 percent since then and fell 0.6 percent today.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s team, led by  Francisco Blanch  in New York, retained an “overweight” recommendation
April 2, citing the risk that conflict over Iran’s nuclear
program will drive energy prices higher. Central banks are
extending the provision of liquidity and cutting  interest rates 
to shore up growth, the team wrote in a report to clients.  Emergency Stimulus  The Fed has pledged to keep interest rates near zero
through 2014, and the  European Central Bank  kept its key rate at
a record low of 1 percent on April 4. ECB President Mario Draghi
quashed talk of an early exit from emergency stimulus measures
the same day. The ECB has expanded its balance sheet by about 30
percent since November, pumping more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) into the banking system.  “As long as there is loose monetary policy and the world
shows net growth, commodity prices will remain firm,” said
 Michael Cuggino , who helps manage about $15 billion of assets at
 Permanent Portfolio (PRPFX)  Funds in  San Francisco . “The demand for
commodities is unlikely to weaken.”  The U.S. added 120,000 jobs in March, the smallest increase
in five months and less than the most pessimistic estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists, a Labor Department report showed
April 6. The economy will expand 2.2 percent this quarter and
2.5 percent in the next, compared with 2 percent in the first
three months of the year, according to the median of 74
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Open Market  The jobs data may help build a case for further easing at
the June meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee , said  John Silvia , the chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in
Charlotte,  North Carolina . U.S. commodity markets were shut on
the day of the report for the Good Friday holiday.  Bets on a copper rally rose 25 percent to 18,642 contracts
in the week ended April 3, the highest since early August, the
CFTC data show. Inventories of the metal monitored by the  London 
Metal Exchange tumbled 29 percent this year. Demand will exceed
supply by 13,000 metric tons this year, and the deficit will
widen to 17,000 tons in 2013, analysts at Morgan Stanley led by
 Hussein Allidina  in New York said in a report April 2.  Investors put $79 million into commodity funds in the week
ended April 4, the same amount as a week earlier, according to
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money
flows. Open interest, or contracts outstanding, across the 24
commodities in the S&P GSCI advanced 1.9 percent, advancing for
a second consecutive week and taking this year’s expansion to 19
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Arabica Coffee  Bullish soybean  wagers  rose 12 percent to 235,387
contracts, the highest since Bloomberg began compiling the data
in June 2006. A U.S. Department of Agriculture report may show
this week South American crops will be smaller than forecast
after drought, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.
Soybeans jumped 2.2 percent to $14.34 a bushel last week as
arabica coffee added 0.3 percent to $1.83 a pound.  Copper fell 1 percent last week on the LME, paring this
year’s advance to 10 percent. Growth in  China , the world’s
biggest metals consumer, will slow to 8.3 percent this year,
from 9.2 percent in 2011, according to the median of 11
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Premier Wen Jiabao
cut the nation’s growth target to 7.5 percent last month, the
lowest since 2004.  Extra Policy Easing  A purchasing managers’ index for the Chinese services
industry dropped to 53.3 last month, from 53.9 in February.
Readings above 50 indicate expansion. The country needs extra
policy easing to spur growth and the rest of  Asia  “urgently”
needs the nation’s economy to turn,  Frederic Neumann , an analyst
at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong , said in a report April 3.  “China is in a very precarious state and it could easily
turn into a hard landing,” said Stanley Crouch, who helps
oversee $2 billion of assets as chief investment officer at New
York-based Aegis Capital Corp. “If you look at all the
interventions the Fed and ECB have undertaken they have not
great results to show. We are going to probably have a big
correction because of China’s hard landing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  