-- Egypt Islamists Ready for Fight as Suleiman Runs for President
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-04-08T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/egypt-closes-door-for-presidential-nominations-nile-news-says.html
Egypt’s first presidential race
since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster had a rocky start as Islamists and
one of the former regime’s most powerful figures readied for an
electoral battle and questions were raised over candidates’
legitimacy.  After a monthlong process, the door for nomination closed
yesterday, with Mohamed Mursi, the head of the powerful Muslim
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, and  Omar Suleiman ,
Mubarak’s long-time intelligence chief and short-lived vice
president, entering the race in its final hours.  Suleiman’s candidacy, coupled with the possibility that
Brotherhood second-in-command Khairat el-Shater and Salafi
hopeful Hazem Abu Ismail may be disqualified, has stirred unease
about the country’s fitful push for political transition. As
Islamists accuse the government of trying to manipulate the
process, secularists worry that the Brotherhood is trying to
monopolize power. The recriminations set the stage for a tense
run-up to the vote scheduled for May 23 and 24.  “It’s an absolute mess all around,” said  Shadi Hamid ,
director of research at the Brookings Doha Center, in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There’s no doubt that the
government is manipulating the process and there is a real SCAF-
Brotherhood confrontation now,” he said, referring to the
ruling Supreme Council of the Armed Forces.  “If Shater and Abu Ismail are disqualified, the elections
are not going to be seen as particularly legitimate. That’s the
real fear, here,” Hamid said.  23 Candidates  A total of 23 candidate have filed to run in the presidential 
election, the Election Commission said yesterday after deadline
for applications, the state-controlled Middle East News
Agency reported.   Secularist and other groups have already questioned the
legitimacy of parliament and the committee charged with drafting
the country’s new constitution. Both bodies are dominated by
Islamists. Reports in the local media that el-Shater, a
millionaire businessman who was the Brotherhood’s chief
financier, and Abu Ismail may be prevented from running have
cemented Islamists’ perception that the army is trying to
sideline them.  Suleiman’s candidacy has led to another backlash. Wasat
Party lawmaker Essam Sultan submitted to the parliament speaker
a draft law that would bar a presidential run by anyone who had
held the presidency, the vice presidency or a ministerial
portfolio during the last half-decade of Mubarak’s regime, the
official Middle East  News Agency  reported. The move appeared
directed at the former intelligence chief.  Suleiman  “It’s inconceivable that the new system called for by the
people through a revolution will be built by the same people who
worked to establish and implement the policies of the previous
regime,” Sultan said in a statement issued yesterday with the
draft law.  While Suleiman’s decision to run has led to speculation
about the military’s intentions, his bid could prove one to
contend with, said Hamid.  “Over the past year, the revolution has been tainted and
people are increasingly disillusioned,” he said. “This might
be the right time for someone from the old regime to come back
and say: ‘Well things weren’t that bad under Mubarak. In some
ways they were even better.’ Suleiman offers that appeal.”  The disputes muddy  Egypt ’s political transition at a time
when the economy is struggling to recover in the aftermath of
last year’s uprising.  Eligibility Questions  Net international reserves fell by more than 50 percent in
just 15 months and economic growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the
last quarter of 2011. A $3.2 billion  International Monetary Fund 
loan is still pending amid criticism from the Brotherhood and
others over the government’s economic program. The IMF has said
it wants consensus among Egypt’s main political groups before it
concludes the deal.  Abu Ismail faces possible elimination from the contest
after the election commission said yesterday the Egyptian
Foreign Ministry had confirmed his mother held U.S. citizenship.
Under the current law, that would preclude him from office.
“Having a passport is one thing, and having citizenship is
another,” Abu Ismail said in a televised press conference after
denying the claims.  Mursi’s nomination by the Brotherhood was a response to
attempts to “fabricate barriers and hurdles” to impede some
candidates from competing in the election, the group said in a
statement posted on its website.  Police Presence  Television footage showed hundreds of people gathered
outside the electoral commission’s headquarters in a show of
support for their respective candidate on the final day of the
nomination process.  An unusually high military police turnout was also evident,
though MENA cited an unidentified military official as saying
the military police at the scene kept their distance from the
candidates. The official said the units were deployed after
supporters of Abu Ismail and el-Shater blocked traffic in the
area.  As the dispute over the two leading Islamist candidates
continued, al-Gamaa al-Islamiya, or the Islamic Group -- which
had waged a violent battle against Mubarak’s regime in the 1990s
-- said it was fielding fundamentalist cleric Safwat Hegazy,
also as a precautionary move.  Amr Moussa, former secretary-general of the  Arab League  and
foreign minister, ranked top in a presidential opinion poll
conducted by Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies
published April 2, before Suleiman and other candidates had
entered the race.  The election commission will notify those who failed to
qualify on April 12 and 13, and they will have the right to
appeal, MENA reported.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  