-- Emirates May Refinance $550 Million Bonds on Borrowing Cost Drop
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-04-08T08:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/emirates-may-refinance-550-million-bond-as-borrowing-costs-fall.html
Emirates, the biggest airline by
international traffic, may refinance a $550 million of bonds
maturing in June, as borrowing costs decline, a company
executive said.  “The market is awash with funds,”  Gary Chapman , president
of the airline’s travel service unit dnata, said in a phone
interview today. “At the moment the market is looking pretty
attractive for good credit and there are funds available at
relatively attractive pricing,” said Chapman, who also is
responsible for finance at the company.  Bond sales by issuers in the  Persian Gulf  are off to a
record start this year as borrowing costs decline, with regional
companies and governments raising $14.7 billion so far, the most
for the same period since Bloomberg began tracking the data in
1999. The average yield on Gulf debt fell to 4.56 percent March
28, the lowest in six months, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US
Dollar Sukuk/Bond Index shows.  Emirates will study “the economics” of both bonds and
sukuk, as Islamic debt is known, as refinancing options, Chapman
said. A decision will be made after the company announces its
annual results in early to mid-May for the 12 months ended March
31, he added.  The price on Emirates’ $550 million floating-rate Islamic
bonds maturing in June rose to 99.37 cents on the dollar on
April 6, the highest since November 2007. The airline raised $1
billion from the sale of a five-year bond in June. The yield on
the 5.125 percent bond declined 86 basis points so far this year
to 4.31 percent April 6.  The carrier, the Arab world’s largest, retains a “strong
cash position” while “the performance of the bond we did has
been very good,” said Chapman. Emirates, the biggest operator
of Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos, wants to establish Dubai as a
global hub in competition with Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways,
Qatar Airways Ltd. and European carriers including Air France
and  British Airways. (IAG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net 
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  