-- FDA for Derivatives Won’t Defuse Wall Street’s Bombs
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-04-08T22:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/fda-for-derivatives-won-t-defuse-wall-street-s-bombs.html
Given the role that Wall Street’s
reckless use of derivatives played in causing the Great
Recession, I can understand the desire for new ways to regulate
financial instruments.  For example, on March 31  Gretchen Morgenson  of the New York
Times  advocated creating  a federal agency to test new financial
products in the same way the  Food and Drug Administration  tests
pharmaceuticals before they are allowed onto the market -- “an
agency that examined new financial instruments and ensured that
they were safe and benefited society, not just bankers.” The
idea was not her own, although she thought it a good one.
Morgenson properly credited an  academic paper  by two University
of Chicago professors -- Eric A. Posner, who teaches law, and
Glen Weyl, an assistant professor in economics -- who had a
Bloomberg View op-ed article on the subject the following day.  The professors argue that the dangers of new, untested
financial products “seem at least as extreme as the dangers of
medicines,” but insist that their proposed agency would not
compete with the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. “It
is not the main purpose of our proposal to protect consumers and
other unsophisticated investors from shady practices or their
own ignorance,” they wrote. “Our goal is rather to deter
financial speculation because it is welfare-reducing and
contributes to systemic risk.”  Not Cancer Cures  With all due respect to Posner and Weyl -- whom I do not
know -- and to Morgenson, for whom I have much respect, the idea
of testing new financial products in a government laboratory as
if they were potential cures for cancer is one of the sillier
ideas to come down the pike since the onset of the financial
crisis five years ago.  Set aside the fact that the efficacy of a new financial
products cannot be judged in the same way as a new drug or
consumer electronic -- there is no on-off switch on a new
financial product, and no empirical way to tell if it will cause
good or harm other than to see it in action.  The biggest drawback is that any agency with a bias toward
deterring “financial speculation” because it “contributes to
systemic risk” would have quickly doomed any number of
invaluable financial innovations Wall Street has created in the
past few decades.  For instance, would such an agency have allowed  junk bonds ,
the innovative financing mechanism that  Michael Milken  and his
firm, Drexel Burnham Lambert, pioneered in the 1980s as a way to
give access to lower-cost capital to companies that otherwise
would have been shut out of the capital markets? Would a
financial-product protection bureau of the early 1970s have
allowed  Salomon Brothers ’ Lew Ranieri to take streams of  cash
flow  that derive from mortgage, car and credit-card payments and
turn them into securities that can be bought and sold the world
over? There is no question that Ranieri’s innovation led to
lower mortgage costs for homeowners, gave access to credit cards
to hundreds of millions of Americans and allowed millions of
others to get a car loan.  Ah, I can hear you scream, didn’t Milken’s junk-bond
monsters bring about the stock market crash of 1987, when the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 22.6 percent in one day,
leading to the credit crunch that engulfed the economy from 1989
to 1993? And didn’t Ranieri’s little devils lead to the current
financial crisis when one mortgage-backed security after another
went into a tailspin? Wouldn’t an FDA-type agency, like the
“pre-cogs” in the 2002 movie “Minority Report,” have seen
these two train wrecks coming and prevented them?  Robust Junk Market  This is beyond ridiculous, for the simple reason that there
is no way to deconstruct a financial product before it goes to
market to determine whether it will end up doing more harm than
good. Yes, the excesses in Milken’s junk-bond market helped
cause the speculation in the stock market that led to the Crash
of 1987. But both before the crash and most certainly for the
last 25 years the junk-bond market has been robust and vital,
allowing thousands of companies access to capital while also
providing investors with the sorts of risk-adjusted yields they
most certainly cannot find in the overinflated Treasury market.  Much the same can be said for the securitization market,
which worked brilliantly for more than 20 years before credit
standards deteriorated miserably in the middle part of the last
decade, sending the mortgages tied to them and the entire
housing market spiraling downward. Chances are good that as we
emerge from the downturn, securitization of mortgages will again
be a viable and important market.  The problem on Wall Street is not financial innovation per
se or the risks tied to untested products. Rather, it is a
terribly outmoded incentive system that rewards -- with big
bonuses -- the Wall Street armies who generate revenue by
selling the array of new products without any accountability.  The key to Wall Street reform is to make Wall Street
executives, traders and bankers once again financially liable
for what they are selling. If that were the case -- as it was
when Wall Street was a series of private partnerships --
financial innovation would once again be revered and help to
restore the luster of America’s  capital markets .  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on how better  toilets can save
lives ; William D. Cohan on stifling  Wall Street innovation ;
 Albert R. Hunt   on Obamacare ;  Mark Buchanan  on  economic theory
and the weather ;  Noah Feldman  on  strip searches ;  Steven Greenhut 
on  high-speed rail ; Tim Judah on  Bosnia’s rejuvenation .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 