-- Great Wolf Gets $234 Million KSL Bid That Tops Apollo Again
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-04-09T20:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/great-wolf-says-it-got-7-share-takover-offer-from-ksl-capital.html
Great Wolf Resorts Inc. (WOLF)  received a
$234 million takeover offer from KSL Capital Partners LLC,
topping a bid from  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  for a second
time and extending a private-equity bidding contest for the
water-park operator.  KSL made an unsolicited offer of $7 a share in cash,
Madison, Wisconsin-based Great Wolf said in a statement
yesterday, adding that it would consider the proposal. Shares of
Great Wolf, which said on April 6 that it agreed to a sweetened
bid from Apollo of $6.75 a share, rose to the highest in almost
four years.  The latest offer from KSL, a Denver-based private-equity
firm, is 40 percent more than the original $5 a share
transaction that Great Wolf and Apollo disclosed last month.
Great Wolf owns 11 resorts that cater to families and feature
indoor water parks, suite-style rooms, restaurants, spas and
arcades.  As part of the revised deal with Apollo disclosed April 6,
Great Wolf agreed to boost the fee it owes Apollo if it accepts
a higher offer to $9 million from $7 million. Holders have until
April 20 at midnight to tender their shares into the Apollo
offer, Great Wolf said in the April 6 statement.  Midwestern Roots  Great Wolf rose 13 percent to $7.44 in  New York , above the
offer price and the highest level since May 15, 2008.  Apollo, the New York-based buyout firm founded by  Leon Black , declined to comment through spokesman  Charles Zehren .
Apollo’s shares fell 1.3 percent to $14.16. The  stock  has gained
14 percent this year.  KSL Capital invests in resorts and spas, closing its latest
fund last year with $2 billion. It was founded in 2005 by two
former executives of a KKR & Co. portfolio company that owned
resorts, according to its website.  Great Wolf opened its first lodge in  Wisconsin  Dells,
Wisconsin, in 1997 and has expanded into eight other U.S. states
and  Canada  since then. In 2010, Chief Executive Officer Kimberly Schaefer was the first female CEO on  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s reality
television program “Undercover Boss.”  The company was sued by shareholders following the March 13
proposed buyout by Apollo, which offered $5 a share in a deal
valued at $703 million, including the assumption of Great Wolf’s
outstanding debt. The lawsuits claimed Great Wolf didn’t obtain
the highest possible tender offer, saying its own financial
adviser, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., valued the company
between $3.74 and $7.98 a share.  Great Wolf is getting financial advice from Deutsche Bank
AG and legal counsel from Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison
LLP and Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor LLP. Apollo said last
month it was using Morgan Stanley, UBS AG, Nomura Holdings Inc.
and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  