-- High-Speed Rail Takes Californians for a Ride
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-04-08T22:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/high-speed-rail-takes-californians-for-a-ride.html
The  California High-Speed Rail
Authority  has a serious public-relations hurdle: how to sell
its proposed Los Angeles-to- San Francisco  bullet train without
the word “boondoggle” attached.  But the rail authority’s  latest compromise plan  to solve
this problem -- with its focus on building the system in a
“better, faster, cheaper” manner -- not only doesn’t fix the
system’s fundamental flaws, it may plant the seeds of its
destruction.  In November 2008, California voters -- notorious for
approving huge spending projects, regardless of the state’s
budget problems -- approved  Proposition 1A , which earmarked
almost $10 billion in general-obligation bonds to build a
comprehensive rail system whose cost was estimated at the time
at $35 billion to $42 billion.  Budget estimates have since soared to $98 billion, and
efforts have focused on a “let’s just get started” route
linking two lower-density cities in the state’s Central
Valley,  Fresno and Bakersfield . But rail advocates sold the
public on Asian-style bullet trains as way to connect Southern
 California  to Bay Area metropolises, not as a “train to
nowhere,” as it has been called, in the state’s agricultural
heartland.  Furthermore, funding for the system became even less
believable after Congress  killed  the Obama administration’s
rail plan, which would have sent a few billion dollars toward
California.  Suspect Savings  Governor  Jerry Brown  and Democratic leaders claim that
not building the system is more costly than building it (based
on inflated estimates of coming transportation needs), so they
continue to move forward -- pushing out the authority’s old
leadership and making changes that claim to slash $30 billion
in costs and that would link the Central Valley to  Los
Angeles’s San Fernando Valley . Critics argue that the savings
seem to have magically appeared -- without sufficient detail
explaining where they will come from.  Even some architects of the original plan argue that many
of the changes are in direct violation of the initiative that
spawned the rail authority. For instance, officials in the
wealthy suburbs south of San Francisco have opposed the
proposal because they fear having 200-mile-per-hour trains
speeding through their communities on viaducts -- concerns
echoed by some Los Angeles-area officials, as well.  The revised plan calls for the system to share  Caltrain 
rail lines from  San Jose  to San Francisco and  Metrolink  and
Amtrak lines from Los Angeles to Anaheim -- a so-called
“blended” approach. There would be far fewer trains running,
as well.  But these compromises that require riders to transfer
between trains as they approach urban areas -- even if this
inconvenience is supposed to be temporary -- conflict with the
specific mandates that the Legislature placed in the
initiative, leading to the possibility that the courts might
kill the plan.  “The mandates in the law are considerable,”  the Los
Angeles Times reported . “They require that any initial segment
has to use high-speed trains. Money for each operating segment
needs to be in hand before construction starts. Passengers
must be able to board in  Los Angeles  and arrive in San
Francisco without changing trains. As many as 12 trains per
hour are supposed to run in each direction and the system has
to operate without taxpayer subsidies.”  If the system is built according to the new blueprint, a
South Orange County rider heading for a weekend jaunt in San
Francisco will need to drive to a parking lot in Anaheim, jump
on a train to Los Angeles, then transfer to a train that
meanders through the populated areas of the Central Valley
before heading to San Jose.  Faster by Air  The rider will transfer to another train, operating side
by side with commuter trains, a journey that undermines the
rapid-trip vision sold to voters.  Even in the best-possible scenario, the high-speed-rail
trip would take almost twice as long as California’s current
high-speed system --  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , which offers
reasonably priced, frequent flights between most of the
state’s major cities. Many critics believe a train trip of two
hours and 40 minutes from Los Angeles to San Francisco is an
impossibility.  The high-speed option suffers from the same delusions
common in most rail designs: They are not viewed primarily as
a transportation system, but as something that will transform
society. I’ve got nothing against rail per se, but any system
needs to be evaluated on the costs and benefits of providing
improved transportation based on how we live, not on how the
planners would like us to live (that is, being less car-
dependent).  “This project, like the state highway system or the water
project, will transform the California economy and help it
remain one of the most innovative in the world,” said rail
board member Michael Rossi, in the language typical of those
who see rail as a giant jobs program. Sure, spending billions
of dollars to build the line would create jobs and wealth for
some sectors of the economy, and make unions happy, but it
would take money from elsewhere -- an economic truth rarely
recognized in  Sacramento , California’s capital.  Comparisons to  Western water projects  are common, but a
stretch. Had it not been for Herculean efforts to dam the
Colorado River, and build state-water projects, Los Angeles
might not have become a metropolis. California already has
modern transportation systems -- airlines, highways and
commuter rail -- and at best high-speed trains would provide
additional choices. It will not be transformative.  Depends on Debt  The system depends on federal, state and local funds, and
governments at all levels are struggling under debt levels
that are not sustainable. The idea that the system will be
built for the current predicted cost and that it will actually
provide operating revenue is dubious given the experience of
most major transportation systems built across the globe,
where 50 percent and even 100 percent cost overruns aren’t the
exception but the rule.  “There is no future stream of revenue, nor is there any
prospect for profits,” Adrian Moore, vice president of the
Reason Foundation, told me. “It’s a complete farce. No private
investments of any sort will go into this.” Governor Brown
points to the state’s cap-and-trade system, which imposes fees
on greenhouse-gas producers, as the new source to fund his
dream.  But, as the libertarian writer  Wayne Lusvardi  argues,
there’s something disturbing about transferring “billions of
dollars in higher costs for everything in California that has
to be manufactured or trucked anywhere” to a rail project that
“will take riders away from commercial airlines.” Some liberal
critics fear that the train line will shift money from
programs that help the poor to a system designed to serve the
upper-middle class.  Maybe those are predictable complaints that will plague
all proposed spending projects, but Californians of any
political persuasion should wonder why a state that can’t even
find the money to pay its own bills is busy spending tens of
billions of dollars on a rail project driven more by politics
than demand.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is
based in Sacramento, California. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on how better  toilets can
save lives ; William D. Cohan on stifling  Wall Street
innovation ;  Albert R. Hunt   on Obamacare ;  Mark Buchanan  on
 economic theory and the weather ;  Noah Feldman 
on  strip searches ; Tim Judah on  Bosnia’s rejuvenation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento, California, at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 