-- Mike Wallace, Hard-Charging ‘60 Minutes’ Reporter, Dies at 93
-- B y   K a t h r y n   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/mike-wallace-hard-charging-60-minutes-reporter-dies-at-93.html
Mike Wallace , the hard-charging
correspondent who was billed by CBS as “America’s toughest
interviewer” on the long-running “ 60 Minutes ” newsmagazine,
has died. He was 93.  Wallace died on April 7 surrounded by family members, at
Waveny Care Center in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut , CBS News said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. The cause of death was
complications from old age, CBS spokesman Kevin Tedesco said.  Wallace was deemed so vital to the success of “60
Minutes” that CBS waived a mandatory retirement rule in his
case as the newsman approached 65. He was a regular contributor
for another 22 years, until he retired in May 2006 at age 88.  “It is with tremendous sadness that we mark the passing of
Mike Wallace,” Leslie Moonves, chief executive officer and
president of CBS, said in the statement. “His extraordinary
contribution as a broadcaster is immeasurable and he has been a
force within the television industry throughout its existence.”
CBS said it will air a special program dedicated to Wallace on
the April 15 “60 Minutes” episode.  Named “correspondent emeritus,” Wallace kept an office at
CBS and remained on call to its news division.  His broadcast career spanned 65 years, beginning in 1939 as
a jack-of-all-trades at a radio station in  Grand Rapids ,
Michigan. Wallace narrated “The Lone Ranger” radio scripts,
pitched Parliament cigarettes on television, hosted quiz shows
and even worked as an actor. He found his calling as a tough-guy
interrogator on “Night Beat,” an interview program that aired
on a local New York television station in 1956.  ‘60 Minutes’  At 44 -- considered old for a correspondent -- Wallace
landed a job with  CBS News  in 1963. Five years later, producer
Don Hewitt invited Wallace to join “60 Minutes” in its debut
season.  Wallace quickly became known for his muckraking stories,
ambush interviews and sit-downs with celebrities and heads of
state. His suntanned, leathery face became the public image of
“60 Minutes” as the newsmagazine climbed in the Nielsen
ratings and had an extraordinary 23-year run as a Top 10 show.  “Everything good that happened to us happened because Mike
was here from the beginning,” Hewitt told Broadcasting magazine
in 1992, as the program celebrated its 25th year on the air.  In his 2001 memoir, Hewitt described Wallace as “a tiger,
the kind of journalist who comes along once in a lifetime, and
he hasn’t lost a step along the way.” Hewitt, the creator of
“60 Minutes” and its executive producer for 35 years, died in
August 2009.  Work Ethic  Wallace’s work ethic was legend, and the pace took a toll
on his personal life. He was thrice-divorced by 1985.
Nonetheless, his two sons wanted to become journalists. The
elder son, Peter, died at 19. Chris Wallace became a star
correspondent for NBC and ABC, then host of the Sunday morning
public-affairs program, “ FOX News Sunday .”  Wallace’s aggressive pursuit of stories stirred
controversy.  General William Westmoreland sued CBS after Wallace
narrated a 90-minute documentary in 1982 that accused the
general of deliberately undercounting enemy troop strength in
 Vietnam . Although Westmoreland ultimately withdrew the $120
million libel suit, Wallace sought treatment for clinical
depression after listening to five months of courtroom
testimony.  Bouts of Depression  In later years, Wallace spoke publicly about his bouts with
depression “for the reason that it can be helpful for other
people to say, ‘Well look, here’s a guy who was at the bottom of
the heap, miserable, and look, he has it back. He is
surviving,’” he  told  the Washington-based Academy of
Achievement in 2002.  Despite his tough-guy persona, Wallace was thin-skinned
about his Hollywood portrayal in “ The Insider ,” a 1999 movie
that suggested that he lost -- before recovering -- his moral
compass on a 1995 story featuring tobacco industry whistle-
blower Jeffrey Wigand.  Hewitt blocked airing Wallace’s interview with Wigand on
the advice of a CBS lawyer but permitted Wallace to report that
decision, along with a small portion of the interview.  Massachusetts Native  Myron Leon Wallace was born in  Brookline ,  Massachusetts , on
May 9, 1918, to Russian-Jewish immigrants Frank Wallace, a
grocer and insurance broker, and the former Zina Sharfman. An
immigration official had changed his father’s name from Friedan
Wallak upon his arrival in the U.S. at age 16, according to
Wallace.  Wallace said he was “never an A student.” He played the
violin and served as concertmaster in the Brookline High School
orchestra and became captain of the tennis team.  Severe acne plagued Wallace in high school, “leaving scars
that, in later years, would inspire TV critics to observe that
Wallace’s ‘pockmarked, prizefighter’s face’ served to enhance
the abrasive tone of his interview,” Gary Paul Gates wrote in
“ Close Encounters ,” a memoir he co-wrote with Wallace in 1984.  Wallace enrolled at the  University of Michigan  in 1935, and
discovered the student-run radio operation in his sophomore
year.  “All I wanted to be was a radio announcer,” Wallace
later recalled. “I read a hell of a commercial.”  First Job  At his first radio job in  Grand Rapids , he read the news,
provided sports commentary and presented quiz shows.  Wallace moved to  Detroit , where he was teamed with  Douglas
Edwards  -- later to become the first CBS television news anchor
-- as the two “Cunningham News Aces” on WXYZ. Wallace also
served as an announcer and narrator for “The  Green Hornet ” and
“The Lone Ranger,” two popular dramas. He married Norma
Kaphan, whom he had dated when both were undergraduates at
 Michigan . The marriage, which produced sons Peter and
Christopher, ended in divorce in 1948.  A member of the U.S. Naval Reserve, Wallace was trained as
a communications officer and served two years in the Pacific on
a submarine tender during World War II.  In  Chicago  after the war, Wallace worked for “The Air
Edition of the Chicago Sun,” for which he was encouraged to
report and write, not just read the news. As the interviewer for
WGN radio’s “Famous Names,” he met actress Buff Cobb, who
became his second wife in 1949.  ‘Mike and Buff’  The two became co-hosts of a Chicago radio interview show
that attracted the attention of CBS television executives in
1951. At 33, Wallace moved with his wife to  New York  to host an
afternoon television program for CBS called “Mike and Buff.”
The talk show ended in 1954, along with the marriage.  Wallace had done some television acting in Chicago, and he
auditioned for and won a role in the Broadway production of
“ Reclining Figure .” He declared the experience too repetitious
for his liking.  Wallace landed a local news-anchor job at Channel 5 in New
York. He also met and married artist Lorraine Perigord, in a
union that would last 30 years before ending in divorce. Wallace
assumed responsibility for her two children, Pauline and
Anthony, from a previous marriage.  Ted Yates, then Channel 5 news director, dreamed up the
idea of “Night Beat,” the hard-hitting nightly interview
program that debuted in 1956 with Wallace as the cigarette-
smoking interrogator on a dark set. Interviewees were subjected
to klieg lights and tight camera angles along with Wallace’s
well-researched questions. Newsmakers flocked to the show to
prove their mettle. ABC lured Wallace and Yates in 1957 and
renamed the show “ The Mike Wallace Interview .”  Cigarette Commercials  In 1959, Wallace returned to local news in New York -- this
time at Channel 13 -- and appeared in television commercials for
 Philip Morris (PM) ’s Parliament filter cigarettes. In 1961, he became
a co-host on the upbeat “PM East” talk show produced by
Westinghouse.  Tragedy struck in 1962, when Wallace’s older son died in a
hiking accident in  Greece . Peter Wallace had completed two years
at Yale and had expressed interest in journalism.  To honor his son, Wallace ended his work in commercials and
quiz shows and sought jobs as a newsman at the three major
networks. CBS hired him in 1963, to the displeasure of some news
veterans who frowned on his background as an entertainer. He was
soon tapped to host the “CBS Morning News” and held that post
for three years.  Turned Down Nixon  From 1966 to 1968, Wallace worked as a correspondent and
covered the early stages of  Richard Nixon ’s presidential
campaign. Wallace turned down a job offer from Nixon and agreed
to become the co-host and co-editor of “60 Minutes,” which
made its debut on Sept. 24, 1968.  Wallace accepted the “60 Minutes” job partly because he
liked the idea of teaming with the low-key, personable Harry Reasoner. “Good guy, bad guy. The guy you love, the guy who
makes you quake,” Hewitt put it in his memoir.  During the first two years of the show, Reasoner’s quirky
stories and wry delivery helped set “60 Minutes” apart from
other documentary programs. Reasoner was regarded as the “top
banana” because of his talent and his role as substitute anchor
for Walter Cronkite on the “CBS Evening News.”  Wallace ascended in the public eye after Reasoner departed
in 1970 for the top anchor job at ABC. Other strong journalists
joined the program -- including Dan Rather for six years before
he became “CBS Evening News” anchor -- but Wallace remained
the dominant force and sought the most-controversial stories.  He said frequent travel harmed his third marriage, which
ended in divorce in 1985. The following year he married Mary
Yates, the widow of his former associate Ted Yates, who had died
in  Jerusalem  while covering the Six-Day War in 1967.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathryn Harris at  kathrynh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chuck Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  