-- India and Pakistan Should Favor Cash Over Kashmir
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-04-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/india-and-pakistan-should-favor-cash-over-kashmir.html
(Corrects formal name of Republic of  China  in fifth
paragraph.)  Recently in Karachi, I dropped in on
a talk by the Pakistani journalist and TV anchor Kamran Khan at
a Rotary Club meeting. Describing relations between India and
 Pakistan  at a “crossroads,” Khan exhorted his audience to feel
shame about Pakistani involvement in the terrorist  attacks  on
Mumbai in 2008 that killed 164 people and have frozen India-
Pakistan relations ever since.  Khan lamented the many missed opportunities for a
comprehensive agreement between India and Pakistan. Finally, he
expressed great optimism about a trade deal announced in
November -- in the making for almost 16 years, and recently
 expanded  -- that would open up Pakistani  markets  for many more
Indian products.  His audience of mostly businessmen and professionals, the
likely beneficiaries of any trade liberalization with  India ,
listened approvingly. One of them, though, did ask whether
Kashmir, the single biggest source of conflict between India and
Pakistan, was to be forgotten.  After the talk, a businessman, who makes fiber-optic cables
and is eager to expand his business links with India, asked me
if Indians would recoil from packaged products that carried the
label “Made in Pakistan.” I tried to reassure him that they
wouldn’t. After all, Indian consumers happily bought products
made in China, another country with whom India had border
disputes and bitter diplomatic squabbles.  Chinese Lessons  The trade deal has provoked much excitement in business
circles in India and Pakistan. Still, the question needs to be
asked: Can economic ties between India and Pakistan flourish
when political conflicts remain unresolved? And can commercial
integration in the long run defuse political animosities? Some
instructive lessons for  South Asia ’s great rivals can be found
in relations between the People’s  Republic of China  and the
Republic of China, as  Taiwan  is known.  Visiting Taiwan for the first time in 2006, I braced myself
for strident rhetoric about the PRC’s claims on the island’s
sovereignty -- the issue that has kept both countries on a near-
war footing since 1949. At the time of my trip, Taiwan was ruled
by Chen Shui-bian of the Democratic Progressive Party whose
claim that Taiwan was independent of China had provoked the
mainlanders to threaten an invasion.  But the saber-rattling didn’t seem to trouble the
businessmen and politicians I met; they spoke confidently of a
growing economic interdependence. Mainland China was Taiwan’s
biggest trading partner and investment destination. Almost 1
million Taiwanese lived on the mainland. Visa regimes were being
liberalized and direct flights permitted. Commerce, it seemed,
had an inexorable logic that transcended territorial
nationalism.  It is tempting to extrapolate from this and make a case for
trade liberalization between India and Pakistan. Certainly, both
countries seem to have run out of military options against each
other.  Pakistan’s military and intelligence establishment has
failed to foment jihad in Kashmir through proxy militant groups,
or to radicalize more than a tiny minority among India’s almost
200 million Muslims. India cannot do a “Gaza” on nuclear-armed
Pakistan, and strike extremist groups and individuals in the
country, as is exhorted by Hindu nationalists after every
terrorist attack.  Silk Road Redux  Diplomatically, India’s strategy throughout the war on
terror to use America’s good offices to ostracize Pakistan and
enhance Indian influence in  Afghanistan  must now be judged a
failure. Pakistan’s plan to coax the U.S. into a mediatory role
on Kashmir was always a non-starter.  The U.S. will soon leave Afghanistan. It did not have the
will or the capacity to press for a solution to Kashmir. India
and Pakistan will have to resolve their issues face to face,
without recourse to external help and pressures.  Trade  seems one way out of the diplomatic and military cul-
de-sac in which both countries find themselves. And the present
moment seems propitious. Pakistan’s military and intelligence
establishment, which certainly approved the grant of Most
Favored Nation status to India, seems more focused on their
country’s western rather than eastern borders. It may be
temporarily curtailing its traditional enmity, and perhaps
giving the Pakistani economy, currently beset with rampant
inflation and falling productivity, another chance to grow.  Such strikingly unselfish intentions may still have to
reckon with internal opposition to a trade deal with India. The
benefits to Indian industry, which has been pressing for such an
arrangement with Pakistan, are obvious: a large, easily accessed
market for its manufactured goods. However, for many small
Pakistani manufacturers, already coping with the “China
price,” the benefits of liberalized trade with another large
economy may not be immediately apparent.  Ejaz Chaudhary, a businessman in Lahore and vice president
of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, a rising political  party , told me
that the trade deal benefited India more than Pakistan. In any
case, the two countries had to resolve outstanding water issues,
if not Kashmir, before they could implement a mutually
beneficial trade agreement.  Chaudhary, who has been linked to radical Islamist groups
that vehemently reject any accord with India, may be playing the
spoiler. But it is also true that the greater benefits of
economic cooperation for Pakistan (and India) lie in the future
-- in the revival of centuries-old trade links between South and
Central  Asia  that were disrupted first by competitive European
imperialism and, then, the nationalism of the postcolonial era.  Incentives for Peace  Writing last month in the Indian daily the Hindu, Pakistani
economist Ijaz Nabi  offered  a compelling image of the
geographical region that is now Pakistan as having once been one
of the world’s greatest trading hubs (Buddhism, among other
things, travelled to Central and  East Asia  through the North
West Frontier). Pakistan’s unique location also makes it a
convenient energy and destination hub for India.  But for this tremendous potential to be realized, many
political hurdles -- especially in Kashmir, the traditional
route to Central Asia -- have to be removed. They won’t
disappear simply because some businessmen and politicians have
prioritized moneymaking over political and diplomatic
negotiations.  Damaged by a militant backlash, Pakistan may have reined in
its proxy warriors in India-ruled Kashmir. But India still has
to address the aspirations of Kashmiri Muslims, and end its
brutal military occupation of the valley.  The example of China and Taiwan, where many political
disagreements have survived economic integration, is sobering in
this regard. Most Taiwanese are still strongly opposed to
reunification with the mainland; and the defiantly pro-
independence  Democratic Progressive Party  almost won national
elections earlier this year. It is still not hard to imagine
inflamed patriotic feelings leading to military exchanges across
the  Taiwan Strait .  To defang the hyper-nationalism that has long justified
India and Pakistan’s unconscionable investments in defense at
the cost of health and education won’t be easy. To even speak of
normal relations is to threaten powerful constituencies and
lobbies -- from arms dealers to extremist politicians -- in both
countries with the loss of their raison d’etre.  Furthermore, increased trade won’t dramatically expand or
empower constituencies for peace in India and Pakistan beyond
Rotary Club gatherings. But, carefully calibrated for maximum
mutual benefit, it can become, over time, a strong incentive
against war -- and for now such abridged hopes may best insure
us against the disappointments that invariably follow any
upswing in India-Pakistan relations.  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on the  Obama “gun bubble”  and
how better  toilets can save lives ; William D. Cohan on stifling
 Wall Street innovation ;  Albert R. Hunt   on Obamacare ;  Mark
Buchanan  on  economic theory and the weather ;  Noah Feldman  on
 strip searches ;  Steven Greenhut  on  high-speed rail ; Tim Judah on
 Bosnia’s rejuvenation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  