-- Internet Gold Falls on Government Moves: Israel Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-08T12:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/internet-gold-leads-slump-on-government-moves-israel-overnight.html
Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD)  led
the first slump in four weeks of Israeli stocks listed in the
U.S. on speculation government regulation of the phone operator
controlled by the company will erode profit.  Shares of Internet Gold lost 17 percent to $5.80 in New
York last week, the lowest level since 2009. The  Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the biggest Israeli companies traded
in the New York fell 0.2 percent in the four-day week to 89.62,
the first drop since the week ended March 9.  Allot
Communications Ltd. (ALLT) ’s premium over Tel Aviv-traded shares
ballooned to the widest in three weeks after the network gear
maker received a new order. Internet Gold dropped 2.8 percent at
the close in  Tel Aviv  today to 21.01 shekels, or the equivalent
of $5.62, while Allot advanced 8.5 percent.  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) , Israel’s largest
fixed-line phone company which is controlled by Internet Gold,
will be prevented from collecting connection charges from
service providers by the Ministry of Communications, local
newspaper Calcalist reported on April 4. In the wake of protests
against the rising cost of living, the government is forcing
telecommunication providers to cut fees and encouraging new
players into the market, where the three biggest companies
control 95 percent of sales.  Internet Gold and Bezeq, which  slumped  0.9 percent on April
5 in Tel Aviv, are tumbling “because of continued uncertainty
regarding the policies of the Ministry of Communications,”
Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment
House Ltd. in Ramat Gan,  Israel , said by phone last week. “The
best thing that can happen is that we actually get some clarity
on what the Ministry of Communications wants to do. When we know
what the policies are, then we can judge what the impact is.”  A decision will be made on the connection charges after the
Passover holiday that started Friday, Yechiel Shabi, a spokesman
for the ministry, said by phone on April 4.  Allot Order  Allot, based in Hod Hasharon Israel, advanced to 90.10
shekels, or the equivalent of $24.09, in Tel Aviv today. The
U.S. shares gained 8 percent to $24.31 on April 5, or a $2.11
premium over the Tel Aviv shares that was the largest on the
Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index.  Allot won an initial order worth about $4 million to supply
equipment to a Latin American fixed-line and mobile operator,
according to a company statement on April 5.  U.S. stock gauges retreated last week as rising yields for
Spanish debt revived concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis may
weigh on global growth and as minutes from the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s latest policy meeting damped expectations for more
monetary stimulus. The  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  fell 0.4 percent
while Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  rose 1.8 percent in the week. The
TA-25 declined 0.7 percent today.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Mobile Competitors  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the nation’s largest mobile-phone
company, lost 2.9 percent to 44.68 shekels, or the equivalent of
$11.95 in Tel Aviv today, after rising 0.4 percent in the U.S.
on April 5 to $12.23.  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) , the second-largest mobile-phone
operator, retreated 1.3 percent to 27.14 shekels, or the
equivalent of $7.26, in Tel Aviv, after rising 1.8 percent to
$7.36 in the U.S. on April 5.  Internet Gold is based in Petach Tikva, Israel. Its B
Communications Ltd. unit owns 31 percent of Bezeq.  To compete in the mobile-services market, Yakum, Israel-
based Hot Telecommunication System Ltd., which provides cable
television services, acquired MIRS Communication Ltd. last year.
Golan Telecom Ltd., an Israeli phone company, entered into a
national roaming agreement with Cellcom to use its mobile
network.  They join Rami Levi Chain Stores Hashikma Marketing 2006
Ltd. and  Alon Holdings Blue Square Israel Ltd. (BSI) , virtual service
operators who got licenses from the government, in offering
potentially cheaper mobile phone services.  Alvarion, Given  Alvarion Ltd. (ALVR) , the Tel Aviv-based maker of wireless
communication equipment, fell 30 percent to 64 cents on April 5,
a record low. The company cut its first-quarter revenue forecast
and said it will be in default on a financial covenant,
according to a statement dated April 5. The Tel Aviv shares
plunged 11 percent today to 2.545 shekels, or the equivalent of
68 cents, extending a slump of 18 percent on April 5.  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , the maker of pill-sized cameras for
digestive diagnosis, declined 3 percent today to 72.76 shekels,
or the equivalent of $19.45 in Tel Aviv. They rose 1.6 percent
to $19.68 in  New York  on April 5. The Yokneam, Israel-based
company was rated buy in an initial coverage by Alastair Mackay,
an analyst at GARP Research & Securities Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ; 