-- Iran Agrees to Restart Nuclear Talks With U.S., Allies
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-04-09T14:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/iran-to-meet-major-powers-for-nuclear-talks-on-april-14-eu-says.html
The U.S. and its European allies
will press  Iran  for tangible action to curb its nuclear program
when talks restart this week after a 15-month hiatus.  Nuclear negotiations between Iran and the five permanent
 United Nations  Security Council members plus  Germany  will take
place starting April 14 in Istanbul, European Union spokesman
Michael Mann said yesterday. U.S. State Department spokeswoman
Laura Seal confirmed the plans.  “We have agreed to launch talks in Istanbul on April 14,”
Mann said. “We hope that this first round will produce a
conducive environment for concrete progress. We are of course
aiming at a sustained process.”  Iran’s Supreme National Security Council said in a
statement today cited by the state-run  Mehr  news agency that a
second round of talks will be held in  Baghdad , the date of which
will be announced at the end of the Istanbul meeting.  Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi today said he
won’t accept any pre-conditions before talks begin. His comment
came after the New York Times, citing unidentified diplomats,
reported that the allies plan to demand the immediate closure of
a nuclear enrichment facility in central Iran.  “Setting any conditions before a meeting means drawing a
conclusion before the negotiations, which is completely
meaningless,” Salehi said, according to a separate  Mehr  report.
“None of the parties will accept any conditions set before the
talks.”  Istanbul Talks  The U.S. and its allies are seeking to avoid a repeat of
the previous meeting in January 2011, also in Istanbul, when
talks broke down after Iran demanded a lifting of UN sanctions
as a condition for discussing the nuclear program. Iran is under
increasing pressure from trade, financial and energy sanctions,
including U.S. and EU measures to cut oil purchases.  In a joint statement March 8, the U.S. and its five
partners in the talks --  China ,  France , Germany, Russia and the
U.K. -- said they wanted sustained discussions with Iran and for
the Persian Gulf nation to allow UN inspectors into its secret
Parchin military installation.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said the six powers
should demand that Iran stop enriching uranium to 20 percent and
give up any material already processed to that level. Iran also
must shut down the Fordo underground enrichment facility near
Qom, Barak said in an interview broadcast yesterday on  CNN ’s
“Fareed Zakaria GPS” program.  Enriching Uranium  The U.S. and its allies say their concern is that the
uranium, which can be used to generate energy, can be further
processed into 90 percent weapons-grade material.  Iran does not need uranium enriched beyond a 20 percent
purity level, Iranian Atomic Energy Organization chief Fereydoun
Abbasi-Davani was quoted as saying in an interview on state
television late yesterday, according to the official  Islamic
Republic News Agency .  “We will produce and store uranium enriched to that level
until able to fulfill the fuel needs of the Tehran reactor for
several years,” Abbasi-Davani said. “Once we have as much fuel
as needed we will decrease its production and may even revert to
solely enriching to 3.5 percent.”  Iranian officials say they need 120 kilograms of the 20
percent-enriched fuel to supply the reactor in the capital,
which produces medical isotopes for cancer patients.  ‘Strategic Asset’  Demands to give up a stockpile of material that Iran
considers strategic raise the question of what the U.S. would be
willing to offer in return, such as easing of sanctions, said
 Trita Parsi , the founder and president of the National Iranian
American Council.  “If there are no concessions given, I find it very
unlikely that the Iranians would agree to those demands, however
justifiable those demands would be,” said Parsi, the author of
“A Single Roll of the Dice: Obama’s Diplomacy with Iran.” “It
doesn’t just seem very likely that the Iranians would agree to
give up a strategic asset and still wait for oil sanctions to
kick in.”  Both sides have shown a repeated pattern of pushing the
other to “maximalist demands,” said Parsi, whose Washington-
based group advocates diplomacy with Iran.  “Every time, that has ended up being a miscalculation,”
he said. “Neither side is going to capitulate.”  Iran denies Western suspicions that it is pursuing a
weapons capability, saying it wants nuclear power to provide
energy for a growing population and to conduct medical research.  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said yesterday that
Iran, a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, will
retain its right to scientific progress in its atomic program.
He also attacked  Israel  and its allies for having nuclear
weapons and threatening his country.  ‘No Mention’  “Certain countries in the region not only possess nuclear
technology but also have the atomic bomb,” Ahmadinejad said in
an address to industry officials on the occasion of Iran’s
nuclear technology day. “However there is no mention of them
and no one is bothering them.  Iranian officials often have condemned what they see as a
double standard because none of the three nuclear-weapons powers
in the region -- Israel,  Pakistan , and  India  -- has signed the
nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Israel hasn’t acknowledged
having nuclear weapons.  The U.S. has sought support from  Russia  and China for
international efforts pressing the Iranians to curb uranium
enrichment. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said
March 30 that Iran is breaching UN resolutions and ‘‘expanding’’
the scale of its nuclear program.  Turkish Response  Earlier this month, Iranian officials said  Turkey  wouldn’t
be a suitable location for nuclear talks in light of its
sympathies for the opposition in  Syria , an Iranian ally.  Iran’s Salehi had suggested China and  Iraq  as potential
venues. The secretary of Iran’s Expediency Council, named
Baghdad, Damascus or Beirut as more suitable locations than
Istanbul.  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan rebuked Iranian
official as being ‘‘dishonest,” saying they were proposing
alternative locations they knew the U.S. and its European allies
wouldn’t find acceptable.  The Turkish government once blamed officials in  Washington 
for the continuing U.S.-Iran conflict, thinking leaders in
Tehran hadn’t been approached properly, said  Karim Sadjadpour ,
an associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace,
a policy research group in Washington.  Turkey was soon frustrated with its own efforts to find
agreement with the Iranian regime over the nuclear issue and on
Syria, Sadjadpour said yesterday in an e-mail. The result is
that Iran risks isolating itself with few allies other than
 North Korea , Cuba,  Venezuela  and the regime of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria, he said.  “There are increasingly few locales in the world today
which both the U.S. and Iran consider neutral diplomatic
terrain,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  