-- Italy Fights Spain for Investors as ECB Boost Fades: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-04-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/italy-fights-spain-for-investors-as-ecb-boost-fades-euro-credit.html
Competition between  Italy  and  Spain 
for international investors’ funds will heat up this quarter as
domestic buying stoked by the European Central Bank fades.  Italian and Spanish bonds slumped last week after demand
dropped at a Spanish bond sale and Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said his country is in “extreme difficulty.” The decline
reversed a first-quarter rally sparked by more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) of ECB loans to the region’s banks via its
longer-term refinancing operation.  Spain’s 10-year yield spread 
to German bunds widened to the most in four months, while
Italy’s reached a six-week high.  “Spain and Italy are coming back down to earth after an
incredible first quarter,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European
interest-rate strategy at Credit Agricole SA in London. “The
LTRO bought some time, but not a massive amount of time. Now the
second quarter will be harder than the first unless policy moves
convince foreign investors to come back in.”  Italian 10-year bonds fell  for a fourth week, with the
yield advancing 40 basis points to 5.51 percent. The yield
difference over bunds widened to 378 basis points, compared with
an average of 381 basis points in the first quarter. Spain’s 10-
year yield spread to Germany reached 410 basis points last week
after averaging 333 basis points in the first three months.  Recycled Cash  Yields dropped in the first three months of the year,
suggesting Europe’s lenders were recycling ECB cash into
regional bonds. Investors made 13 percent, including reinvested
interest, on Italy’s bonds in the period between the ECB
announcing the loans on Dec. 8 and the end of the first quarter.
Spanish debt returned 6 percent.  “The two LTROs are a window of opportunity for governments
to undertake fiscal consolidation and structural reforms,” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said in  Frankfurt  on April 4. “National
policy makers need to fully meet their responsibility.”  Credit Agricole  calculates that the ECB’s support,
including loans to banks and direct purchases, prompted
purchases of more than 250 billion euros of Spanish and Italian
 government securities  between the third quarter of 2011 and the
first quarter of this year. That’s more than the 216 billion
euros of debt sold by the two nations during the same period.  Spain sold 2.59 billion euros of bonds on April 4, just
above the minimum amount it planned for the auction and below
the 3.5 billion-euro maximum target. The sale followed auctions
on March 27 where both Spain and Italy failed to raise their
maximum target amount.  Fading Effect  “The positive effect from the LTRO is fading and so the
market is focusing on what the political developments will be,”
said Werner Fey, a  fund manager  at Frankfurt Trust Investment
GmbH, which oversees 6.5 billion euros of fixed-income assets.
“The Spanish auction was not very well received and there’s a
risk that forthcoming auctions could be difficult for other
peripheral countries.”  Spain has to repay 44.3 billion euros of bonds in the
second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while
Italy has 87.8 billion euros to refinance.  Spain has already met 44 percent of its total financing
needs for this year, according to UBS AG estimates. Italy has
sold 28 percent of its requirement while  France  has issued 32
percent and  Germany  25 percent, the calculations show. Most of
the Spanish and Italian bonds were bought by local investors,
the data shows.  Charity at Home  “Foreign investors have been reducing their holdings,
there’s been a significant shift toward relying on domestic
investors,” said Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate strategist
at UBS in London. “This trend is likely to stay in place and
that leaves the burden on the domestic investors, which aren’t
being supported by the ECB’s liquidity anymore.”  Natixis Asset Management is buying Italian debt while
remaining neutral on Spain, because Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
government has removed much of the political risk surrounding
his nation’s securities, while Spain’s situation remains
clouded, according to Axel Botte, a Paris-based strategist at
the $694 billion fund manager.  Monti, who replaced  Silvio Berlusconi  in November as
Italian bond yields jumped to euro-era records, is implementing
spending cuts and tax increases to eliminate the  budget deficit 
next year and trim the nation’s 1.9 trillion-euro debt.  Deficit Slippage  Spain’s Rajoy announced on March 2 that his government
wouldn’t comply with the deficit target the previous
administration had agreed with the European Union. The nation
now wants to get its debt down to 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product this year, rather than 4.4 percent. The country hasn’t
met the EU’s 3 percent deficit ceiling since 2007, and the
government forecasts debt to reach 79.8 percent of GDP this
year, the highest in more than three decades.  Banca Ifis SpA, a Venice-based financial-services company
controlled by a member of the Furstenberg family, said on April
4 that it bought 2 billion euros of Italian sovereign debt in
December and January. BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money
manager with $3.51 trillion of investments, said on the same day
that it is buying Italian stocks.  “We’ve gone back overweight Italy, after having had
virtually nothing there for a number of years,” Nigel Bolton,
who oversees about $14.6 billion as head of BlackRock’s European
equities, said in an interview. “As the direct result of
Berlusconi going, we started to put money back into Italy and
it’s our second-biggest overweight country in  Europe .”  ‘Number of Missteps’  The extra yield investors demand to own Spain’s  10-year
bonds instead of Italy’s  widened to an eight-month high of 44
basis points last month on concern its deficit-cutting efforts
are faltering. The gap is currently about 33 basis points.  “Operations like the LTROs can provide ongoing support to
sovereigns, but only if they are perceived to be moving in the
right direction,” David Mackie, chief European economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to investors on April 5.
“The Spanish government has made a number of missteps in recent
weeks which have raised questions about its credibility, and it
is this that is making investors reluctant to purchase Spanish
debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  