-- Job Growth Below Estimates Shapes Election-Year Sparring
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/jon-growth-below-estimates-shapes-election-year-sparring.html
A weaker-than-expected jobs report
became election-year fodder as Republicans seized on the numbers
to criticize President  Barack Obama , and Democrats warned
against reading too much into one month of data.  The Labor Department said April 6 that employers added
120,000 jobs in March, after an increase of 227,000 in February.
It was the fewest jobs added in five months. Unemployment fell
to 8.2 percent from 8.3 percent as discouraged workers left the
 labor force . The jobs growth was less than the most pessimistic
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The election may turn on independent voters’ views of U.S.
economic policy,  Ohio (BEESOH)  Governor  John Kasich  said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press yesterday.  ‘‘Whoever can tell them that they’re going to improve this
economy, create jobs for families, will be the winner,’’ said
Kasich, a Republican.  Ohio (NFSEOH)  voters backed Obama in 2008 and have
supported the national winner in every presidential election
since 1960.  Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, indicated
disappointment with the latest jobs numbers.  ‘‘Like the president, we want this to move more quickly,’’
Durbin said on NBC. ‘‘We’re moving in the right direction.’’  The comments by Durbin and Kasich echoed statements that
Obama and Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  made
soon after the jobs report’s release.  Employment Gains  Obama, who is seeking a second four-year term, said the new
jobs are ‘‘welcome’’ and pointed to employment gains over the
past two years.  Romney, who has more than half the delegates he needs to
secure the Republican nomination, said Obama’s ‘‘excuses have
run out.’’  Kasich blamed the political divide between the parties in
Washington for the failure to improve conditions more quickly.  ‘‘Government clearly has a role in the area of health care,
in  Medicare (FFSOMED)  and in  Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  and in Social Security,’’ he said.
‘‘But we need to modernize the program, and we need to do it
together.’’  Durbin criticized the budget passed by  House Republicans ,
saying that the proposed changes to Medicare would force future
retirees to find health care on the open market.  As Obama has done, Durbin criticized Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor, for describing the House budget plan as
‘‘marvelous.’’  Romney’s Approach  Romney’s approach would constitute ‘‘a return to the same
economic policy we had under President Bush that brought on the
worst recession since the Great Depression,” Durbin said,
referring to Republican President  George W. Bush . “We don’t
want to go back to those economic policies.”  Republicans said that the Democratic-controlled Senate
hasn’t passed a budget and that Obama hasn’t identified a clear
plan for reducing the federal budget  deficit  and debt.  Senator  Ron Johnson , a Wisconsin Republican, said on “Fox
News Sunday” that voters in November would encounter an
“extremely stark choice” about the economy and the budget.  “We need presidential leadership and we have none,” he
said.  What’s lacking, said Democratic Senator Kent Conrad, is
bipartisan cooperation. Conrad, of  North Dakota , is chairman of
the Senate Budget Committee and has endorsed plans to reduce the
deficit that rely on spending cuts and tax increases. Most
Republicans say spending cuts alone should be used.  “If we don’t get together, we can’t accomplish anything,”
he said on Fox yesterday in an appearance with Johnson.  Post-Election Agreement  Conrad said a broad budget agreement may emerge after the
election. He said that could happen either before or after Jan.
1, when income tax cuts expire and automatic spending cuts are
scheduled to take effect.  Congress returns to work on the week of April 16. The
Senate is scheduled to consider the “Buffett Rule,” a tax bill
backed by Democrats that would require people making over $2
million to pay at least a 30 percent effective tax rate.  The rule is named for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett ,
who has called for higher taxes on investment income.  Obama is planning a speech on the Buffett Rule April 10 in
 Boca Raton ,  Florida .  Separately, Republican presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich 
said Romney is “far and away” the most likely candidate to win
the Republican nomination.  Speaking on Fox, the former speaker of the House said
yesterday he’ll endorse Romney if he gets a majority of the
delegates to the Republican nominating convention.  ‘Very Substantial Machine’  “I have no regrets, but it’s clear that Governor Romney
has done a very good job of building a very substantial
machine,” Gingrich said. He added that his campaign is in debt
and that he spent money in a “real brawl” in Florida, where he
lost the Jan. 31 primary to Romney.  “We’re operating on a shoestring,” said Gingrich, 68.  After the latest round of primary voting, Romney has 658
delegates, according to an Associated Press tally. That is more
than half the 1,144 needed to capture the nomination. Former
Senator  Rick Santorum  has 281 delegates, Gingrich trails with
135 delegates and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  has 51.  If Romney is the nominee, Gingrich said, “I will work as
hard for him as I would for myself” during the fall campaign.
Republicans are all committed to defeating Obama, a “genuine
radical,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  