-- Korea Says No Plan to Curb Record Foreigner Bond Buying
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-09T03:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/korea-says-no-plan-to-curb-record-foreigner-bond-buying.html
South Korea , which suffered a sudden
outflow of capital in 2008, has no plans to curb record
purchases of its debt by foreign funds and will sell 30-year
bonds aimed at such investors, a finance ministry official said.  The level of foreign investment is “manageable” and no
curbs are planned, Shin Hyung Chul, director general of the
treasury bureau at the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, said in
an April 5 interview in Gwacheon, south of Seoul. The government
will “gradually increase” issuance of securities maturing in a
decade or more to stabilize fundraising, he said.  “Foreign investors, especially insurers, have shown keen
interest in the 30-year notes, and we expect the sale to be done
smoothly,” Shin said. “Overseas central banks including  Norway 
and  Switzerland  have entered the South Korean  debt market 
recently, and these moves reflect their positive views on the
Korean economy.”  Overseas funds raised holdings of the nation’s bonds to a
record 88.5 trillion won ($78 billion) last month, the Financial
Supervisory Service said on April 4. The ministry plans to sell
30-year debt from September, raising 400 billion won each month,
the government said in January.  The won fell 26 percent in 2008 when the subprime mortgage
crisis shook financial markets, the worst performer among Asian
currencies. Overseas funds sold a net 43.2 trillion won of South
Korean stocks in 2008, while cutting holdings of the nation’s
debt by 991 billion won, government data show. The won will gain
5.3 percent by year-end to 1,080 per dollar, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Capital Inflows  “Foreigners’ investment pattern in Korean bonds had been
short-term focused, targeting interest-rate differences, but
this seems to be changing with more long-term funds entering the
market,” said Kong Dong Rak, a Seoul-based fixed-income analyst
at Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .  Authorities are concerned about capital flows as they can
reverse abruptly, and are considering whether the measures
imposed so far are sufficient, Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, wrote last month in a
note to clients. In January 2011, the government revived a tax
of as much as 14 percent on interest income from treasury bonds
held by foreigners, as well as a 20 percent levy on  capital
gains  from their sale.  Bond Yields  Three-year government bond yields rose 20 basis points this
year to 3.51 percent as of 11:55 a.m. in Seoul on April 9,
according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc. Shin forecast
yields won’t rise much more in 2012 as the  Federal Reserve 
pledged to keep borrowing costs low throughout 2014, which will
help keep Korean rates down.  “Compared with countries that have a similar  credit
rating , South Korea has higher yields and stable government
finances,” said Shin, 52, who worked at the treasury bureau for
nearly 10 years in his 28-year career in government. “The new
issuance of longer-dated bonds shows faith in South Korea’s
economy.”  Moody’s Investors Service raised South Korea’s credit
rating outlook this month to positive from stable, citing “very
strong and improving fiscal fundamentals.” The rating remains
at A1, its fifth-highest grade. The  economy,  which grew the
least in two years in the last three months of 2011, may have
bottomed last quarter and will return to a recovery path this
quarter, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said on April 4.  30-Year Debt  Foreign investors held 17.8 percent of government debt as
of end-2011, compared with 8.4 percent in 2008, according to a
 finance ministry  statement in January. Funds based in the U.S.
were the biggest net investors in won bonds last month, followed
by those in France and Norway, data from the financial regulator
show. South Korea asked other central banks to hold discussions
on purchases of each others’ assets, he said.  The finance ministry expects the spread between 20- and 30-
year notes to be similar “or slightly wider” than that between
10- and 20-year securities, Shin said. Benchmark 10-year notes
yielded 3.91 percent today, compared with 3.98 for 20-year
securities, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  Details of the new bond sale will be released on July,
according to Shin. Three- and five-year notes accounted for 57.1
percent of government debt issuance last year, a finance
ministry statement showed on January.  The ministry plans to issue more inflation-linked bonds
this year than in 2011 should investors demand more, Shin said.
The government sold 700 billion won of inflation linkers during
the first quarter and about 1 trillion won of the debt in 2011,
he said.  Consumer prices  rose 2.6 percent in March from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in 20 months, after hitting a near
three-year high of 4.7 percent in August.  The finance ministry also plans to sell a 10 percent stake
in the Industrial Bank of  Korea  this year and is looking at
market conditions to decide the timing of the sale, Shin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  