-- Nigeria Bombing Kills as Many as 50 Near Church in Kaduna
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2012-04-08T17:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/nigeria-explosion-kills-50-near-church-in-city-of-kaduna.html
As many as 50 people were killed in
a suicide car bombing today near a church in the northern
Nigerian city of Kaduna.  “It was a big explosion that shook the whole city,” and
about 50 people may have died, Shehu Sani, president of the
Civil Rights Congress, said by phone from Kaduna. The explosion
occurred about 8:30 a.m. local time near the Assemblies of God
Protestant church in the city, Sani said. Nobody has claimed
responsibility so far.  Kaduna state’s Emergency Agency said 16 people had died in
the city’s four hospitals, though this number didn’t include
those immediately killed in the blast, Abubakar Zakari Adamu, a
spokesman for the agency said by phone. About 30 others were
seriously injured and being treated, he said. Yinka David, a
Kaduna resident, said by phone that he counted about 30 bodies
at the scene and the bombing happened about 500 meters from the
church.  Authorities in  Nigeria , Africa’s biggest oil producer,
blame Boko Haram, an Islamist militant group, for a surge of
attacks since 2009 against government buildings and security
forces in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja, the capital. Those
attacks have caused hundreds of deaths.  “We are working hard to get those behind it,” Aminu
Lawan, a spokesman for Kaunda state police said by phone. He
said five people were killed in the attack, though the death
toll may rise, he said.  Emergency Agency  Boko Haram, whose name means “western education is a
sin,” claimed responsibility for the Christmas Day bombing of a
church near Abuja that killed at least 43 people, as well as
multiple blasts and attacks in the city of Kano on Jan. 20 that
killed at least 256 people.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with more than 160
million people, is split almost evenly between a mainly Muslim
north and a predominantly Christian south.  The  National Emergency Management Agency  officials are
visiting local hospitals to get an update on the casualty
figures and to give support to the victims, Yushau Shuaib, an
Abuja-based spokesman for the agency, said by phone today. The
explosion occurred near the Ahmadu Bello Stadium in Kaduna and
didn’t affect the city’s oil refinery, he added.  Bauchi Deaths  “It seems commercial okada riders are major victims,”
Shuaib said in an earlier text message, referring to motorcycle
taxi drivers.  An explosion in Kaduna killed at least one person at a
military checkpoint in February.  In a separate incident, the police said they killed two
suspected members of Boko Haram and arrested one in the northern
city of Bauchi as they planned an attack, Muhammed Ladan, police
commissioner for Bauchi, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Reuben Abati, a spokesman for President Goodluck Jonathan,
didn’t answer two calls made to his mobile phone seeking
comment.  U.K. Foreign Office Minister for  Africa  Henry Bellingham
condemned the bombing in Kaduna.  “This horrific act took place on Easter Sunday injuring
and killing innocent people,” Bellingham said in a statement
today on the foreign office’s website. “The full tragedy of the
attacks is not yet clear, but I send my sincere condolences to
those who have been injured or bereaved.”  Islamic militants, who also claimed responsibility for the
Aug. 26 suicide bombing at the United Nations building in Abuja
that left 24 dead, pose a worse threat to the country than the
1967-1970 Biafra civil war, Jonathan said on Jan. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  