-- To Seriously Improve Global Health, Reinvent the Toilet
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/to-seriously-improve-global-health-reinvent-the-toilet.html
The toilet is a magnificent thing.
Invented at the turn of the 19th century, the flush version has
vastly improved human life.  The toilet has been credited with adding a decade to our
longevity. The sanitation system to which it is attached was
voted the  greatest medical advance  in 150 years by readers of
the British Medical Journal.  Unfortunately it is an impractical luxury for about two-
thirds of the world’s 7 billion people because it relies on
connections to water and sewerage systems that must be built and
maintained at great expense. About  40 percent of all people , an
estimated 2.6 billion of them, have no access to even a
minimally sanitary facility, according to the  World Health
Organization .  The result is illness and early death. Diarrheal diseases,
including those linked to improper sanitation, are the second
largest killer in the developing world, taking 2 million lives
annually. A cholera outbreak in  Haiti , which has so far killed
more than 7,000, for instance, apparently began when sewage from
a base housing Nepalese peacekeepers contaminated a water
source.  Vaccines and medicines against these diseases help. But the
ultimate solution is to address the problem at its root.  Doing so requires reimagining the toilet. First, new
designs are required for toilets that are hygienic, pleasant,
and cheap to make and use, and that work without being connected
to a grid. Because such a facility would have to be periodically
emptied, ideally excretions would be treated not as waste but
either recycled on site or turned into profitable resources.  Among the  designs being developed  by eight university teams
funded by the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  are several that
divert and capture urine, from which water can be recovered.
Others produce energy from excrement by turning it into charcoal
or gas. Governments and universities should fund similar grants
aimed at encouraging additional innovative toilet redesigns.  The Gates Foundation requires that the overall cost of a
future toilet, including maintenance, not exceed 5 cents per
user per day -- a price developing world consumers can afford.
That would enable the private sector to step up production and
distribution once practical new models have emerged. Cities
would have to build a new generation of waste-processing
centers, but the investment would quickly pay for itself. A
 World Health Organization   study  suggests that every dollar
devoted to improving sanitation and drinking water produces
economic benefits ranging from $3 to $34, because of health-care
savings, deaths averted, and improved productivity and school
attendance.  Because operating a toilet will ultimately cost individuals
a little money, the uninitiated -- the 1.1 billion people who
defecate in the open -- will have to be persuaded of the
benefits. This will require huge education and advocacy efforts,
for which UN agencies and nongovernment organizations that deal
with the world’s poor have proved to be well-suited, based on
their rollout of HIV drugs, for instance.  For gridless sanitation to be economical, commerce needs to
flourish around the collection and treatment of excrement.
Government agencies and charitable business associations could
help by offering local businesses small grants, loans and expert
guidance to encourage this enterprise. One model is the U.S.-
based  Acumen Fund , which offers loans to or equity in companies
that provide consumers in the developing world with essential
needs. In 2004, the fund invested $600,000 in WaterHealth
International, established to bring safe drinking water to rural
Indians, and today the company serves more than 5 million
people.  More than anything, these potentially helpful actors must
go beyond recognizing sanitation as an issue and embrace it. So
far, squeamishness has been an impediment. As a result, other
public health causes have claimed greater attention and funding.  According to an annual  report  by the  George Institute for
Global Health , of the money spent on research and development of
new products for diseases that disproportionately affect the
developing world, AIDS accounts for 39 percent, malaria 18
percent and tuberculosis 15 percent. Diarrheal diseases get 5
percent, though they cause more morbidity and mortality than
anything but lower respiratory infections, mostly pneumonia
(which attracts a lousy 3 percent of the research total).  Bad sanitation is a problem not so hard to solve, if only
we devote ourselves to spreading the wonders of the toilet.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: William D. Cohan on stifling  Wall Street
innovation ;  Albert R. Hunt   on Obamacare ;  Mark Buchanan  on
 economic theory and the weather ;  Noah Feldman  on  strip searches ;
 Steven Greenhut  on  high-speed rail ; Tim Judah on  Bosnia’s
rejuvenation .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 