-- Phillips 66 Looks to Pipes to Blunt Refining Volatility
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-04-09T07:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/phillips-66-looks-to-pipes-to-blunt-refining-volatility.html
Phillips 66 (0006104D)  will debut next month as
the world’s largest independent refiner by market value. In the
future, it may look more like a pipeline and chemical business.  The new Houston-based company, set to begin trading May 1
after its spinoff from  ConocoPhillips (COP) , plans to boost profit by
emphasizing growth in its higher-return businesses and shrink
its more volatile fuel processing. Greg Garland, slated to
become chief executive officer, will update investors in a
webcast today on its outlook as a standalone company.  Phillips 66 is trying to sell its Trainer refinery in
Pennsylvania and Alliance plant in  Louisiana  that provide about
a sixth of its capacity. At the same time, it plans to nearly
double by 2015 the proportion of  capital  it invests in chemicals
and pipelines to 30 percent, compared with 16 percent last year.  “The strongest growth story is in those two businesses,”
Brian Youngberg, an analyst with  Edward Jones , said in an
interview. “There are a lot of opportunities in chemicals and
in pipelines.”  ConocoPhillips has seen wide swings in  profit  from refining
and marketing in the past five years. Earnings, excluding one-
time gains and losses, fell to as low as $115 million in 2009
from $5.33 billion in 2007. Profit recovered to $2.62 billion
last year, still half of the 2007 level.  Earnings from chemicals surged to $745 million last year
from $498 million in 2010. Midstream profit rose to $458 million
from $306 million in the same period.  ConocoPhillips has gained 3.7 percent in the past three
months, the best performance on the 6-member  Standard and Poor’s
500 Integrated Oil & Gas Index , which fell 1.6 percent.  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , with half the index’s weighting, fell 0.4 percent.  Higher-Value Pipelines  Pipeline companies are  valued  at an average of eight times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization --
more than triple that of refiners such as  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,
which trades at about 2.7 times trailing Ebitda, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pipeline projects are not risk-free. ConocoPhillips last
week said it suspended funding for a proposed C$16.2 billion
($16.3 billion) project that would bring natural gas from
northern  Canada  to U.S. markets, citing low prices for the fuel.
ConocoPhillips said it will have a one-time charge of about $525
million in its first-quarter results because of the project. Its
partners didn’t immediately announce any expected charges.  Growing global demand for chemicals is expected to more
than double the industry’s profits by 2016, according to  IHS
Inc. (IHS) , a consultant. Earnings for companies with primarily U.S.-
based operations have surged as natural gas prices have fallen
to a decade low, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chemical Makers Benefit  Chemical makers get a double benefit from low gas prices,
using it to power their factories and as a feedstock to make
products such as ethylene and polyethylene plastic.  Rising crude prices and declining U.S.  demand  for gasoline
have squeezed refining margins in U.S. coastal areas. Refining
 profitability  on the U.S. East Coast fell in 2011 to the lowest
point in nine years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refinery owners including Exxon and  BP Plc (BP/)  are closing or
selling plants to refocus spending on more profitable operations
such as crude production.  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  and  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  have sought to
increase  shareholder value  by capitalizing on the networks of
pipelines they own that carry crude and fuel to their plants.
Refiners are able to lock in long-term shipping contracts on the
pipelines that provide stable earnings and growth independent of
the peaks and valleys of crude prices.  Sunoco’s Refineries  Sunoco sold or closed five of its refineries and invested
more heavily in pipelines and storage. While losing money on
refining in 10 of the last 11 quarters, Sunoco  shares  almost
doubled during that time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Marathon is considering an initial public offering
for its pipeline assets that may be worth as much as $6.2
billion.  Garland, the CEO-designate of  Phillips 66 (PSX-W) , previously held
that job at Conoco’s chemical joint venture with  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., which operates primarily in the
U.S. and is based in The Woodlands,  Texas . ConocoPhillips’
portion of the venture will become a part of Phillips 66 after
the spinoff.  Profit  at the chemical company jumped 42 percent in
2011 to $1.97 billion compared with the previous year, according
to the company website.  The venture is spending $5 billion to build a new ethylene
plant in Baytown, Texas, by 2017 as well as two polyethylene
plants and related infrastructure, Executive Vice President Mark Lashier said in an interview March 6. The  chemical industry  may
spend $30 billion to build U.S. factories that can convert gas
into plastics as low gas prices have made American production
the cheapest outside the  Middle East , Lashier said.  Market Value  ConocoPhillips shareholders will receive one share of the
new Phillips 66 refining entity on April 30 for every two
ConocoPhillips shares they hold as of the close of business on
April 16.  Using that formula, about two-thirds of Houston-based
ConocoPhillips’s $96 billion market value will remain in the
business of finding and producing oil and gas, said  Philip Weiss , an analyst with Argus Research.  The other third will go to Phillips 66, which will include
refining, pipeline and chemical operations. The new refiner’s
potential market capitalization of about $32 billion would be
more than twice that of current leaders Valero and Marathon
Petroleum, each worth about $14 billion to $15 billion.  Investors accustomed to the more stable returns of an oil
and gas explorer may want to sell their shares of Phillips 66 if
the company is perceived solely as a refiner, said  Ted Harper ,
who helps manage $8 billion for Frost Investment Advisors LLC in
Houston.  More Midstream Investment  “Refining generally has lower margins and returns in the
energy value chain,” he said. “Conoco was never really known
as having the best refining assets.”  Phillips 66 plans annual dividend increases and possible
share repurchases, according to a ConocoPhillips investor slide
 presentation  on March 5. Its so-called “midstream” operations,
which move crude or fuel products to and from refineries, are
managed primarily through DCP Midstream LLC, a Denver-based
joint venture with  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE)   “You’re going to see more investment proportionately
towards the midstream and chemicals through those joint
ventures,” ConocoPhillips CEO  Jim Mulva  told investors during
the presentation. “We think diversification, a strong balance
sheet, is really going to position this company to create
value.”  About 20 percent of the capital employed to operate the
refining spinoff will go toward its chemicals business by 2015,
compared with 11 percent last year, according to presentation
slides. Midstream projects will comprise 10 percent of capital
employed by 2015, compared with 5 percent in 2011.  U.S.  gasoline demand  is averaging about 5 percent lower in
March than in the previous year, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. The company has said it plans to cut daily crude
refining capacity to about 2 million barrels by the end of this
year, compared with 2.7 million at the end of 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  