-- Prices Probably Rose at a Slower Pace: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-08T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/prices-probably-rose-at-a-slower-pace-u-s-economy-preview.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose at a slower pace in March as increases in energy
expenses subsided, economists said before a report this week.  Consumer prices advanced 0.3 percent after climbing 0.4
percent in February, according to the median of 58 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey ahead of the Labor Department’s April 13
release. Other figures may show prices paid by producers also
grew more slowly and that the nation’s trade deficit was little
changed from the widest gap since October 2008.  An economic expansion that probably slowed at the beginning
of the year may be encouraging companies to hold the line on
prices. Limited pricing power would enable Federal Reserve
policy makers to keep  interest rates  near zero to spur the pace
of the economic recovery and boost employment.  “With growth barely managing to keep pace with trend,
underlying inflation should remain modest this year,”  Michael Hanson , an economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New York , said
in an April 5 research note to clients. “The main risk to the
inflation forecast remains a sharp increase in  oil prices .”  Energy costs may retreat following crude oil prices fell
after peaking in February at the highest level since April 2011.
Crude oil for May delivery dropped $4.05 to $102.80 per barrel
by the end of last month. Natural gas is near its lowest price
since 2002.  The Fed said after last month’s policy meeting that the
jump in energy costs will probably be short-lived.  “The recent increase in oil and gasoline prices will push
up inflation temporarily, but the Committee anticipates that
subsequently inflation will run at or below the rate that it
judges most consistent with its dual mandate,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said in the minutes of its March 13 meeting.  Core CPI  The Labor Department’s inflation report may also show
consumer prices  excluding  food and fuel rose 0.2 percent last
month after a gain of 0.1 percent in February, the Bloomberg
survey  median  showed. Compared with the same month last year,
retail prices are projected to increase 2.2 percent, matching
February’s 12-month gain.  “We are actually seeing inflation moderate in the first
quarter,” Rick Dreiling, chief executive officer of
Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based Dollar General Corp. said in a
March 22 call with analysts. Prices have increased about 1
percent in the first quarter, about half of the rate in the
first three months of 2011, he said.  Wholesale Prices  The producer price  index  probably rose 0.3 percent last
month after a 0.4 percent gain in February, economists forecast
ahead of the April 12 Labor Department report.  Fed officials have indicated they will probably hold off on
more monetary accommodation unless prices rise more slowly than
their 2 percent target or the economic expansion falters,
according to the minutes of their March 13 meeting released last
week. Their preferred price gauge, which is issued by the
Commerce Department and is tied to  consumer spending , rose 2.3
percent in the year ended in February.  The policy makers may reiterate their views on inflation
this week when they discuss their economic outlook. Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  will speak in New York on April 11, and
William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , will speak in Syracuse the next day. Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  is scheduled to discuss financial stability on April 9.  The  trade deficit  was probably little changed at $51.7
billion in February after $52.6 billion a month earlier,
according to the median estimate from economists ahead of the
April 12 report. Slower global growth may limit imports and
export, economists said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  