-- Rangers Fall to Capitals, Lose NHL Standings Race to Canucks
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-08T05:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/rangers-fall-to-capitals-lose-nhl-standings-race-to-canucks.html
The  New York Rangers  lost their bid
for the Presidents’ Trophy, which goes to the team with the best
overall record in the  National Hockey League , after falling 4-1
to the  Washington Capitals  in the final game of the regular
season.  The Rangers (51-24-7), the top seed in the Eastern
Conference, ended the season last night with 109 points, two
points behind the Vancouver Canucks (51-22-9), who shut out the
Edmonton Oilers 3-0. Before last night’s games, the Rangers and
Canucks were tied with New York holding the advantage on
tiebreakers.  The Rangers will meet the No. 8  Ottawa Senators  in the
first round of the Stanley Cup playoff series. The NHL will
announce today the schedule for the playoffs.  “This team here, the  New York  Rangers, can beat any team
in this league,” coach John Tortorella told reporters. “We’re
just looking forward to getting started in the playoffs.”  Before the win against the Rangers, the Capitals were in
the eighth and final playoff spot. The victory moved them into
seventh place ahead of Ottawa, which lost 4-2 to the New Jersey
Devils.  In other Eastern Conference games, it will be No. 7
Capitals and No. 2 Boston Bruins; No. 3 Florida Panthers and No.
6 Devils; and No. 4 Pittsburgh Penguins and No. 5  Philadelphia
Flyers .  Canucks to Face Kings  The top seeded Canucks will meet the No. 8 Los Angeles
Kings in the Western Conference. In other games, it will be the
No. 2 St. Louis Blues and No. 7  San Jose Sharks ; No. 3 Phoenix
Coyotes and No. 6 Chicago Blackhawks; and No. 4 Nashville
Predators and No. 5  Detroit Red Wings .  The matchups weren’t determined until the final game of the
regular season, in which the San Jose Sharks defeated the Los
Angeles Kings 3-2 in overtime to clinch the No. 7 seed in the
Western Conference, dropping the Kings to the No. 8 seed, the
NHL said.  “The game capped a frenetic final day with all 30 NHL
clubs in action over 12 hours, during which the Presidents’
Trophy, two division titles, one conference title, seven of
eight playoff match-ups and 11 of 16 playoff seeds were
determined,” the league said.  The NHL is to announce dates and time for playoff games
later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  