-- Russia Set to Hold Rates as Ignatiev Sees Price Pressures Mount
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-04-08T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/russia-set-to-hold-rates-as-ignatiev-sees-price-pressures-mount.html
Russia ’s central bank will probably
refrain from cutting interest rates for a fourth month after
signaling concern about meeting its inflation target as the job
market may overheat.  Bank Rossii will leave the refinancing rate at 8 percent
when it meets today, according to 21 of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . One analyst predicted a quarter-point
cut. The overnight auction-based repurchase rate will stay at
5.25 percent and the overnight deposit rate will remain at 4
percent, two separate surveys showed.  The world’s largest energy exporter has kept borrowing
costs unchanged even after the inflation rate fell to the lowest
in two decades. China may ease policy to boost faltering growth
and  Brazil  has cut its benchmark rate five times since August.
While it’s “premature” to say Russia’s labor market is
overheating, policy makers are watching the  unemployment rate  in
steering policy, Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said.  “Unemployment in seasonally adjusted terms is close to
all-time lows,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at Bank of
America Merill Lynch in Moscow, said in a telephone interview
April 6. “The last time they had this level of unemployment was
during the red-hot economy of 2007 and 2008.”  Unemployment fell to 6.5 percent in February from 6.6
percent the month before, the lowest level for February since at
least 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
seasonally adjusted terms, the jobless rate reached 5.8 percent
and was only lower in the second quarter of 2008, when Russia’s
economy was seen as “overheating,” according to Ignatiev.  Won’t Be Easy  The task of containing consumer-price growth within the
target range of between 5 percent and 6 percent in 2012 “won’t
be very easy,” after last year’s record-low 6.1 percent,
Ignatiev said April 5.  The ruble jumped 9.2 percent against the dollar in the
three months through March 31, beating Brazil’s,  China ’s and
 India ’s currencies in its biggest quarterly appreciation on
record. Urals crude oil, Russia’s chief export, gained 13
percent to $119.63 per barrel over the same period.  Investors are betting interest rates will drop 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, over the next three months,
compared with expectations of as much as 31 basis points of cuts
on Feb. 7, according to forward-rate agreements tracked by
Bloomberg. The three-month MosPrime  rate  banks say they charge
to lend to each other in rubles has dropped 54 basis points this
year.  Ten of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a
reduction of at least a quarter-point by the end of the year,
while three predicted the year-end rate would be higher than the
current 8 percent.  Rates Peaking  Borrowing costs for companies and the  interest rates  paid
on  bank deposits  have probably crested and may soon begin
falling, Ignatiev said in his address to the annual congress of
the Association of Russian Banks. The average rate for loans to
companies peaked at 9.3 percent in December from a low of 7.9
percent in July, he said.  Bank Rossii said after its meeting March 13 that market
interest rates were at an “acceptable level for the coming
months.” The phrase is usually interpreted by the market as
meaning “at least two months of peace,”  Alexei Ulyukayev , a
central bank first deputy chairman, said in February.  The  inflation rate  in annual terms would be about 6 percent
now, rather than 3.7 percent in February and March, without the
effects of last year’s strong harvest and a delayed increase of
prices by utilities, according to Ignatiev.  “Ignatiev’s guidance suggests little room for any cut in
the central bank policy rates in the foreseeable future,”
Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, analysts at  Alfa Bank  in
Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed research note April 6. “The
favorable inflationary trend in the agricultural sector and the
postponement of tariff increases has only delayed price
growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  