-- N. Korea Neighbors Call for Dropping Rocket Launch
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-08T20:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/s-korea-japan-china-voice-concern-over-n-korea-rocket-1-.html
South Korea , Japan and China
expressed concern over  North Korea ’s plan to launch a rocket
this month as the communist nation’s activities raise tension in
the region.  North Korean space officials have moved all three stages of
a long-range rocket into position at the launch site, the
 Associated Press  reported yesterday. The AP said it was among
foreign news agencies allowed a firsthand look at preparations
under way at the coastal Sohae Satellite Station in northwestern
North Korea.  The plan must be canceled “immediately” because it
threatens peace and security in the region, South Korea’s
Foreign Ministry said in a statement yesterday on its website,
citing discussions between Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan and
his Japanese counterpart Koichiro Gemba in Ningbo,  China . In a
separate meeting, Kim and Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi 
pledged their nations will continue diplomatic efforts to steer
North Korea away from provocative actions.  A report by the South Korean Yonhap News Agency yesterday
said that the North was also preparing for an underground
nuclear weapons test. Satellite images show the communist nation
digging a new tunnel underground in the Punggye-ri nuclear test
site in the country’s northeast, where it conducted two previous
nuclear tests, first in 2006 and then in 2009, Yonhap said.  Report Disputed  The South Korean defense ministry isn’t aware that North
Korea is planning a nuclear test, a ministry spokesman said in
Seoul yesterday. The defense ministry spokesman spoke on
condition of anonymity, in accord with ministry policy.  News reports have surfaced every few months about work at
the test site, without any new explosive test occurring, said
Paul Brannan, a senior analyst at the Institute for Science and
International Security, a nuclear-weapons research group in
 Washington .  “You never really know,” Brannan said yesterday. “It
could be signifying a test. It could be just regular work at the
site.”  North Korea’s announcement that it intends to fire a long-
range rocket to put a satellite in orbit between April 12 and
April 16 has worsened relations with South Korea and threatens a
food-aid agreement with the U.S. Japan’s government last week
said it extended sanctions against North Korea by one year
because of the plan.  U.S. Deal  North Korea reached an agreement with the U.S. Feb. 29 to a
impose a moratorium on nuclear tests and long-range missile
launches as well as to end  uranium enrichment  at its facility in
Yongbyon, according to a State Department release. The U.S. said
it would to provide an initial 240,000 metric tons of food.  Following the 2009 nuclear test, the UN Security Council
passed a resolution demanding that North  Korea  “not conduct any
further nuclear test or any launch using ballistic missile
technology” as well as ordering it to comply with treaty
obligations such as cooperating with inspectors from the
 International Atomic Energy Agency , the UN’s nuclear watchdog
agency based in Vienna.  North Korea drew rebukes from nations including the U.S.
earlier last month when it revealed plans to launch an “earth
observation satellite” in April to mark the 100th anniversary
of the birth of state founder  Kim Il Sung , grandfather of the
current leader.  AP cited unnamed experts as saying that the Unha-3 rocket
slated for liftoff could also test long-range missile technology
that might be used to strike the U.S. and other targets.  91-Ton Rocket  All three stages of the 91-ton rocket, emblazoned with the
North Korean flag and “Unha-3,” were visibly in position at
the towering launch pad, AP said. Fueling will begin soon, Jang
Myong Jin, general manager of the launch facility, said during a
tour.  Foreign ministers of South Korea,  Japan  and China met
yesterday in Ningbo for talks on trilateral cooperation, China’s
state-run Xinhua News Agency reported.  China’s Yang called on related parties to stay calm and
seek a peaceful solution through diplomacy, the Chinese-language
report said. China is willing to maintain close contact and
coordination with related parties, Xinhua cited Yang as saying.  The communist nation’s state-run Korean  Central News Agency 
last week said North Korea would execute a “merciless” strike
on anyone who seeks to intercept its satellite or collect and
debris from the launch, citing a spokesman at the country’s
Committee for Peaceful Reunification of Korea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  