-- Singh to Visit Pakistan After ‘Constructive’ Talks With Zardari
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-04-08T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/singh-to-visit-pakistan-after-constructive-talks-with-zardari.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
agreed to visit Pakistan following “constructive” talks with
President Asif Ali Zardari, as the leaders pledged to resolve
their differences and normalize relations between the countries.  “We are willing to find practical and pragmatic solutions
to all those issues and that is the message President Zardari
and I would wish to convey,” Singh said in  statement  in New
Delhi yesterday after a half-hour-long meeting. Zardari
described the talks as “very fruitful.”  This is the first visit to India by a Pakistani head of
state in seven years, as the countries build on a  peace process 
that resumed last year. Singh took advantage of Zardari’s
private religious pilgrimage trip to Rajasthan city of Ajmer, to
hold bilateral talks.  “I would be very happy to visit  Pakistan  on a mutually
convenient date,” Singh said. “The relations between India and
Pakistan should become normal. That’s our common desire.”  Singh’s visit to Pakistan would be the first by an Indian
head of government since January 2004, when former Prime
Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee visited Islamabad for talks with
former Pakistani President  Pervez Musharraf . Singh, 79, was born
in present-day Pakistan.  The nuclear-armed nations have in recent months agreed to
boost trade, expand travel across their frontier in divided
Kashmir and grant more business visas as they normalize economic
ties. Peace talks, derailed by the November 2008 terrorist
strike on Mumbai by Pakistani gunmen that killed 166 people,
restarted in February 2011.  Substantive Issues  “It’s a reasonably satisfactory visit because the
Pakistani president is not in a position to really deliver any
substantive issues to  India ,” said C. Uday Bhaskar, an analyst
at New Delhi-based National Maritime Foundation, a research
group. “We will have to see how talks between officials of both
sides progress and particularly how the Pakistani military deals
with the central issue of support to terror groups.”  Zardari, 56, told Singh that all issues that divide the
countries, including the dispute over Kashmir, control over the
Siachen glacier and disputes over the Sir Creek maritime
borders, need to be addressed, Indian Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai, told reporters in New Delhi yesterday. “Both felt that
we need to move forward step-by-step.”  Pakistan’s Cabinet in March approved a proposal to remove
restrictions on the import of most items from India by December.  During the talks, Singh asked Zardari to take action
against Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, the founder of the Lashkar-e-Taiba
militant group that India and the U.S. have blamed for carrying
out the strike in Mumbai, Mathai said. That issue will be a key
factor to judge progress in bilateral relations, the Foreign
Secretary said.  $10 Million Reward  The U.S. has offered a $10 million reward for help in
arresting Saeed, who continues to address public rallies,
increasing its pressure on Pakistan to move against the
prominent politician and Islamic militant leader.  A day before Zardari’s visit, an avalanche struck a
military post in the Siachen region burying 135 people and
underscoring the cost of the countries’ rivalry in what is
called the world’s highest battlefield. Pakistan’s army said 124
soldiers were among those buried in the avalanche. Singh offered
his guest humanitarian help for the victims, Mathai said.  The Mumbai attack shattered a dialogue that over five years
had increased cross-border trade and strengthened transport and
cultural links. Zardari became president in September 2008,
replacing military leader Pervez Musharraf, who had visited
India three years earlier for talks in  New Delhi  and a cricket
match.  New Negotiation Energy  While Singh and Zardari have tried to inject new energy to
negotiations, both men have been damaged by controversies at
home.  Singh’s administration has been assailed by opposition
parties and allies over efforts to open the economy to more
foreign investment. Alleged government corruption triggered
street protests last year and contributed to defeats in recent
regional elections.  Zardari, too, has been fighting on several fronts. His
prime minister,  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani , is on trial for
contempt in Pakistan’s high court for refusing to order the
reopening of Swiss graft charges against the president.  In separate hearings, the country’s top judges are probing
claims that Zardari sought U.S. assistance in May to ward off a
feared military coup in the wake of Osama bin Laden’s killing in
an army garrison town by American special forces.  Pakistan was carved out of India at independence from
British colonial rule in 1947. Since then the countries have
fought three wars, two of them over the divided territory of
Kashmir, and several skirmishes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  