-- Swan Says Goal of Australian Budget Surplus Is Correct Strategy
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-04-08T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/swan-says-australian-budget-surplus-goal-is-correct-strategy.html
Australia ’s low unemployment
compared with other industrialized nations and record investment
make returning the budget to surplus the correct strategy,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  Achieving a surplus during fiscal 2012-13 is “the right
strategy for an economy returning toward trend growth,” Swan
said in his economic note yesterday. “With solid growth,
contained inflation, very low public debt, low unemployment and
a record pipeline of investment, we are the envy of virtually
every advanced economy.”  Swan, who is preparing Australia’s budget for release on
May 8, faces the challenge of balancing a drop in revenue
against a government pledge to deliver a surplus in the 12
months through June next year. While the resources boom is
benefiting Western Australia and Queensland, retailers and
manufacturers are facing tough conditions in other states.  In the past month, Australian government reports have shown
fourth-quarter gross domestic product expanded at half the pace
economists forecast, and the weakest exports in almost three
years led to Australia’s first trade deficit in 11 months in
January.  Mining investment in Australia, the world’s biggest
exporter of iron ore and coal, is estimated to reach A$120
billion ($124 billion) next year, an increase of around 155
percent in two years, Swan said last month.  ‘Best Defense’  “Claims that the return to surplus is putting growth at
risk overlook the fact that the government’s budget strategy has
been clear and consistent for a long time,” Swan said.
“Returning the budget to surplus is our best defense and is a
key sign of our strong economy.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia held  interest rates  unchanged
on April 3, while signaling it may resume cutting rates as soon
as next month if weaker-than-forecast growth slows inflation.  Returning the budget to surplus is “the right thing to
do,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said April 1, while pledging
to support jobs. Australia has battled natural disasters,
including record floods in Queensland last year, which have
hampered economic activity, including tourism as well as the
export of coal.  China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner, and the RBA
has said it expects Chinese demand for commodities to remain
strong even as recent data painted a mixed picture of the
world’s second-largest economy.  Australia has grown more dependent on resources as
employment in manufacturing dropped by about 30 percent since
2007, while mining and government payrolls rose by more than 50
percent, HSBC Holdings Plc estimates.  “Maintaining our credible fiscal policy also sends a
strong message of confidence to investors across the world in
uncertain times,” Swan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  