-- Syrian Cease-Fire Unravels Amid Alleged Regime Violations
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h   A b d   A l h a m i d
-- 2012-04-08T23:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/syria-demands-guarantees-before-withdrawing-troops-from-cities.html
The United Nations effort to end the
violence in Syria unraveled as the regime differed with envoy
 Kofi Annan  over terms of a cease-fire and opposition groups
reported 59 more people killed.  President Bashar al-Assad’s government refused to pull back
forces without written cease-fire commitments from the rebels.
Colonel Riad al-Asaad, commander of the Free Syrian Army, the
main armed opposition group, told Al Jazeera television in an
interview that while the group would abide by the UN accord, it
wouldn’t give further written guarantees to the government.  Violence has increased since Assad accepted the UN peace
accord on April 2. Syrian government forces killed 59 people
across the country yesterday, the Local Coordination Committees
said in an e-mailed statement.  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem is scheduled to
meet with his Russian counterpart,  Sergei Lavrov , in Moscow
today to discuss developments related to Annan’s peace plan,
SANA reported.  The UN is urging a cease-fire as the U.S. and its allies
try to strengthen the opposition without outside military
involvement. At least 9,000 people have been killed in the year-
long conflict, according to UN estimates.  Annan’s office said in an April 5 statement that it
expected Syrian government forces to withdraw from populated
areas by April 10 as part of the agreement, after which the
government and opposition forces would cease all forms of
violence within 48 hours.  Escalation ‘Unacceptable’  “I remind the Syrian government of the need for full
implementation of its commitments and stress that the present
escalation of violence is unacceptable,” Annan, the UN special
envoy, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Recent violence
has resulted in “alarming levels of casualties, refugees and
displaced persons” and is “in violation of assurances given to
me.”  Syrian state forces executed nine women and children inside
a house in Deir Baalba neighborhood of Homs, the Local
Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
Fighters of the Free Syrian Army in the town of Jisr el-Shughour
in Idlib province shot down an army helicopter during a fight
against regime forces, the London-based Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights said in an e-mailed statement.  In  Rome  yesterday,  Pope Benedict XVI  called on the Syrian
government in his Easter message to end the bloodshed.  ‘End to Bloodshed’  “In Syria, may there be an end to bloodshed and an
immediate commitment to the path of respect, dialogue and
reconciliation, as called for by the international community,”
the pope said, according to The  Associated Press .  UN statements that the government will withdraw troops from
residential areas by April 10 are “a wrong explanation,”
Syrian Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad Maqdisi said in a
 statement  published by the official Syrian Arab News Agency.
Annan “didn’t submit to the Syrian government written
guarantees until now that the armed terrorist groups have
accepted to stop all kinds of violence and lay down their
arms.”  Syria  accused “armed terrorist groups” of increasing
attacks during the last few days, SANA reported two days ago,
citing two government letters to the president of the UN
Security Council and the UN secretary general.  Syria says it is fighting foreign terrorists, armed gangs
and Islamists, and blames countries such as  Saudi Arabia , Qatar,
 Turkey  and the U.S. for aiding the opposition.  Written Guarantees  Ersat Hurmuzlu, an adviser to Turkish President  Abdullah Gul , said it’s unreasonable for the Syrian regime to demand
written guarantees from outsiders that opposition forces would
comply with a cease-fire when they’ve agreed to the Annan plan.
The government is just trying to win more time, he said in a
telephone interview with Al Arabiya television.  The Syrian National Council, the main opposition group,
called on the “UN and its  Security Council  to intervene
urgently to stop the humanitarian crisis caused by the regime
against the unarmed Syrian people,” according to a  statement 
posted on its Facebook page. “Despite the SNC’s readiness to
cooperate with Mr. Kofi Annan, we cannot give the murderous
regime a license to kill,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  