-- U.S. Calls for Support of Yemeni President’s Military Changes
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-04-08T02:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/u-s-calls-for-support-of-yemeni-president-s-military-changes.html
The U.S. called for support of new
Yemeni President Abdurabu Mansur Hadi after forces loyal to
ousted leader Ali Abdullah Saleh shelled an opposition general’s
house in response to Hadi removing some military commanders.  The U.S. welcomes Hadi’s “civilian and military personnel
transfers as part of the ongoing political transition in
Yemen,” State Department acting spokesman Mark Toner said in an
e-mailed statement released late yesterday in  Washington . “In
spite of those who seek to derail the transition, President Hadi
has demonstrated strong leadership by steadfastly implementing
the agreed-upon political settlement.”  Forces loyal to Saleh shelled the house of Major General
Ali Mohsen al-Ahmar, commander of the First Armored Division,
without causing injuries, Abdulghani al-Shameri, the spokesman
for the general, said in a phone interview yesterday. Forces
loyal to the  air force  commander closed Sana’a airport and
threatened to shoot down any aircraft taking off, Al Arabiya
television reported yesterday, citing its correspondent.  Hadi, who was elected president of the Arab world’s poorest
country in February, is implementing the most sweeping changes
to the armed forces after Saleh agreed in November to relinquish
power under a Gulf-brokered peace plan.  The Gulf Cooperation Council called on all political
parties in Yemen to support Hadi “in moving forward” with the
Gulf plan, Abdullatif al-Zayani, secretary-general of the six-
member group, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The GCC
supports all measure taken by Hadi to get “out of the current
crisis,” al- Zayani said.  Oil Production  Yemen, bordering  Saudi Arabia  and Oman at the southern tip
of the Arabian Peninsula, is struggling to recover from protests
that have weakened the central government’s authority and
reduced oil production to about half of its 250,000-barrel-a-day
capacity.  Hadi ousted Mohammed Saleh al-Ahmar on April 6 from his
post as commander of the air force after more than two months of
protests by soldiers and officers demanding his removal. He is
the half-brother of the ousted president. Hadi also dismissed
Tariq Mohammed Saleh, Saleh’s nephew, from his post as a
commander of the presidential guards and Mohammed al-Maqdashi, a
Saleh loyalist, from his position as commander of the central
military region, state TV said.  The new president also removed Mohammed Ali Mohsen,
commander of the eastern military region, who defected last year
and joined the revolt against Saleh, as well as the commander of
the maritime forces. Saleh’s son, Ahmed, remains the commander
of the elite Republican Guard, and Saleh’s nephew, Yahia Saleh,
retains his position as chief of the central security forces.  Omar al-Arhabi, the head of  Yemen Petroleum Co. , was also
dismissed from his position, according to state TV.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  