-- U.S. Employment Growth Seen Rebounding From Slump
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-04-09T20:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/u-s-employment-growth-seen-rebounding-from-slump.html
The March setback in hiring will
prove temporary as the  U.S. economy , in its third year of
expansion, now is better equipped to overcome a slowdown in
Europe and rising fuel costs, economists said.  Growing sales and profits may give business leaders the
confidence to take on staff at a faster clip than last month’s
120,000 gain in payrolls, according to analysts at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. They say the data
don’t signal a repeat of 2010 and 2011 -- when hiring was
derailed after promising starts by concern about government
debt, energy costs and natural disasters -- even though the
total was weaker than all the estimates from 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  That sentiment isn’t universal, with economists at Bank of
America Corp. among those projecting employment will slump in
the second half of the year as the government prepares to put
the brakes on spending to tame the  budget deficit .  Joseph LaVorgna  and  Carl Riccadonna  at Deutsche Bank counter that
income gains will unleash increases in household spending and
hiring that will boost job creation by an average of at least
200,000 a month for all of 2012.  “While the economy is going to do OK, we think jobs are
going to be doing better than OK,” Bruce Kasman, chief
economist at JPMorgan in New York, said in an April 6 conference
call following the Labor Department’s employment report. “We
don’t think today’s number represents the trend,” he said,
affirming a forecast that payrolls will rise by 200,000 workers
on average for the rest of the year.  Squeeze More From Workers  The main reason Kasman, a former researcher at the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , remains optimistic is that gains in
revenue will outstrip what may be “modest” increases in wages,
meaning companies have incentive to boost employment as sales
improve. Additionally, a slowdown in productivity following a
surge during the recession means companies may not be able to
squeeze more output from current workers, he said.  “It’s much more attractive to hire people right now, to
invest in human capital,” said Kasman.  SCVNGR Inc. is among small businesses looking to make such
an investment. The developer of applications for smart phones
plans to add 17 to 30 employees this year to the 120 already on
staff, after hiring 30 at the end of January.  “Our sales have been really great,” Nick Herbold, the
company’s head of recruiting, said in a telephone interview last
week. The Boston-based company was founded in 2008 and is backed
by investors including Google Ventures.  Increasing Confidence  “Confidence is increasing” among many clients and
customers of Adecco Group North America, according to Janette
Marx, a senior vice president at the Melville, New York-based
division of  Adecco SA (ADEN)  in Glattbrugg, Switzerland, the world’s
largest provider of temporary employees.  “We’re seeing a lot of people convert from temp positions
to full-time positions across a lot of industries,” she said in
a telephone interview. “The acceleration really stepped up in
the second half of the first quarter.”  The jobless rate unexpectedly dropped to  8.2 percen t in
March, a three-year low, last week’s Labor Department report
showed, as people left the  labor force . The participation rate,
the share of working-age men and women with jobs or seeking
employment, fell to 63.8 percent from 63.9 percent in February.  Bernanke’s Caution  The smaller-than-forecast payroll figures reinforce Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s repeated cautions that gains
might slow as companies adjust their staffs for a period of
moderate growth. The central bank has pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero until late 2014 to stimulate
expansion.  The report also broke a pattern that was giving U.S. voters
a growing sense of security and boosting President Barack Obama
as Republican Mitt Romney attacks his economic record.  “Millions of Americans are paying a high price” for
Obama’s policies, and “more and more people are growing so
discouraged that they are dropping out of the labor force
altogether,” the former Massachusetts governor said in a April
6 statement released by his campaign that criticized the
president for creating a “stagnant” employment market.  Obama said “we welcome” the added jobs and decline in the
 unemployment rate , during an April 6 forum on women and the
economy at the White House. “But, it’s clear to every American
that there will still be ups and downs along the way and that
we’ve got a lot more work to do.”  Falling Shares  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower
following the biggest weekly retreat of the year, reflecting the
weaker-than-expected jobs report. The  S&P 500   fell  1.1 percent
to 1,382.2 at the close in  New York . Asian stocks declined for a
fourth day, the longest losing streak for the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index since November, also on the U.S. jobs numbers and after a
pickup in inflation in  China  damped speculation the government
will ease monetary policy.  Economists at Bank of America are among those concerned
that government-mandated spending cuts and tax increases will
cause the economy to slump later this year.  Ethan Harris , co-
head of global economic research for the bank estimates the U.S.
faces a “Greek-sized” fiscal tightening in December amounting
to about $580 billion, or 3.9 percent of gross domestic product,
he wrote in a Jan. 26 note.  Businesses and households will grow increasingly uncertain
about the outlook, pondering questions like how long it will
take for a lame-duck session of Congress to act, he said.  Slower Growth  “As we get toward the end of the year and growth slows,
you will probably see job growth slow and  consumer spending 
soften,” Neil Dutta, a Bank of America economist in New York,
said in an April 6 interview after the employment data were
released. Beginning in the third quarter, employment gains
probably will average closer to 100,000 a month from about
175,000 in the first six months of 2012, he said.  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. in Pittsburgh, is less pessimistic.  “The report was mildly disappointing, but I wouldn’t be
that concerned,” said Hoffman, the most-accurate nonfarm-
payroll forecaster for the two years through March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. “You have to average these things
out,” he added, noting that nonfarm payrolls averaged about
211,000 each month in the first quarter.  “It’s not a straight line; it ebbs and it flows,” agreed
 Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “The job market and the economy are
steadily improving.”  Rising Earnings  Hourly earnings climbed 0.2 percent on average in March
after a revised 0.3 percent gain the prior month that was larger
than previously estimated, according to government figures.
Aggregate incomes, which take into account hours worked and
changes in payrolls, probably grew by about 5.6 percent in the
first three months of the year, based on calculations by
Deutsche Bank senior economist Riccadonna.  “Income growth is positive; that will support consumer
spending” and will be “the linchpin of an improving, positive
economic-feedback loop,” as rising sales prompt companies to
hire, leading to gains in wages that will spur demand further,
Riccadonna said in an April 6 interview after the jobs report.  In 2010, the emergence of sovereign-debt concerns in  Europe 
weighed on the U.S. economic outlook. Those same fears
resurfaced in 2011, in addition to rising gasoline prices, an
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  and a budget impasse in
Washington. All contributed to a slowdown in hiring in mid-year
as employers were reluctant to bring on new workers.  Private Payrolls Climb  After rising at an average 261,000 pace from February
through April of 2011, private payrolls, which exclude
government agencies, climbed by an average of 109,000 in the
next four months, according to data from the Labor Department.  This year, the economy is rebounding, with growth at 2.2
percent according to the median estimate of 70 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from March 9 to March 13, compared with
1.7 percent last year. The improvement means Fed policy makers
can sit back and wait for the monetary stimulus already in train
to work, without having to do another round of asset purchases,
known as quantitative easing, Kasman said.  “The Fed will be very patient here,” he said. With 12.7
million Americans still unemployed, the competition for
available jobs will probably rein in wage gains, which “allows
the Fed to believe there is a lot of slack that can be eaten up
in this recovery,” and policy makers can “let the economy
run” by keeping  interest rates low .  “I’m not setting off the alarm bells yet,” Zandi said.
“I had expected to be disappointed at some point this spring. I
just thought it would be in April, not in March. It’s mostly
weather-related. It’s not a fundamental change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  