-- Mukherjee Crowds Out Issuers With Indian Government Glut
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-04-09T04:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/mukherjee-crowds-out-issuers-with-government-glut-india-credit.html
Indian companies are reviewing plans
to sell rupee-denominated bonds after Finance Minister  Pranab
Mukherjee ’s proposal to issue record government debt drove
borrowing costs to the highest in four months.  Yields on five-year company  notes  with top ratings jumped
to 9.64 percent on April 3, from 9.45 percent a week earlier,
when the government announced plans to increase issuance by 50
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Average yields
on global investment-grade companies fell to 3.42 percent on
April 4, from 3.95 percent at the end of last year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Mukherjee is seeking to raise 3.7 trillion rupees ($72.1
billion) from debt offerings through September as  Asia ’s third-
largest economy funds a  budget deficit  estimated at 5.1 percent
of gross domestic product. National Housing Bank, a state-owned
lender to mortgage companies, and cement maker  Jaiprakash
Associates Ltd. (JPA)  will review financing plans as government sales
drive up borrowing costs and make it harder for the central bank
to cut  interest rates .  “The government is borrowing too much and the banking
system is not able to provide as much funding to both them and
the private sector,” Pratip Chaudhuri, chairman of  State Bank
of India , the nation’s largest lender, said in an interview from
Mumbai on April 4, before markets closed for a two-day bank
holiday. “The ability of customers to borrow is declining,
which is softening demand for credit.”  ‘Imminent Reduction’  Jaiprakash Associates, which has about 18 percent of its
$2.32 billion of  bonds outstanding  coming due this year, may cut
sales after the announcement, Rahul Kumar, chief financial
officer, said in an interview from  New Delhi  April 3.  “A reduction is rather imminent considering the sudden
jump in yields,” Kumar said. “What was planned a few weeks ago
doesn’t look feasible.”  The government plans to seek 63 percent of its annual
borrowing in the April to September period, Economic Affairs
Secretary R. Gopalan said on March 27.  The  Reserve Bank of India  raised borrowing costs 13 times
in the past two years to curb  inflation , the fastest pace of
increases by any monetary authority in Asia, making it more
expensive to sell rupee-denominated debt. Policy makers will
next meet on April 17 to decide on  interest rates .  Companies sold 536 billion rupees of notes so far this
year, compared with 493 billion rupees in the fourth quarter.  National Housing Bank  “The government’s borrowing plan and other market
developments give us reason to believe that fundraising will be
different from what we had envisaged,” R.V. Verma, chairman and
managing director of National Housing Bank, said in a telephone
interview from New Delhi on April 2.  Demand faltered at  India ’s first debt sale of the financial
year that began April 1. Primary dealers, who underwrite sales,
bought 6.6 percent of the 180 billion rupees of the notes
offered April 3.  Sovereign bonds rose, helping yields on the most-traded
securities due in November 2021 drop from a four-month high.
Yields declined 4 basis points to 8.65 percent as of 9:05 a.m.
in Mumbai, compared with April 4, according to the central
bank’s trading system.  Funds based abroad bought $3.74 billion of Indian local-
currency  bonds  this year to benefit from rising yields. That
helped the rupee rebound 3.8 percent this year, following last
year’s 16 percent slide, Asia’s worst currency performance,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee weakened 0.5
percent to 51.34 against the dollar today in Mumbai.  Overseas Borrowing  The cost of protecting the notes of  State Bank  of India
against default rose 7.9 basis points this month to 332.2 as of
April 6, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets. Some investors consider the lender a proxy for the
sovereign. The swaps pay face value should a company fail to
adhere to its agreements.  Some Indian issuers are turning to overseas sales as the
nation cuts taxes on interest income to international borrowers
and amid concern the Reserve Bank won’t lower interest rates
from 8.5 percent as early as anticipated.  Power Finance Corp., the second-biggest issuer of rupee
notes this year, is planning investor meetings this month for a
possible benchmark dollar bond sale, a person familiar with the
matter said April 4. That typically means at least $500 million.  Cash Situation  “Lending rates are not going to come down soon, because
not only do they need a reduction in the benchmark rate but the
cash situation in the banking system needs to improve,”
Shailendra Bhandari, managing director and chief executive of
ING Vysya Bank Ltd., the Indian unit of the biggest Dutch
financial services company, said in a March 29 interview.  Lenders have  borrowed  from the central bank on each
business day since Oct. 5 through repurchase auctions.  Slowing inflation may still allow policy makers to lower
interest rates for the first time since 2009, said Mangalore Devadas Mallya, chairman and managing director of state-owned
 Bank of Baroda . “We have conveyed to the central bank that
interest rates are high and we need to work out monetary easing
measures without impacting inflation,” Mallya said after a
meeting with Governor Duvvuri Subbarao in Mumbai on April 4.  Gains in the  wholesale-price index  averaged 6.75 percent in
the first two months of this year, compared with 9.5 percent in
the whole of 2011, official data show.  India’s Finance Minister Mukherjee on March 16 projected
record borrowing at 5.69 trillion rupees to finance the deficit.
The  Reserve Bank  has said the shortfall may increase the risk of
inflation.  Managing the borrowing plan will be a challenge, Harun
Rashid Khan, a central bank deputy governor, said at a press
conference in Mumbai on March 16 after Mukherjee announced the
budget proposals for the year starting April 1.  “The government’s debt sale plan is going to push the
premium for money higher,” Rajiv Kumar Bakshi, an  executive
director  at Bank of Baroda said in a telephone interview on
April 2. “Company borrowing will become more vulnerable to
interest costs in coming months as the macroeconomic situation
leaves little room for comfort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  