-- Veolia Swaps Flag Investor Faith in Debt Plan: Corporate Finance
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-04-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/veolia-swaps-flag-investor-faith-in-debt-plan-corporate-finance.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
biggest water company, is winning over bondholders with a debt
reduction plan and management shakeup that’s boosted its
creditworthiness faster than its peers.  The cost of insuring the Paris-based company’s 12 billion
euros ($16 billion) of bonds with credit-default swaps fell 38
percent this year to 160 basis points, according to CMA. The
decline is outpacing euro-area utilities including Madrid-based
Endesa SA and Electricite de France SA and is matched only by
contracts on E.ON AG in Dusseldorf.  Veolia, whose shares have lost 36 percent of their value
since a July profit warning, is selling 5 billion euros of
assets, cutting costs and reducing debt under a restructuring
unveiled in December. Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot
replaced key executives last month to overhaul a legacy of
expansion that took Veolia to 77 countries from  Argentina  to
 South Korea .  “The change that led to us buying some of the company’s
bonds was that management came up with an actual plan of action,
including the simplification of the business and a clearer focus
on deleveraging,” said Chris Bullock, a  fund manager  at
Henderson Global Investors Ltd. in London, which oversees 18
billion euros of fixed-income assets.  Veolia, which supplies water to more than 100 million
people and handles about 63 million tons of waste, is cutting
 net debt  to less than 12 billion euros by 2014 from 14.7 billion
euros. Frerot has also pledged 450 million euros of cost savings
through 2015 and to narrow the 158-year-old utility’s geographic
reach to about 40 countries.  Sandrine Guendoul, a spokeswoman for Veolia in Paris,
declined to comment.  Bond Risk  Credit-default swaps on Veolia have fallen from a record
320 basis points on Nov. 25, according to CMA, a price data
compiler owned by CME Group Inc. A decline in the contracts
indicates improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  Veolia’s 4.375 percent bonds due 2017 yield 193 basis
points, or 1.93 percentage points, more than German government
debt, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices on April 5 show. That’s a 28
percent drop since the start of the year and close to an eight-
month low of 179 basis points on March 27.  The yield spread on the water company’s bonds are narrowing
faster than those of its peers, which contracted 22 percent on
average to 159 basis points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporates Utilities Index, which tracks
206 bonds issued by firms including Veolia, EDF and GDF Suez.  “Now the company has a debt reduction plan in place and
market fears on the EU crisis have eased, it’s reasonable to see
spreads tightening sharply,” said Spyros Katsaros, a credit
analyst at First International Advisors in  London .  Water Shortage  Veolia posted a 490 million-euro loss for 2011, larger than
analyst estimates, on the cost of restructuring and slower
economic growth that’s hurting its industrial businesses. Water
companies are also facing a difficult few months ahead in  Europe 
after unseasonably dry weather that sparked a U.K. sprinkler
ban.  Veolia was downgraded one level to Baa1 in February by
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the utility’s weak
operating environment, restructuring costs and its commitment to
paying a 70 cent-per-share  dividend  this year and next. Veolia
is ranked an equivalent BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s  and one step
higher at A- by  Fitch Ratings .  While Veolia should benefit from its restructuring, the
utility’s “overall business risk profile has been weakened by
the ongoing margin pressure experienced in the group’s mature
French water business,” Moody’s said in its Feb. 7 report.  Streamlining  Veolia is aiming to shrink  net debt  to three times earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization from its
current target range of 3.85 to 4.35 times, Moody’s said.  “The company faces a year of restructuring so by no means
is it going to be easy, but on an underlying basis we’re
expecting Veolia to make good progress,” said Sofia Savvantidou, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London who has a
buy rating on the company’s stock.  Veolia will exit the transport business in  Morocco ,
environmental services in  Egypt , marine services in the U.S. and
will proceed with “significant disengagements” in southern
Europe including a review of operations in  Italy , the company
said in November.  The restructuring marks the end of the global expansion
started by Frerot’s predecessor  Henri Proglio , who became
chairman and CEO of Paris-based  EDF (EDF)  in 2009 while remaining
chairman of Veolia until December 2010.  Veolia’s stock has  risen  33 percent this year and 22
percent since Frerot said March 1 that the restructuring plan
was on track, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock fell 10
percent last week to 11.21 euros a share.  Asset disposals “will be positive” for the company, said
Tony Bauchet, a senior analyst at Axa Investment Managers in
Paris, which oversees 515 billion euros of assets. “They need
to streamline this large organisation, but it will be a
challenging and a long process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  