-- Myanmar Seeks More Carrots as U.S. Moves to Ease Sanctions
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-04-09T03:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/myanmar-wants-u-s-to-remove-sanctions-faster-adviser-says.html
Myanmar wants the U.S. to lift
sanctions faster after Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
some restrictions on investment and financial services would be
eased, according to an adviser to President Thein Sein.  “They should do more if they want to see us reaching the
mission faster,” Nay Zin Latt said in an April 7 e-mail. “The
government is doing its job, which is national reconciliation
and being a democratic society. This is the time giving more
carrots will work more.”  The U.S. will allow companies to invest in certain sectors
of Southeast  Asia ’s fourth-smallest economy, Clinton  said  on
April 4, without offering specifics. They may include
telecommunications, agriculture, tourism and banking, according
to two senior administration officials who briefed reporters the
same day. Nothing has been decided, they said.  The criticism reflects a debate over whether sanctions are
still needed to encourage democracy.  China  last week joined
Southeast Asian nations in calling on the U.S. and European
Union to lift all sanctions against the former military
dictatorship.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration won’t ask Congress
to lift the Jade Act or other legislative sanctions, preferring
instead to rescind executive orders, the administration
officials said. Further progress on releasing political
prisoners and resolving ethnic conflicts is necessary before the
U.S. takes further action, they said.  Ethnic Peace Talks  The Karen National Union, one of Myanmar’s biggest rebel
groups, agreed on April 6 to conditions for implementing a
cease-fire that include releasing political prisoners, ending
forced labor and establishing a mechanism to monitor progress,
according to a  statement  on its website. The group also met with
 Thein Sein  and former political prisoner  Aung San Suu Kyi .  “The KNU will continue to hold meetings with the Burmese
(Myanmar) government, systematically, until the goal of genuine
peace in  Burma  (Myanmar) is reached,” the group said in the
April 7 statement.  Suu Kyi’s party won 43 of 45 legislative seats in April 1
by-elections. Myanmar’s 664-member parliament is still dominated
by Thein Sein’s Union Solidarity and Development Party and the
military, which is automatically granted 25 percent of the seats
under the constitution.  Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party “will be
welcomed by the USDP,” Nay Zin Latt wrote. “The reform process
keeps going on. It is irreversible.”  Mineral Wealth  The opening of Myanmar’s economy, one of Asia’s last
untapped frontier markets which shares borders with India and
China, may give investors and neighboring countries access to
its mineral wealth and a market of 64 million people after
decades of military rule. Thein Sein has freed political
prisoners, held talks with Suu Kyi and begun overhauling the
financial system, including a managed float of the currency.  Foreign banks such as  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  may get a
chance to operate in the country in 2015, when an agreement to
integrate with the 10-nation  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations  takes effect. Myanmar’s per capita gross domestic
product amounts to $2.25 per day, about half that of  Vietnam  and
14 percent of neighboring  Thailand ’s, according to International
Monetary Fund estimates.  Only one in 30 people in Myanmar has a mobile phone and
even fewer have  Internet access , Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a
March 14 report. The nation attracted about 800,000 tourists in
2010, 20 times less than neighboring Thailand, as its hundreds
of kilometers of coastline sit undeveloped.  ‘Targeted Easing’  U.S. sanctions against Myanmar, detailed in five
Congressional acts and four presidential executive orders,
include bans on investment in the country, restrictions on money
transfers, asset freezes and the purchase of native gemstones.
European Union foreign ministers will meet April 23 to
reconsider sanctions, which are less restrictive.  Clinton said the U.S. would appoint an ambassador to
Myanmar, allow more aid and non-profit groups to operate in the
country, and permit visits by certain government officials. It
would also start “a targeted easing of our ban on the export of
U.S. financial services and investment,” she said.  “Sanctions and prohibitions will stay in place on
individuals and institutions that remain on the wrong side of
these historic reform efforts,” Clinton said, without naming
anyone. “This reform process has a long way to go,” she said.  Derek Mitchell , the State Department’s special envoy to
Myanmar, is poised to become the first U.S. ambassador to the
country since 1990, the Financial Times reported on April 7,
without saying where it got information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  