-- Yen Gains as Current-Account Surplus Boosts Haven
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-04-09T16:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/yen-gains-before-japan-current-account-data-euro-falls.html
(Corrects to remove reference that franc breached euro cap
in second paragraph.)  The yen gained versus most of its
major counterparts as  Japan  returned to a current-account
surplus, bolstering the currency as a refuge amid concern the
global economic recovery is slowing.  The euro touched a one-month low versus the yen before
German data tomorrow that may show exports fell in February. The
dollar weakened against the yen after a U.S. report said last
week that employers added fewer jobs than forecast. Japan’s
currency gained after China’s inflation rose more than forecast.  “China’s CPI was slightly higher than expected, and higher
inflation may constrain the authorities’ ability to offset
economic weakness with fiscal stimulus,” said  Mary Nicola , a
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “The way the
market reacted on Friday, after we got the payrolls number,
indicated that maybe there’s some global growth concern.”  The yen appreciated 0.2 percent to 106.65 per euro at 12:32
p.m. New York time after touching 106.12, the strongest level
since March 7. Japan’s currency gained 0.3 percent to 81.38 per
dollar after reaching 81.20, the strongest since March 8. The
euro was little changed at $1.3102 after falling to $1.3033, the
weakest since March 15. Markets in  Australia ,  New Zealand  and
the U.K. are closed today for a public holiday.  Implied volatility  on three-month options on Group of Seven
nations’ currencies fell to 10.19 percent after closing as high
as 10.33 percent last week, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index. The measure has averaged 10.37 percent this year.  Stocks and commodities slid, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  dropping 1.1 percent and the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of raw materials falling 0.7 percent.  Swiss Franc  The franc traded at 1.20146 per euro. The  Swiss National
Bank  set the 1.20  limit  on Sept. 6. The SNB won’t allow the
franc to rise above the ceiling and is ready to buy foreign
currencies in “unlimited quantities,” spokesman Walter Meier
said April 5.  “We believe the SNB is serious in its commitment to
maintain the floor and will aggressively defend it,” Yuki Sakasai and  Aroop Chatterjee , currency strategists at Barclays
Plc, wrote in a research note April 6. The  Swiss franc  is “an
attractive funding currency for risky asset positions.”  Current-Account Surplus  The yen rose as Japan reported a 1.18 trillion yen ($14.5
billion)  surplus  in its February current account, the widest
measure of trade. That was after a record deficit in the January
account and compared with the surplus of 1.12 trillion yen
forecast by economists.  Japan’s currency tends to strengthen during global economic
turmoil because Japan’s current-account surplus makes it less
reliant on foreign capital.  Norway’s krone and South Korea’s were among the biggest
losers against the yen among its 16 most-traded peers tracked by
Bloomberg.  Consumer prices  in  China  rose 3.6 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today. That was
more than the median 3.4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 33 economists. Food-related costs gained 7.5 percent.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  may need to remain alert to the risk of
inflation bouncing back even after price increases stayed below
the government’s 4 percent target for a second month.  China’s
economy  may have expanded last quarter at the slowest pace in
almost three years, showing the limits of the nation’s
contribution to global growth.  The krone dropped 0.3 percent to 14.0562 yen, and the won
fell 1 percent to 7.15 yen.  Korea Tension  South Korea  warned that North Korea may test a nuclear
weapon after a planned missile launch this month that is already
raising regional tensions the most since Kim Jong Un in December
succeeded his father as head of the totalitarian state.  Canada ’s dollar touched a one-month low against Japan’s
currency, falling to 81.25 yen, and was little changed at 99.67
cents per  U.S. dollar .  The yen gained 1.7 percent against nine developed-nation
counterparts in the past month, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar rose 0.2
percent and the euro was little changed. The Australian dollar
lost the most, falling 2.5 percent.  Exports from  Germany , the euro area’s biggest economy,
probably decreased 1.2 percent in February from the prior month,
a Bloomberg News survey of economists showed before the report
due tomorrow.  “The European economy is weak,” said Kumiko Gervaise, an
analyst in  Tokyo  at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit
of Japan’s largest online currency margin-trading company. “The
German economy is getting weaker than before. Bad data from
Germany may contribute to euro weakness.”  U.S. Inflation  U.S. consumer prices advanced 0.3 percent last month after
increasing 0.4 percent in February, according to a Bloomberg
News survey before the Labor Department’s April 13 release.
Nonfarm payrolls increased by 120,000 in March, the smallest
gain in five months, the Labor Department reported April 6.  The  Federal Reserve  has pledged to keep its target lending
rate at a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent through 2014.
It will hold off on increasing monetary accommodation unless the
U.S. economic expansion falters or prices rise at a rate slower
than its target, according to minutes of the central bank’s
March 13 meeting released last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Cox at 
 Pcox16@bloomberg.net  