-- Zimbabwe Violence Rose in February, Group Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-04-10T13:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-08/zimbabwe-violence-rose-in-february-peace-monitoring-group-says.html
Politically motivated violence
directed mainly at  Zimbabwe ’s Movement for Democratic Change
party rose in February, the Zimbabwe Peace Project said in an e-
mailed statement today.  More than 400 cases of violence were recorded by the group,
which monitors human rights in the southern African nation. The
ZPP didn’t say how many cases of violence were recorded in
January.  “The increase can be directly related to rising political
tension as a result of the move to push for elections this
year,” the ZPP said.  President  Robert Mugabe , who leads the Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front party, has repeatedly called for
elections this year to end a power sharing agreement with the
MDC in place since 2009.  Calls to Zanu-PF spokesman Rugare Gumbo weren’t answered
when Bloomberg News sought comment today.  MDC spokesman Douglas Mwonzora said in a telephone
interview from Harare that his party had received increased
complaints of violence against MDC supporters, as well as the
withholding of emergency food rations.  “Reports of violence continue, as well as the withholding
of food in drought-stricken areas, and that’s a form of violence
in itself,” Mwonzora said today.  Mugabe’s Zanu-PF and the MDC, led by Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  have shared power since 2009, when the  Southern
African Development Community  said elections in 2008 didn’t meet
regional standards of fairness. Presidential and parliamentary
elections in March 2008 led to the murder of about 200 MDC
supporters, the party says.  Under the SADC-brokered agreement now in place, Zimbabwe
can’t hold elections until a new constitution has been approved
by a national referendum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at  in Harare
at   blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 