-- 
`Spider-Man' Broadway Musical Cited by U.S. for `Serious' Safety Breaches

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-03-04T21:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/-spider-man-broadway-musical-cited-by-u-s-for-serious-safety-breaches.html
Producers of  “Spider-Man: Turn Off
the Dark”  were cited by U.S. regulators for workplace safety
violations after injuries to actors in the Broadway show.  The Occupational Safety and Health Administration today
proposed fining producers of the $65 million show $12,600 for
“serious” violations.  “Employees were exposed to the hazards of falls or being
struck during flying routines because of improperly adjusted or
unsecured safety harnesses,” the agency said today in an  e-
mailed statement .  At least four performers have been injured working on the
show, one of whom quit the production after suffering a
concussion. On the evening of Dec. 20 an aerialist fell at least
20 feet from a platform after a harness wasn’t properly
attached.  “‘Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark’’ remains in compliance
with all government agencies and continues to adhere to all
safety protocols,” Rick Miramontez, a spokesman for the
production, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The show has been in previews since Nov. 28. Its official
opening has been delayed five times. Miramontez said in an
interview that the latest scheduled opening night, March 15,
stands for now.  Federal investigators went to the Foxwoods Theater in  Manhattan  to investigate injuries during the show, which has
scenes of actors flying over the audience. The producer, 8
Legged Productions LLC, failed to protect employees from being
struck by overhead rigging, according to OSHA.  A risk of falls also was created by “open-sided floors”
that lacked fall protection, the agency said.  The producers have 15 business days from receipt of OSHA’s
citations to contest the findings. The violations were all
categorized as serious, which means there is a substantial
probability of death or serious injuries which an employer knew
about or should have known.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  