-- 
Ackermann Says Splintered Regulation Poses Risks to Banks and the Economy

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-03-04T11:52:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/ackermann-says-overregulation-poses-risks-to-banks-and-economy.html
  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said financial companies are growing
increasingly concerned about splintered regulatory measures
posing a risk to the global financial system and economy.  “We are seeing actions by national authorities to develop
their own regulatory approaches, or to add, or to modify the
Basel capital agreements,” Ackermann, speaking on behalf of the
 Institute of International Finance , said in a speech in New
Delhi today. “This would have severe consequences for financial
markets and for the global economy.”  Regulators of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
agreed last year to boost capital and liquidity requirements for
banks to prevent a repeat of the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. Countries such as  Switzerland  and the U.K.
are examining other measures in addition to the Basel rules.  Liquidity proposals by the Basel Committee could undermine
banks’ ability to provide services such as back-up credit lines
for companies and funding for international trade, said
Ackermann, chairman of the IIF, which represents more than 430
institutions in more than 70 countries.  Ackermann, 63, also warned against a “rush to judgment
regarding capital surcharges” for firms deemed systemically
important by the  Financial Stability Board .  “There is merit now in taking stock of the regulatory
requirements that are in train,” Ackermann said. “As I have
said, it is essential to ensure that there is clarity and
consistency in all measures that are being determined and that
there is a level playing field.”  Got Off ‘Lightly  Global banks’ credit will become scarcer and more expensive
because of the new Basel rules, Societe Generale SA CEO Frederic Oudea said in  New Delhi . Long-term financing for banks will come
under pressure, said Oudea, 47, who heads the IIF’s steering
committee on regulatory capital.  Hans Hoogervorst, chairman of the Amsterdam-based Authority
for the Financial Markets, said that regulators in the U.K. and
Switzerland have seen that a very lightly regulated financial
market is “capable of bringing the world economy to its
knees.” In his view, global banks got off “pretty lightly”
under the Basel III rules, he said in New Delhi.  New rules drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  and endorsed by Group of 20 leaders last year will
require lenders to more than triple the highest-quality capital
they hold to cushion against losses by 2019.  Ackermann added that “significant progress has been made
in improving compensation policies and practices,” although
“more efforts will be needed.”  Vikram Pandit, chief executive officer of Citigroup Inc.,
and  Mukesh Ambani , chairman of Reliance Industries Ltd., will
speak at the conference later today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net 
Ruth David in New Delhi at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  