-- 
Hakkasan Mayfair Has Glamour, Style -- Food’s Good Too: Review

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-03-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/hakkasan-mayfair-has-glamour-style-food-s-good-too-review.html
There’s a theory that Hakkasan has
floundered since the departure of Alan Yau, the Hong Kong-born
entrepreneur (and Wagamama founder) who created London’s most
chic Chinese restaurant in 2001 and sold it in December 2007.  The new owner, the Abu Dhabi-based Tasameem group, is
opening outlets around the world -- Miami,  Abu Dhabi , Mumbai and
(briefly) Istanbul -- and now comes a second in London. Hakkasan
Mayfair seats 145 in a basement dining room and another 75 on
the ground floor, where it’s lighter and brighter than the
original. It’s luxurious and expensive.  My theory is that Hakkasan is still exceptional, from the
quality of the restaurant fittings and design -- by Paris-based
Guillaume Richard -- through the cocktails (the Pink Mojito, the
Hakkatini and the Jasmine Fon Fon spring to mind) to the cooking
of Executive Chef Tong Chee Hwee.  There’s no loss of direction: It’s just that the prices,
which you barely noticed in the dim lighting of the mother ship,
jump off the page now that those go-go days of large bonuses and
generous expense accounts have given way to less fun. The list
of Champagnes alone makes me nostalgic.  Service can sometimes appear frosty, yet once my guest (the
Chinese chef  Ching He-Huang ) and I started chatting with a
waitress on one visit, she was friendly and visibly relaxed. A
friend went there and saw someone tip the coat-check girl 50
pounds ($81), which presumably also brought a smile.  Hefty Bass  The food prices can be as scary as the wine list. Stir-fry
Chilean sea bass (or Patagonian toothfish as it’s affectionately
known) with Sichuan pepper, sweet basil and spring onion, weighs
in at 35 pounds; stir-fry Welsh black beef with pied bleu
mushroom and osmanthus flower wine is 33 pounds. That’s before
you wander into the territory of Wagyu-beef-this and foie-gras-
that, the kind of territory I normally like to occupy.  If you’re on a budget, which most of us are these days when
sober, the dim sum platter is so good at 13.50 pounds, it’s
worth ordering two. The har gau prawn dumplings -- the
translucent case containing a fat prawn -- are a favorite, maybe
with a side order of prawn wonton in hot-and-spicy sauce or hot-
and-sour soup with chicken, shiitake and pomelo.  New dishes at Mayfair -- where the kitchen is twice the
size of the Hanway Place original -- include black-truffle roast
duck (28.80 pounds) and steamed New Zealand mini-lobster wrapped
in glass vermicelli (35.80 pounds.)  The stir fries such as black pepper rib-eye with merlot,
and ostrich in yellow-bean sauce and stir-fry Peking-style duck
are enjoyable dishes. I know I’m asking for trouble saying this,
but I also enjoyed the sweet-and-sour Duke of Berkshire pork
with pomegranate. (Sweet-and-sour is a British dish in the same
way that chicken tikka masala is, and I like them both.)  You don’t go for authenticity or tradition: You go for fun
and flavor, and Hakkasan can supply both in spades if you are
open minded and rich. It’s a scene, as Nobu, Zuma, Sketch and C  London  are in their different ways. If you don’t enjoy hanging
out with the beautiful people, you may feel irritated.  I’m a fan.  Hakkasan Mayfair, 17 Bruton Street, London, W1J 6QB.
Information: or +44-20-7927-7003 or
 http://w3.hakkasan.com/Mayfair .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? Lunch without alcohol wasn’t far off 50 pounds a
head. With wine and cocktails, the sky is the limit.  Sound level? Lunch upstairs 70-75 decibels, which is fine;
basement may get lively at night.  Inside tip? Window table for lunch; downstairs for dinner.  Special feature? Glamorous staff.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 