-- 
Half of Christchurch Heritage Buildings in Danger After Quake

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-03-04T00:48:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/half-of-christchurch-heritage-buildings-in-danger-after-quake.html
About half of Christchurch’s
heritage buildings may be condemned after last week’s 6.3-
magnitude earthquake wrecked the central business district and
toppled the  New Zealand  city’s iconic cathedral.  Workers inspected around 1,000 heritage buildings in the
South Island city’s central business district,  Civil Defense 
Director John Hamilton told reporters today. As many as 50
percent were “red stickered,” indicating a building isn’t safe
to enter or occupy.  Keeping as many heritage buildings as possible “would be a
starting point, but you can’t save them if they are beyond
repair,” Tim Hogan, chairman of the  Christchurch Civic Trust , a
community group that campaigns to protect the buildings, said in
an interview. “Once they start killing people that sentiment
needs to be tempered by reality.”  The death toll from last week’s temblor climbed to 163,
according to a statement on the Civil Defense department’s
 website . Search and rescue teams switched to recovering bodies
yesterday as no survivors have been found since Feb. 23.  Another 3,000 central city buildings have been inspected
and 45 percent were given a red or yellow sticker, Hamilton
said. A yellow sticker indicates only restricted entry,
including essential business, is allowed. About 1,350 homes have
received a red sticker, he said.  Police  have released the  names  of 20 victims, including two
Israeli citizens and a Thai national. As many as 100 foreigners
may have died in the earthquake, the second to hit Christchurch
within six months, according to the New Zealand government.  Cathedral Search  Teams secured a steel support to Christchurch’s iconic
cathedral as they prepared to enter the 130-year-old building to
search for bodies,  Fire Service  assistant national commander
Russell Wood said yesterday.  Almost 700,000 people a year visit the cathedral to admire
its stained-glass windows and climb the spire. A third of all
those who visited Christchurch last year said they did so to
look at heritage sites such as the cathedral, according to
 Tourism New Zealand .  Parts of the city cordoned off after the quake will be
opened on March 6 to allow residents to retrieve cars and access
some buildings, Hamilton said.  As much 220,000 metric tons of silt have been removed from
Christchurch streets, more than six times the amount that seeped
through after September’s earthquake, city Mayor  Bob Parker 
said. About 80 percent has been cleared, he added.  Buildings in the central business district were damaged by
a 7.0-magnitude temblor that struck the city on Sept. 4. The
estimated repair costs for Christchurch may be as much as NZ$20
billion ($15 billion) after both earthquakes, Prime Minister
John Key said this week.  The IMF would “likely” reduce its economic growth
forecast for New Zealand, which last month suffered the
country’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years, spokeswoman  Caroline Atkinson  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  