-- 
Angola Call to Protest Won’t Trigger Revolt, Control Risks Says

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 
2011-03-04T14:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/angola-call-to-protest-won-t-trigger-revolt-control-risks-says.html
Calls to protest against Angolan
President Jose Eduardo  dos Santos  are unlikely to trigger mass
demonstrations against the three-decade ruler of sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-largest oil producer, Control Risks said.    Angola  lacks a discontented middle class capable of
rallying disaffected groups and sustaining the momentum
necessary to force regime change,” the London-based advisers
said in a report on its website.  An anonymous call has circulated via the internet, text
messages and e-mails urging Angolans to demonstrate at midnight
local time on March 6 against Dos Santos, who has ruled the
southern African nation since 1979. The move echoes similar
protests in North Africa that deposed long-time rulers in Egypt
and Tunisia, and sparked a civil war in Libya.  Angola’s ruling party, the  Popular Movement  for the
Liberation of Angola, has called for a pro-government rally
tomorrow, with supporters to wear white clothes and wave white
handkerchiefs. Both rallies come as Luanda, the capital, hosts
its annual carnival parades and festivities March 5 to 8.  “The demonstrations are unlikely to lead to any serious
deterioration in the security environment,” said Control Risks.
“Police are likely to use robust measures to disperse any
unsanctioned or disruptive demonstrations.”  Interior Minister Sebastiao Martins said March 1 the
government would not tolerate public disorder, government-run
newspaper Jornal de Angola reported.  Angola pumps about 1.8 million barrels of oil a day as the
second largest crude supplier in sub-Saharan Africa after  Nigeria . With a booming  construction industry  since Angola ended
a civil war in 2002, Luanda is consistently ranked as one of the
world’s most expensive cities while containing millions of poor
in makeshift housing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Candido Mendes in Luanda, Angola at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 