-- 
Apartment Investors in U.S. Not Scared by Vinyl Siding in Search for Yield

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-03-04T19:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/apartment-investors-in-u-s-not-scared-by-vinyl-siding-in-search-for-yield.html
Orchard Pointe, a 17-year-old,
vinyl-sided apartment complex in  Vancouver , Washington, wouldn’t
have drawn a second look from Invesco Real Estate in early 2010,
when most multifamily-property investors wanted newer, trophy
buildings in coastal markets such as New York and  San Francisco .  “We wouldn’t have even considered it,” Greg Kraus, head
of acquisitions at the Dallas-based  real estate arm  of asset
manager  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , said in an interview.  By December, the firm had purchased the 388-unit Orchard
Pointe, located about 15 miles (24 kilometers) from downtown
Portland,  Oregon , on behalf of a client for more than $31
million. It plans to raise rents after spending about $4 million
to renovate the garden apartments, including removing the vinyl
siding, Kraus said.  As U.S. demand for rental housing surges, investors are
venturing beyond class A properties, or newer, well-leased
buildings in centrally located neighborhoods of big cities.
Orchard Pointe was the first class B property -- older, with
higher vacancy rates or requiring improvements -- that Invesco
had bought in three years, before credit markets seized and
commercial property values tumbled.  “It really reflected our belief that fundamentals are
improving,” Kraus said.  Apartment-building sales climbed 96 percent to $33.7
billion in 2010 from a year earlier, according to  Real Capital
Analytics Inc. , a commercial-property research firm in  New York .  ‘Value Add’ Apartments  “Value-add” apartments -- class B properties, distressed
acquisitions, real estate that requires renovation and buildings
where  cash flow  can be increased -- accounted for 33 percent of
sales in the fourth quarter, compared with 25 percent a year
earlier, said  Sam Chandan , Real Capital’s chief economist. Such
deals made up 61 percent of apartment transactions in the fourth
quarter of 2005.  The U.S. homeownership rate is at a 10-year low, in part
because the foreclosure crisis is forcing former owners to rent
and discouraging would-be buyers. Foreclosure filings increased
in almost three-quarters of U.S. cities last year, and the
number of homes receiving a filing is likely to jump 20 percent
this year, according to data provider RealtyTrac Inc.  Apartment rents climbed 4.3 percent in last three months of
2010, the most since the third quarter of 2006, according to
research firm Axiometrics Inc. The Dallas-based company projects
a 6 percent increase in U.S. rental revenue in 2011.  “Those improving fundamentals are driving the willingness
of investors to explore value-add opportunities as opposed to
paying premium prices for core properties,” Chandan said.
“That is a feature of the multifamily market that we do not see
to the same degree in other sectors.”  Demand for Apartments  Demand for apartments will rise further as the job market
recovers and the children of  baby boomers  move away from home
and seek apartments, Ron Johnsey, president of Axiometrics, said
in an interview. Supply is tight, with monthly starts of
multifamily properties averaging an annualized 112,000 units in
2010, compared with 280,000 units in 2008, according to the
Commerce Department.  “The multifamily sector is probably the only commercial
real estate sector that has very positive fundamentals behind
it,” said Jeffrey Baker, New York-based managing director at
Savills LLC, a real estate investment bank that raises capital
for multifamily owners and developers. “You’ve got a
demographic that is producing more households that want to rent
an apartment. You’ve got virtually no new supply that’s been
added over the last several years.”  Household Formation  The homeownership rate may decline to 65 percent by 2015
from 66.5 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, creating
4.5 million new renter households, according to a March 2 report
by Green Street Advisors Inc. About 2 million of those
households may end up in professionally managed apartments, the  Newport Beach , California-based real estate research company
said.    Equity Residential (EQR) , the largest publicly traded apartment
owner in the U.S., plans to make about $1 billion in property
acquisitions this year, Chief Executive Officer David Neithercut
said on a Feb. 3 earnings conference call. The Chicago-based
company will seek assets with “a little bit more risk,” as the
competition to buy safer properties has intensified and driven
up prices.  Capital Chasing Deals  The company, which acquired three prime Manhattan high-
rises in the beginning of 2010 from developer William Macklowe,
turned at the end of the year to properties such as Northpark
Apartments in Burlingame,  California , a 40-year-old garden-
apartment community of 510 units near San Francisco
International Airport.  “I am not suggesting that we will never buy or won’t buy a
stabilized asset, but there is an awful lot of capital chasing
those,” Neithercut said on the February call. The
capitalization rate, a measure of investment yield, has sunk to
as low as 4 percent for the newest, fully leased properties in
the coastal markets where Equity Residential operates, he said.  Cap rates are a property’s net income divided by the
purchase price.    AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) , the No. 2 U.S. apartment owner,
will increase the concentration of “B assets” in its portfolio
to 25 percent from 15 percent. The move isn’t related to the
growing competition for multifamily properties, CEO Bryce Blair
said in an interview. Rather, the company’s research showed that
class A and class B assets perform similarly in the long run.
For that reason, AvalonBay, based in Alexandria,  Virginia , is
seeking to diversify its portfolio with properties at a variety
of prices, he said.    Marina del Rey   “Conventional wisdom is that the ‘A’ asset on Central Park
is always going to outperform the ‘B’ asset in Central Queens --
well, that’s not necessarily true,” Blair said. “If you’ve
overpaid for an asset on Central Park or are in an area with an
oversupply of other ‘A’ assets, and you have a very unique
property in Central Queens, the Queens property may outperform
the Central Park property.”  At AvalonBay’s class B and C properties in the Los Angeles
submarket of Marina del Rey, effective rents had an annual
growth rate of 4.3 percent in the 10 years through 2009,
compared with 2.2 percent for its class A properties there,
according to a November investor presentation on the company’s
website.  Class C Properties  The declining rate of homeownership fueled creation of an
estimated 700,000 new renter households in the U.S., half of
which were in multifamily buildings, AvalonBay’s Blair said on a
Feb 3. call with analysts and investors. That helped push the
firm’s rental revenue from apartments leased at least one year
up 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter compared with a 4 percent
decline in the first quarter of 2010.  Nationally, effective rents at class A and B properties
climbed 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter over a year earlier,
according to Axiometrics estimates. By the final quarter of
2011, class B properties may see effective rent growth of 5
percent over the year-earlier quarter, compared with 4.8 percent
for class A properties. Rent on class C properties may increase
5.3 percent.  Revenue from class C properties increased 5.3 percent in
the fourth quarter, after bottoming at negative 8.7 percent in
the third quarter of 2009,  Axiometrics  estimates.  The interest in value-add properties will come primarily
from investors who are paying cash, or from real estate
investment trusts and pension funds, which don’t need to take on
high loan-to-value debt and tend to hold assets for a long time,
said Mike Kelly, president of Caldera Asset Management, a
Denver-based multifamily consulting firm.  Multifamily Financing  The crisis in commercial real estate was compounded by
property owners who borrowed on assumptions of future rent,
known as underwriting, that were too rosy, he said. These days
borrowers can get a loan only against the last 90 days of the
property’s income, rather than future projections, Kelly said.  “You’re going to get tremendous rent growth -- you just
can’t underwrite it,” Kelly said of value-add properties.
“These guys can’t underwrite the giant rent growth and not get
laughed out of the room for it.”    Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which offer financing for
multifamily acquisitions, “are much more heavily weighted to
core assets since the downturn,” Chandan of Real Capital said
in an e-mail. Value-add properties accounted for 12 percent of
Fannie and Freddie lending by dollar volume in 2010, he said.  ‘Little Less Heady’  The biggest metropolitan areas, notably New York and the
suburbs of  Washington , D.C., have led the apartment recovery, as
their growing job markets lure investors to well-leased
properties, especially trophy assets considered the best in the
market. Cap rates on Manhattan properties averaged 5.1 percent
in the fourth quarter, compared with the national average of 6.6
percent, according to Real Capital.  In Washington, cap rates averaged 4.8 percent in the
quarter, the research firm said.  “Rather than buying in D.C., where you get 50 bids on the
asset that was just put out there, you’ll probably look at
traditional top 20 markets and go into the ones that are a
little less heady -- an Atlanta or a  Charlotte ,” Baker of
Savills said. “We’re starting to see that happen. They don’t
have a lot of choice if they have certain yield requirements.”  Atlanta apartment properties carried cap rates of 7.7
percent in the fourth quarter, and Charlotte had yields of 5.2
percent, according to Real Capital.  Eyelashes, Makeup  At Invesco, the interest in higher yields is shifting the
firm’s attention this year to the greater  Portland , Oregon,
market, as well as Denver and the New Jersey suburbs of
Philadelphia -- all places that didn’t even rank this time last
year, Kraus said.  Invesco will spend about $4,800 a unit at Orchard Pointe to
improve the kitchens, electrical fixtures and other “eyelashes
and makeup,” according to Kraus. The complex was bought for a
cap rate of 6.8 percent. With the upgrades, Invesco is
estimating a 5-year unlevered return of 12 percent, he said.
With leverage, the yield may be 19 percent.  “There are a lot of good properties that the capital
hasn’t aggressively been chasing,” Kraus said. “People are
looking and believing that they can underwrite a recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  