-- 
Apple Is Said to Negotiate to Allow Unlimited Downloads of Music Purchases

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-03-04T21:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/apple-said-to-negotiate-unlimited-downloads-of-music-purchases.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is in talks with record
companies to give iTunes music buyers easier access to their
songs on multiple devices, three people with knowledge of the
plans said.  Apple is negotiating with music companies, including  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music  Group,  Sony Music Entertainment ,  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  and EMI Group Ltd., said the people,
who asked for anonymity because the talks are private. An
agreement may be announced by midyear, two of the people said.  The arrangement would give users more flexibility in how
they access purchased music. Apple and the record labels are
eager to maintain demand for digital downloading amid rising
popularity for Internet services such as Pandora Media Inc.,
which don’t sell tracks and instead let users stream songs from
the Web, whatever the device.  A deal would provide  iTunes  customers with a permanent
backup of music purchases if the originals are damaged or lost,
said the people. The service also would allow downloads to iPad,
iPod and iPhone devices linked to the same iTunes account, they
said. The move would be a step closer to universal access to
content centrally stored on the Internet.  Apple gained 44 cents to $360 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 12 percent
this year.  Download Decline    Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment, as did Amanda Collins, a spokeswoman
at Warner Music in New York, and Liz Young at Sony Music. Peter Lofrumento, a spokesman for Universal Music, and Dylan Jones, a
spokesman for EMI, didn’t have an immediate comment.  Apple, which first began selling tracks through iTunes in
 2003 , became the top U.S. music retailer in 2008, surpassing  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  ITunes accounted for 69 percent of all
digital downloads in the U.S. as of September, according to
research firm NPD Group Inc.  An agreement about so-called re-download rights may be
reached by midyear, though it could be later, one of the people
said. Apple typically announces new features for iTunes and its
lineup of iPod media players in September. Last year, it
introduced the Ping social network for iTunes users.  ITunes is facing competition from new Web-based services
such as Spotify Ltd.,  Rdio Inc.  and MOG Inc. They focus on
letting customers listen to songs from anywhere with an online
connection, instead of downloading tracks to a hard drive.  Sales Slump  Music companies are grappling with stalled growth in
digital-download sales, raising concern that online purchases
won’t be enough to make up for declining sales of compact discs.
Digital-track sales rose 1 percent in 2010, while total album
sales fell 12.7 percent, according Nielsen SoundScan.  The new download policy is among several service changes
Apple is exploring. The company also has weighed plans to
overhaul its MobileMe service for storing pictures, videos and
other content online this year, one of the people said.  Under one plan for MobileMe, the $99-a-year service would
become free. Users could store photos, contacts, e-mail and
other content on Apple’s servers, one person said. The content
would be accessible through any wireless connection. The
potential changes to MobileMe were previously reported by the
Wall Street Journal.  Apple will be able to accommodate new services with its new
$1 billion  data center  in North Carolina. Chief Financial
Officer Peter Oppenheimer said at the company’s annual
shareholder meeting last month that the facility will be a hub
for the iTunes and MobileMe services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  