-- 
Arab Women Say Unrest in Region Is Creating Opportunity for Equal Rights

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-04T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/arab-women-say-unrest-in-region-is-creating-opportunity-for-equal-rights.html
Azza Kamel, a  women’s rights 
advocate in  Egypt , said the popular uprisings in her country and
its neighbors are creating new opportunities for women.  “There was no difference between women who were veiled or
not veiled,” Kamel said at the  United Nations  in New York,
referring to the protests that ended  Hosni Mubarak ’s 30-year
rule last month. “The revolution created a land as free for
women as for men.”  Whether the turmoil in the Arab world will yield progress
toward full political and economic rights for women is unclear,
according to  Isobel Coleman , author of “Paradise Beneath Her
Feet: How Woman Are Transforming The Middle East” and a senior
fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York .  “It could go either way,” Coleman said in an interview.
“In a country like Egypt, where you have powerful Islamist
groups and a very influential mainstream that appeals to Islam,
women have will have to navigate very carefully. The same is
true in Tunisia.”  This week Kamel and other women from the region took part
in meetings that marked the one-year anniversary of  UN Women ,
the United Nations agency created to promote women’s rights.
They asked UN officials to help them solidify gains and seize
opportunities to end some of the world’s most repressive laws
and practices.  ‘Cycle of Fear’  The 2009 UN  Arab Human Development Report  said women “find
themselves in a subservient position within the family and
receive little protection from the legal system against
violations inflicted by male family members.” It cited sexual
and psychological abuse, female genital mutilation, forced child
marriage and prostitution, and trafficking in women.  “Help us break the cycle of fear,” Nora Rafeh, a graduate
student in political science in Egypt, said after coming to New
York from Cairo’s Tahrir Square.  Former Chilean President  Michelle Bachelet , the head of UN
Women, vowed to use her annual $500 million budget to help Arab
women become more involved politically and economically.  Bachelet said she wants Arab leaders to learn that every
nation loses economically by failing to enhance women’s rights.  “It is a great opportunity,” Bachelet said of the
protests that have shaken governments from Morocco to  Iran .
“This is a very important moment in which the momentum won’t be
lost.”  No woman was named to the committee to draft a new Egyptian
constitution, Coleman noted, and she cautioned that democracy is
likely to bring Islamist groups into Tunisia’s political mix.
Laws affecting women in Egypt and  Tunisia  are some of the most
progressive in the region, so there is potential for
backsliding.  ‘Women at Risk’  Washington-based  Vital Voices , which identifies and trains
women with leadership potential around the world, organized a
four-day workshop, sponsored by the U.S. State Department, in
Amman, Jordan, last month. The non-governmental organization was
concerned enough about potential retaliation against
participants that it minimized advance publicity about the
sessions, held Feb. 20-23.  “We didn’t want to put the women at risk,” said Christine
German, the Vital Voices regional program manager.  Khadija Sarhi of Yemen said such precautions aren’t
necessary now because the atmosphere has changed, even in
traditionally conservative Islamic nations like hers.  “People are more open now,” Sarhi said in a telephone
interview after returning to Yemen, where three weeks of
protests have rocked President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s regime. “We
don’t know how far we will get with this, but it is the best
time for us to talk about our struggle.”  Gender Inequity  Yemen is the worst among 138 countries ranked on gender
inequality indicators in the 2010 UN  Human Development Report ,
which considers issues such as reproductive health, educational
attainment, and political and labor-force participation.  Saudi
Arabia  ranks 128th, Egypt 108th,  Morocco  104th, Libya 52nd, and  Kuwait  43rd.  Sarhi and Thuraya Dammaj, also from Yemen, are preparing a
campaign for the enforcement of laws that allow women to inherit
the estates of their husbands or other family members.  “Legally, women can get the inheritance,” Sarhi said.
“But in reality, because they are women, family members take
the money. No one talks about it. It is like a taboo.”  The women from Yemen said they plan to enlist imams, or
Muslim prayer leaders, at up to 10 mosques to support their
position during Friday prayer services.  The Arab Human Development Report said even some nations
that have signed and ratified the  UN Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women  don’t
adhere to its provisions when they conflict with Islamic law,
known as sharia.  Each group of women at the Vital Voices conference is
receiving a $25,000 U.S. grant for their campaigns. In addition
to  Yemen , delegations came from Morocco, Lebanon, Oman, Jordan,
Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates .  “Across the board, from all of the teams, they said they
thought things were moving in the right direction,” German
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  