-- 
Marijuana-Like High Helps Trashman’s Syn Battle Solid Sex

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-03-04T15:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/marijuana-like-high-helps-ex-trashman-s-syn-battle-solid-sex.html
Derek Williams was working as a
trash-truck driver when his cousin told him about K2, a product
made from plant materials and chemicals that provided a legal,
marijuana-like high. Williams saw his ticket out of the
residential rubbish business: Make a better blend.  He studied compounds that mimic the effects of pot, and
almost a year after creating his own brand, Syn Incense, in his
home in  Kansas City , Missouri, Williams, 29, said he has sold
more than $1.5 million worth in at least 10 states. Marketing
the product as incense helps him avoid federal  regulations , even
though he said he knows most customers smoke it.  His ability to stay a step ahead of federal and state
authorities underscores the hurdles regulators face as they move
to ban chemicals used in such products, which they say may pose
serious and unknown dangers. Williams said when his ingredients
are restricted, he switches to similar ones.  “It became a money-making machine,” said Williams, adding
that he hopes the business will lead to early retirement.  Demand for designer drugs, including what regulators call
“fake pot,” is growing so fast that a United Nations
narcotics-control board  said  on March 2 that the products are
spreading “out of control” and urged governments to prevent
the manufacture and trafficking of the substances.  Use of fake pot has spurred more than  3,500  calls to poison
control centers throughout the U.S. since the start of 2010,
according to the  American Association of Poison Control Centers 
in Alexandria, Virginia. Users have suffered from racing
heartbeats, high  blood pressure  and nausea.  Permanent Prohibition  The  Drug Enforcement Administration  on March 1 temporarily
banned five synthetic chemicals called cannabinoids, and U.S.
lawmakers are considering a permanent prohibition. Twenty states
have banned certain synthetic cannabinoids, according to Alison
Lawrence, a policy specialist with the  National Conference of
State Legislatures  in Denver.  Still,  law enforcement  is struggling to keep up. There are
no field tests police can use to determine if products contain
banned ingredients, and police laboratories must analyze each
one separately. Dozens of competing brands have been sold in
stores and online with names like Spice, Mr. Smiley, Voodoo
Magic and  K2 Solid Sex .  Williams, the company manager, sells his products wholesale
to smoke shops, gas stations and  convenience stores  at prices
ranging from $3.25 to $25. He said the stores typically charge
at least double that in blends with names like Chill, Ripped and
Lemon Lime. Some websites sell them for even more.  ‘Loaded Gun’  Products containing cannabinoids can act in a way similar
to  THC , the main active chemical in marijuana. Cannabinoids can
be far more potent or less potent than THC.  Users are risking their health by consuming chemicals that
never have been studied in humans, said Aron Lichtman, a
 professor  of pharmacology and toxicology at Virginia
Commonwealth University in Richmond.  “You’re playing with a loaded gun,” said Lichtman.  Several teenagers have died after smoking synthetic
cannabinoids, police say. Among them is David Rozga, 18, of  Iowa , who committed  suicide  last year after consuming the
substance, according to Brian Sher, a detective with the
Indianola, Iowa, police department. Charlie Davel, 19, was
killed last year after he fled police and went the wrong way on
a highway in Mukwonago,  Wisconsin ; friends told authorities he
smoked K2 several hours before the crash, said  Waukesha County
Sheriff ’s Detective Steve Pederson.  Treating Pain  While synthetic cannabinoids are increasingly catching the
attention of authorities now, the substances have been around
for decades and have been studied to treat pain, inflammation
and other ailments.    Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  synthesized a cannabinoid that was never tested
in humans as part of a program in the late-1970s to separate the
psychotropic effects from pain-killing properties of cannabis,
said Lauren Starr, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
pharmaceutical company.  One prescription drug containing a synthetic cannabinoid
that’s approved in the U.S. is Marinol, marketed by  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  of  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , for uses including
treating nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy.  Pricier Than Pot  Bob Welsh, program manager for  breath-alcohol instrument
training  at the University of Central Missouri in Warrensburg,
said there may be 30 cannabinoids commonly used in incense-type
products, selling for about $40 for a 3-gram bag, more than the
street price of pot. People are willing to pay a premium for a
legal high that doesn’t show up in most drug tests, he said.  Welsh tested several varieties of incense on human
volunteers last year, having them smoke it from a bong. The
effect was similar to marijuana, through there were differences,
he said.  “What we’ve been seeing is anxiety, apprehension, even
some levels of borderline paranoia, fear, body temperature
dropping,” he said.  Banning the substances can be difficult because as soon as
one set of chemicals is restricted, producers shift to other
varieties, said William Marbaker, director of the  crime
laboratory division  of the  Missouri  State Highway Patrol.  “You’re basically playing a game of whack-a-mole trying to
keep ahead,” said Marbaker.  ‘Business Opportunity’  Williams said he’d previously smoked marijuana and was
skeptical about a synthetic alternative when his cousin, Jason
Sparks, told him about K2.  He went to work researching, studying the chemical makeup
of cannabinoids online and reverse engineering  K2 , he said.  “I just saw a business opportunity,” Williams said. “I
knew with all the media hype this wasn’t going to go away
anytime soon. It was creating more and more customers.”  He started selling his product in April. His girlfriend,
Ashli Adkins, became the owner of the  company , called KC Incense
LLC, and Sparks signed on as sales manager. Williams quit his
trash job and went to work full time on Syn. They came up with
the slogan “Syn is in.”  He altered his formula twice -- the first time after
Missouri passed a  law  banning certain chemicals and the second
time after the DEA announced plans in November to restrict sales
of five chemicals. Syn blends include plant materials -- one is
a “sacred lotus herb from  Thailand ” -- soaked in a mix of five
cannabinoids, Williams said.  Side Effects  Before marketing each of the different blends, he said he
smoked various amounts to make sure they were safe, and had
regular customers try new versions. He said some people get
nausea, headaches and experience a mood change.  “I wanted to know that I wasn’t going to be hurting
people,” Williams said. The product isn’t safe if it’s abused,
he said. “If it’s an occasional use, I don’t see safety
issues.”  Williams said it’s doubtful customers use Syn as incense.  “Everybody knows what it is and what they’re buying it
for,” he said.  Syn has six full-time employees and the product is made in
a spare room in his house. The chemicals and plant materials are
mixed in an open metal container, he said. The company buys the
ingredients from a middleman.  Williams said he is examining new chemicals he can use as
states consider banning all cannabinoids. He said Syn is
especially strong and he wants to keep it that way.  “We have one of the most potent blends on the market,” he
said. “That’s what people want.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  