-- 
Asian Currencies Advance as Central Banks May Tolerate Gains, Raise Rates

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-03-05T00:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/asian-currencies-strengthen-this-week-as-central-banks-may-tolerate-gains.html
Asian currencies rose this week, led
by  South Korea ’s won and the Philippine peso, on speculation
central banks will tolerate appreciation and raise borrowing
costs to tame inflation.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index climbed 0.5
percent this week as Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said March 1 there was less scope to keep borrowing
costs unchanged as prices rise. Bank Indonesia said yesterday a
strengthening rupiah is helping to curb import costs as it
refrained from a second increase in a row in the benchmark
interest rate. Policy makers in Malaysia, Thailand and South
Korea meet next week to review rates.  “We expect all three to hike their policy rates owing to
generally strong economic activity and rising core inflation
pressures,”  Rahul Bajoria , an economist in Singapore at
Barclays Plc, said yesterday. “Rising food and transport
costs” are stoking inflation, he said.  The won advanced 1.1 percent this week to 1,114.60 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
peso climbed 1 percent to 43.268, Taiwan’s dollar rose 1 percent
to NT$29.462, and Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened 0.7 percent to
3.0275. Indonesia’s rupiah gained 0.6 percent to 8,787.  Oil advanced for a third week on concern unrest in Libya
will spread to other North African and Middle East energy
exporters, curbing shipments. Crude in  New York  climbed 6.7
percent this week to $104.42 a barrel and has rallied 30 percent
from a year earlier.  U.S. Outlook    Taiwan ’s dollar halted a three-week losing streak after
data from the U.S. signaled growth in the world’s largest
economy is gathering pace, brightening the outlook for regional
exports.  The currency rose to its strongest level in two weeks.
Initial claims for jobless benefits fell to the lowest level
since May 2008, figures showed on March 3.  “The recovery outlook for the U.S. is pretty good, and
it’s supporting Taiwan’s dollar and other regional currencies,”
said  Henry Lin , a Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan
Shin Kong Commercial Bank. The currency may test NT$29 next week,
he said.  The U.S. jobless rate fell to 8.9 percent in February, the
lowest in almost two years, and employers added 192,000 jobs in
a sign of growing confidence in the recovery, Labor Department
Figures showed yesterday in  Washington .  The peso rose this week on speculation the central bank
will raise its benchmark policy rate after inflation accelerated
in February at the fastest pace in nine months.  Asian Resilience  Consumer prices increased 4.3 percent from a year earlier,
after a revised 3.6 percent gain in January, the  National
Statistics Office  said in  Manila  yesterday. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.7 percent gain.  “I’m amazed at the resilience of these Asian currencies,”
said  Tim Condon , head of Asian research at ING Groep NV in  Singapore . “While it doesn’t look like the turmoil in the
Middle East will abate soon, the markets seem to have concluded
at least for now that it won’t be that big an impact.”  Elsewhere,  China ’s yuan strengthened 0.1 percent this week
to 6.5686 per dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The Singapore dollar appreciated 0.5 percent to
S$1.2674 and Thailand’s baht rose 0.5 percent to 30.49.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 