-- 
Asian Stocks Rise as Better Economic Data Offset Oil Price Rise Concerns

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-03-04T22:28:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/asian-stocks-rise-as-better-economic-data-offset-oil-price-rise-concerns.html
Asian stocks rose this week as
better-than-estimated economic data from  South Korea  to the U.S.
eased concern about surging  oil prices  following tension in
North Africa and the Middle East.  Doosan Infracore Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. climbed more
than 5 percent in Seoul after  industrial production  in South
Korea quickened.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) ,  Asia ’s No. 1 maker of
construction machinery, jumped 9.3 percent in Tokyo on the
prospects for home building in  China . Yahoo Japan Corp.
increased 3.1 percent in Tokyo on speculation Yahoo! Inc. is in
talks to sell its stake in the web portal.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.9 percent to 139.41
this week. The gauge dropped 2.1 percent last week on concern
higher oil prices following uprisings in  Libya  and the Middle
East will slow a global economic recovery.  “There’s been a tug of war between the strong economy on
the one side and higher oil prices and the unrest in the Middle
East on the other, but the positive news is increasing,” said
Koichi Kurose, chief strategist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd.,
which oversees the equivalent of $57 billion in assets. “The
U.S. is gradually approaching a self-sustaining recovery.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average increased 1.6 percent this
week,  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.6 percent,  Hong
Kong ’s Hang Seng Index gained 1.8 percent and China’s Shanghai
Composite Index rose 2.2 percent.  Korea Industrial Production  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  advanced 2.1 percent as factory
output rose 13.7 percent in January from a year earlier, topping
economist forecasts.  Doosan Infracore, South Korea’s largest maker of
construction equipment, rallied 5.2 percent to 27,100 won after
a leading index of South Korean economic indicators, which
forecasts business activity, rose 3 percent in January from a
year earlier. Shares of Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s largest
automaker, gained 4.5 percent to 183,500 won.  U.S. reports this week showed personal income improved more
than economists expected in January, while a measure of business
conditions rose to its highest level in more than 22 years.
Separate reports on jobs growth also boosted optimism the labor
market is improving in the world’s largest economy.  Komatsu, the maker of bulldozers, excavators and dump
trucks, jumped 9.3 percent to 2,648 yen in Tokyo this week after
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the government plans to build 36
million affordable homes in the next five years.  ‘Boosting Sentiment’  “Positive economic data is boosting sentiment,” said Kim Young Joon, head of equities in  Seoul  at NH-CA Asset Management
Co., which manages the equivalent of $8.9 billion in assets.
“Though we need to see the sustainability of such an
expansion.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 1.2 percent on March 2
after crude oil surged above $100 a barrel as Libyan rebels
braced for renewed conflict with forces loyal to leader Muammar Qaddafi and amid reports Iranian protesters clashed with
security forces in Tehran.  Also in Tokyo, Yahoo Japan gained 3.1 percent to 31,650 yen
after two people briefed on the matter said Yahoo! Inc. is in
talks to dispose of its 35 percent stake in its Japanese
Internet portal, a venture with Softbank Corp. Softbank, Japan’s
third-largest mobile-phone operator, climbed 4.4 percent.  Among stocks that fell,  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  tumbled 4.1
percent to HK$17.72 in Hong Kong after its majority shareholder,
Las Vegas Sands Corp., said it faced investigations from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Sharp Corp. fell 4.9 percent to 842 yen in Tokyo after
Morgan Stanley downgraded Japan’s No. 1 maker of liquid-crystal
displays to “equalweight” from “overweight.” NEC Corp.,
which last week cut its full year net-income forecast, slumped
3.4 percent to 224 yen. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded
Japan’s largest maker of personal computers to “neutral,” and
Nikko Cordial also cut its rating to “underperform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in Sydney at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 