-- 
AT&T Says John Stephens to Become CFO When Lindner Retires

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-05T00:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/at-t-financial-chief-rick-lindner-to-retire-june-1.html
  AT&T Inc. (T)  said John Stephens will
become chief financial officer, succeeding Rick Lindner, who is
retiring after helping integrate acquisitions that transformed a
regional carrier into the top U.S. phone company.  Stephens will take over on June 1, the Dallas-based company
said today in a statement. A 19-year AT&T veteran, Stephens
spent the past decade as controller, responsible for financial
reporting, business planning and accounting policy.  Lindner, 56, became finance chief in 2004 and helped with
dozens of acquisitions, including the January 2007 purchase of
BellSouth Corp. for more than $80 billion. That deal remains the
industry’s biggest worldwide, according to Bloomberg data.
Previously he served as finance chief of Cingular Wireless, the
mobile carrier that is now part of AT&T.  “He certainly took a leadership role in transforming AT&T,”
said  Michael Nelson , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in
New York who rates AT&T shares “outperform” and doesn’t own any.
“The company made significant acquisitions, rolling up the
sector to become the dominant player it is today.”  While AT&T is the largest U.S. phone company, it’s second
to  Verizon Wireless  in mobile subscribers. Verizon gained the
top spot after its parent, Verizon Communications Inc., bought
Alltel Corp. in January 2009. At the same time, AT&T customers
began complaining about dropped calls and other network
problems.  Revenue from home-phone lines, AT&T’s traditional business,
is declining as more customers move to mobile phones and digital
service. Sales and net income declined in 2009 amid the global
economic crisis.  The company rebounded in 2010, benefiting from surging
demand for smartphones, including Apple Inc.’s iPhone. Revenue
grew 1.4 percent to $124.3 billion last year.  AT&T fell 21 cents to $27.92 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has declined 5 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  