-- 
Matt Damon Meets Mysterious Dancer; Foster Kid Finds Home: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/matt-damon-meets-mysterious-dancer-josh-radnor-s-foster-kid-rick-warner.html
“ The Adjustment Bureau ,” starring  Matt Damon  as a politician hounded by Big Brother bureaucrats
trying to control his life, is about the conflict between
destiny and free will.  If you feel destined to see this movie, I’d advise you to
exercise your free will and resist the urge.  Writer/director George Nolfi has altered and expanded
Philip K. Dick’s 1954 short story, “Adjustment Team,” almost
beyond recognition.  Nolfi has changed the main character from a married
insurance salesmen to a bachelor New York congressman, added a
love affair with a ballerina (Emily Blunt) and dressed it up
with a noirish New York City backdrop where all the bad guys
wear fedoras and overcoats. Think “ Mad Men ” without the
cocktails.  The result is a drab, one-note movie that fails as a
romance or thriller. Damon and Blunt are engaging actors, but
they can’t light a spark here.  Damon plays U.S. Senate candidate David Norris, who meets
mysterious dancer Elise in the men’s room at the Waldorf Astoria
hotel while rehearsing his concession speech on election night.
(She’s hiding out from security guards after crashing a
wedding.)  Inspired by her pep talk, Norris goes out and delivers a
brutally honest diatribe that keeps his political career alive.  The Chairman  Though they’re immediately smitten, they don’t meet again
until a chance encounter on a bus as Norris heads to his new job
on  Wall Street .  That’s when he meets up with creeps from the Adjustment
Bureau, who are assigned to make sure that everyone’s life goes
as planned by their all-powerful boss, known as The Chairman.  Hooking up with Elise isn’t part of the plan for Norris,
who is warned to stay away from her by a silver-haired adjuster
played by John Slattery (“Mad Men”). The Chairman has big
political ambitions for Norris and doesn’t want him to be
distracted by love.  The penalty for disobeying is a “reset,” which erases the
offender’s brain. (Has that happened already to some folks in
D.C.?)  The rest of the movie is basically a cat-and-mouse game,
with Norris pursuing Elise while trying to avoid The Chairman’s
henchmen.  Norris gets some unexpected help from a guilt-ridden
adjuster (Anthony Mackie) who shows him how to pass through
magical doors that lead to Yankee Stadium and the Statue of
Liberty.  The most welcome door at the screening I attended said
exit.  “The Adjustment Bureau,” from  Universal Pictures , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ‘Happythankyoumoreplease’  Josh Radnor, who stars in a TV sitcom (“How I Met Your
Mother”) about an eclectic group of young New Yorkers, tackles
the same subject in his directing debut.  “ Happythankyoumoreplease ” centers on an aspiring novelist
Sam (Radnor), whose laid-back life is shaken up by a foster-care
kid (Michael Algieri) he meets in the subway and a
waitress/singer (Kate Mara) he falls for at first sight.  Also part of the dramedy ensemble are Annie (Malin
Akerman), a lovelorn woman rendered bald by an auto-immune
disease, and a couple (Zoe Kazan and Pablo Schreiber) whose
relationship is threatened by a possible move to  Los Angeles .  The most unusual friendship is the one between Sam and
Rasheen, the adorable boy that Sam finds in the subway and takes
home to stay with him.  Rasheen turns out to be a talented artist and a good
companion, but social-service workers don’t look kindly on his
new living arrangement.  The movie’s title is annoyingly pretentious but Radnor, who
also wrote the script, has a genuine feel for his characters.  “Happythankyoumoreplease,” from Anchor Bay Films, is
playing in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: **  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 