-- 
BAE Systems Lobbies South African Government for $580 Million Vehicle Deal

-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-04T07:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/bae-systems-lobbies-south-african-government-for-580-million-vehicle-deal.html
  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s South African unit
is lobbying the government of the continent’s biggest economy to
choose its armored combat vehicles over Finnish Patria Oyj’s to
win a contract worth about 4 billion rand ($580 million).  BAE Systems Land Systems  South Africa  Ltd.’s eight-wheeled
RG41 is being pitched to the South Africa as a cheaper option to
imported combat vehicles for the Hoefyster program aimed at
renewing the infantry combat vehicle fleet, BAE’s Johan Steyn
said in Johannesburg yesterday.  Denel Ltd., owned by South Africa’s government, was
selected as the prime contractor for the 8 billion-rand
Hoefyster, an Afrikaans word that means horse shoe, in 2007, the
biggest contract in its history at the time. Denel is
responsible for the turret design and will use Patria’s vehicles
for the platform. The contract is for 264 vehicles. A
cancellation of the contract between Patria and Denel may carry
financial penalties, Steyn said, adding that he isn’t privy to
the details of the contract.  The RG41 may be as much as 20 percent cheaper than
competing vehicles, depending on what they are equipped with.
About 80 percent of the content in the 19 metric-ton infantry
carrier is sourced in South Africa, he said. Using the BAE
platform could create 2,000 jobs in the country. About 25
percent of South Africans are unemployed.  BAE wants “to create a desire,” in South Africa to have
“an indigenous solution” for the platform for Denel’s turret,
Steyn said. No decision to begin production of the vehicles
between Patria and Denel has been made yet, he said.  About half of the value of Hoefyster is the platform, said
Johan Jooste,  BAE Land Systems South Africa  head of business
development. The RG41 will be tested later this year by the  United Arab Emirates , which has expressed “strong interest” in
it, he said. “Defense budgets are to the East,” ‘Jooste said,
adding  Saudi Arabia  is also interested in the vehicles.  Patria is owned by  Finland ’s government and Leiden,
Holland-based European Aeronautic Defense and Space Co.  BAE would also like to export the vehicles with Denel’s
technology to other countries, as a “Team South Africa
product,” Steyn said. Denel spokesman Ish Moeketsi was not able
to comment on the matter when contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  