-- 
Bahrain May Be Uprising Too Far for Saudis Avoiding Iran’s Grip

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-04T14:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/bahrain-may-be-uprising-too-far-for-saudis-avoiding-iran-s-grip.html
  Saudi Arabia  has watched revolts
unfold in  Tunisia ,  Egypt  and  Libya . When it comes to Bahrain,
the world’s largest oil exporter may not be a mere spectator.  Protests on the neighboring island, where the  U.S. Navy’s
Fifth Fleet  guards Gulf oil supply, are being overshadowed by
the challenge to Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi. Yet they underscore
the sectarian divide in the Muslim world between Shiites and
Sunnis that puts Iran on one side and Saudi Arabia on the other
in a region that holds about 55 percent of the world’s crude.  “Saudi Arabia is concerned about the expansion of the
Shiite crescent,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research
at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis. “The last thing Riyadh would want to see is Shiite
rule in  Bahrain . At the end of the day, Saudi Arabia would
intervene militarily.”  Instability in Bahrain might affect  oil prices  more than
the ouster of Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January,
Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak  a month later or the turmoil in Libya,
according to Mustafa Alani, a regional security expert from the
Dubai-based Gulf Research Center.  Mainly Shiite protesters in Bahrain are demanding democracy
through free elections from their Sunni monarch. Thousands of
demonstrators surrounded the state television headquarters in
the capital, Manama, today, shouting slogans against the royal
family, after several Shiites were injured in street clashes
with Sunnis late yesterday, the  Associated Press  reported.  ‘Front Line’  “Bahrain is the front line in the conflict between the
Gulf states and  Iran ,” Alani said in a telephone interview.
“The sectarian dimension is definite. This would have a huge
impact on the stability in the Gulf.”  There have already been signs of unrest among Saudi
Shiites, who make up about 10 to 15 percent of the population.
About 100 people joined a demonstration in the Shiite village of
Awwamiya yesterday, calling for the release of prisoners, and a
similar number gathered later in the city of Qatif under a
strong police presence.  Saudi Arabia , which holds 20 percent of the world’s oil
reserves, is dominated by a branch of Sunni Islam, while Iran,
home to 10 percent of reserves, is mainly Shiite.  Crude oil prices have climbed 20 percent to a 29-month high
since unrest erupted in Bahrain on Feb. 14. Saudi Arabia’s
benchmark stock index plunged the most in more than two years on
March 1 on concern disturbances may extend to the kingdom. The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  has tumbled 20 percent since Feb. 14.  ‘Markets Would React’  “Even if there isn’t any disruption of output in Saudi
Arabia, if there is deterioration in the political environment
in the region, markets would react,”  Monica Malik , an economist
at investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said in a telephone
interview from Dubai.  Saudi Arabia’s royal family maintains a strict version of
Sunni Islam. It prohibits the public observance of other
religions and limits the practice of other branches of Islam.
Saudi Arabia is linked to Bahrain, where the U.S.  Fifth Fleet 
uses over 20 warships and oversees about 25,000 personnel across
the region, by a 26-kilometer (16-mile) causeway.  While protesters chant that all Bahrainis are the same
people, the Shiites, who represent as much as 70 percent of
Bahrain’s population, say they face discrimination.  ‘Repressive Response’  The rebellion in Bahrain “fuels fears” of a “Shiite
uprising in the Gulf, aided and abetted by neighboring Iran,”
said  Shelley Deane , assistant professor of government at Bowdoin
College in  Maine . “Bahrain’s revolt and the state’s repressive
response create tension among its neighbors fearful of
instability spilling over state borders.”  So far there are no signs Saudi Arabia is planning an
intervention in Bahrain. The country stepped in with force
against Shiite rebels on its border with Yemen. The three-month
conflict ended in February last year.  During the Iran  Iraq  war of the 1980s, Saudi Arabia and
other Gulf nations supported Iraq “because they suspected Iran
of trying to spread its revolution and foment unrest in the Gulf
monarchies,” Jane Kinninmont, a senior research fellow on the
Middle East and the  Africa , at London-based  Chatham House , said
in response to e-mailed questions.  Both also claim a “kind of leadership position in the
Islamic world,” she said.  Bahraini Shiite protesters have so far defined their
protests as a national movement without Iranian influence.  ‘No Outside Involvement’  “No one will accept outside involvement,” Abduljalil
Khalil, head of the largest Shiite opposition bloc in Bahrain’s
parliament, said in an interview. Ahmed Jassem, a Shiite cleric
from Sitra, a smaller island off the Bahrain coast, said during
a funeral that drew tens of thousands of mourners that “Iran
has nothing to with what is going on in Bahrain.”  Government supporters counter that should the Al Khalifa
monarchy fall, the upheaval may open the country to Iran.  “What do the Shiite people want?” said Moneera Mohammed,
a 28-year-old employee at the Information Ministry. “These
people are like the Iranians. They don’t represent us.”  Bahrain’s Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, who was
tasked with bringing stability back to Bahrain, flew to  Riyadh 
on March 2 for a two-day visit with officials. Saudi Arabia and
neighboring Qatar subsequently backed Bahrain with “full
political, economic, security and defense support,” the
official Bahrain News Agency reported.  “Unrest in Bahrain is always a concern for Saudi Arabia,
because there are close family, religious and cultural ties
between Bahrain’s Shiite and the Saudi Shiite in the Eastern
Province,” Kinninmont said. “Saudi Arabia takes a zero
tolerance approach to protests in its own territory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  