-- 
Barnes & Noble Wins Appeal Over Yucaipa Challenge to Poison Pill Defense

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-03-04T19:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/barnes-noble-wins-appeal-over-yucaipa-challenge-to-poison-pill-defense.html
  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the largest
U.S. bookstore chain, won a ruling from the Delaware  Supreme
Court  affirming a lower-court judge’s decision that its poison
pill is a valid anti-takeover defense mechanism.  Billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Los Angeles-based Yucaipa Cos.
sued New York-based Barnes & Noble last May in an effort to gain
control of board seats. Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine
validated the Barnes & Noble pill in August.  The pill “was a good, fair, reasonable response” to a
threat to the company and its shareholders, Strine concluded.
The five Delaware Supreme Court justices affirmed Strine’s
ruling yesterday, following lawyers’ arguments.  Barnes & Noble shares fell 14 percent for the largest drop
in almost eight months on Feb. 22 after the company suspended
its dividend to conserve cash and invest in electronic books.
The same day, the retailer said it would stop giving forecasts
for the rest of fiscal year until more is known about newly
bankrupt rival  Borders Group Inc. (BGP)   “We are pleased that the Delaware Supreme Court upheld the
Chancery Court ruling, which recognized that the Barnes & Noble
Board of Directors adopted an appropriate Rights Plan,”  Mary Ellen Keating , a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Frank Quintero, a Yucaipa spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a phone messages seeking comment on the ruling.  Barnes & Noble fell 44 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $12.41 at
2:24 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Yucaipa American Alliance Fund II LP v. Riggio,
CA5465, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington. Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  