-- 
Bearish Agriculture Options Bets Surge to Two-Year High

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-04T21:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/bearish-bets-on-soybeans-cattle-surge-to-two-year-high-in-options-market.html
Investors are making the most
bearish bets against crops and livestock in the U.S. equity-
options market since 2008 after the  World Bank  said prices
surged to dangerous levels.  The number of outstanding puts to sell the PowerShares DB
Agriculture Fund, which tracks 11 commodities from corn to
soybeans and cattle, versus calls to buy has increased to 0.67
and reached a 28-month high of 0.69 on Feb. 28. The ratio
doubled in January and February, the fastest two-month rate
since February 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The $4 billion exchange-traded fund had its first outflows
of the year in the week ended Feb. 23, with investors removing a
net $116.4 million, EPFR Global data show. While corn, cocoa,
coffee and cotton closed yesterday at their highest levels of
the year, sugar, wheat, hogs, soybeans and cattle have fallen a
median 5.5 percent from their peaks.  “People want to buy protection,” said Dave Lutz, head of
ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.
“We’ve been seeing a tremendous amount of money coming out of
grains and a lot of the agriculture stocks, going toward energy
based on what was happening in the Middle East.”  Record Food Prices  Global food prices rose to a record in February and grain
costs may continue to rise in the next several months, with only
rice keeping the world from a repeat of the crisis three years
ago, the  United Nations  said yesterday. An index of 55 food
commodities rose 2.2 percent to 236 points from 230.9 in
January, the eighth consecutive gain, according to the UN’s  Food
and Agriculture Organization . In February, the World Bank said
the rise has pushed 44 million more people into extreme poverty
since June.  Increasing incomes in  developing countries  have boosted
demand for meat and dairy products, requiring more grain for
livestock feed and land for grazing animals, according to an
article published yesterday in the agency’s Finance &
Development magazine. Rising demand for biofuels and bad weather
also have tightened food supplies, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  The ETF slipped 0.4 percent to $35.30 as of 4 p.m. in  New
York  today, trimming its rally since the 15-month low reached on
June 7 to 54 percent. Corn, soybeans, sugar and live cattle
together account for half of the fund’s value, according to the
PowerShares  website . Other holdings include cocoa, coffee, hogs,
wheat and cotton.  Sugar, Wheat  Sugar futures dropped 13 percent from their high on Feb. 2
through yesterday. Wheat, hogs, soybeans and cattle retreated
8.9 percent, 5.5 percent, 2.7 percent and 0.8 percent,
respectively, from their 2011 peaks.  “We’ve been seeing some liquidation in all the
commodities,” said Troy Vetterkind, the owner of Vetterkind
Cattle Brokerage, which trades grain and livestock derivatives
in Chicago. “Corn, beans, cattle and everything is on a huge
rally, so I can see why there’d be more put buying.”  Four of the ten  PowerShares DB Agriculture Fund (DBA)  contracts
with the biggest open-interest increases in the past two weeks
were puts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The July $32
puts jumped the most, adding 9,167 through yesterday to 12,704
options. The contract with the highest open interest was the
January $30 put with 24,307 options as of yesterday.  Central banks in emerging economies from  China  to  Russia 
are raising  interest rates  and boosting bank reserve
requirements to battle inflation, while anti-government protests
in the Middle East and northern Africa drive up fuel costs. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark measure of U.S.
shares, dropped as much as 2.8 percent in February amid concern
higher  oil prices  will slow  consumer spending , which makes up
about 70 percent of the world’s biggest economy.  “People are looking at the options to protect their
positions,” said Mike Zarembski, a senior commodity analyst at
OptionsXpress Holdings Inc. in  Chicago . “This is cheap
insurance if we see an economic slowdown.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  