-- 
Benin’s President Seeks Second Term After Scandal

-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e   a n d   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e
-- 
2011-03-11T16:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/benin-s-president-yayi-seeks-a-second-term-after-ponzi-scandal-flooding.html
(Corrects spelling of Seely in fourth and penultimate
paragraphs of story published March 4.)  Benin ’s President Thomas Boni Yayi
will seek a second term in office in an election on March 6
after a year marred by a  Ponzi scheme  that defrauded investors
of the equivalent of 5 percent of the West African nation’s
gross domestic product.  The country’s 3.5 million registered voters will choose
between Boni Yayi and 12 other presidential candidates. A second
round is scheduled for March 13 if none of the contestants gets
50 percent of votes.  Whoever wins will need to help the country recover from the
worst flooding in 50 years, which killed at least 46 people and
left 150,000 homeless. The victor will also need to restore
confidence in the financial system after the collapse of ICC
Services in June affected almost 2 percent of the population. It
had savings of 155.6 billion  CFA francs  ($331 million),
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Boni Yayi’s “campaign has been marred by the pyramid
scheme and to a certain extent the question is whether the
voters hold him responsible,” said Jennifer Seely, a political
scientist who researches Benin at  Earlham College  in the U.S.
state of  Indiana . “So many people were impacted by it
economically it can’t help but reflect badly on the president.”  The 58-year-old Boni Yayi appeared in photographs with
officials from ICC Services before it collapsed. He denied
knowledge of the scheme.  ‘Planning to Invest’  “If I received the officials of the ICC Service company,
it was just because they told me they were planning to invest in
the country’s economy through many development projects, and
then needed government support to achieve them,” Boni Yayi said
in a Jan. 29 speech declaring his candidacy in Cotonou.  Three officials from ICC Services have been jailed and
Interior Minister Armand Zinzindohoue was fired over the issue.
Some investors have been repaid, said Mathias Hounkpe, a
political scientist who works for  Benin ’s Parliament.  The country, which borders Nigeria, Niger, Togo and  Burkina
Faso , was inundated by heavy rains in September and October. The
floods cut the outlook for growth this year to 3.4 percent from
4.4 percent, Finance Minister Idriss Daouda told the Washington-
based IMF in a letter published on the lender’s website Feb. 25.  Growth in 2010 was 2.5 percent, hindered by a slow recovery
from the global economic crisis, the fund said. Inflation was
“subdued” at an average 2.1 percent last year, it said.  Building Roads  Boni Yayi, a former head of the West  African Development
Bank  and deputy director of the Dakar, Senegal-based  Central
Bank of West African States , has sought to emphasize his
government’s efforts to build roads and mechanize agriculture in
a country where GDP per capita of $745 exceeds the sub-Saharan
African average of $624, according to the  World Bank .  The leader’s main challengers include Adrien Houngbedji of
the Parti du Renouveau Democratique, who was defeated by Boni
Yayi in a runoff in 2006. Houngbedji also ran and lost in 1991,
1996 and 2001 and will need to expand support from his base in
the country’s southeast, said Ambroise Zinsou, an analyst with
 Social Watch Benin , a human rights and anti-corruption group.  The president is also opposed by Abdoulaye Bio Tchane, who
replaced Boni Yayi as president of the West African  Development
Bank  and stepped down from that position in January after
announcing his presidential bid. He has promised to increase
economic growth to 8 percent annually.  Benin, which has had three peaceful transitions of
presidential power since moving from a Marxist 1991, is unlikely
to experience the violence that marred elections in West African
neighbor  Ivory Coast  last year and  Nigeria  in 2008, said Earlham
College’s Seely.  “Benin has a good, vibrant democracy,” she said. “They
are very aware of the problems their neighbors have had and they
don’t want to go down that path.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra and Serge-David Zoueme in Cotonou at 
   jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 