-- 
Bessemer Said to Be Raising as Much as $1.5 Billion to Invest in Startups

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-03-04T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/bessemer-is-said-to-be-raising-up-to-1-5-billion-to-invest-in-startups.html
Bessemer Venture Partners , a
century-old investment firm in Larchmont,  New York , is aiming to
raise as much as $1.5 billion for a fund to back technology
startups, said two people familiar with knowledge of the deal.  Bessemer wants to raise $1.2 billion at the low end and
will make investments from its U.S.,  India  and Israel offices,
according to the people, who declined to be named because the
fundraising isn’t public. Bessemer completed its last fund in
2007 and then added to it two years later, raising a total of
about $1.35 billion.  The biggest venture capital firms are emerging from a four-
year fundraising slump and attracting billions of dollars from
investors, enticed by a pickup in initial public offerings.
Bessemer owns a 5.1 percent stake in LinkedIn Corp., the
business-networking site that filed for an IPO in January.  Sequoia Capital  and  Greylock Partners , two other investors in
LinkedIn, also have raised capital.  Calls placed to Bessemer’s headquarters weren’t returned.  Bessemer is an investor in Tripwire Inc., a provider of
Web-based security for corporations, which filed to go public in
May, and Cornerstone OnDemand Inc., a software maker that plans
to raise about $100 million in an IPO. Bessemer also was an
early investor in Web-phone service Skype Technologies SA, which
was bought by EBay Inc. for $2.6 billion in 2005. Skype is now
an independent company again after a spinoff.  Carnegie Partner  Henry Phipps started Bessemer Securities in 1911, after
selling Carnegie Steel, the company that he co-founded earlier
with Andrew Carnegie. The startup-investment unit was spun out
of the securities firm and named Bessemer Venture Partners. It
now has 17 investing partners, according to its  website . In
addition to operating in Larchmont, it has offices in  Menlo
Park , California; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Herzliya, Israel;
and Mumbai, India.  Bessemer invests in companies focused on alternative
energy, Internet services, data security, finance, health care
and e-commerce. It was an early backer of retailer  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ,
computer-networking company  Ciena Corp. (CIEN) , and VeriSign Inc.,
which helps maintain the Internet’s infrastructure. Bessemer
says it has more than $2 billion invested in over 130 companies.  Venture-capital  fundraising  declined in 2010 for the fourth
straight year, dropping 25 percent to $12.3 billion, according
to the National Venture Capital Association. The amount has
tumbled by more than half since 2005 as a dearth of IPOs hurt
returns at venture firms. Institutional Venture Partners,
Battery Ventures and Oak Investment Partners raised the most
money in 2010, each attracting $750 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  