-- 
Bimbo Mulls Price Increase as Margins Dwindle Amid Surging Costs

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-03-04T17:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/bimbo-mulls-price-increase-as-surging-grain-fuel-costs-squeeze-margins.html
Grupo Bimbo SAB said rising grain
and fuel costs that are squeezing profit margins are
"unsustainable" and may force the world’s largest bread maker to
raise some prices this quarter.  “If you were to ask me if we could maintain our margins
this year, I’d say: Good luck,” Chief Financial Officer
Guillermo Quiroz said yesterday in an interview at Bimbo’s  Mexico  City headquarters. “You can try to avoid increasing
prices, but this is unsustainable.”  Bimbo, struggling to maintain operating margins at 2010
levels, may boost some prices as it seeks to pass on higher
expenses to consumers, he said. The price increase may occur
this quarter in the U.S., Mexico, and 15 other countries where
it operates.  Soaring commodities costs, especially for wheat and corn,
have cut into profits for food companies including Bimbo and
competitors such as Nestle SA and Kraft Foods Inc. Corn futures
surged 91 percent and wheat rallied 60 percent in  Chicago  in the
12 months through yesterday. Oil has gained 18 percent in the
past two weeks and touched a 29-month high today in  New York .  No company has enough hedging to cover such increases,
Quiroz said.  “It’s too bad, but everyone will have to" raise prices, he
said. ‘‘I cannot be optimistic because the global context is too
messy.’’  Dwindling Margins  Bimbo said said Feb. 24 that its operating margin fell to
8.8 percent in the fourth quarter, down 3.8 percentage points
from the year-earlier period.  Bimbo increased prices 3.5 percent last year because of
higher commodity costs, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Servitje
said in a earnings conference call on Feb. 25. Kraft, the
world’s second-largest food company, on Feb. 10 lowered its
full-year earnings forecast because of higher costs.  Bimbo will be ‘‘very careful’’ raising prices to avoid
losing market share, Quiroz said.  Bimbo, which makes Entenmann’s cakes, Thomas’ English
Muffins and Mrs. Baird’s breads, currently is waiting for
regulatory approval to buy the Sara Lee North American bakery
business for $959 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City
at   carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  