-- 
Bombardier Sees Boeing Shift Buoying CSeries Jet Orders After Yearlong Gap

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-03-04T21:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/bombardier-sees-boeing-shift-buoying-cseries-jet-orders-after-yearlong-gap.html
  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , with no new orders
for its CSeries jet in a year, may be reinvigorated because
rival  Boeing Co. (BA)  wants to target a different slice of the
biggest commercial jet market.  Boeing said this week the company may build a successor to
its  narrow-body plane  by 2019 that seats 150 to 220 people. That
would leave the 100- to 150-seat category targeted by the
CSeries “basically unaddressed with a new airplane,”
Bombardier Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin said.  Almost half of narrow-body planes in the air today, or
5,550 aircraft, are in that seat-range with an average age of 13
years, according to research firm Ascend. Beaudoin said he’s
believed since the  CSeries inception  that airlines would need to
replace some of them.  “There is a substantial market there, maybe not big enough
for Boeing or Airbus, but we feel for us, more than 6,000
aircraft over the next 20 years is a great market,” Beaudoin
said in a telephone interview March 1.  Montreal-based Bombardier, the third-biggest planemaker,
expects more orders in the “short term” for the CSeries, which
is scheduled to enter service in 2013, Beaudoin said. He didn’t
provide a date.  The successor to Boeing’s narrow-body 737, the world’s most
widely flown jet, will probably be wider than the current model,
Mike Bair, who heads the Boeing team studying the concept, said
in an interview this week.  The second-biggest commercial-aircraft maker, Boeing
prefers building an all-new plane to offering new engines on the
existing aircraft as larger rival Airbus SAS did with its
narrow-body A320.  Jet Fuel Prices  Boeing, which still hasn’t committed itself to a narrow-
body strategy, will make a firm decision on whether to build a
new jet and what size it would be by June, Bair said. The
smallest 737 sold now starts at 125 seats.  What the Chicago-based company decides is pivotal to
carriers choosing between more efficient aircraft from the three
biggest planemakers amid a 27 percent gain in jet-fuel prices
this year.  Airbus may not have a new narrow-body before 2027 as it
doesn’t expect enough engine technology advances before then to
warrant a $10 billion development program, Chief Operating
Officer John Leahy has said.  Still, the A320neo, with upgraded engines, damages the
business case for Bombardier’s CSeries, Leahy said. Bertrand Grabowski, the DVB Bank SE board member responsible for aviation
clients, concurred.  ‘Things Have Changed’  “Bombardier proposed a product that was definitely
appealing, something airlines were ready to seriously
consider,” he said. “But now, things have changed. With Airbus
proposing the neo and Boeing expected to answer in one way or
another later this year, any airline looking at the Bombardier
plane will say, ‘I shall wait. What is my incentive today to the
move to the CSeries? Zero.’”  Since the Toulouse, France-based planemaker introduced the
A320neo in December, it has received commitments to buy 150
planes from IndiGo, the low-cost Indian airline, and orders from
Virgin America Inc. and Tam Airlines of  Brazil .  The CSeries has received no new orders since Republic
Airways Holdings Inc. agreed to buy 40 jets and took options for
40 more about a year ago. Analysts have questioned whether that
indicates a lack of demand for the aircraft, which will seat 100
to 149 passengers.  Never Seen Again  The aluminum-lithium and composite-plastic CSeries is a
“good airplane that faces substantial challenges,” said Doug Runte, a managing director at Piper Jaffray & Co. in New York.  “The 100-130 seat space is the Bermuda Triangle of
airplane types,” Runte said at the ICBI Geneva aircraft finance
forum in late February. “I can think of five or six planes --
some quite good -- that were launched and went boldly into this
space, only to never be seen again.”  In 2005, Boeing scrapped the 717 model, a 100-seat plane it
inherited in the 1997 acquisition of McDonnell Douglas Corp.
 Airbus’s A318 , which has comparable seating, drew only 83 orders
from 1999, when the company committed to building it, through
January, partly because it wasn’t efficient enough.  Defunct models with 100 seats or more include BAE Systems
Plc’s Avro and some products of Fokker NV, which filed for
bankruptcy in 1996.  ‘What Airlines Want’  Potential CSeries orders from carriers such as  Qatar
Airways  hovered in limbo last year as airlines grappled with
risking capital on a brand-new plane while contending with
volatile fuel prices as the industry recovered from the
financial crisis.  “It’s getting down to crunch time,”  Richard Aboulafia , a
Fairfax, Virginia-based analyst with Teal Group, said of CSeries
orders. “You need to see activity this year.”  Bombardier remains confident in the new jet, Beaudoin said.
With 90 firm orders and 90 options, the CSeries is at  the right
stage  for a brand-new development program and is sticking to its
development schedule, the top customer concern after recent new
wide-body aircraft from Boeing and Airbus were delayed by years,
he said.  Bombardier has climbed 7 percent in the past 12 months in
Toronto trading, lagging behind a 9.5 percent gain by Boeing
shares in  New York  and a 12 percent gain on the S&P 500
Aerospace and Defense Index.  ‘Meet The Timeline’  “The best thing Bombardier can do is continue to test the
product, develop it, prove that they’ll meet the timeline
they’re talking about,” Nat Pieper, the fleet manager for  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , said in an interview at the Geneva conference
last week.  Decisions by planemakers have decades-long consequences and
involve billions more in investments by engine makers such as  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit, whose geared
turbofan engine is the only turbine option on the CSeries.  The Airbus neo offers a choice between the Pratt engine and
the Leap-X from  CFM International , a venture of  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and Safran SA of  France . The engines both offer about 15
percent efficiency improvements to start on new aircraft.  Crazy Notion  Airbus’ Leahy predicted last month that Bombardier may have
to abandon the CSeries if it doesn’t see an order soon because
the A320neo has logged orders quickly.  “What Airbus wants is irrelevant to me,” Beaudoin said.
“What airlines want is relevant.”  The smallest neo in the A320 family, an A319 that can carry
about 130 passengers, “is really a product that’s not
competitive with the CSeries,” Beaudoin said. “It’s 12,000
pounds more than the CSeries, so just by its sheer weight it
will be a lousy performer.”  Bombardier projects that an airline might save $1.82
million a year flying a CSeries plane in  North America  instead
of an Airbus A319, assuming an oil price of $100 a barrel, 2,000
flights a year and no cost for carbon emission and noise fees.
Under European rules, which include fee and noise restrictions,
the savings would increase to $2.4 million a year.  “What validates the market space is putting an aircraft
that can deliver the economics in the space,” Chet Fuller, who
left GE’s aviation unit in December to lead Bombardier’s
commercial sales and marketing, said in a Montreal interview.  Fuller says Bombardier’s goal is to have 20 to 30 customers
including lessors worldwide, by the time the CSeries enters
service in 2013. That gives the plane a kind of liquidity -- a
market value for lessors and airlines to gauge its worth later.  “I love 10-aircraft orders, the more the better,” Fuller
said. “Customer breadth. So if I gave the order book to three
customers in the first five years, the program would be a
complete failure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  