-- 
BP Well’s Blowout Preventer Needs More Tests, U.S. Board Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-03-04T22:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/bp-well-s-blowout-preventer-needs-more-tests-u-s-board-says.html
The blowout preventer that failed to
stop last year’s  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill should undergo more tests by
U.S. officials to identify possible design flaws, according to
one of the federal agencies investigating the disaster.  There is “potentially a fundamental safety design problem
with the pod system” that controls the blowout preventer, or
BOP, the  U.S. Chemical Safety Board  said in a letter obtained
today. Testing on the equipment shouldn’t end today as
scheduled, according to the letter to the  U.S. Coast Guard  and
the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and
Enforcement.  “We urge you to consider restarting the BOP testing as
soon as possible, so that these failures can be thoroughly
evaluated and communicated to the drilling industry,” the
Chemical Safety Board said in the letter. The April 20 blast
from BP’s Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico  killed 11 people
and left crude spewing for 87 days.  The blowout preventer, a stack of valves sitting on the top
of the well, was supposed to cut off the flow of gas before it
went out of control. Metal blades inside the stack failed to
slice and crimp the pipe connecting the well to the rig when
workers realized a blowout was occurring, according to testimony
before a joint U.S. Coast Guard-Interior Department
investigative panel.  The system was manufactured by  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) 
Rhonda Barnat, a spokeswoman for Houston-based Cameron, declined
to comment.  The Chemical Safety Board, an independent federal agency,
runs one of at least four investigations the U.S. undertook into
the BP well blast. The U.S.  Justice Department  and the Interior
Department are also probing the accident, and a panel appointed
by President  Barack Obama  to analyze the accident published
their findings on Jan. 11 without testing the blowout preventer.  Investigators have already “performed the tests necessary
to determine why the blowout preventer stack did not function as
intended on April 20,” the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
said in an e-mailed statement today. The Coast Guard public
affairs office didn’t return a call during office hours today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lomax in  Washington  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 