-- 
Brazil Inflation Unexpectedly Slowed in February on Food, Transportation

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-03-04T13:17:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/brazil-inflation-unexpectedly-slowed-in-february-on-food-transportation.html
  Brazil  inflation unexpectedly slowed
in February as transportation and food price increases eased.
Yields on interest-rate future contracts fell.  Prices, as measured by the benchmark IPCA index, rose 0.80
percent last month, down from 0.83 percent in January, the
national statistics agency said in a report distributed in Rio
de Janeiro today. The monthly gain was less than the 0.84
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 42 analysts.
Annual inflation quickened to 6.01 percent, the fastest pace
since November 2008.  Policy makers signaled they will raise the benchmark
interest rate in April for a third straight meeting, after
lifting borrowing costs to a two-year high this week. President
Dilma Rousseff’s administration is relying on a mix of higher  interest rates , measures to curb credit expansion and spending
cuts to slow inflation running at the fastest pace in 27 months.  “While inflation remains fast, it showed an important
deceleration in February on seasonal factors,” said Lucas Reis,
chief macroeconomist at Banco CR2 de Investimentos SA. “The
central bank needs to keep raising rates because inflation
expectations are still high.”  Yields on interest-rate future contracts fell for 8 of 10
contracts traded in Sao Paulo today. Yields on the contract
maturing in January 2013 fell two basis point, or 0.02
percentage point, to 12.81 percent at 7:25 a.m. New York time.  Inflation Target  The central bank raised the Selic rate by half a percentage
point to 11.75 percent March 2. It targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points to accommodate for
price shocks.  Food prices increased 0.23 percent in February, compared
with a 1.16 percent jump in the previous month, the statistics
agency said. Transportation prices rose 0.46 percent, down from
1.55 percent in the previous month.  Education prices, which jumped 5.81 percent, accounted for
more than half of the price increase.  “Food prices, which until recently were a concern, are
behaving better,” said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at
Gradual Investimentos in  Sao Paulo . “Reality seems a little
better than the most pessimistic scenarios.”  Traders Bet  Traders are wagering policy makers will raise the Selic
rate to 13 percent by year-end to rein in consumer prices,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  Nomura Securities Latin America strategist  Tony Volpon 
raised his forecast for inflation and cut his estimate for
economic growth this year in a note to clients today. Nomura
said Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 3.9 percent
this year, down from a previous forecast of 4.4 percent.  Consumer prices will rise 5.6 percent this year, up from a
previous forecast of 5.5 percent, and faster inflation will
force policy makers to raise the benchmark rate to 12.5 percent,
up from a previous forecast 12.25 percent, Nomura said.  The government said earlier this week it will slash
subsidies, education and defense spending as part of a plan to
reduce this year’s budget by 50.1 billion reais ($30.4 billion).
In December, the central bank increased capital and reserve
requirements to slow credit growth and inflation.  “We won’t allow inflation by any means to get out of
control,” President  Dilma Rousseff  told reporters yesterday in
Brasilia.  Latin America’s largest economy expanded 7.5 percent in
2010, its fastest pace in more than two decades, after
registering year-on-year growth of more than 9 percent in the
first and second quarters, the statistics agency said yesterday.  Slower Growth  Economists covering the Brazilian economy expect growth to
slow to 4.3 percent this year, according to a central bank
 survey  of about 100 economists published Feb. 28. The same
survey shows economists forecast consumer prices will increase
5.8 percent this year and 4.78 percent next year.  Rousseff said Brazil will seek “sustainable” economic
growth of 4.5 percent to 5 percent a year.  Gross domestic product rose 5 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in a year, according to
the statistics agency. Economists expected 5.2 percent growth,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 33
analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at   wfaries@bloomberg.net  