-- 
HCA Returning Three Times Cost Shows Timing Trumps Overhauls

-- B y   S r e e   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-03-04T01:15:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/hca-returning-three-times-cost-shows-timing-the-market-trumps-overhauls.html
What a difference 10 months have
made for HCA Inc. and its private-equity owners, KKR & Co., Bain
Capital LLC and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   When the hospital operator, which went private in a record
leveraged buyout in 2006, filed in May to go public, U.S.
initial offerings were stumbling, with deals in the first four
months raising an average of 13 percent less than sought. Rather
than press ahead, the owners took on more debt to pay themselves
a $2 billion dividend in November, in a transaction known as a
dividend recapitalization.  This month, HCA’s owners are betting that stock markets
have recovered enough for investors to pick up the shares, even
with the additional debt. If they’re right, they may triple
their initial investment in what would be the largest private-
equity backed initial public offering on record.  “This has been a classic case of buy low, sell high from
the beginning,” said J. Andrew Cowherd, managing director in
the health-care group of Peter J. Solomon Co., a New York-based
investment bank. “Private-equity buyers have timed capital
markets perfectly on this deal.”  The offering, if successful, underscores the crucial role
played by the capital markets in leveraged buyouts, at times
eclipsing the impact of operational changes private-equity firms
make at their companies. A surge in demand for stocks and junk-
bonds, fueled by asset purchases of the  Federal Reserve  that
sent investors searching for yield, have helped KKR and Bain
reap profits from HCA, even as the company remains burdened with
$28.2 billion in debt and slowing revenue growth.  Record Deal  KKR, Bain, Bank of America and other owners invested about
$5 billion in equity in the $33 billion takeover of HCA, which
including debt was the largest leveraged buyout at the time. The
backers, who took out $4.3 billion in dividends from HCA last
year as the high-yield market soared, stand to get more than $1
billion from the IPO and will retain a stake in HCA valued at
about $11 billion.  In acquiring Nashville, Tennessee-based HCA, KKR and Bain
chose a company with steady cash flow and a business that’s
protected from swings in the economy. Cash flow from operations
was $3.16 billion in the year before the 2006 buyout, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. As of Dec. 31, 2010, that number
was little changed at $3.09 billion.  The company had been under private-equity ownership before,
completing a $5.1 billion leveraged buyout in 1989. When it went
public again in 1992, it handed its backers, including units of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co., a more-than-
eightfold gain, BusinessWeek magazine reported at the time.  Income Streams  Unlike some other buyouts of the boom years that had less
predictable income streams, HCA has reported revenue growth of
between 5 percent and 6 percent every year it was private,
except in 2010, when growth slowed to 2.1 percent. Net income
has increased 17 percent since the end of 2006.  NXP Semiconductors NV, another 2006 buyout involving KKR
and Bain, had combined losses of $5.8 billion between the
takeover and its IPO in August. NXP, which sold just 14 percent
of its shares, had to cut the offering price, leaving investors
with a 21 percent paper loss as of Dec. 31. The stock has more
than doubled since the IPO.  HCA, the biggest for-profit hospital chain in the U.S.,
attributes gains in income to cost-cutting measures and
initiatives to improve services for patients. The company sold
some hospitals after the buyout and made “significant
investments” in expanding service lines, as well as in  information technology , HCA said in a regulatory filing.  ‘Aggressive Changes’  “HCA was already one of the better operators when it was
taken private so it was hard to see how much cost could be
driven out of the business,” Dean Diaz, senior credit officer
at Moody’s Investors Service in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “But they are very good at what they do and are
above where we would have expected on Ebitda growth.”  Some of the improvements in earnings have come from
“aggressive changes in billing and bad debt expense reserves,”  Vicki Bryan , an analyst at New York-based corporate-bond
research firm Gimme Credit LLC, said in a Feb. 22 report.  Provisions for doubtful accounts dropped 19 percent last
year, to $2.65 billion.  Capital spending , or money invested in
the company, declined to about 4 percent of revenue last year
from 7 percent in 2006. The company hasn’t used its cash to
bring down the debt load, which is about the same as it was at
the time of the takeover.  That debt will contribute to a negative shareholder equity,
a measure of what stockholders will be left with if all assets
were sold and debts were paid, of $8.6 billion, according to
Bryan. Excluding intangible assets, new investors buying the
stock would own a negative $51 per share, she said.  ‘Funding the LBO’  “Today’s HCA stock buyers are still funding the 2006 LBO,
which enriched many of the same equity owners for the second
time, plus the massive dividends and management fees paid to
those equity investors who will remain very much in control,”
Bryan wrote in the report.  While it’s not unusual for companies that exit LBOs to have
more debt than assets, it means they will have to use  cash flow 
to reduce debt rather than pay out dividends, limiting returns
for shareholders. HCA’s share price doubled in the 14-year
period between its 1992 IPO and the 2006 buyout, not including
the impact of stock splits.  Ed Fishbough, an HCA spokesman, declined to comment, as did
officials for New York-based KKR, Bain in  Boston , and Bank of
America in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  ‘Slight Premium’  Even so, investors may pick up the stock after U.S. equity
markets rallied to the highest levels since June 2008. So far
this year, eight companies backed by private-equity or venture-
capital firms have raised $5.9 billion in initial public
offerings, five times the amount that such companies raised last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At the midpoint of the price range of $27 to $30, the IPO
would value the company at $14.7 billion. Based on metrics such
as earnings and debt, that valuation would give HCA a “slight
premium” to rivals such as Community Health Systems Inc. and
Tenet Healthcare Corp., according to a Feb. 22 report from
CreditSights Inc.  Community Health Systems, currently the biggest publicly
traded hospital operator, in December bid $3.3 billion to buy
Tenet in  Dallas . If the takeover is successful, the combined
company with about $22.2 billion in revenue as of Dec. 31, 2010
will still be smaller than HCA.  With as much as $4.28 billion in stock being sold, the HCA
offering is poised to break the record set by Kinder Morgan
Inc., the buyout-backed company that last month raised $2.9
billion in an IPO.  ‘Medicare Schedule’  Shareholders will also have to weigh the impact of
government spending cuts and changes to hospital payment
schedules prompted by the 2010 U.S. health law and rules from
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid, which administer the
federal programs.  Baltimore-based CMS has been pushing to bundle payments to
doctors and hospitals, giving them a set amount for a procedure
that has to be split among providers. The agency also plans to
penalize providers if patients acquire infections while in
treatment or fare badly after stays. Too many readmissions, once
regarded as more revenue, may now result in lower payment rates.  The federal health-care law will extend health insurance to
32 million more Americans and may prompt some employers to drop
company-sponsored health benefits in favor of sending employees
to state insurance exchanges the new law creates. While the
newly insured may mean less bad debt for hospitals, fewer
private sector-paid benefits may mean lower revenue for for-
profits like HCA, because commercial payers and employers tend
to pay the highest rates to providers.  Health-Care Impact  “Hospitals are going to have to learn how to be productive
and profitable on a Medicare rate schedule,” said R. Lawrence
Van Horn, who teaches at the Owen Graduate School of Management
at  Vanderbilt University  in Nashville. Medicare and Medicaid pay
less for procedures and treatment than employers and commercial
insurers, which are “traditionally the most generous payers,”
he said.  HCA said in its filing that it can’t predict the impact of
the changes on the company.  For-profit hospitals like HCA depend more on commercial
payers and less on government beneficiaries than do nonprofits,
which have already seen their revenue reduced by government
cutbacks, particularly in Medicaid. Chains like HCA, with their
access to capital, may be able to take advantage of weakness
among nonprofits to consolidate the industry further, Van Horn
said.  Megan Neuburger, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings  in  New York ,
said the biggest impact of the health-care reform won’t be felt
until 2014, and the market recovery will play a more important
role for now in determining HCA’s success.  Returning Money  “In the short term, the pace and progress of economic
recovery will probably be more influential to the industry’s
financial and operating trends than health-care reform,”
Neuburger said in an interview.  For KKR and Bain, the timing of the IPO is crucial also
because their clients want to see whether buyouts made just
before the credit crisis can be profitable, before they commit
capital to new funds. KKR is seeking to raise its 11th North
American-focused buyout fund this year.  Buyout firms have been able to return some money to
investors through dividend recapitalizations, as near-zero  interest rates  have spurred a demand for  junk bonds . Borrowers
sold $47 billion of debt last year, or 9 percent of offerings,
to pay owners, compared with $11.7 billion in 2008 and 2009,
according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  ‘Unprecedented Amount’  Investors in Bain’s 2006 fund have received $1.6 billion in
distributions so far, or about 20 percent of the $8 billion
deployed. HCA’s dividends recapitalizations accounted for about
$302 million of the total Bain paid out to the fund’s clients,
according to an investor in the fund. The fund has generated an
average annual loss of 6.4 percent as of June 30, according to 
another person familiar with the fund.  “Investors committed an unprecedented amount of money over
a short time period,” said Jeremie Le Febvre, the Paris-based
global head of origination for Triago, which helps private-
equity firms raise money. “Investors most likely won’t be as
generous a second time, or even have the means to double down on
a firm, as reputable as it may be, without first seeing money
flowing back into their pockets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  