-- 
California’s ‘Cadillac’ Death Row Is Target in Budget

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-10T02:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/california-s-cadillac-death-row-complex-target-in-budget-talks.html
  California  is set to begin
construction of a new death row, already the biggest in the U.S.,
at a cost to taxpayers of as much as $1 billion, even though it
may reach capacity in as little as three years.  Contracts for the unit at San Quentin  prison  may be awarded
in weeks. The complex would replace cells there dating as far
back as 1927. The project, at 540,000 square feet (50,000 square
meters), would be about the size of the  Connecticut Convention
Center  in Hartford.  Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, is negotiating with
lawmakers to plug a $25.4 billion deficit over the next 15
months through a combination of tax extensions and spending cuts.
With services for the poor, sick and elderly threatened, some
lawmakers say it’s not the time to spend money on 768 new cells.  “It’s a Cadillac death row,” said Assemblyman Jared Huffman, a Democrat from Marin County, where the  prison  is
located, about 10 miles north of the  Golden Gate . “Even if you
were to somehow try to justify this huge expense by saying this
is the solution to our condemned-inmate needs, it’s a three-year
solution and then you are left right where we are now.”  While  inmates  now live one to a cell, the prison system
plans to double-bunk, to make room for 1,152 men. Opponents say
that might violate prisoners’ rights.  Executions Blocked  Executions have been blocked since 2006 by a federal judge
over concerns that California’s lethal injection procedures and
equipment were tantamount to cruel and unusual punishment. Last
month, U.S. District Judge Jeremy Fogel toured San Quentin’s new
death chamber, built for almost $900,000. He has yet to rule on
its fitness.  The death-row complex, estimated by the prison system to
cost $270 million, is to be financed with bonds. The interest on
the bonds over 25 years may bring the cost to taxpayers to $1
billion, according to Huffman and Senator Mark Leno, a Democrat
from  San Francisco  and chairman of the Budget Committee.  California has 713 inmates awaiting execution, the
corrections department said yesterday. By comparison,  Florida 
ranked second, with 398, and Texas was third at 337, according
to a Jan. 1  report  by the  National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People .  About 700  condemned  men are confined at San Quentin, north
of San Francisco, in facilities built to hold 554, according to
the Corrections Department’s website. (Nineteen women face
execution and are held in  Chowchilla , a prison in the Central
Valley.) On average, the men are likely to spend 17 years in the
 aging cell blocks , according to the prison system.  Prison Bonds  Brown, 72, who took office in January, has proposed $12.5
billion of cuts as the lowest-rated and most-populous state
grapples with its latest deficit. His budget earmarks about 11
percent, or $9.1 billion, from the general fund, the state’s
main account, for  prisons and parole  in the coming fiscal year.
It’s the fourth largest expenditure in the budget after schools,
colleges and welfare.  Brown’s predecessor,  Arnold Schwarzenegger , approved a $64
million loan from the general fund in August to begin
construction on the new death row. That money is to be repaid by
the sale of prison construction bonds.  When lawmakers in 2003 approved the new San Quentin complex,
it was expected to cost $220 million. That ballooned 62 percent
to $356 million on delays caused in part by opposition from
state and local officials. The estimate was lowered when initial
bids came in below projections, officials said.  The prison system has delayed awarding a contract to give
Brown time to review the project, said Paul Verke, a Corrections
Department spokesman.  ‘Due Diligence’  “The administration will carefully evaluate the project,
and we’ve asked for an extension that will allow us to do our
due diligence,” said Gil Duran, a spokesman for Brown.  Brown opposed capital punishment during his first two terms
as governor, from 1975 to 1983. Prior to his current term, he
was attorney general from 2007 to 2011 and, in that role, he
defended the death penalty.  Putting two inmates in each cell would provide enough
capacity for death row until 2035, according to the state
 auditor . If the state can’t double-up, the complex would be full
by 2014.  Leno is seeking a provision in the budget to prohibit a
contract from being awarded until double-celling is declared
legal. He also wants to wait until the U.S. Supreme Court rules
whether the state must reduce its inmate population by 46,000 to
ease overcrowding.  The state’s existing death-row buildings include two cell
blocks built in 1927 and 1934 and a three-story concrete
“adjustment center” where newly sentenced and the most-
dangerous condemned inmates are confined.  Serial Killer  Current prisoners include  Scott Peterson , the Modesto
fertilizer salesman convicted of murdering his wife, Laci, and
their unborn child, and serial killer  Richard Ramirez , known as
the “Night Stalker” of  Los Angeles .  Since 1978, when California reinstated capital punishment,
53 condemned inmates have died from natural causes while on
death row. Eighteen committed suicide and 13 were executed. Six
died from other causes.  Robert Coombs, a Sacramento-based senior policy analyst for
the  Council of State Government’s Justice Center , said
California’s death row has the most acute crowding problem.  Ohio ,
which he said also faces prison overcrowding, has 156 condemned
inmates, according to its Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction. Ohio executed eight in 2010.  “They are much more willing to exercise their capital
punishment system than California, thus alleviating one of the
pressures that our state wrestles with,” Coombs said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  