-- 
Cargill, ADM Accused of Tax Evasion in Probe Targeting Argentine Exporters

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-03-04T19:40:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/cargill-adm-accused-of-tax-evasion-in-probe-targeting-argentine-exporters.html
  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and
Cargill Inc. may be prevented from shipping grains from  Argentina  after the government stripped them of their status as
registered exporters amid a dispute over taxes.  ADM, Cargill and a third exporter, Alfred C Toepfer
International BV, were temporarily removed from a registry of
cereals exporters, according to a statement today in the
official gazette. The move limits the number of transport
permits they are eligible for, and a permanent suspension would
boost income taxes to up to 15 percent from 2 percent, the
agency known as AFIP said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The companies, which are being investigated as part of a
probe that started at least five months ago, are accused of
failing to meet all their tax obligations, according to the
agency. In October,  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  was accused of underpaying 1
billion pesos ($248 million) in taxes and two Cargill executives
were charged with  tax evasion .  Argentina is the world’s second-largest exporter of corn
and the third-largest soybean shipper. Cargill, ADM, and Bunge
were the first-, second- and fourth-biggest grains exporters
from Argentina in 2009, respectively, according to the latest
data published by Buenos Aires based-researcher JJ Hinrichsen
SA. Louis Dreyfus & Cie SA is the third largest.  No Comment  Cargill country manager, Hugo Krajnc, declined to comment
in an e-mail today. An official at Toepfer in Argentina, who
can’t be named because of company policy, also declined to
speak. Roman Blahoski, a press officer with ADM in Decatur,  Illinois , said he wasn’t able to comment when reached by
telephone today.  ADM, Cargill and Toepfer “used tax havens and financial
operations abroad” to evade taxes, AFIP said. Last year, the
agency said Bunge and Cargill improperly declared exports from
Argentina to Uruguay, which has lower taxes because of a trade
agreement to the two countries. The two companies denied any
wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  