-- 
McDormand’s Fired Ma Makes ‘Good People’ Fearful: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/mcdormand-s-fired-ma-fills-good-people-with-fear-anger-jeremy-gerard.html
When Margaret realizes she’s being
fired in the opening scene of “Good People,” her relaxed face
freezes in a mask of panic.  No golden parachute awaits this 50-year-old, $9.20-an-hour
cashier in South  Boston .  As Margaret, Frances McDormand reveals a gift for conveying
epiphanies with quicksilver movements -- tics that register like
lightning bolts. Simply arching her eyebrows can charge the
atmosphere with the air of Margaret’s desperation.  David Lindsay-Abaire’s new drama, presented on Broadway by
the  Manhattan Theatre Club , finds Margaret at the end of her
rope, a place she’s been before. Proudly coarse and self-
reliant, she announces to her landlady (the irrepressible
Estelle Parsons) and best friend (blowsy Becky Ann Baker) that
no job is too menial for her. She’s not interested in charity,
and she’s used to hard work in this bleak, white working-class
section of Boston.  As her prospects dim, she visits Mike (Tate Donovan), the
high school flame who escaped to the  University of Pennsylvania 
and is now a successful suburban doctor with a beautiful young
black wife (Renee Elise Goldsberry) and child.  In his tony office, their banter brings the neighborhood
kid in him back to the surface, especially when she calls him
“lace curtain Irish.”  Sympathetic Strokes  Margaret’s inevitable encounter with Mike’s wife, Kate,
feels pre-ordained. And yet Lindsay-Abaire draws all these
people (including the store manager who cans Margaret) with
sympathetic strokes.  As Margaret grows more desperate, McDormand seems to
expand, the way some animals can blow themselves up to look more
fearsome when they sense danger. Only Mike seems out of joint,
more because Donovan works too hard playing a character so
uncomfortable in his own skin that he’s shed it for a new one.  Lindsay-Abaire, a writer with a strong streak of whimsy,
has gone serious and even weepy lately. “Rabbit Hole” is now
an Oscar-nominated film starring  Nicole Kidman . “Good People”
has plenty of humor -- much of it provided by the indefatigable
83-year-old Parsons, a potty-mouthed Cassandra in her mismatched
layers of thrift-shop clothes (the fine costumes are by David
Zinn).  Director Daniel Sullivan can’t finesse the play’s
contrivances. Chief among them is the familiar setup of a
confrontation between a proud denizen of the old neighborhood
and the successful striver who escaped while clinging to a
highly selective, even romanticized, version of his rough-and-
tumble childhood. But John Lee Beatty’s evocative sets and Pat
Collins’s pale verismo lighting lift the show above the norm.  Through May 8 at the Friedman Theatre, 261 W. 47th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating:
** 1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 