-- 
Chavez Summons Regional Allies to Back Libya Mediation Bid

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 
2011-03-04T18:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/chavez-summons-venezuela-s-regional-allies-to-back-mediation-bid-for-libya.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
summoned an emergency meeting of his closest Latin American
allies in a bid to mediate in the Libyan crisis that has divided
the country and sent  oil prices  surging.  Chavez, who has compared Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  to
Latin American liberation hero Simon Bolivar, said yesterday
that Qaddafi has agreed to mediation to resolve the conflict.
Representatives from his regional bloc known as Alba, including
foreign ministers from Bolivia, Ecuador and Cuba, are attending
the meeting. The Arab League is studying Chavez’s proposal,
Secretary-General Amr Moussa said yesterday.  “On the agenda is the constitution of an international
humanitarian committee for the peace and union of the Libyan
people, which has been well received by Colonel Qaddafi’s
government,”  Venezuela  Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro said in
comments carried by state television. “There’s an open debate
between the vision of the south, the vision of peace, and the
warlike vision from NATO and the US that aims to impose itself
on the world yet again, on the Arab peoples and, particularly,
on the Libyan people.”  Conflicting Signals  Chavez’s plan would face stiff opposition from Libyan
opposition groups and the U.S. and  France , who have called on
Qaddafi to step down from power after hundreds of people have
died from battles between the military and anti-government
protesters since Feb. 17.  Venezuela, the largest oil producer in  South America , has
strengthened ties with the OPEC nation since Chavez took power
in 1999.  Maduro said Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa
authorized Venezuela to select members of the commission,
according to a letter dated yesterday that he read on state TV.  “We authorize you to take all necessary steps to select
the members and coordinate their participation in the
dialogue,” Maduro read from the letter.  Comments earlier this week by Qaddafi’s son Saif Al-Islam
suggest  Libya ’s willingness to  accept mediation  is unclear.  “It’s like me going to broker a deal in the Amazon,” Saif
Qaddafi told Sky News. “They’re our friends, we respect them,
but they’re far away and have no idea about Libya.”  Oil Rise  In New York trading, crude rose to a 29-month high on
Libyan unrest, and is heading for a third straight weekly
advance.  Crude oil for April delivery increased $1.94, or 1.9
percent, to $103.85 a barrel at 1:49 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices climbed as much as $2.18 to $104.09,
the highest level since Sept. 29, 2008.  Chavez said yesterday that Qaddafi won’t leave power to
seek asylum in Venezuela or  Nicaragua  and will die fighting if
necessary while warning that a foreign invasion could push crude
to $200 a barrel.  “If the civil war in Libya were to become an international
war, oil could surpass $200 and that doesn’t benefit anyone in
the world, that’s why Venezuela has made its proposal from the
Alba,” he said.  U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said that
if Qaddafi doesn’t respond “to the many calls across the
international community for him to step down, it’s uncertain to
me what an international commission is going to accomplish.”  Peru said it will support Chavez’s plan, even after
breaking diplomatic ties with Libya on Feb. 23.  Chavez as a peace broker is unlikely to prove effective
because of his alliance with Qaddafi and the dim prospects that
Libyan rebel groups would negotiate with the strongman,  Win Thin , head of emerging market strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in  New York  said in a research note.  “Chavez is hardly an impartial third party in this
conflict, as he has cozied up to Qaddafi over the years,” Thin
said. “We would not expect opposition forces to be very open to
any sort of Chavez intervention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  