-- 
Chelsea Manager Ancelotti Has Talks With Roma, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-04T06:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/chelsea-manager-ancelotti-has-talks-with-roma-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Ancelotti’s Roma Talks  Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti  has held talks with Roma
about becoming the Italian club’s new coach, the  Daily Mail
reported , citing Ancelotti’s former Italy teammate Ruggiero Rizzitelli.  “I believe there are negotiations with Ancelotti and Roma
already,” the newspaper cited Rizzitelli as saying. “But it
all depends on how much money is available. If Ancelotti comes
to Roma, he expects a competitive side.”  Grant Return  Chelsea is considering approaching  Avram Grant  to become
its new director of football as part of a shakeup of the London
club’s staff in the offseason, the Telegraph  reported .  Grant’s future as West Ham manager will be reviewed at the
end of the season and the Hammers may decide that parting ways
is best for all concerned given the difficulties of this
campaign, the newspaper said. With Ancelotti’s future as Chelsea
manager in doubt, Chelsea is considering a number of options as
to how the club will be run, the Telegraph added.  Carroll’s Rise  Liverpool striker Andy Carroll, who joined the club in
January for a transfer fee of 35 million pounds ($57 million),
was valued at 1 million pounds by Newcastle at the start of last
season,  the Sun reported .  Carroll, 22, was also marked down as a player to monitor in
a dossier for prospective bidders detailing Newcastle’s 2009-10
business plan, the newspaper added. Each of the 21-man senior
roster was given a transfer value and an indication of whether
they should be retained, sold or monitored, the Sun added.  Ferguson Fumes  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is refusing to
speak to his club’s own television station after being charged
with improper conduct for criticizing referee  Martin Atkinson ,
the  Guardian reported .  Ferguson canceled his weekly media briefing before the game
at Liverpool in two days and the club confirmed that MUTV will
not be allowed any time with the manager after airing the
interview that could lead to him getting a touchline ban for as
many as five games, the newspaper said.  Clichy Cloud  Arsenal has identified Celtic’s Emilio Izaguirre as a
potential replacement for Gael Clichy amid fears that the French
defender will not sign a new contract, the Mail  reported .  Clichy’s contract expires at the end of next season and
Arsenal will consider selling him at the end of this campaign
rather than risk losing him on a free transfer, the newspaper
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  