-- 
China Forestry Ex-CEO Should Face Hong Kong Lawsuit, City’s Watchdog Says

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-03-04T09:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/china-forestry-ex-ceo-should-face-hong-kong-lawsuit-city-s-watchdog-says.html
  China Forestry Holdings Ltd. (930) ’s
former chief executive officer violated Hong Kong law and should
face proceedings in the city, a lawyer for the  Securities and
Futures Commission  told the High Court today.  Judge Andrew Chung extended a freeze on HK$398.2 million
($51.1 million) of Li Han Chun’s assets until trial or further
order. Chung also gave the regulator permission to serve Li with
a lawsuit, which seeks refunds for investors, in China.  “The SFC is prepared to prove the fact of contravention,”
the watchdog’s lawyer Roger Beresford told the judge of the
alleged breach in Hong Kong securities law. “There is
restitution to be made in protection of innocent investors.”  Li was detained by police in  China  last month, China
Forestry - partly owned by Washington-based private equity firm  Carlyle Group  - said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing on
March 2. Li and his personal company engaged in insider dealing
when they sold 119 million shares of China Forestry through a
share placement on Jan. 12, the SFC alleged in a statement today.  Beijing-based China Forestry disclosed potential accounting
irregularities on Jan. 31 and Moody’s Investors Service put
China Forestry’s debt on review for a downgrade after share
trading was suspended on Jan. 26.  Credit Watch  The forestry operator said yesterday it has the resources
to pay off all loans and expenses and to continue operations.  China Forestry’s financial strength remains “uncertain”
even after yesterday’s statement,  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings
Service said today in a report that reaffirmed it’s keeping the
company on CreditWatch with negative implications.  “China Forestry is likely to have limited access to the
capital markets,” Standard & Poor’s credit analyst Frank Lu
wrote. “We need more information about the extent of the
accounting irregularities” and must “further assess the
sustainability of its operating model.”  Li, who wasn’t represented in the Hong Kong court today,
was detained by police in China’s Guizhou province for the
alleged embezzlement of 30 million yuan ($4.6 million), China
Forestry said.  Beresford told the judge today the SFC would rely on
mainland China authorities to deliver the papers to Li.  “One would hope they would not find difficulty in reaching
a man in their custody,” Beresford said.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Li Han
Chun, HCMP176/2011 in  Hong Kong ’s High Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  