-- 
Chinese IPO Risk on U.S. Markets Tops American Corporations, Options Show

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-04T22:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/chinese-ipo-risk-on-u-s-markets-tops-american-corporations-options-show.html
Options traders are less bullish
about Chinese companies that listed stock in the U.S. last year
than American corporations with initial public offerings amid
concern the Asian economy will slow.  There were 1.38 outstanding calls to buy for each put to
sell for eight Chinese companies with options open interest
exceeding 1,500 contracts as of yesterday, compared with 1.69
for 22 U.S. shares meeting the same criteria, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Central banks in emerging economies from  China  to  Russia 
are raising interest rates and lifting bank reserve requirements
to fight inflation as anti-government protests in the Middle
East and northern Africa drive up fuel costs. The greater put-
option levels for Chinese companies show investors may be
protecting their holdings, said Josef Schuster, the Chicago-
based founder of IPOX Capital Management LLC, which oversees
about $2.5 billion and has an index tracking Asian IPOs.  “The put-to-call ratio indicates more bearishness for
Chinese IPOs,” Schuster said in a telephone interview. “Funds
or institutions or retail with more emerging markets exposure
want to hedge their risk to the downside.”  The Chinese companies were more volatile on their first day
of trading and have posted worse returns, Bloomberg data show.
While last year’s best-performing Chinese IPO rose up to 161
percent on its first day of trading, the worst performer tumbled
as much as 26 percent. That compares with a 55 percent gain and
12 percent drop for the best and worst U.S. corporations. The
median gain for the U.S. companies was 22 percent through March
2, and the Chinese companies fell a median 2.3 percent.  Implied Volatility  Investors are paying higher prices for options on the
Chinese IPOs, signaling higher risk. Implied volatility, the key
gauge of prices, for at-the-money options expiring in 30 days
was a median of 64.86 for the Chinese stocks versus 44.36 for
the American shares.    China Lodging Group Ltd. (HTHT) , the Shanghai-based operator of a
hotel chain in China, had a call-to-put ratio of 0.64-to-1
yesterday. The company, which raised $110 million in March 2010,
gained 14 percent on its first day of trading and has risen a
total of 55 percent. It slipped 4.6 percent to $18.12 today.  The call-to-put ratio for Beijing-based  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , the
largest online video website in China, is 1.06-to-1. The company
rallied 161 percent in December for the biggest first-day gain
in the U.S. since 2005, when Baidu Inc. of Beijing quadrupled
after its IPO. Youku.com sold $203 million of shares, 20 percent
more than initially sought, after pricing its IPO above the
forecast price range. The company has more than tripled since
its offering and gained 1 percent to $42.93 today.  E-Commerce China    E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) ’s call-to-put ratio was
1.43-to-1 yesterday. China’s largest book retailer, which has
the most options open interest among the Chinese IPOs, in
December raised $272 million -- 6.7 percent more than initially
sought -- after pricing its American depositary receipts above
the forecast price range. Beijing-based Dangdang gained 87
percent on its first trading day and has advanced 69 percent
since the offering. It rallied 1.4 percent to $27.40.  Chinese companies that had a U.S. IPO last year raised a
total of $3.79 billion, more than in 2009 and 2008 combined,
excluding the exercise of the overallotment option. U.S.
companies sold $32.5 billion of shares. A total of 41 Chinese
companies completed an IPO in the U.S. last year, more than in
any year since at least 1990, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Very, Very Hot’  “The Chinese market, particularly the IPO market was very,
very hot,” said Timothy Cunningham, a manager at  Santa Fe , New
Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management, which oversees
more than $78 billion. “At that point, you weren’t seeing the
cracks in  China’s economy , you weren’t having inflation
concerns. There was just this really good long-term story that
you could point to. Everybody wanted a piece of that growth.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, rose 3.4 percent this year through
yesterday. It lagged behind the 5.8 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the 5.6 percent advance for the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares in 24 developed nations.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 3.2 percent in 2011, the fastest
gross domestic product expansion since 2004, according to the
median economist estimate in a Bloomberg survey. That’s slower
than the 9.5 percent projection for China.  Growth rates in China remain “extraordinarily high in
terms of the relative growth rates to any place else,” said
Scott Billeadeau, who helps oversee about $19 billion at Fifth
Third Asset Management in  Minneapolis . “That’s going to create
opportunities in the marketplace for rapidly growing
companies.”  2011 IPOs  Five of the 28 companies that have completed U.S. IPOs this
year are from China, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They
raised a combined $148 million, excluding the exercise of the
overallotment option.  “The market had been very, very adverse to accepting the
good news out of China, always looking for the last several
quarters at what could go wrong,” said  Michael Holland , who
oversees more than $4 billion as chairman of Holland & Co. in  New York . “In the case of China, it’s only a matter of time,
along with  Taiwan , before investors come back to realize that
this thing has been working and will continue to work.”  The Chinese companies that listed their shares in the U.S.
this year had a median first-day gain of 0.6 percent and lost a
median of 3.2 percent through March 2. U.S. companies that
completed an offering this year climbed a median of 3.6 percent
on their first day of trading and advanced 3.5 percent through
March 2.  Reserve Requirements  China’s central bank has boosted banks’ reserve requirement
ratio eight times since the start of 2010, while raising  interest rates  three times to rein in inflation that reached 4.9
percent in January, near the 28-month high of 5.1 percent in
November. The central bank raised its one-year deposit rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent last month.  “We’re aiming at some point for a massive correction
because they’re going to have to raise interest rates,” Patrick Legland, global head of research and strategy at Societe
Generale SA, said during an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York yesterday. “In the long term, China
remains fast-growing. There is far too much risk short-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  