-- 
China's Exchanges Plan to Double Exchange-Traded Funds After Equities Rout

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-04T08:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/china-s-exchanges-plan-to-double-exchange-traded-funds.html
  China ’s stock exchanges plan to more
than double the number of exchange-traded funds they offer in
2011, aiming to spur investor interest in the world’s worst-
performing major equities market last year.  The  Shanghai Stock Exchange  is proposing as many as 20 ETFs
this year, Tang Xian, the bourse’s assistant director of product
development, said in an interview at a conference in the city
yesterday. The Shenzhen Stock Exchange plans to list about eight
ETFs, said Fan Yue, head of fund supervision. Shanghai currency
has 17 ETFs and Shenzhen five, according to the officials.  ETFs, which mimic the performance of an index and trade
like stocks, are gaining popularity because they are cheaper
than mutual funds. Chinese investors may benefit from the
exchanges’ plans to introduce ETFs tracking overseas indexes as
they currently have limited access to foreign stocks. They can
invest through mutual funds by approved domestic money managers.  “ETF trading accounts for only 1 percent of the total
turnover on the  Shanghai  exchange now while the proportion in
the U.S. is 25 percent,” said Tang. “Given such a big gap,
China has a huge demand for ETF products.”  The Shanghai exchange has been trying to catch up with
global rivals in developing more sophisticated financial
products as the stock market grows to become the world’s third-
largest in terms of market capitalization. The bourse introduced
stock-index futures in April and plans to start a so-called
international board allowing foreign companies to sell shares in
Shanghai this year.  Foreign ETFs  Assets under management for global ETFs that track China’s
yuan-denominated shares will increase between 30 percent and 35
percent this year, exceeding the industry average of 20 percent
to 30 percent,  Deborah Fuhr , London-based managing director and
global head of exchange-traded funds research and implementation
strategy at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said in an interview this week.
BlackRock is the world’s biggest provider of ETFs.  The Shanghai exchange will try to introduce ETFs that track
foreign indexes, Chairman  Geng Liang  said in March 2010.  Tang declined to say when the ETFs would be introduced.
“That’s first subject to the approval from the securities
regulator,” he said.  The exchanges’ ETF plans may boost interest in China’s
stocks after the Shanghai Composite Index plunged 14 percent
last year, the worst performer among the world’s 10 biggest
markets. The gauge has rebounded 4.8 percent this year on signs
the economy is withstanding tightening measures aimed at taming
inflation and curbing asset bubbles.  ‘Important Tool’  “ETFs are a very important tool for arbitrage and boosting
ETFs can provide different types of investors with a variety of
fund products,” said Liu Zhaoyang, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Howbuy, a consulting firm on investment funds. “To have cross-
board ETFs here are definitely one of the steps toward
Shanghai’s goal of becoming an international financial center.”  China’s stock market trails the U.S. and Japan in terms of
market capitalization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The U.S., the world’s biggest, had 887 ETFs with assets of $831
billion by the end of October 2010, while Japan had 77 ETFs with
assets of $31 billion, according to BlackRock data.  Shanghai-listed  China 50 ETF (510050)  is the nation’s most actively
traded ETF, with a daily average of 675 million yuan ($102.8
million) in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
ETF tracks the 50 biggest companies on the Shanghai exchange.  The Shanghai exchange signed an agreement with  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
in July to use the U.K. bank’s 19 bond indexes as benchmarks for
ETFs that will be listed on the bourse.  China may start the international board in the second half
when the central government is expected to give its final
approval, Shanghai Daily reported Feb. 24, citing Zhang Xiaoming,
managing director of China International Capital Corp.  --Zhang Shidong: With assistance from Saeromi Shin. Editors:
Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  