-- 
China to Boost Defense Spending by 12.7% as Military Extends Global Reach

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-04T05:57:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/china-to-spend-91-5-billion-on-improving-defense-in-2011-1-.html
  China  plans to increase defense
spending 12.7 percent this year as the improved military
capabilities of the country with the world’s biggest army have
heightened concern in the U.S. and the region over its goals.  China will spend 601.1 billion yuan ($91.5 billion) on
defense this year, Li Zhaoxing, spokesman for China’s National 
People’s Congress, told reporters today in Beijing. The 
increase compares with a previously reported 7.5 percent rise 
in 2010, the slowest pace of expansion in more than a decade.  “China adheres to a policy of peaceful development and we
follow a defense policy that is defensive in nature,” Li said
ahead of tomorrow’s opening of the Congress. China’s defense 
spending “does not pose a threat to any country,” he said.  Vice Admiral Jack Dorsett, the head of U.S. Navy
intelligence, said Jan. 5 the Pentagon had underestimated the
speed at which China has developed and fielded a ballistic
missile that may be capable of hitting a maneuvering U.S.
aircraft carrier. A Chinese fighter that may have radar-evading
stealth capabilities flew a test flight in January during a
visit by U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates .  China’s defense spending, the world’s second biggest, is
still a fraction of U.S. outlays. The Pentagon is requesting
$671 billion for fiscal 2012, starting Oct. 1, $37 billion less
than this year’s request. U.S. analysts say China’s actual
defense spending is much higher, because the announced figures
may not include international arms purchases and other expenses.  ‘Significantly Understates’  “The official  defense budget  omits a lot of defense-
related expenditures, including acquisition of foreign weapons,
much defense-related R&D, pensions, and support provided to the
military by local authorities,” said Phillip C. Saunders, a
research fellow at the National Defense University’s Institute
for National Strategic Studies in  Washington . “As a result, it
significantly understates actual defense spending.”  Defense spending accounts for less than 2 percent of
China’s gross domestic product, compared with almost 5 percent
in the U.S. China’s defense spending increased an average of
16.2 percent a year from 1999 to 2008, according to figures from
a defense  white paper  published in 2009. The biggest increase
was 20.4 percent in 2006.  “Even with more than 1.3 billion people, a large land mass
and long coastline, China’s defense spending is relatively low
compared with other countries,” Li said.  Leadership ‘Disconnect’  China’s military spending is growing amid concern by the
U.S. that the  People’s Liberation Army , at about 2 million the
world’s largest standing army, is increasingly disconnected from
the country’s civilian leadership under President  Hu Jintao .
Gates, meeting with Hu on Jan. 11, told him about the stealth
test flight and Hu’s reaction suggested that he may not have
been aware of it, Gates said Jan. 14 in Japan.  “This is an area where, over the last several years, we
have seen some signs of, I guess I would call it a disconnect,
between the military and the civilian leadership,” Gates said,
adding that while such lapses occasionally occur in the U.S.
too, “this is something of a worry.”  China’s increased naval capabilities have raised concern
among neighboring countries with competing territorial claims. A
clash at sea between China and Japan last September near a
disputed island chain reportedly prompted Beijing to cut exports
of rare-earth minerals used to make hybrid  car engines , missiles
and radar.  Spratly Islands  Japan, the U.S. and several countries in the  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations  have urged China to agree to a set of
rules at sea to avoid confrontations, a move it has resisted so
far. China spends more on defense than Japan and Asean countries
combined, according to data compiled by the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute.  Vietnam, which ordered six submarines from  Russia  in 2009,
protested Chinese military drills last month near the disputed
Spratly Islands, according to a statement on the Foreign
Ministry’s website yesterday. China claims most of the  South
China Sea  as its own and dismisses rival claims to the islands
from Taiwan,  Vietnam ,  Malaysia , the  Philippines  and Brunei.  China’s military is also expanding its global reach as the
country’s worldwide presence expands. In 2009, the Chinese navy
began regular patrols to protect sea lanes from Somali pirates
in the Middle East. This week, a frigate on that patrol arrived
off the coast of  Libya  in the Mediterranean Sea after transiting
the  Suez Canal . The ship will help ensure that Chinese nationals
are safely evacuated from Libya where the country’s leader,  Muammar Qaddafi , is facing a rebellion as anti-government
protests spread across the Middle East.  Tensions with the U.S. rose last year after the U.S.
announced in January plans to sell $6.4 billion of missiles,
helicopters and ships to  Taiwan . China broke off bilateral
military-to-military talks until late last year ahead of Gates’
visit to Beijing and Hu’s state visit to the U.S. in January.  --Michael Forsythe. Editors: Patrick Harrington, Peter
Hirschberg, Paul Tighe  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +8610-6649-7580 at
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  