-- 
China Home Tax Effective When Rolled Out Nationwide, Mayor Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-04T09:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/china-home-tax-effective-when-rolled-out-nationwide-mayor-says.html
  China ’s property tax to curb rising  home prices , first introduced in Chongqing, will only be
effective when it’s rolled out nationwide, according to the
mayor of the western city.  The tax has helped curb speculation in the municipality,
Mayor Huang Qifan said. The levy introduced in January will tax
luxury homes bought at below three times the average price at
0.5 percent, those between three and four times the average
price at 1 percent and those at more than four times the average
price at 1.2 percent. Shanghai introduced a similar levy.  “Our trial is just a preparation for the tax to roll out
nationwide,” Huang told reporters at a press conference in
Beijing today. “One cannot expect a local trial to have a huge
impact on controlling property prices.”  China is imposing measures to contain prices that rose for
19 straight months to end of December. The government raised the
minimum down payment for second-home mortgages earlier this year
and told local authorities to set property price targets. Cities
including the capital Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou also
announced restrictions on home purchases last month, responding
to measures imposed by the central government.  Home prices in Chongqing rose 21 percent in February from
last year and 0.5 percent from January to 6,661 yuan ($1,014) a
square meter (10.76 square feet), according to  Soufun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real-estate website owner.  Chongqing will build 40 million square meters (431 million
square feet) of public rental housing for 2 million low-income
residents in the next three years, according to a statement at
the briefing. The plan will cost 100 billion yuan, Huang said.
The city started building 13 million square meters of the public
rental homes last year.  China’s Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  urged construction of
social housing and pledged to strongly support building of
public rental homes,  China Central Television  reported on Feb.
24. The government will cut taxes and increase financial
supports for such housing this year, according to Li.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  