-- 
Chipotle's Ells Samples Paper Bag Mac N Cheese as NBC Reality Show Debuts

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-03-04T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/chipotle-s-ells-samples-paper-bag-mac-n-cheese-as-nbc-reality-show-debuts.html
Move over  Donald Trump . Steve Ells,
the founder of  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , is about to get his
own 15 minutes of television fame.  On March 6, Ells will debut as a judge on “America’s Next
Great Restaurant,” an NBC reality show in which 21 contestants
pitch ideas for a new restaurant chain. The winner gets money to
open an eatery as well as mentoring from the four judges, who
besides Ells, include Bobby Flay, celebrity chef and burger
chain entrepreneur.  After discussing the concept with the producers, Ells, 45,
decided the show was a “story I can very much relate to” and
agreed to participate, he said in an e-mail.  “There were a lot of skeptics telling me all the reasons
Chipotle wouldn’t work,” Ells said. “I thought the show might
be a good way to help someone realize their own dream.”  The classically trained chef, who opened the first Chipotle
in 1993, has immersed himself in the details of his business,
fiddling with recipes and baking tortillas himself.  As co-chief executive, Ells oversees a chain with more than
1,000 stores in the U.S. Revenue increased 21 percent to $1.84
billion last year, the fastest growth rate among the Denver-
based company’s peers, while the stock more than doubled.  Along with his humble, relatable origins, Ells’ humor and
frankness made him ideal for reality TV, said Jane Lipsitz, one
of the show’s executive producers.  The Chipotle CEO doesn’t pull his punches. During the first
episode he likens the texture of one contestant’s macaroni and
cheese to the paper bag it was served in.  ‘Very Witty’  “He says what’s on his mind and is very witty -- those
were pleasant surprises besides his business acumen,” said
Lipsitz.  The judges also include two chefs, Curtis Stone and Lorena
Garcia, whose cooking show on Univision features recipes made
with  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Latin American brands. All four formed a joint
venture with equal investments to finance the winner, Lipsitz
said. She declined to say how much money they put up.  At times things got tense on the set, according to Flay,
who said decisions sometimes came down to a vote. “When you
have money at stake, you fight for your opinion,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Ells “can’t be swayed,” Flay said. “He’s got some very
heartfelt opinions about what’s right and what’s wrong in the
restaurant business.”  Fickle Consumers  The victor is scheduled to open stores on May 1 in  Los
Angeles ,  Minneapolis  and  New York , after the show’s finale.  While confidence among American consumers is on the rise,
restaurateurs confront surging food costs, fickle customers and
a competitive landscape. Fast casual dining, however, may be the
bright spot. Last year, traffic rose 5.8 percent, while total
restaurant volume slumped 0.7 percent, according to data from
the research firm NPD Group Inc.  You can’t be just “another pancake house or another
burrito place,” said Warren Solochek, an NPD vice president
based in  Chicago . “You have to stand out from the crowd.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  