-- 
Cie. Nationale a Portefeuille Rises 20% After Buyout Offer

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 
2011-03-04T09:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/cie-nationale-a-portefeuille-rises-20-after-buyout-offer-1-.html
Cie. Nationale a Portefeuille SA
climbed as much as 20 percent in Brussels trading after Belgian
billionaire  Albert Frere  and BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s largest
bank, offered 1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion) to buy out
minority investors in the  investment company .  Fingen SA, based in Loverval,  Belgium , plans to offer 48.64
euros a share for the 27.8 percent of Nationale a Portefeuille
not already owned by Frere-Bourgeois SA, Erbe SA and related
parties, Belgian market regulator CBFA said yesterday. Fingen is
a unit of Erbe, which is 53 percent held by Frere’s family
holding. Paris-based BNP Paribas owns the rest.  Taking Nationale a Portefeuille private will eliminate an
investment firm in the cascade structure of holding companies
through which Frere, 85, jointly controls Groupe Bruxelles
Lambert SA, whose holdings include stakes in Total SA, GDF Suez
SA, Lafarge SA, Pernod-Ricard SA and Imerys SA.  “We see the offer as a first step in the simplification
process of the Frere imperium,” said Emmanuel Carlier, an
analyst at ING Groep NV in Brussels with a “buy”
recommendation on Nationale a Portefeuille, wrote in a note
today. “We do not expect a higher bid.”  The offer price represents a 21 percent premium to the
closing price on March 3, and is less than Nationale a
Portefeuille’s adjusted net asset value, or assets minus
liabilities, of 51.90 euros a share as of Feb. 24.    Stock Options   The bid is conditional on getting at least 90 percent
acceptance, CBFA said. The statement didn’t specify when Fingen
plans to start the offer, which also includes 770,874 shares
held by Nationale unit Cie. Immobiliere de Roumont SA to cover
stock options for its management.  “This offer will result in the simplification of the
‘Groupe de Charleroi,’ in which context the company will become
private and in the long term, a patrimonial entity wholly
owned” by the Frere family, Fingen said in a statement today. A
draft prospectus for the deal has been filed with the regulator,
it said.  Shares in Nationale a Portefeuille were at 48.18 euros at
10:10 a.m. in Brussels, after rising as much as 7.995 euros to
48.30 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Clapham at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  