-- 
Colombia Peso Sees Weekly Gain on Venezuela Trade, Moody’s

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-03-04T18:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/colombia-peso-sees-weekly-gain-on-venezuela-trade-moody-s.html
  Colombia ’s peso had its biggest
weekly gain since January on optimism trade with Venezuela will
increase and after Moody’s Investors Service said it may raise
the nation’s credit rating this year.  The peso gained 0.7 percent this week, its biggest advance
since the period ended Jan. 21, to 1,894.40 per U.S. dollar at
1:33 p.m.  New York  time. It rose 0.3 percent today.  Colombia’s Foreign Minister Maria Angela Holguin met with
her counterpart Nicolas Maduro in Caracas yesterday where they
announced the two countries signed 13 bilateral agreements
including trade. Moody’s may boost Colombia’s rating “before
the summer,” analyst Patrick Esteruelas said yesterday at an
event in New York.  “Relations with  Venezuela  are improving, which potentially
means increased exports” to the neighboring country, said David Aldana, head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Ultrabursatiles
SA. Comments by Moody’s are “also injecting optimism in the
market and helping the peso,” he said.    Standard & Poor’s  in July raised its outlook on Colombia’s
foreign debt to positive, as did Moody’s in September and  Fitch
Ratings  in October. S&P, Moody’s and Fitch all rate the
securities one level below investment grade.  “We expect to resolve the Brazil and the Colombia positive
outlooks probably before the summer of this year, which will
either translate to another upward movement, or potentially
moving back the outlook to stable,” Esteruelas said.  The yield on the benchmark 11 percent bonds due July 2020
fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.33 percent,
according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s price rose
0.145 centavo to 116.791 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  