-- 
Container Shipping Shares Boom as Dry Bulk Carriers Wane: Freight Markets

-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-03-04T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/container-shipping-shares-boom-as-dry-bulk-carriers-wane-freight-markets.html
Container shipping companies are
cashing in on the global economic recovery.  Rising demand for manufactured goods is swelling profits
for container shippers, boosting the shares of companies such as
A.P. Moller-Maersk A/S and  Orient Overseas International Ltd (316) ,
and encouraging others to sell stock. Adding to the allure is a
decline in the fortunes of dry-bulk and tanker operators, which
carry grains and oil, as China’s appetite for commodities wanes
and a glut of new ships hurts charter rates.  “The container sector has shown a remarkable rebound after
a difficult 2009 due to the discipline of carriers on the supply
side and the revival of trade growth in 2010,” said Maria Bertzeletou, an analyst at shipbroker Golden Destiny SA in  Greece , home to the world’s biggest shipping fleet by capacity.
“The bulk and tanker sectors are in the doldrums, with freight
rates under pressure given too many available ships and not
enough demand to match supply.”  The container shipping industry, which transports more than
$4 trillion of goods each year, or about 60 percent of the value
of seaborne trade, will grow more than 8 percent in 2011,
according to Maersk, the world’s largest container line. Maersk
shares have gained 80 percent in two years.  Greek dry-bulk operator  Paragon Shipping Inc. (PRGN) , which
carries cargoes from the Americas to the Middle East and  Asia ,
diversified into container shipping in June when it bought two
vessels.  Share Sales  “We like the container sector,” said Chief Executive
Officer Michael Bodouroglou in an e-mailed response to
questions. “As consumers become active again in the developed
economies but also in the emerging economies, this sector has
significant upside potential in the years to come. If we were to
invest in shipping today as a group, we would be investing in
the container-ship sector.”  Germany’s  TUI AG (TUI1)  is planning to sell shares in subsidiary
Hapag-Lloyd AG, the world’s fifth-largest box carrier, this
year. Some closely-held container shipping companies are also
preparing for IPOs in the U.S., said Socrates Leptos-Bourgi,
Global Shipping and Ports Leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers SA in
Athens, who is prohibited from naming the companies by
Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and customer
confidentiality.  In the U.S., “dry-bulk IPOs have lagged container
shipping-related ones substantially and will need to be
substantially discounted to get to market,” said Josef Schuster, the Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital Management
LLC, which manages $3 billion. “Container shipping IPOs may be
more fully priced.”  Shipping Fleet  London-based  Global Ship Lease Inc. (GSL) , which operates a fleet
of 17 container vessels, said Feb. 7 it will sell shares or debt
securities to raise as much as $500 million. CMA CGM SA, the
world’s third-largest shipping line, has a stake of around 45
percent in the  New York  Stock Exchange-listed company.  “The container industry is more favorable for initial
public offers than other shipping sectors given a stronger
earnings outlook,” said Doug Garber, maritime analyst at the
Energy & Natural Resources division of Arlington, Virginia-
headquartered FBR Capital Markets & Co.  Bulk vessels and tankers are suffering partly as China, the
world’s biggest buyer of energy, industrial metals and soybeans,
tries to prevent its economy from growing too fast. It raised  interest rates  last month for the third time since October,
crimping demand for raw materials.  Prices for  iron ore  delivered to  China  are in the longest
losing streak since September as buyers turn to stockpiles of
the steelmaking ingredient, eroding demand for new supplies,
Deutsche Bank AG said on Feb 24. More iron ore is hauled at sea
than any other dry-bulk commodity.  Freight Rates  Rates for vessels carrying these goods reached a two-year
low on Feb. 4, while rates for supertankers that can carry up to
2 million barrels of oil have slumped 75 percent in the past 12
months. At the same time, the cost of transporting goods in
boxes more than doubled last year, an index from the Hamburg
Shipbrokers’ Association shows.  “China is targeting some policies on the property side to
cool that market,” said  Daphne Roth , head of Asian equity
research at ABN Amro Private Banking, which oversees about $14
billion in the region. That means “demand for some of the
construction material, like steel, will not be as much as last
year. We are more positive on the container” ships.  Dry-bulk companies also ordered too many vessels in 2007
and 2008 before the world economy collapsed, causing an 89
percent plunge in the Baltic Dry Index of freight rates from its
2008 peak.  Maritime Outlook  New orders for  container ships , measured in terms of
overall capacity, fell 21 percent over the past 12 months,
according to Peter Sand, shipping analyst at the Copenhagen-
based Baltic and International Maritime Council.  By contrast, growth of the dry-bulk fleet will be 13
percent this year, a level “difficult to absorb even under the
most optimistic demand outlooks,” Jonathan B. Chappell, an
analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said in a report
on Feb. 3.  Seoul-based dry-bulk ship operator  Korea Line Corp. (005880)  filed
for  bankruptcy protection  last month after posting losses in six
of the past seven quarters. It hired vessels on long-term
contracts before the glut of new ships and slowing demand in
China caused rates to tumble.  Container shippers, including Hanjin Shipping Co., South
Korea’s largest shipping line, and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.,
plan to raise rates further as the global economy recovers.  U.S. Recovery  Spending by consumers in the U.S., the world’s largest
economy, rose the most in more than four years in the fourth
quarter, helping Asian manufacturers to sell more goods. Rising
incomes and a payroll tax cut may help sustain higher U.S.
consumer spending in 2011, the  World Bank  said on Jan 12.  Sales at Orient Overseas,  Hong Kong ’s largest container
line, rose 42 percent in the fourth quarter after cargo on
intra-Asian and Asia-Europe routes surged. The company’s share
price has soared 281 percent in the past two years.  Shares sold by Greece’s  Costamare Inc. (CMRE)  in a November share
offering have since risen 40 percent. The company, which owns 44
ships, raised $160 million and has used the funds to partly
finance its purchase of five new vessels.  By contrast, shares in Monaco-based  Scorpio Tankers Inc. (STNG) ,
which sold stock in New York last March, have declined 22
percent. Greece-based  Crude Carriers Corp (CRU)  and dry-bulk operator  Baltic Trading Ltd (BALT)  of New York, which also completed IPOs last
March, have fallen 18 percent and 34 percent respectively.  The container time-charter market “is moving up strong and
fast and we expect this trend to continue for some time,” said
Costamare Chief Financial Officer Gregory Zikos. “We are
optimistic for 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  