-- 
Corporate Bond Sales Accelerate as U.S. Labor Market Gains

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-03-04T23:54:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/corporate-bond-sales-accelerate-as-data-signal-stronger-u-s-labor-market.html
U.S. company bond sales more than
tripled this week as equities advanced and economic data showed
a strengthening U.S. labor market.  Ally Financial Inc., the auto and home lender majority-
owned by the U.S., led companies selling $29.82 billion of debt,
compared with last week’s 2011 low of $7.27 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  the
Sunnyvale, California-based supplier of security and routing
equipment to  Internet service providers , sold $1 billion of debt
in its debut offering, the data show.  Financial markets recovered from last week’s spike in oil
prices, which saw U.S. crude close above $100 a barrel for the
first time since October 2008 after ending Feb. 18 at $86.20.
Even as the price remained above $100, debt issuance revived
after economic reports pointed to labor-market growth and equity
prices rose for the week.  “We had a slight uptick in the market from last week’s
volatility, with spiking oil prices and conflict in the Middle
East,” said Scott Grzankowski, market analyst at KDP Investment
Advisors in Montpelier,  Vermont . “Those issues aren’t solved
but we have seen a little bit of bounce back in equities.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.7 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York after the biggest rally in three months. The Index
had climbed 1.7 percent a day earlier. It rose 0.1 percent for
the week.  Economic Data  The U.S. unemployment rate declined to 8.9 percent, the
lowest level since April 2009, and below the 9.1 percent
projected by a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Employers
added 192,000 workers in February, Labor Department Figures
showed today in  Washington . The survey estimated 196,000. Weekly
initial jobless claims fell 20,000, to 368,000 in the week ended
Feb. 26, the lowest since May 2008 and less than analysts
estimated. Reports from the  Institute for Supply Management 
showed manufacturing and service industries expanded more
quickly last month than economists had predicted.  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
corporate debt instead of Treasuries were unchanged today and
narrowed 2 basis points for the week to 149 basis points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master
index data. Absolute yields fell 8 basis points today to 4.09
percent, leaving them up 4 basis points for the week, tracking
the Treasury market. The yield on the 10-year government
benchmark rose 8 basis points to 3.49 percent for the week after
falling 7 basis points for the day.  Harley-Davidson Financial Services Inc., a unit of the
biggest U.S. motorcycle maker, sold $450 million of debt in an
offering increased by $100 million.  Key Energy Services Inc. (KEG) 
sold $475 million in an offering increased by $50 million.  ‘Easily Oversubscribed’  “What we’re seeing is a voracious appetite for debt, with
deals easily oversubscribed,” said Ron Quigley, managing
director and head of syndicate global markets at Aladdin Capital
LLC.  The unit of Milwaukee-based  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  issued
five-year fixed-rate notes. The 3.875 percent debt yielded 175
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt was rated BBB by S&P,
Bloomberg data show.  Key Energy Services Inc., the Houston-based onshore energy
producer, sold 10-year notes that paid a 329 basis-point spread
over Treasuries, the data show. The debt was rated B1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BB- by S&P.  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “There’s such a variety out there in terms of quality and
plenty to choose from right now,” said Margie Patel, a senior  fund manager  at  Wells Fargo & Co . who oversees about $1 billion
in assets, in a telephone interview from  Boston . “Variety
creates lots of enthusiasm in the market.”  Ally Issue  Ally’s $2.67 billion offering of trust-preferred securities
was the biggest junk debt sale in dollars since Reynolds Group
Holdings Ltd., the packaging company owned by New Zealand
billionaire  Graeme Hart , issued $3 billion of notes in October.  The Detroit-based lender’s offering was sold on behalf of
the  U.S. Treasury  and will be used to defray costs of the $17.2
billion U.S. bailout that saved Ally, formerly known as GMAC
Inc., from collapse during the financial crisis.  The $12.6 billion of junk debt sold was the most since the
week ended Jan. 14.  “In the future I think that there is insatiable demand and
we could see another record again this year,” Patel said. “I
see corporate bonds remaining at tight spreads that will
continue to contract.”  Energy companies including SandRidge Energy Inc., the
Oklahoma City-based natural gas and crude exploration producer,
and coal miner Consol Energy Inc. sold debt this week as oil
prices rose, making alternative-energy debt more attractive.  Oil Price  Crude in  New York  increased to a 29-month high on concern
unrest in  Libya  will spread to other North African and Middle
East energy exporters, curbing shipments. Oil rose 3.4 percent
for the week as Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  sent troops to
recapture towns in the western part of the country and on the
signs of accelerating growth in the  U.S. economy .  “We can expect to see more energy companies issuing debt
in the coming months as higher oil prices make energy debt a
little bit more attractive, said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  Speculative-grade debt yields have declined 48 basis points
this year to 7.37 percent, after falling 1 basis point today and
rising 6 basis points for the week. Spreads rose 9 basis points
today and were down 3 basis points for the week.  “High-yield energy companies always need money to acquire
acreage, and it’s such an attractive time to borrow that they
can get money and put it away,” Patel said. “That gives them
more flexibility to make acquisitions.”  High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- by S&P.  Juniper, based in Sunnyvale,  California , sold $300 million
of five-year notes that paid 100 basis points more than
Treasuries, $300 million of 10-year notes that paid 120 basis
points more than benchmarks and $400 million of 30-year bonds at
a 145 basis-point spread, Bloomberg data show. The offering of
notes rated Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB by S&P was the company’s
first, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 