-- 
Cotton Futures Soar to Record on `Worldwide Scramble' for Limited Supplies

-- B y   C h r i s   P r e n t i c e   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-03-04T20:33:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/cotton-gains-to-record-heads-for-biggest-weekly-advance-in-three-months.html
Cotton futures surged to a record on
signs that global demand from textile mills will continue to
outpace supplies.  Output in  China , the world’s biggest consumer, fell 6.3
percent last year, the National Bureau of Statistics said this
week. U.S. sales surged 56 percent to 403,341 bales in the week
ended Feb. 24 from a week earlier, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said yesterday. Prices have more than doubled in the
past year.  “It’s a worldwide scramble,” said  John Flanagan , the
president of Flanagan Trading Corp. in Fuquay-Varina,  North
Carolina . “The last holdouts realized there was no way out
other than just buying, trying to find cotton to keep their
mills running.”  Cotton for May delivery jumped by the exchange limit of 7
cents, or 3.4 percent, to settle at an all-time high of $2.127 a
pound at 2:47 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . The price
rose for the sixth straight session, the longest rally since
Nov. 5.  “Export commitments out of the U.S. continue at record
pace, and due to the razor-thin expected ending stocks, demand
must be rationed as there is not enough cotton,” Rabobank
International said in a  report  yesterday.  U.S. inventories monitored by ICE have tumbled 68 percent
in the past 12 months.  “While the U.S. cotton planting season is still a month
away, the current dry conditions in the South and strong La Nina
suggest that soil moisture deficiencies could be an issue,”
Rabobank said.  This week, futures gained 15 percent, the most since early
December. The price closed higher by the exchange limit four
times in the past six sessions.  A bale weighs 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Prentice in New York at 
 cprentice3@bloomberg.net ;
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  