-- 
Oil Heads for Sixth Weekly Advance on Libya Disruption, Rising U.S. Demand

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-03-04T13:54:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/crude-heads-for-fifth-weekly-gain-in-london-on-libya-violence-u-s-demand.html
Oil advanced, headed for its sixth
weekly gain in London, as civil unrest in  Libya  fueled concern
that supply disruptions will be prolonged while employment data
from the U.S. showed signs of growing demand.  Brent crude gained as much as 1.3 percent as Libyan leader
Muammar Qaddafi sent troops to recapture towns in western Libya
and prepared to quash protests in the capital, Tripoli, while
rebels fought for control of oil ports on the country’s central
and eastern coastal strip. A U.S. government report today showed
employers added workers last month while the unemployment rate
declined to its lowest level in almost two years.  “The Middle East-North  Africa  price risk continues to be
on the upside and economic support from the U.S. should also be
strong,” Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodities analyst at
Stockholm-based consultants SEB Commodities Research, said in a
note today. “We thus hold a bullish view for the day.”    Brent crude  for April settlement rose as much as $1.51 to
$116.30 a barrel and was at $115.74 at 1:42 p.m. on the ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange in London. The contract has gained 3.2
percent this week. Crude for April delivery on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange was up $1.18 at $103.09 a barrel, headed for
a 5.3 percent gain this week.  Oil fell as much as 2.1 percent in New York yesterday after
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez offered to mediate the conflict
in Libya, which has reduced supplies from Africa’s third-largest
producer. Fighting has cut crude production in the North African
country by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according to the  International Energy Agency . Libya pumped 1.6 million barrels a
day in January, according to Bloomberg estimates.  U.S. Demand  Prices also rose on signs the  U.S. economy  is gaining
strength and fuel demand is recovering. U.S. employers added
192,000 workers in February, amid an improving economy and more
seasonable weather, and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly
declined to 8.9 percent, the lowest level since April 2009, the
Labor Department said today in  Washington . Government data
Published yesterday showed. Service industries expanded in
February at the fastest pace since 2005 and fewer Americans
unexpectedly filed claims for jobless benefits.  The turmoil in the Middle East also pushed up oil products
prices in Europe. Jet fuel, diesel and gasoline surpassed $1,000
a metric ton in Europe for the first time in more than two
years. Jet fuel traded at $1,055 a ton yesterday in the
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, bringing its
advance this year to 28 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Premium gasoline rose to $1,025 a ton while diesel in
the Mediterranean region jumped to $1,001 a ton on March 2.  Regional Protests  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt ,
while there have been protests in countries including Iraq,  Iran , Yemen and Oman. In  Saudi Arabia , the biggest oil producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, websites
have called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March 11 and
March 20, according to Human Rights Watch.  In Yemen today, tens of thousands of protesters were
pouring into Change Square in the capital, Sana’a, calling for
an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s three-decade rule.  Prices closed at the highest since September 2008 on March
2 after Iranian protesters clashed with security forces in
Tehran while demonstrations escalated in Oman. Iran is the
second-biggest producer in OPEC and Oman is the largest Middle
East producer outside the group.  Oil prices may rise further next week as civil unrest in
the region fuels concerns of prolonged supply disruption.
Twenty-four of 43 analysts, or 56 percent, forecast crude oil
will climb through March 11, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Twelve respondents, or 28 percent, predicted prices will decline
and seven estimated little change.  “I can’t see any reason for oil prices to be lower while
there is unrest in the Middle East,” said  Michael Hewson ,
market analyst at London-based CMC Markets, which handles more
than $150 million a day in U.S. crude contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at   lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 