-- 
Crude Oil Advances to a 29-Month High as Libya Unrest Threatens to Spread

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-04T20:45:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/crude-oil-advances-to-a-29-month-high-as-libya-unrest-threatens-to-spread.html
Crude in New York increased to a 29-
month high on concern unrest in  Libya  will spread to other North
African and Middle East energy exporters, curbing shipments.  Oil rose 2.5 percent as Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi sent
troops to recapture towns in the western part of the country and
prepared to quash protests in the capital, Tripoli. Prices also
advanced on signals U.S. economic growth is accelerating. The
nation’s jobless rate fell to 8.9 percent, the lowest level
since April 2009, a government report showed.  “Unrest in Libya continues to fuel concerns about
supplies,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research
at Tradition Energy, a Stamford, Connecticut-based broker.
“We’re facing a weekend amid a drumbeat of instability. Nobody
wants to be short when there could be a major disruption over
the next two days.”  Crude oil for April delivery increased $2.51 to $104.42 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Sept. 26, 2008. The contract rose 6.7 percent
this week, the third straight advance, and is up 30 percent from
a year ago.    Brent crude  for April settlement rose $1.18, or 1 percent,
to end the session at $115.97 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The contract gained 3.4 percent this
week, the sixth straight weekly increase.    Technical Analysis   Brent may advance past $119 a barrel as prices continually
surge above ranges and moving averages, according to technical
analysis by Glen Ward, head of retail derivatives at  London
Capital Group Holdings Plc. (LCG)   The 9-day, 14-day and 40-day moving averages “are all
pointing north,” Ward said. Brent is trading above the three
averages, while the 9-day average has crossed over the 14-day,
signaling bullish near-term activity, he said. Targets are
$117.81 and the Feb. 24 peak of $119.79, the highest intraday
price since Aug. 22, 2008, he said.  Fighting in Libya has cut crude production in the North
African country by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according
to the  International Energy Agency . Libya pumped 1.59 million
barrels a day in January, Bloomberg News estimates show.  “The troubles in Libya remain the focus of the market,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “There’s no clear solution in the
foreseeable future.”  An oil company building was bombed in Brega, a Libyan
energy hub with a terminal and refinery, Al Arabiya television
said. The rebels have repelled government attempts to retake the
town over the past three days.  ‘A Concrete Loss’  “Prices are mostly up on the news from Libya,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that focuses on energy. “We’ve got a concrete loss of
barrels and oil facilities are now under attack.”  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt,
while there have been protests in countries including Iraq,
Iran, Yemen and Oman. In  Saudi Arabia , the biggest oil producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, websites
have called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March 11 and
March 20, according to Human Rights Watch.  “Everyone in the market is very concerned about the
situation in the Middle East,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president
of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “The Day of Rage protest
called for next week in Saudi Arabia will keep us on edge.”  The turmoil in the Middle East also pushed oil products
prices higher in  Europe . Jet fuel, diesel and gasoline surpassed
$1,000 a metric ton in Europe for the first time in more than
two years.  European Fuel Prices  Jet fuel traded at $1,060 a ton today in the Amsterdam-
Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, bringing its advance this
year to 28 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Premium gasoline rose to $1,046 a ton while diesel in the
Mediterranean region jumped to $1,006 a ton.  U.S. payrolls rose 192,000 in February compared with the
196,000 median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Employment climbed in manufacturing, construction and temporary
help agencies, while state and local government payrolls fell.  The  unemployment rate  was forecast to increase to 9.1
percent, according to the median of responses in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  Factory Orders  Orders to U.S. factories rose 3.1 percent in January, the
most since September 2006, after a revised 1.4 percent gain in
December that was larger than previously estimated, figures from
the Commerce Department showed today. Economists projected
orders would advance by 2 percent, according to the median of 65
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The U.S. is the biggest oil-consuming country, responsible
for 22 percent of global demand in 2009, according to BP Plc,
which publishes its BP Statistical Review of World Energy each
June.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 775,922
contracts as of 3:15 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 770,794
contracts yesterday, 2.9 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.56 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 