-- 
Davies Quit to Protect London School of Economics’ Name

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-04T21:42:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/davies-resigned-to-protect-lse-reputation-after-libya-donation.html
  Howard Davies  said he resigned as
director of the  London School of Economics and Political
Science , where U.S. President  John F. Kennedy  and billionaire  George Soros  once studied, to protect the university’s
reputation.  It was a mistake to accept a 1.5 million-pound ($2.4
million) donation from  Libya ’s Gaddafi International Charity and
Development Foundation and an error to accept a British
government invitation to advise Libya on its investments, Davies
told the British Broadcasting Corp.  today .  “I jumped,” said Davies, 60, a former chairman of the
Financial Services Authority, the U.K. regulator. “The
reputation of the school is my responsibility.”  The LSE was founded in 1895 by figures including the
playwright George Bernard Shaw to assist “the betterment of
society,” according to its  website . The university has
commissioned an independent inquiry by England’s former Lord
Chief Justice, Harry Woolf, into its relations with Libya.  He will examine the donations, the acceptance of $50,000 in
return for Davies’s advice to Libya’s sovereign wealth fund, a
contract to train Libyan civil servants and the academic
authenticity of the 2008 doctoral thesis it awarded Muammar Qaddafi’s son Saif.  Davies will remain on  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s board, where he has
served since 2004, a person briefed on the situation said,
declining to be identified because the plan isn’t public. The
New York Times reported the New York-based firm’s intent to keep
him earlier today. Jeanmarie McFadden, a bank spokeswoman, said
she couldn’t comment. Davies will stay on the board of London-
based Prudential Plc, Edward Brewster, a spokesman for the
insurer said.  Nobel Prize Winners  Forces loyal to Qaddafi, who seized power in a 1969 coup,
fired tear gas and live rounds during anti-government protests
today, according to witnesses cited by the  Associated Press ,
while clashes in the town of Misrata left 33 people dead,
according to Al Arabiya television. Qaddafi loyalists have used
violence to quell a rebellion against the regime following
popular uprisings in the neighboring countries of Tunisia and
Egypt.  “Accepting the money was wrong,” said Ana Meno, a 19
year-old Spaniard studying economics at LSE, who was today
participating in a demonstration at the school to commemorate
Egypt’s revolution.  The LSE has 9,000 students from 140 countries and counts 16  Nobel Prize  winners among past students and teachers.  ‘Great Regret’  The university needs to “wrap up the issue on the donation
pretty quickly,” Colin Ellis, chief economist at the British
Venture Capital Association, who has a master’s degree from the
LSE, said in a telephone interview. “Choosing to fall on his
sword for the sake of the institution and sorting out the
donation issue should do the job” in repairing its reputation.  An LSE degree is “still a fantastic qualification to
have,” said Brendan Brown, chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities International, who also holds a master’s degree from
the institution. “All of this in the background doesn’t affect
my view of the academic qualification.”  “We accept his resignation with great regret and
reluctance but understand that he has taken an honorable
course,” Peter Sutherland, chairman of the LSE’s court of
governors and a former chairman of London-based oil company  BP
Plc (BP/) , said in a statement yesterday. Sutherland is also non-
executive chairman of Goldman Sachs International.  Responsibility  “Responsibility for this terrible mistake goes far beyond
Howard Davies,” John Sidel, a professor of international
politics at the LSE, said in an interview today. “There are
many, many people here at the LSE who feel strongly that Howard
Davies should not have fallen on his sword.”  Sidel said that Fred Halliday, a former professor of
international relations at the LSE who died last year,
“vehemently opposed” the decision to accept the Libyan funds.  “Maybe nothing wrong has been done, I really don’t want to
judge, but the mere connection with Qaddafi, a dictator, might
have caused a shadow to fall on the university,” said Stanislaw Gomulka, a former Polish deputy finance minister who taught at
the LSE, said in an interview.  At the pro  Egypt  demonstration at the LSE, students wrote
messages of support such as “Egypt is an inspiration to
others” on a pyramid. There was also a written note for Davies.  “Come back Howard! Go on holiday to Egypt, see how you
feel, then come back?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  