-- 
Rising Commodity Prices Spur Governments, Companies to Insulate Themselves

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-03-04T06:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/deere-courts-indian-farmers-south-korea-scouts-chicago-amid-price-rally.html
The agricultural price rally of 2008
unleashed riots in more than 30 countries and forced companies
into bankruptcy. It lasted five months.  The latest rise in commodity prices, which has already
helped topple regimes in Tunisia and  Egypt , may last many more
months, if not years.  “If you are not scared, you are not paying attention,”
says David Nelson, a global strategist in the food and
agribusiness research advisory unit of Rabobank in Chicago.
“There is no margin for error with these agricultural
markets.”  That prospect has governments and companies around the
world searching for ways to profit or insulate themselves from
price shocks, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March 7
issue. A growing, more prosperous global population is draining
stores of grain and meat.  Global inventories of corn -- used in food, feed and fuel
-- will fall to just 53 days, a 37-year low, before harvests in
the northern hemisphere begin, according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture data. Soybean stockpiles worldwide as a percent of
demand may be the lowest in almost 18 years, Paris-based Societe
Generale forecast last month.  Tight inventories and a recovering global economy set this
rally apart from the abrupt rise and fall in 2008. That’s when
crude oil led commodities higher in February, and a plunge in
food demand amid the recession pulled prices back down in July.  ‘This is Sustainable’  “This one is different,” says  Dennis Gartman , an
economist and editor of The Gartman Letter, a market tracker.
“This is sustainable. We’re coming out of global recession, and
we’re going into global strength.”    Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, is
building factories in emerging markets such as  Russia  and  India 
to capitalize on this growing appetite.  “Between now and 2050, food output is going to have to
double,” Chief Executive Officer  Samuel Allen  said in a
telephone interview.  The Moline, Illinois-based company in January announced a
$100 million investment in India to build a new factory and
expand an existing tractor plant. Deere is marketing a 36-
horsepower tractor for smaller Indian farms rather than the 300-
horsepower models popular on larger farms in the U.S. It also
has partnered with the Gujarat state government to set up an
equipment-sharing program for small tribal growers.  Ox to Tractor  “A farmer on one hectare of land could never afford that
tractor,” Allen says. “If you help them mechanize, that helps
them go from using an ox to a tractor. They will be able to
triple farm income because they will significantly increase
production.”  The company also opened a factory and distribution center
in Russia last year that will make equipment including tractors.  “It has to become more of a bread basket to feed the
world,” says Allen, noting that Russia has 9 percent of the
world’s arable land.  Other companies are lobbying  Washington  to boost the number
of U.S. acres that can be farmed. The  Andersons Inc. (ANDE) , a Maumee,
Ohio-based grain merchandiser and elevator operator, is calling
for the temporary removal of some of the 31.2 million acres
(12.6 million hectares) set aside by the federal  Conservation
Reserve Program . The CRP pays farmers to leave land idle as a
way of preventing soil erosion and other environmental damage.  “We need to have large enough crops where we can stop the
decline and start to replenish,” says Hal Reed, president of
Andersons’ grain and ethanol group and chairman of the
Washington-based National Grain and Feed Association. “To do
that, there aren’t enough acres to be planted.”  Koreans Scout Chicago  Governments are finding new ways to secure supplies and
temper prices.  South Korea , where prices of food and
nonalcoholic drinks climbed to at least a 10-year high of 14.1
percent in October, is setting up a trading firm in  Chicago  to
buy grain. It’s one of the steps the country, which soon will be
importing nearly all of its corn, is taking to secure food at a
reasonable price.  The state-run  Korea Agro-Fisheries Trade Corp.  will team
with private companies to establish the firm with the goal of
handling about 30 percent of South Korea’s annual imports by
2020.  To tame food prices after drought damaged crops last year,
Ukraine has started to work with Leo Melamed, the chairman
emeritus of Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , to develop its own
wheat futures market. An exchange would damp price surges, since
farmers could use it as a hedge to reduce losses when crops
fail, giving them confidence to plant more in seasons to come,
says Melamed, who introduced currency futures in 1972.  Peaks and Valleys  “Over the long run, it smoothes out peaks and valleys,”
he says.  Companies that buy grains also are preparing themselves for
higher, more volatile prices.    Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , the fourth-largest U.S. chicken
producer, in February said it would delay plans to build a new
processing plant in  North Carolina  until there is “some
visibility” regarding crop prices in 2011. In the Laurel,
Mississippi-based company’s first fiscal quarter, feed -- made
up of corn and soybean meal -- accounted for 52 percent of the
cost of producing chicken.  Meat processors want to avoid the fate of Pilgrim’s Pride
Corp., which was pushed into  bankruptcy protection  in 2008,
partly by high feed costs. Corn and soybean futures traded in
Chicago rose 52 percent and 34 percent, respectively, in 2010.  “There may be gyrations, wild gyrations, this spring and
summer during the planting season, if it’s wet or dry,” says
Sanderson CEO Joe F. Sanderson Jr. “It could just be
explosive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  