-- 
Djiboutian Opposition Calls Off Protest After Authorities Block Gathering

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-04T14:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/djiboutian-opposition-calls-off-protest-after-authorities-block-gathering.html
Djiboutian opposition parties were
forced to call off a planned protest today after being prevented
from gathering at the city’s Hassan Guled Stadium, said Mohamed
Daoud Chehem, head of the  Djibouti  Party for Development.  Opponents of President Ismail Guelleh will attempt to hold
another demonstration on March 11, Chehem said in a phone
interview from Djibouti City.  “They stopped the people,” Chehem said. “They have not been
able to come to where we are meeting.” Calls to the mobile
phones of Interior Minister Yacin Elmi Bouh and Foreign Minister
Mahmoud Ali Yousef seeking comment weren’t answered.  Violence broke out at an opposition rally around the
stadium on Feb. 18 when security forces acted to contain
“trouble-makers” who hijacked the protest, Foreign Minister
Mahmoud Ali Yousef said on Feb. 21. One policeman died and nine
other people were injured, he said.  Anti-government protests have spread from  Libya  to Yemen
since January after popular uprisings ousted the presidents of
Egypt and  Tunisia . In Djibouti, Guelleh’s People’s Rally for
Progress party has ruled since independence in 1977. The 63-
year-old leader, first elected in 1999, amended the constitution
in March 2010 to allow him to extend his rule by two more six-
year terms.  “The president is a dictator,” Chehem said. “Today he
showed who he is. We will continue with the protests next
Friday.”  Elections  Opposition parties, which also include the  National
Democratic Party  and three-party alliance Union for a Democratic
Alternative, are calling for Guelleh’s resignation or for a
presidential election on April 8 to be delayed to give time to
create conditions for a fair vote.  The U.S. has had a military base in Djibouti since 2001,
while former colonial power  France  has around 3,000 troops
stationed in the country, which is smaller than the U.S. state
of  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 