-- 
Dollar Reaches Four-Month Low Against Euro Before U.S. Jobs Data Release

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-03-04T13:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/dollar-near-four-month-low-versus-euro-as-stocks-gain-before-jobs-report.html
The dollar fell to its weakest level
in four months against the euro as stock markets rose before a
report that may show U.S. employers added the most jobs since
May, curbing demand for the currency as a haven.  The euro headed for a third straight weekly increase
against the greenback, the longest run of gains since October,
after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday the ECB may increase interest rates at its next
meeting. Sterling declined against the dollar after  house prices 
fell in February, fueling concern that the economic recovery
won’t be sustained.  “There’s already decent risk appetite out there and a good
number would propel that further,” said Jane Foley, a senior
currency strategist at Rabobank Group in  London . As the jobs
data is unlikely to “significantly alter expectations” on U.S.
rates, it “won’t be sufficient to turn the trend around for the
dollar,” she said.  The dollar traded at $1.3968 per euro at 8:02 a.m. in  New
York , compared with $1.3969 yesterday. It earlier today
depreciated to $1.3978, the weakest level since Nov. 8. The
dollar rose 0.4 percent to 82.73 yen, from 82.44. The euro
bought 115.58 yen, from 115.16 yesterday and 112.35 a week ago.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased by 196,000 in February,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before today’s Labor Department report. U.S.
initial jobless claims unexpectedly fell last week to the lowest
level in more than two years and service industries expanded
more than forecast last month, data published yesterday showed.  Stocks Gain  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.9 percent, leaving it
1.7 percent higher for the week, while the Stoxx Europe 600
Index added 0.4 percent. U.S. stock-index futures rose.  The euro has jumped 1.3 percent since Feb. 25 against a
basket of developed nations’ currencies as investors increased
wagers the ECB would raise it key rate, which is already 0.75
percentage point higher than the upper end of the Federal
Reserve target range.  The implied yield on the three-month Euribor contract
expiring in December rose one basis point to 2.175 percent,
after climbing 23 basis points yesterday. There’s a 39 percent
chance the Fed will raise U.S.  interest rates  at the December
meeting, according to Fed fund futures traded on the CME Group
Inc. Index. The U.S. benchmark rate has been at a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The ECB’s main rate is at a
record low of 1 percent.  ‘Euro to Strengthen’  An “increase of interest rates in the next meeting is
possible,” Trichet said yesterday. Trichet and board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi are among the ECB policy makers scheduled to
speak in Paris and  Cape Town  today.  “It’s absolutely clear that the ECB will raise rates in
April, with some now expecting 75 basis points worth of hikes
this year,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-exchange
department at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
Tokyo. “The euro will likely strengthen further, initially
targeting $1.4080,” the Nov. 8 high, he said.    Germany ’s two-year government notes yielded 99 basis points
more than similar maturity Treasuries today, after the spread
widened yesterday to the most since December 2008, making euro-
denominated debt more attractive.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, including the euro and yen, has slipped 1
percent this week to 76.518, after yesterday touching the
weakest since Nov. 8. The gauge is weighted 57.6 percent to euro
movements.  U.K. House Prices  The pound was little changed at $1.6268, bound for a 0.9
percent advance this week. It was also little changed against
the euro, at 85.84 pence.  U.K. house prices fell 0.9 percent from January, when they
rose 0.8 percent, the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc
said in a statement in London today. Britain’s economy shrank
0.6 percent in the fourth quarter.    Australia ’s dollar fell to the lowest in more than five
weeks against the euro on speculation the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia will lag behind its European counterpart in raising
interest rates.  Swaps traders are betting the RBA will raise its benchmark
by 35 basis points over the next 12 months, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The so-called Aussie was at 72.51 euro cents, after
depreciating to 72.67 earlier, the weakest since Jan. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  