-- 
Dutch Brewer Says It Wins Bavaria Trademark Battle in Italy

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-03-04T09:11:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/dutch-brewer-says-it-wins-bavaria-trademark-battle-in-italy.html
Bavaria NV, the Netherlands’ second-
largest brewer, said it won a legal battle against German
producers who sought to prevent it from using trademarks with
the name Bavaria for its Dutch beer in  Italy .  Trademarks the Lieshout, Netherlands-based company
registered in Italy between 1971 and 1995 were declared valid by
an appeals court in Turin, Italy, Bavaria said today.  The ruling means that “Bavaria can continue to sell in
Italy its Bavaria Holland beer with no impediment,” Peer
Swinkels, a member of the board of Bavaria, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The Italian tribunal’s decision follows a 2009 ruling at
the European Union’s highest court stating that the German
brewers can’t use EU rules protecting regional food names to
challenge the Dutch brewer’s use of the Bavaria brand name,
which dates back to 1925.  The case at the  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg was part
of a growing number of battles over so-called geographical
indications that protect the branding of food and drink products
from a particular region.  The Bavarian brewers’ association, established in the
1880s, has fought to stop the Dutch company selling beer with
the name Bavaria. They said the Italian court’s decision was not
a straightforward victory for the Dutch company.  The Italian court said that Bavaria will have to show its
“trademarks were registered in good faith” and “will have to
make sure that they use the name in such a way that consumers
won’t be confused” as to the origin of the beer, the German
brewers’ spokesman Walter Koenig said by telephone today.  EU rules from 2001 that protect regional food and beverage
names “must be interpreted as having no adverse effects on the
validity” of existing trademarks such as Bavaria, as long as
they were registered in good faith, the EU court said in 2009.  The German brewers will examine “very carefully” the way
the name Bavaria is used by the Dutch brewer on labels and “may
decide to take action,” if it sees possible breaches of the
ruling, said Koenig.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  