-- 
EADS Not Disputing Tanker Loss, Sees Boeing’s ‘Low-Ball’ Bid

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-04T21:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/eads-said-to-decide-against-challenging-air-force-tanker-award-to-boeing.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. ended a four-year saga over supplying U.S. military
refueling tankers when it decided not to protest the Air Force’s
decision to select rival  Boeing Co. (BA)  to build the planes.  “We’re stepping aside” because there “are no grounds for
protest,” said EADS North America Chairman Ralph D. Crosby,
announcing the decision in  Washington .  “What determined the outcome here was price,” he said of
the Air Force’s decision, calling Boeing’s offer “an extremely
low-ball offer.”  Boeing’s bid price for the 179 airplane tanker fleet was
$20.6 billion in today’s dollars compared with EADS’s offer of
$22.6 billion, Crosby said. Taking into account inflation over
the life of the project, EADS’s offer was $35.1 billion,
compared with Boeing’s $31.5 billion, he said. Boeing’s bid
details were based on the briefings provided by the Air Force,
Crosby said.  The decision to concede to Boeing by the Airbus SAS parent,
based in Paris and Munich, marks an end to a campaign that began
in February 2008. It saw the rivals accusing each other of
receiving illegal government subsidies and challenging one
another’s claims of how many U.S. jobs would flow from the
tanker contract.  Still, Crosby and EADS North America Chief Executive
Officer  Sean O’Keefe  said they would urge the company’s
supporters in Congress to closely scrutinize Chicago-based
Boeing’s performance on the contract.  Abide by Contract  “I guarantee you that many of us are going to hold them
accountable to both the timetable and the amount of money that
they promised,”  Alabama  Republican Representative Jo Bonner
said in a telephone interview. “We are going to hold them
accountable to every penny and every date.” EADS had planned to
assemble its tanker planes in Mobile, Alabama, which is in
Bonner’s district.  The Air Force on Feb. 24 awarded Boeing an initial
development order valued at $3.5 billion. The first 18 planes
are due by 2017, according to the Air Force.  EADS decided in March 2010 to go it alone and bid for the
tanker contract after its partner in earlier bidding, Los
Angeles-based  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , decided to drop out. In
February 2008, the team had won the contract only to see it
overturned by a Boeing protest, setting the stage for the
current competition.  Long Competition  EADS’s role in the Air Force tanker replacement program
began in February 2002 when the Pentagon sought information from
both Boeing and Airbus before deciding to lease 100 Boeing 767
airplanes.  That proposal was scuttled after Senator  John McCain , an
Arizona Republican, questioned the leasing plan. After a
subsequent investigation, a former Air Force procurement
officer, Darleen Druyun, and Boeing’s former chief financial
officer, Michael Sears, were convicted of violating federal
conflict-of-interest laws.  The probe found that Sears had discussed a job for Druyun
at the company while she was representing the  Air Force  in the
tanker talks.  The loss of the tanker contract may make it difficult for
EADS to reach its target of $10 billion in annual U.S. defense
sales by 2020, whichO’Keefe has called a “big, hairy,
audacious goal.”  EADS’s Future  That goal remains, and EADS’s future in the U.S. “does not
hinge” on the tanker program, O’Keefe said today.  EADS’s decision not to protest may avoid angering the
Pentagon and help the company compete on other military
contracts, Yan Derocles, an analyst at Oddo & Cie Securities in
Paris, said in a telephone interview. Derocles has a “buy”
rating on EADS.  EADS already is the prime contractor supplying the U.S.
Army with light utility helicopters valued at as much as $2
billion. The company also is under contract with Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  to provide as many as 10
TRS-3D surface and air surveillance radars for the Littoral
Combat Ship program.  The company is interested in bidding for fixed-wing
airplanes for the Department of  Homeland Security  and the U.S.
Coast Guard and an Air Force helicopter program to protect long-
range missile silos that may include as many as 200 choppers,
O’Keefe said.  EADS fell 8 cents to 19.70 euros in Paris today. Boeing
rose 9 cents to $71.80 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  