-- 
EADS Won’t Bid on ‘Marine One’ Presidential Helicopter Fleet

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-04T23:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/eads-won-t-bid-on-marine-one-presidential-copter-fleet-after-tanker-loss.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. North America won’t bid on a replacement for the “Marine
One” U.S. presidential helicopter fleet, company officials
said.  “We chose not to take this trip,” Chief Executive Officer
   Sean O’Keefe  told reporters in  Washington  today. The “sheer
amount of integration effort” required for the new program
didn’t match the company’s core skills, he said.  The U.S. Navy is gathering information on potential
suppliers and preparing to solicit bids for the helicopters,
designated “Marine One” when the president is aboard,
according to a Feb. 15 online notice. The Defense Department is
working with the White House Military Office to refine the
requirements.  EADS, which is based in Paris and Munich, will be involved
in other projects, O’Keefe said. These include providing
surveillance and target acquisition radar for the Navy’s
Littoral Combat Ship, and helicopter programs such as the Air
Force “Common Vertical Lift Support Platform” to protect ICBM
missile installations. The company is also the prime contractor
on the Army’s UH-72  Lakota light utility helicopter .  O’Keefe commented on the company’s Marine One decision
after EADS said it wouldn’t protest the U.S. Air Force’s award
of the contract for its new aerial tankers to rival  Boeing Co. (BA) 
last week.  Canceled Program  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  canceled a previous program
in April 2009 to replace the presidential helicopter, managed by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , after costs more than doubled to $13
billion.  After the Navy decided to begin a new contest, Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed said in April 2010 it would partner with
Sikorsky Aircraft Corp., a subsidiary of United Technologies
Corp., to offer Sikorsky’s H-92 medium-lift helicopter.  Boeing also said in June 2010 it would bid for the
helicopter program and was studying several options including
variants based on its Chinook, the V-22 Osprey airplane and the
AW101 rotorcraft made by Finmeccanica SpA’s AgustaWestland unit.
Chicago-based Boeing said it would buy rights to the
AgustaWestland plane.  Marine One solicitation number is  N00019-11-R-0014 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  