-- 
Deutsche Bank's Mayer Says ECB Prolonging Record-Low Rates Is `Dangerous'

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-03-04T23:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/ecb-keeping-rates-low-is-dangerous-deutsche-bank-s-chief-economist-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG Chief Economist  Thomas Mayer  said it is “dangerous” for the  European Central
Bank  to keep  interest rates  low for long.  What “I find dangerous is that we continue to get locked
into this very low rate environment,” Mayer told a conference
in New Delhi yesterday. “I am concerned that by keeping rates
low for an extended period of time you are inducing people to
build other decisions onto this low rate environment and adjust
all their portfolio and investment decisions on these low
rates.”  The ECB may raise borrowing costs next month to curb price
pressures, President Jean-Claude Trichet said March 3 after
keeping the benchmark at a record low of 1 percent even as
inflation breached the bank’s 2 percent limit. The euro
completed a third straight weekly increase against the  U.S.
dollar  yesterday, the longest run of gains since October
following his comments.  The ECB may raise rates by a quarter of a percentage point
in April, Deutsche Bank’s Mayer told the event organized by the
Institute of International Finance. He expects further quarter-
point increases in September and December.  Trichet accompanied his rate warning by again urging
governments to complete their budget cut plans this year even if
that requires more austerity.  He has said for months that governments can’t keep relying
on the ECB’s cheap credit to prop up the region’s economy as
they split over providing a permanent cure to  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis which first engulfed  Greece , then Ireland and may
next take down  Portugal .  Challenging Programs  “European leaders have said that they will do whatever it
takes to make sure the affected nations and their banks have
access to financing as they implement very challenging,
multiyear programs of fiscal, structural, and financial
reform,”  Lael Brainard , the U.S. Treasury Department’s
undersecretary for international relations, said at the
conference in New Delhi. “European officials are now at work on
a longer-term framework to strengthen and redesign the financial
mechanisms put in place to support economic reform.”  Growth in the member countries of the Organization of
Economic Cooperation and Development looks “mediocre,”
Secretary-General Angel Gurria told the conference.  The International Monetary Fund’s European Department
Director Antonio Borges said at the meeting that the solution to
the European crisis is greater integration.  Commodity Prices  High commodity costs, which are driving up price
expectations, were among the challenges discussed at the
conference.  Political tensions in  Libya , the latest country to
experience a wave of anti-government protests in North Africa
and the Middle East, sent oil toward its sixth weekly gain in  London .  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on March 1
that the surge in oil and other commodity prices probably won’t
cause a permanent increase in broader inflation and repeated
that U.S. borrowing costs are likely to stay low.  A slack labor market will mute commodity-price inflation in
the U.S., Brainard said yesterday.  The  U.S. economy  is in its early stages of recovery and may
expand 3.5 percent to 3.9 percent in 2011, Terrence J. Checki,
executive vice president for emerging markets and international
affairs at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York , told the
conference.  Brighter Outlook  New York Fed President William Dudley, who is also the vice
chairman of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee,
said in a speech on Feb. 28 that the “considerably brighter”
economic outlook isn’t yet reason for the central bank to
withdraw its record monetary stimulus.  “I think you can look at comments of Bill Dudley in recent
days. They are pretty clear on where they stand, on where they
see monetary policy going,” Checki told reporters in  New Delhi 
yesterday when asked about the outlook on U.S. rates.  By contrast,  China , the world’s fastest-growing major
economy, on Feb. 8 raised rates for the third time since mid-
October. India’s central bank has raised its benchmark
repurchase rate seven times in the past year while three of the
Bank of England’s nine policy makers last month voted for an
increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  