-- 
ECB Officials Signal Support for Higher Interest Rates as Inflation Gains

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w ,   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-03-04T23:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/ecb-officials-signal-support-for-higher-interest-rates-as-inflation-climbs.html
European Central Bank officials
signaled an interest rate increase may be necessary next month
to stop surging commodity costs from fanning broader inflation.  A day after President  Jean-Claude Trichet  shocked investors
by calling an April rate increase “possible,” fellow policy
makers indicated concern that rising food and fuel costs will
push up other prices unless checked with an increase in the
ECB’s key rate from 1 percent, a record low. Headline inflation,
which includes volatile raw material costs, has been above the
bank’s 2 percent limit since December.  “Some question marks start to arise that some pressure for
second-round effects develops, that some pass-through is being
seen,” Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Paris. “We need to
reaffirm very strongly that we will never let that happen.”  With economists concluding the ECB is all but certain to
shift rates in April for the first since 2008, the euro rose to
its highest in four months against the dollar today. The ECB’s
inflation alarm sounds more urgent than that of the U.S. Federal
Reserve, whose policy makers are signaling they are in no rush
to lift their key rate from near zero with underlying inflation
still muted.  The U.S. central bank, which prefers to monitor  core
inflation  and is also mandated to help tackle unemployment,
won’t raise its benchmark rate until the first quarter of 2012,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week he sees little inflation risk.  ‘Striking’ Contrast  “The contrast between the way the ECB and the Fed are
viewing the world is striking,” said David Hensley, director of
global economic coordination at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New
York .  Central bankers who eye core inflation do so because food
and energy tend to react to weather and geopolitical tensions,
which are temporary and immune to monetary policy. By monitoring
headline prices, the ECB is watching for repercussions such as
workers and companies seeking compensation for the higher costs.  With the price of oil rising above $100 a barrel and food
prices climbing to a record last month, data this week showed
euro-area inflation quickened to 2.4 percent in February from
2.3 percent in January. That’s the fastest since October 2008.
Excluding commodity costs, inflation was just 1.1 percent in
January.  ‘Excessive Inflation’  “There are risks with having a number of months with an
excessive inflation rate due to the cost of commodities and
energy,” Noyer said in the interview. ECB Executive Board
member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said failing to react to faster
headline inflation would make monetary policy “more
accommodative” and eventually spur other prices.  ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said
in  Cape Town  today that a rate increase is “possible but not
certain.” It is clear that “the risks to inflation are on the
upside and it is the mission of the ECB to prevent those from
materializing, so we are ready,” he said.  Cyprus central bank governor Athanasios Orphanides said in
Paris that central bankers must be “pre-emptive” in fighting
inflation and that nothing should “distract” them from
delivering  price stability .  Attending the same conference in Paris, Trichet told
reporters that the ECB would “ensure price stability” in the
euro-area and that doing so was “essential.”  Series of Increases?  Economists at UniCredit Group, Morgan Stanley, Nomura
International Plc and JPMorgan Chase are all now betting that
the ECB will raise its benchmark rate to 1.75 percent by the end
of the year. Those at ABN Amro Bank NV and Citigroup Inc. expect
an increase to 1.5 percent.    Eric Chaney , chief economist at AXA Group, said the  ECB 
will raise rates “a little” to restrain inflation expectations
that can spur wage demands and to pressure governments to find a
solution to the region’s sovereign debt turmoil. Weak credit
growth will prevent a series of rate increases, he said.  The euro completed its third straight weekly increase
against the dollar yesterday, the longest run of gains since
October following Trichet’s comments.  Julian Callow , chief
European economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said the risk
of a continued advance means “it will be difficult for the ECB
to raise rates too quickly if the Fed is still on hold.”  While  Germany ’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, is powering
ahead, some economists said higher ECB rates will intensify the
pain of the region’s so-called peripheral nations such as Greece
and Ireland.  ‘Macro Mistake’  The ECB last raised borrowing costs to combat inflation in
July 2008, even though subsequent data revealed the economy was
contracting. It was forced to reverse the shift three months
later as the global financial crisis conflagrated.  “The last thing you need is for another big macro mistake
pushing the euro area back into recession,”  David Blanchflower ,
a former  Bank of England  policy maker, told Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track” with Erik Schatzker.  Harvard Professor  Kenneth Rogoff  said in Paris that the ECB
may feel compelled to act by the strength of Germany’s economy,
which expanded at the fastest pace in two decades last year. The
departure of Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  in April may also
be persuading it to prove its inflation-fighting credibility, he
said.  “The ECB is facing a very different set of conditions than
the Fed,” said Rogoff, a former chief economist at the  International Monetary Fund . “I can’t imagine a single rate
hike will have a destructive effect on the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Paris at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Paris at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  