-- 
ECB’s Noyer Says Inflation Expectations Well Anchored So Far

-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-03-04T16:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/ecb-s-noyer-says-inflation-expectations-well-anchored-so-far.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Christian Noyer comments on global imbalances,
euro-area inflation and the region’s crisis-response mechanisms.  Noyer, who heads the Bank of  France , made the remarks in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Paris today.  On euro-area inflation:  “So far, inflation expectations have remained fairly well
anchored, but we know that there are risks with having a number
of months with an excessive inflation rate due to the cost of
commodities and energy. Some question marks start to arise that
some pressure for second-round effects develops, some pass-
through is being seen. So we need to reaffirm very strongly that
we will never let that happen.”  On where second-round effects may appear:  “Non-financial corporations and enterprises in core
countries are doing rather well. Growth is strong. Export-led
demand is quite important. So there can be pressure developing
there. On the periphery, it’s less the strength of the economy
than the persistence of indexation mechanisms. We should get rid
of these indexation mechanisms as soon as possible.”  On ECB bond purchases:  “The ECB has been up to its responsibility. Our only goal
was to ensure the best possible transmission mechanism.”  On global imbalances:  “We all agree now that global imbalances are a real risk
and that it was part of the explanation of the crisis. So that
has to be corrected. We agree that the only way to unwind them
over time is in a fashion that doesn’t disrupt economic growth
is to correct in an orderly way our economic policies.”  On the risk of global imbalances hampering growth:  “Yes, there is a real risk. It’s clear that there can be
sudden corrections in the savings ratios of deficit countries
which would damp global demand. So the only way to not only
maintain but even improve global output and global wealth is to
correct that in a coordinated fashion, trying to increase the
savings and balance of various economic agents in deficit
countries and decrease the savings ratio in surplus countries.”  On the danger of protectionist pressures:  “It’s always a risk, of course. We don’t see that too much
at the moment. But if pressure mounts, if there are sudden
shifts in financing flows, there can be a risk that
protectionist pressures come up again. We have to be very
vigilant about that.”  On China:  “All G-20 countries have to play a role. This is why the
G-20 is the key of the process. All major economies have to play
a role. China is of course one of the major countries, one of
the major surpluses. It basically needs to increase its internal
demand, so a bigger share of global demand. There is full
agreement in principle in the country but that mean performing
structural reforms that may take time.”  On regulation:  “The first priority is to put in motion the implementation
of what has been decided last year, essentially Basel III and
the  capital requirements . We have several years to implement
fully but we need to have as soon as possible the legislation
enabling and clarifying that this is done globally.”  On Europe’s crisis mechanism:  “Flexibility -- I personally would be in favor of maximum
capacity of the future fund to intervene not only in financing
the member states, which is the basis task it has to do, but
also, in case of need, to intervene on secondary markets. We are
clearly in the ECB in favor of maximum flexibility and enough
strength to embrace markets. We assure everybody that in case of
need, even if we hope that there will be no need in the future,
the necessary determinant will be there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  David Tweed  in Paris at  dtweed@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Paris at  jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  