-- 
Legrand Declines as KKR, Wendel Sell Before Pledge Expires

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-03-04T17:17:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/legrand-drops-as-kkr-wendel-sell-stake-before-pledge-expires.html
  Legrand SA (LR)  shares had the biggest
drop in 15 months after KKR & Co. and Wendel sold stakes in the
world’s largest maker of electrical switches before the expiry
of an agreement not to do so.  Shares in the Limoges, France-based company slumped 5.3
percent to 28.70 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close in Paris, the
biggest drop since November 2009. The stock rose 26 percent from
the start of September and the end of trading yesterday.  KKR and Wendel sold 40 million shares, or a 15 percent
stake, according to a statement today, breaking a “lock-up”
pledge not to sell any equity for 180 days following a similar
offer on Sept. 21, 2010. The shares were sold at 28.75 euros
apiece, the statement said.  The offer exceeded the 10 percent stake that UBS AG
analysts Denis Moreau and Alessandro D’Erme expected would be
offloaded, they wrote in a report today.  “This could also lead to an acceleration of the full exit
from Legrand of  Wendel (MF) ,” they added. The private-equity
companies now own 21.3 percent of Legrand.  KKR sold 18.2 million shares and Wendel offered 21.8
million shares, according to a separate statement yesterday.
Christele Lion, a spokeswoman for Wendel, wasn’t immediately
available for comment. Sarah Prot, a spokeswoman for KKR,
declined to give further details. An external spokeswoman for
Legrand directed a request for comment to the selling
shareholders.  Lock-Up Period    Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , which managed
the September offer, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , led today’s sale.
KKR and Wendel agreed to a 90-day lock-up period following
today’s sale, “subject to certain exceptions,” yesterday’s
announcement said.  “The increase in the free float should be seen as a
positive factor for the liquidity of the shares,” analysts
Delphine Brault and Emmanuel Blot at Oddo & Cie. in Paris wrote
in a report today. “Nevertheless, on the basis of a placement
every six months, there must be at least one more to come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  