-- 
Egypt Stock Regulator to Demand Disclosure Amid Mubarak Probe

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-04T00:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/egypt-stock-regulator-to-demand-disclosure-amid-mubarak-probe.html
Egyptian securities regulators may
require brokerages and fund managers to disclose the owners of
financial assets traded in the country as part of a probe of
officials linked to ousted President  Hosni Mubarak .  The  Egyptian Financial Regulatory Authority,  the bourse and
the main clearing house “have the right to demand any data” on
companies’ and funds’ shareholders, according to regulations
posted on the authority’s website and dated March 2. Those who
fail to provide the information by the next business day risk
facing “decisive measures,” the authority said, without
providing details.  The regulatory authority said it adopted the rule as part
of an order by Egypt’s public prosecutors to freeze the assets
of Mubarak and former officials under investigation for
corruption. Some of them, including Ahmed Ezz, chairman of Ezz
Steel, are on trial.  “The requirement that investment managers report to the
government who their clients are clearly is designed to allow
the government to recover assets that they maybe believe were
improperly obtained,” Larry Harris, a professor of finance and
business economics at the Marshall School of Business at the
University of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles , said in an
interview yesterday.  Calls to the regulatory authority in Cairo after business
hours weren’t immediately returned. Ezz said in a statement on
Feb. 14 the corruption allegations are “baseless.”  Exchange Closed  Mubarak was forced to resign on Feb. 11 after a popular
revolt inspired by an uprising in  Tunisia  that led to the ouster
of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali a month earlier.  The bourse has been closed since Jan. 27 after the
benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  fell 16 percent amid the uprising. The
exchange yesterday postponed the resumption of trading for the
second time in a week after Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik
resigned. No date was given for the reopening.  Shafik, who was named prime minister by Mubarak in January
in a failed attempt to placate protesters, quit yesterday. The
Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which now rules  Egypt ,
asked former Transportation Minister Essam Sharaf to form a new
government.  A date to resume trading will be determined “after
consultations with the Prime Minister,” the exchange said in an
e-mailed statement today. Bourse Chairman Khaled Seyam said last
month trading would start on March 1, then reversed course and
set a date of March 6.  The regulatory authority said in its March 2 statement that
it will require brokerages and fund managers to “immediately”
disclose any portfolios or offshore funds or transfers linked to
officials under investigation.  Seeking Transparency  The regulation may bolster investor confidence in Egypt,
said Samer Shehata, assistant professor at the Edmund A. Walsh
School of Foreign Service at  Georgetown University  in  Washington .  “These kinds of general transparency issues have been
desperately lacking in the Egyptian economy,” Shehata said in a
telephone interview yesterday. The move will help “provide more
confidence for all different types of investors,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  