-- 
Telecom Italia Is Better Bet Than Telefonica, Analysts Say

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-03-04T11:08:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/telecom-italia-shares-are-better-bet-than-spain-s-telefonica-analysts-say.html
When it comes to picking a
telecommunications stock in  Europe ,  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  should be
favored over Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , two analyst reports say.  A better domestic environment and lower risks in Latin
America makes Telecom Italia a safer bet, Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. said. Saeed Baradar, a Societe Generale telecommunications
sales specialist who rates Telefonica “sell,” calls Telecom
Italia the best European “turn around” story.  “We prefer the investment case for Telecom Italia over
that of Telefonica,”  Robin Bienenstock , a Bernstein analyst in
 London , wrote in a note today.  Italy ’s biggest phone company
“has a better operating environment in its important domestic
market, is less exposed to the at-risk wireline businesses in
Latin America and has much less balance sheet risk.”  Both Telecom Italia and Telefonica are struggling to revive
growth in their domestic markets as a sluggish economy and
rivals’ price cuts take their toll.  Telecom Italia’s sales  at
home fell 7.4 percent to 20 billion euros ($27.9 billion) last
year. Telefonica’s revenue from Spain slid 8 percent in the
fourth quarter to 4.67 billion euros.  Telefonica shares  gained 0.3 percent to 18.17 euros as of
12:01 p.m. in  Madrid , bringing the total increase this year to
7.1 percent. Telecom Italia rose 0.4 percent to 1.13 euros,
giving it a 16 percent  advance  since the beginning of the year.  Macro Environment  Telefonica and partners Mediobanca SpA, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA
and Assicurazioni Generali SpA own about 22.4 percent of Telecom
Italia through an entity called Telco SpA.  Telefonica and Telecom Italia are both “heavily
dependent” on their  domestic businesses , Bienenstock said,
adding that “the macro environment in Spain is arguably worse”
than Italy’s, where pricing pressure is “much lower” and
competition “more benign.”  The brokerage rates “underperform” the shares of
Telefonica, Europe’s second-largest phone company. It has an
“outperform” recommendation on Telecom Italia stock.  In his trading call on Telefonica today, SocGen’s Baradar
said: “In my view, a lack of growth, rising regulatory risk,
and expensive acquisitions imply that the best days are in the
past for the darling of the telecom sector. Sell.”  A Telefonica spokeswoman who didn’t want to be named
according to company policy, said the company doesn’t comment on
analysts’ reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  