-- 
Elementis to Lift Investment 70% This Year as Asian Demand Grows

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-03-04T12:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/elementis-to-lift-investment-70-this-year-as-asian-demand-grows.html
  Elementis Plc (ELM)  plans to boost
investment by about 70 percent this year as the British supplier
of chemicals to  oil fields  and paintmakers expands to meet
demand in Asia as well as  North America .  The expansion of a plant in Charleston, West Virginia,
which supplies chemicals to the shale-gas industry, is one of
the projects planned for this year, said Finance Director Brian Taylorson. Overall, investment will rise by about $10 million in
2011, after being held steady at about $14 million last year.  “In North America and  Europe , we’re finding that we’re
running at high capacity,” Taylorson said in an interview.
“Now is an appropriate time, particularly as the demand
patterns have been good in the first few months of the year.”  Elementis is keen to expand its specialty chemicals
division after the $9 million purchase of a U.S.-based maker of
natural anti-aging products in 2009. The company has made  Asia 
its priority for acquisitions, and managers there have had
“good success” in finding opportunities, Taylorson said.  The pending purchase by British rival Yule Catto & Co. of a
latex maker from TowerBrook Capital Partners for $585 million,
partly funded through a rights offering, highlights a return in
confidence among chemical companies to do deals after the
financial crisis.  Elementis would also be prepared to approach shareholders
for funds for the right deal, Taylorson said.  “We’ve got good credibility with our shareholders,” the
finance director said in the March 1 interview. “If we found
the appropriate investment, then we’d hope they would support
us.”  The company, based in London, will also see the benefit of
expansion at its California hectorite clay mine, which supplies
materials used in top-end coatings, such as those used for
ships. The expansion will add about $10 million to sales and the
margins at that business are among the highest of Elementis’s
specialty chemicals division, the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  