-- 
Emanuel Meets With Past Boss, New Constituent at White House

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-04T20:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/emanuel-pays-a-call-to-the-chicago-constituent-at-1600-pennsylvania-avenue.html
For the mayor-elect of  Chicago , it
was just another constituent house call as  Rahm Emanuel  visited
his ex-boss, President  Barack Obama , at the White House.  Emanuel, Obama’s former White House chief of staff, was
elected Chicago’s next mayor on Feb. 22. The two men met
privately today in the  Oval Office .  The president and first lady Michelle Obama voted by
absentee ballot in the election and still own a home in Chicago,
the U.S.’s third-most-populous city, with 2.7 million residents.  “It felt a little different in the White House,” Obama
spokesman Jay Carney told reporters after the meeting, during a
flight with Obama to Miami. “You could feel his honor’s
energy,” he said, referring to Emanuel.  Carney described the meeting as a “personal visit” and
didn’t provide additional details. The White House released a
 photo  of the two men.  The meeting was part of an extended weekend visit by
Emanuel with his family in  Washington , where his wife and three
children are staying until the school year is over.  Emanuel, 51, a former Chicago congressman who also worked
for President Bill Clinton in the White House, won 55 percent of
the vote to become his hometown’s next mayor in May when Richard M. Daley will retire after 22 years in the job. He will be
Chicago’s first Jewish mayor and is the first former top Obama
aide elected to office.  Obama’s adopted hometown has plenty of issues that will
need to be addressed by the incoming mayor. Emanuel faces a
declining population, a 2012  budget deficit  forecast at more
than $600 million and city worker pension fund shortfalls.  Repeated use of reserve funds to balance budgets led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Chicago’s credit rating on Nov. 5 by
one level to A+, the fifth-highest grade.  Daley, 68, and his father, the late Mayor Richard J. Daley,
ran Chicago for 43 of the past 55 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 