-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Gain in Two Months

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-03-04T22:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/emerging-market-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-gain-in-two-months.html
Emerging-market stocks had their
biggest weekly gain in two months after the U.S.  unemployment
rate  unexpectedly fell, boosting the outlook for economic growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed for a sixth day,
advancing 1 percent to 1,138.47, its highest close since Jan. 27.
South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  climbed 1.7 percent.  China ’s Shanghai
Composite Index rallied to a more than three-month high before
the country’s annual government congress which starts tomorrow.  U.S. employers added 192,000 workers in February and the
unemployment rate unexpectedly declined to 8.9 percent, the
lowest level since April 2009.  “The economic picture is brightening, though rising
interest rates and inflation will still be in the back of
everybody’s mind,” said Pankaj Kumar, who oversees $560 million
as chief investment officer of Kurnia Insurans Malaysia Bhd. in
Petaling Jaya, near Kuala Lumpur.  The MSCI emerging markets gauge has climbed 3.6 percent
this week, the most since Dec. 3, as Indian manufacturing
accelerated and South Korea’s industrial production expanded,
overshadowing concern unrest in North Africa will spread to the
Arabian peninsula. Oil headed for a third weekly increase in  New
York , increased to a 29-month high on concern unrest in Libya
will spread to other North African and Middle East energy
exporters, curbing shipments.  Outflows  MSCI’s developing nation index has declined 1.1 percent in
2011 as record food prices and higher oil costs threatened to
boost inflation and curb  consumer spending . Emerging-market
stock mutual funds had their sixth straight week of outflows,
Citigroup Inc. said today, citing data from research firm EPFR
Global. Redemptions of $2.5 billion in the week ended March 2
quickened from $1.9 billion a week earlier, according to a
report today by  Markus Rosgen , a Hong Kong-based Citigroup
strategist.  “Investors seem to be getting immune gradually to the
Middle East issue and snatching up oversold stocks such as
builders,” said Lee Jin Woo, a  fund manager  at KTB Asset
Management Co. in Seoul, which manages $9.9 billion in assets.    Korea ’s won appreciated 0.5 percent against the dollar, the
Taiwanese dollar strengthened by 0.4 percent and the South
African rand rose 0.6 percent. Brazil’s real posted the biggest
weekly gain in a month, gaining 0.5 percent.  Poland’s WIG20 stock index increased 0.7 percent and
Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index rose 1.2 percent.  Sany Heavy Industry Co. increased 1.8 percent in Shanghai
and Beiqi Foton Motor Co. advanced 3.4 percent.  The National People’s Congress will hold its annual plenary
meetings from March 5 to March 15 in Beijing to review and
approve the government’s economic development plans covering the
five years from 2011 through 2015.  ‘Improve’  “The government has lots of policies on hand to improve
the livelihood of people,” said Dai Ming, a fund manager at  Shanghai  Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co.  Most Indian stocks dropped, leaving the Sensex index little
changed, amid concern the recent rally may have been overdone.
Indian stocks may lag behind broader regional gains of as much
as 30 percent in the next 12-18 months as oil prices rise,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.    Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the nation’s largest engineering
company, declined for the first time in four days, paring its
weekly gain to 6.4 percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa index fell 0.2 percent, paring the weekly
gain to 1.7 percent. Telecommunications companies slumped after
Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA, Brazil’s biggest fixed-line
telephone company, reported fourth-quarter profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates and forecast lower profit margins this year.  Homebuilders including Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes slid on speculation borrowing
costs will increase.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps fell two basis
points to 196.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net . 