-- 
Merkel Rebuffs Bid by Ireland's Kenny to Cut European Bailout-Loan Costs

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/merkel-rebuffs-bid-by-ireland-s-kenny-to-cut-european-bailout-loan-costs.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
rebuffed Ireland’s plea to cut the cost of its European Union
bailout, saying “relief isn’t the issue.”  Merkel’s response to Enda Kenny, Ireland’s incoming prime
minister, at a meeting of conservative officials from the 27-
nation EU underscored divisions as leaders near a March 25
deadline for a reinforced plan to aid debt-strapped countries.    Germany  will rely on “brinksmanship tactics, which means
no agreement until the very last moment,”  Marc Chandler , global
head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York , said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  With the Irish economy devastated by three years of
recession and the demise of the financial system, Kenny made a
fresh demand at the gathering in Helsinki, saying he wanted an
extension on rescue loans as he repeated a call for lower  interest rates  on the aid that was granted in November.  “There’s no use in offering relief” unless “conditions get
tougher” for the countries that seek it, Merkel told reporters.
“We have to find solutions that fit the bill. There will always
be give and take. To make certain things possible, further
commitments, further conditionality will be necessary.”  Kenny, 59, said “resistance” in “many” EU capitals to
ending the protection of senior bank bondholders in Ireland
meant relief for Irish taxpayers should instead also include an
extension of loan maturities now due to average seven-and-a-half
years as part of the 85 billion-euro ($119 billion) rescue.  ‘Challenging Program’  “We are in a very challenging program,” Kenny told
reporters. “We want to see adjustments. Our overall requirement
is that there be a reduction in the cost of the package.” Kenny,
leader of the Fine Gael party, is in talks to form a government
after Feb. 25 elections ejected the ruling Fianna Fail party.  Kenny has some allies in his effort to ease bailout terms,
including leaders in debt-wracked southern  Europe . In a March 3
interview, Spanish Finance Minister Elena Salgado backed “more
flexibility” on rescue loans for  Greece , which triggered the
euro-area debt crisis with a 110 billion-euro bailout last May.  On her end, Merkel is hemmed in by state elections and EU
resistance to her calls for greater economic-policy
coordination. Reflecting a bid to lessen German resistance to
adding its share to the bailouts, to which it’s the biggest
contributor, officials in Helsinki stressed the need for budget
discipline rather than helping debt-wracked states.  European Commission President Jose Barroso called on all
countries to tighten their fiscal policies and meet EU limits.  “The commission is asking everyone to be more strict, to
respect the stability and growth pact,” he said.  Relief for Ireland “is no priority for us,” Austrian
Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said. “We have a pact with Ireland
that is in effect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Helsinki at  jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Helsinki at  aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  