-- 
Hermitage Capital Sues Russian Ministry Over Tax Investigation

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-03-04T17:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/hermitage-capital-sues-russian-ministry-over-tax-investigation.html
Hermitage Capital Management, the
$1.2 billion hedge fund run by William Browder, sued  Russia ’s
Interior Ministry, accusing it of opening an improper tax
investigation that defrauded the government out of $230 million.  Hermitage  filed a lawsuit at Russia’s Constitutional Court
last month that says the ministry had no justification for
opening a 2007 tax probe into a company the hedge fund advised
on investments in the country. The probe allowed the ministry to
obtain Hermitage documents that were used to steal taxes the
London-based hedge fund had paid to the Russian government,
Hermitage said in a statement released today.  “This lawsuit aims to strike a major blow against those
government officials who blatantly misuse their position and
status,” Browder said in the statement. “Thousands of
businesses have been targeted by corrupt interior ministry
officials in Russia who use fabricated tax claims to extort
money, terrorize people and falsely arrest them.”  At its peak, Hermitage managed $4 billion and was one of
the biggest foreign investors in gas export monopoly OAO Gazprom
before Russia banned Browder from entering the country in 2005.
Hermitage’s suit aims to overturn a 2003 presidential decree
that gave the ministry power to open criminal tax probes.  Pavel Klimovsky, a spokesman for the ministry, didn’t
return a telephone call seeking comment.  Sergei Magnitsky  The ministry , which oversees Russian law-enforcement
agencies, began investigating Moscow-based OOO Kameya in 2007 on
suspicion it had underpaid taxes by about $40 million, according
to Hermitage. Russian investigators then raided the Moscow
offices of a unit of Hermitage and the law firm Firestone Duncan
in the wake of the Kameya probe, according to the hedge fund.
Hermitage said it had advised Kameya on investments and both
firms were represented by Firestone Duncan.  The raid and allegations by Hermitage that the probe was
used to misappropriate taxes it paid to the government prompted
Sergei Magnitsky, a Firestone Duncan attorney, to complain to
Russia’s State Investigative Committee in October 2008.
Magnitsky was arrested a month later. He spent 358 days in pre-
trial detention before dying in prison in November 2009 at the
age of 37.  Russia put Browder, 46, on its international wanted list in
2009, saying he and Magnitsky participated in a  tax evasion  that
deprived the government of more than 500 million rubles ($16.2
million). Russian investigators said Browder was using
Magnitsky’s death to distract from the case against him. Browder
denies the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  