-- 
EU Carbon Rises to Five-Month High Before Regulatory Decisions

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-04T18:45:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/eu-carbon-allowances-rise-to-15-74-euros-a-ton-highest-since-oct-15.html
European Union carbon rose to its
highest price in almost five months before regulatory decisions
scheduled this month affecting the supply of permits. Natural
gas advanced to a two year high.  Carbon allowances for December rose 2.4 percent to 15.82
euros ($22.11) a metric ton, the highest since Oct. 14, on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in London, extending 2011’s gain to
11 percent. They earlier traded as high as 15.85 euros.  U.K. natural gas for delivery over the coming summer, the
six months from April, rose 2 percent to 56.88 pence a therm
amid concern unrest in  Libya  will spread over northern  Africa ,
disrupting fuel supplies. Higher gas prices can prompt utilities
to switch to burning coal for power generation. Coal emits about
twice as much carbon-dioxide as natural gas and so requires more
permits.  The European Commission in Brussels will announce a
decision on March 7 that will set a cap for airlines entering
the emissions-trading program starting in 2012, according to a
statement published today on the regulator’s website.  The aviation announcement expected on Monday “may have
focused minds on the extent of additional demand that will come
into the market,” Alessandro Vitelli, director of strategy at
IDEAcarbon in London, said today by e-mail. “The EU allowance
market has been climbing in a rather ‘stop-start’ fashion since
the end of December.”  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said officials
will announce within two weeks the number of permits that will
initially be sold for the third phase of the trading program,
which runs from 2013 through 2020. She spoke to reporters today
in  Madrid  .  Holding back some permits starting in 2013 would help
produce a carbon price that encourages cleaner-energy
technologies, Hedegaard told reporters on Feb. 28.  The commission, the bloc’s regulator, will propose setting
aside from 500 million to 800 million carbon allowances in the
eight-year period through 2020, according to a draft document to
be published March 8. The reserve would amount to about 5
percent of the greenhouse-gas limits the EU set for energy and
manufacturing companies in the next phase of its cap-and-trade
program, the world’s largest.  The spread between EU permits and United Nations offsets
for December delivery, traded as a separate contract on ICE,
widened by 28 cents to 3.90 euros a metric ton, its widest level
since the contracts began trading, exchange data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  