-- 
European Stocks Post Weekly Loss; Banks, Automakers, UBM Fall

-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-03-05T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/european-stocks-drop-for-second-week-on-mideast-turmoil-ecb-rate-concern.html
European stocks fell this week, as
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet’s
suggestions of a possible increase in interest rates and concern
spurred by unrest in North Africa and the Middle East outweighed
a drop in the U.S. unemployment rate.  Banking and automobile shares led the drop.  United Business
Media Ltd. (UBM)  sank as margins narrowed.  Verbund AG (VER)  plummeted as
full-year profit missed expectations.  Carrefour SA (CA)  dropped 9.2
percent as brokerages including Citigroup Inc. and Morgan
Stanley cut their ratings.  Arkema SA (AKE)  drove chemical shares
higher.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index declined 0.8 percent
to 281.9 this week. The gauge, which fell the most since July in
the week ended Feb. 25, is still up 2.2 percent this year amid
better-than-estimated corporate earnings and indications the
global economy is gathering strength.  “The sharp increase of the euro against the dollar, due to
the announcement from Trichet, while good for the U.S., is wrong
for Europe,” said Louis de Fels, a Paris-based money manager at
Raymond James Asset Management International, which oversees $30
billion worldwide. He also noted that “the U.S. market is less
impacted than Europe by the geopolitical problems in Africa and
the Middle East,” while “what went right this week was the
good figures from unemployment in the U.S., though in the near
future QE2 could be discussed should the macro figures be too
good in the U.S.” With regard to companies’ results he said,
“overall the picture is good but the market is more and more
aware of good results.”  Trichet, ECB  Trichet said on March 3 the ECB may raise  interest rates 
next month to fight accelerating inflation pressures.  An “increase of interest rates in the next meeting is
possible,” he told reporters in Frankfurt after the central
bank left its key rate at a record low of 1 percent. “Strong
vigilance is warranted,” Trichet said, adding that any increase
would not necessarily be the start of a “series” of moves.  “We think ECB rate hikes have the potential to have a
considerable negative impact on the fragile situation in
peripheral Europe, given that the periphery has all of the Euro-
area’s excess leverage,” a group of strategists and analysts at
Credit Suisse Group AG led by  Andrew Garthwaite  wrote in a note.  The euro climbed to four-month highs versus the dollar and
yen following Trichet’s suggestions.  Crude in  New York  rose to a 29-month high on concern unrest
in  Libya  will spread to other North African and Middle East oil
exporters, curbing shipments.  Non-Farm Payrolls  In the U.S., Labor Department figures showed that U.S.
employers added 192,000 workers in February, amid an improving
economy and more seasonable weather, and the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly declined to 8.9 percent, the lowest level since
April 2009.  The gain in payrolls followed a 63,000 increase in January,
revised up from a previously reported gain of 36,000, while
December payrolls increased 152,000 after a previously reported
121,000 rise.  Fifty-six percent of Stoxx 600 companies that have
announced earnings since Jan. 10 have beaten the average analyst
estimate for per-share profit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes fell in 12 of Europe’s 18
western markets. France’s CAC 40 Index slipped 1.2 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index fell 0.2 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX
Index retreated 0.2 percent.  Bank of Ireland Plc retreated 13 percent, contributing to
banking stocks being the worst performers among the 19
industries in the Stoxx 600.    Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  surged 4.3 percent after saying
profit rose 28 percent to a record $4.33 billion last year as
bad-loan costs fell, predicting “double-digit” income growth
for 2011 even as a U.K. bank levy weighs on earnings.  Automobile Stocks  A gauge for automobile stocks dropped for a third week,
with Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  losing 8 percent.  UBM fell 11 percent as the publisher of InformationWeek
said margins narrowed at its news and data services divisions on
higher investment.  Full-year adjusted operating profit was little changed at
171.8 million pounds ($279.5 million), “reflecting higher
investment in new product development, sales and IT,” UBM said
in a PR Newswire statement on March 1.  Verbund retreated 10 percent as  Austria ’s biggest utility
said 2010 profit fell to 400.8 million euros ($560.8 million)
from 644.4 million euros in 2009. Analysts had forecast earnings
of 432 million euros, according to the median of nine estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Arkema climbed 11 percent. The French chemicals maker said
it will meet its 2015 objectives after reporting 2010 net income
of 347 million euros, beating the average analyst estimate for
profit of 313 million euros.  Carrefour Cut  Carrefour slid 9.2 percent. The world’s second-largest
retailer was cut to “sell” from “hold” at Citigroup because
of “gloomy post financial year 2010 results outlook and the
value-destructive spin-offs announced.”  Morgan Stanley downgraded the shares to “equal-weight”
from “overweight.”  Dixon’s Retail Plc, the U.K.’s largest consumer electronics
seller, plummeted 11 percent.  Cie. Nationale a Portefeuille SA climbed 19 percent, for
the best performance in the Stoxx 600, as Belgian billionaire  Albert Frere  and BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest bank, offered
1.5 billion euros to buy out minority investors in the
investment company.    SGL Carbon SE (SGL)  gained 18 percent as  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  bought an
8.2 percent stake in the world’s largest maker of carbon and
graphite products.    Serco Group Plc (SRP)  rallied 12 percent after Bank of America
Corp. advised buying the shares of  London ’s Docklands Light
Railway operator.  The company said this week that full-year revenue rose to
4.33 billion pounds from 3.97 billion pounds for the same period
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 