-- 
Wachovia Manager in Virginia Admits to $14.1 Million Fraud

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-03-04T20:33:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/ex-wachovia-manager-admits-to-stealing-14-million-to-buy-helicopter-land.html
A former Wachovia Bank manager in  Virginia  pleaded guilty to stealing $14.1 million from bank
clients over seven years by persuading them to invest in a bogus
wealth-management account.  Linda Speaks Tribby, 42, of Lovettsville, Virginia, used
the funds to buy a helicopter, a luxury motor home, and rural
houses and property, prosecutors said. Tribby entered the plea
today to one count of bank fraud in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia,  U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride  said in a  statement . She
faces as much as 30 years in prison at her sentencing, scheduled
for June 3.  Tribby had been an employee of Wachovia, bought by  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in 2008, and its predecessors for more than 25
years, according to the statement. Her last job was as a
business relationship manager developing client accounts in and
around Loudoun County, Virginia, prosecutors said.  From about December 2003 to January, Tribby sold some
customers on a “wealth-management account product” that she
said earned tax-free interest -- a product the bank didn’t offer
-- then transferred funds from their accounts into accounts that
she controlled, prosecutors charged.  Fake Statements  Tribby created fake balance statements for the customers
and made periodic interest payments, prosecutors said.  She used the money for purchases including a home in  West
Virginia , a hunting cabin built on about 200 acres of land in
New York, a lake house in New York, about 100 acres of property
in  Nevada , a luxury motor home and a  Bell helicopter .  An internal investigation uncovered the fraud, and the bank
is working to reimburse the affected customers, said Aimee
Worlsey, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo.  “We’re pleased that this matter, which was an isolated
case involving one former team member, has been resolved,”
Worsley said in an e-mail.  Tribby, who was born and raised in Loudoun County, has been
in custody since she was arrested at Dulles International
Airport on Jan. 23 after returning from a weeklong trip to  Las
Vegas  and Phoenix with her boyfriend, according to a motion
filed by prosecutors in the case last month.  Tribby had more than $30,000 in cash in a tote bag when she
was arrested and was carrying handwritten notes in her purse
addressed to her boyfriend, her husband from whom she is
separated, her daughter and her parents admitting responsibility
for the crime, apologizing and asking them to “take care of one
another, to stay strong and to keep their faith in God,”
according to the motion.  The government was able to locate about $5.5 million in
bank accounts controlled by Tribby, although more than $8
million remains missing, the motion said.  Tribby’s attorney, Kenneth P. Troccoli, an assistant
federal public defender, declined to comment on the case.  The case is U.S. v. Tribby, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia, 1:11-cr-00106-LO-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 