-- 
Mexico's Bank Extends Rate Pause at 4.5% as Inflation Slows on Strong Peso

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-03-04T16:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/mexico-s-bank-extends-rate-pause-at-4-5-as-inflation-slows-on-strong-peso.html
  Mexico ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged today and said conflicts in
the Middle East, world commodities prices and bad domestic
weather may spur inflation this year.  Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Governor
Agustin Carstens, extended its longest-ever pause and kept the
overnight rate at 4.5 percent for a 17th straight meeting. The
decision matched the forecasts of all 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The central bank said in a statement on its website that
the balance of risks for inflation has deteriorated. Those
comments signal that policy makers will probably raise  interest
rates  in the fourth quarter of this year, said Sergio Luna, an
economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit in Mexico City.  “This is a little more hawkish than previous statements,”
Luna said. “We’re expecting a rate increase in October and now
we feel even more convinced of that.”  Conflict in North Africa and the Middle East may affect
capital inflows and the currency, the central bank said. Rising
costs for global commodities and severe frosts in Mexico may
also affect prices, it said.  “All of these factors deteriorate the balance of risks for
inflation,” the bank said in the statement.  Inflation Forecasts  Still, policy makers expect inflation to remain within
their forecasts this year, the statement said.  Annual inflation slowed to a four-month low in January and
decelerated further through the first half of February. The
central bank forecasts inflation of 3 percent to 4 percent in
the first and second quarters.  Mexico’s peso is the best performer this year among seven
major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It reached
a two-year high of 11.9435 per dollar on Jan. 18 and rose 0.1
percent to 11.9982 at 10:46 a.m. New York time.  The bank’s warning about inflation in its statement was
offset by its comments that the recovery in domestic demand
remains gradual and that unemployment is still high, said Benito
Berber, a currency strategist at Nomura Securities Inc.  “We’re more likely to see the peso continue to
appreciate,” Berber said. “So it’s not my view that commodity
prices will pressure inflation.”  Severe Frosts  Bloomberg’s global commodity index, which calculates the
mean of commodity indexes including energy, grains, food,
precious metals and livestock, has increased 9.6 percent to
286.08 this year through yesterday.  Crude oil for April delivery yesterday slid 32 cents to
settle at $101.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices have risen 26 percent in the past year.  Severe frosts that damaged corn crops in Mexico’s Sinaloa
state may not have a large impact on inflation because farmers
have time to replant and because stockpiles are left over from
last year’s harvest, Carstens said in a Feb. 17 interview.  Corn output in Mexico, the world’s fourth-largest grower,
may fall this year by 1 million to 3 million metric tons, or by
as much as 12 percent, after a cold snap this month in Sinaloa,
a unit of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Feb. 14.  The central bank kept borrowing costs at a record low as
inflation in Latin America’s second-biggest economy slows, a
stronger peso helps offset higher global commodities prices, and
as domestic demand remains weaker than the export sector, said
Sergio Martin, chief economist for Mexico at HSBC Holding Plc.  “It’s not necessary to tighten,” Martin said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City.  Lower Forecast  The central bank on Feb. 9 lowered its inflation forecast
for the first quarter and said annual inflation should be lower
this year than it was in 2010.  Consumer prices rose 3.78 percent in January from a year
earlier and 0.49 percent from a month earlier, the central bank
reported Feb. 9, while the annual rate was 3.63 percent in the
first half of February.  Economists surveyed Feb. 16-25 by the central bank raised
their year-end inflation forecast to 3.94 percent from 3.91
percent in January’s survey, while lowering their 2012 inflation
forecast to 3.79 percent from 3.86 percent.  Mexican policy makers are keeping borrowing costs unchanged
as other regional central banks raise their benchmark rates.    Brazil ’s central bank raised the Selic rate by a half-point
to 11.75 percent on March 2, matching the increase carried out
at its last meeting in January. The central banks of Chile,
Colombia and Peru all raised borrowing costs by a quarter point
last month.  Mexico’s central bank will keep borrowing costs unchanged
until January 2012, when it will raise the benchmark rate to
4.75 percent, according to a survey of economists released Feb.
22 by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net . 