-- 
Mexico Will Probably Pause at 4.5% as Global Prices Not Fueling Inflation

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-03-04T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/mexico-may-pause-at-4-5-as-global-prices-not-fueling-inflation.html
  Mexico ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged today as rising world
commodities prices and weather damage to domestic corn crops
show no sign of fueling domestic inflation.  Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Governor
Agustin Carstens, will extend its longest-ever pause and keep
the benchmark rate at 4.5 percent for a 17th straight meeting,
according to all 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation slowed to a four-month low in January and
decelerated further through the first half of February. Policy
makers will probably say in their statement today that a strong
peso and below-potential economic growth are damping
inflationary pressures from rising global food and energy prices
and reduced harvests for domestic staples, said  Bertrand Delgado , an economist at Roubini Global Economics.  “The tone will remain somewhat hawkish, but with a view
that raising rates this year is still unlikely,” Delgado said
in a telephone interview from  New York .  Delgado forecasts the bank will remain on hold throughout
the year before increasing borrowing costs in January 2012. He
said the bank may raise rates toward year-end if policy makers
see that higher food and energy prices are passing through to  core inflation .  Mexico’s peso has risen 2.8 percent against the dollar this
year, the best performance among seven Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It reached a two-year high of 11.9435 per
dollar on Jan. 18 and rose as much as 0.8 percent to 11.9913
yesterday.  ‘Neutral Tone’  Policy makers will probably signal in their statement today
that they’re closely watching global commodities prices and
costs for corn after freezes in northern Mexico, said Sergio Martin, chief economist for Mexico at HSBC Holding Plc.  “It’ll be a neutral tone with some warnings about the
behavior of prices,” Martin said. “There’s a risk for fruits
and vegetables.”  Bloomberg’s global commodity index, which calculates the
mean of commodity indexes including energy, grains, food,
precious metals and livestock, has increased 9.6 percent to
286.08 this year through yesterday.  Crude oil for April delivery yesterday slid 32 cents to
settle at $101.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices have risen 26 percent in the past year.  Severe frosts that damaged corn crops in Mexico’s Sinaloa
state may not have a large impact on inflation because farmers
have time to replant and because stockpiles are left over from
last year’s harvest, Carstens said in a Feb. 17 interview.  Corn output in Mexico, the world’s fourth-largest grower,
may fall this year by 1 million to 3 million metric tons, or by
as much as 12 percent, after a cold snap this month in Sinaloa,
a unit of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Feb. 14.  Inflation Forecasts  The central bank on Feb. 9 lowered its inflation forecast
for the first quarter and said annual inflation should be lower
this year than it was in 2010.  The bank forecasts inflation of 3 percent to 4 percent in
the first and second quarters.  Consumer prices rose 3.78 percent in January from a year
earlier and 0.49 percent from a month earlier, the central bank
reported Feb. 9, while the annual rate was 3.63 percent in the
first half of February.  Economists surveyed Feb. 16-25 by the central bank raised
their year-end inflation forecast to 3.94 percent from 3.91
percent in January’s survey, while lowering their 2012 inflation
forecast to 3.79 percent from 3.86 percent.  Mexican policy makers are keeping borrowing costs unchanged
as other regional central banks raise their benchmark rates.    Brazil ’s central bank raised the Selic rate by a half-point
to 11.75 percent on March 2, matching the increase carried out
at its last meeting in January. The central banks of Chile,
Colombia and Peru all raised borrowing costs by a quarter point
last month.  Mexico’s central bank will keep borrowing costs unchanged
until January 2012, when it will raise the benchmark rate to
4.75 percent, according to a survey of economists released Feb.
22 by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net . 