-- 
Factory Overtime in U.S. Points to Further Strengthening of Labor Market

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-04T18:40:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/factory-overtime-in-u-s-points-to-further-strengthening-of-labor-market.html
Fewer Americans must settle for
part-time jobs for lack of full-time work, and factory overtime
is on the rise, indicating the pace of payroll gains reported by
the Labor Department today is sustainable, economists said.  The number of people working part-time for economic reasons
fell for a fifth month in February to the lowest level since
January 2009, the Labor Department said today in  Washington .
Factory workers put in an average 4.2 hours of overtime last
month, the most in more than three years.  “There is only so much overtime you can make your workers
work before you have to add,” employees, said John Canally, an
economic strategist at LPL Financial Corp. in Boston. “Some of
the nitty gritty” of today’s Labor Department report “does
point to future gains in coming months.”  Employers in the U.S. added 192,000 workers in February,
the most since last May, the report showed. Private payrolls
grew by a more-than-forecast 222,000, and the jobless rate
unexpectedly declined to 8.9 percent, the lowest level since
April 2009.  Factory overtime is rising as manufacturers ramp up
production in response to rising global and domestic demand.
Overtime rose to an average of 4.2 hours in February for
production workers, the most since July 2007. Manufacturing,
which accounts for about 11 percent of the  U.S. economy , has
added 112,000 jobs in the last four months.    Intel Corp ., the world’s largest chipmaker, is among
companies planning to increase payrolls. The  Santa Clara ,
California-based company announced plans to build a $5 billion
plant in  Arizona  and hire 4,000 employees in the U.S. this year.
Intel is stepping up production to satisfy renewed demand for
chips following the recession.  Full-Time Positions  The number of people working part time for economic reasons
fell to 8.34 million in February from a peak of 9.51 million in
September. The decline suggests that part-time workers are
moving into full-time positions, said Ellen Zentner, a senior
U.S. economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York .  Such figures bode well for job growth overall, said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Global Research in
New York.  “We think we’ll be adding about 200,000 jobs per month
this year in total,” he said. “The indicators that are getting
less attention are showing the same direction” as the payrolls
numbers.  The economy needs to generate about 210,000 jobs a month on
average to bring the  unemployment rate  down by 1 percentage
point a year, according to Mike Englund, chief economist at
Action Economics LLC in Boulder,  Colorado .  Kelly Services  “We believe that we are in a continued positive economic
recovery that will lead to positive labor growth over the course
of the next couple of years,” Carl Camden, chief executive
officer at temporary staffing provider Kelly Services Inc., said
Feb. 24 at a conference in  Boston . “We see strength in U.S.
conditions.”  Today’s report contained other signs of improvement. The
underemployment rate -- which includes people who have given up
looking for a job as well as those who are working part-time for
economic reasons -- decreased to 15.9 percent from 16.1 percent.  The report also showed a decrease of 217,000 in the number
of Americans who have been without a job for 27 weeks or more. A
measure of the share of industries showing job gains last month
rose to 68.2, the highest since May 1998.  “Broad-spread  job creation  shows that job growth isn’t
being driven by just a handful of industries,” Zentner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  