-- 
FDIC's Cave Says U.S. Is Gauging Liquidity at Banks That Issued TLGP Bonds

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-03-04T18:09:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/fdic-s-cave-says-u-s-is-gauging-liquidity-at-banks-that-issued-tlgp-bonds.html
U.S. bank regulators are reviewing
the liquidity plans of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and other big banks that used a government debt-guarantee
program during the financial crisis, a Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. official said today.  About $267 billion in corporate debt remains backed by the
Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, with 37 percent due to
mature this year and the remaining $167 billion in 2012, said
Jason Cave, the FDIC’s deputy director for complex financial
institutions monitoring. He said banks need to make sure they
have enough reserves to pay off their obligations and obtain new
funding, especially before deciding whether to raise dividends.  The FDIC and the  Federal Reserve  “currently are evaluating
the validity of liquidity plans at the biggest users of TLGP
debt, and we will challenge assumptions that seem overly
optimistic,” Cave said in prepared testimony for a
Congressional Oversight Panel hearing in  Washington  today.  U.S. authorities are weighing how to supervise the nation’s
biggest financial companies to prevent a recurrence of the 2008
banking crisis, which led the government to set up trillions of
dollars in emergency backstops. The Dodd-Frank Act enacted in
July gave the Fed and a council of regulators expanded powers to
supervise systemically important institutions.  Winding Down  As the debt-guarantee program winds down, big banks need
repayment plans that are “reasonable and practical” and that
acknowledge that funding costs could rise, Cave said. “We want
firms to be more prepared for the possibility that rates could
increase or credit becomes restricted at the very point in which
significant amounts of TLGP debt comes due,” he said.    Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, and Danielle Romero-Apsilos of Citigroup, declined to comment.  Cave also said the debt-program review should be linked to
the Fed’s study of dividend plans at big banks. He said it would
be “short-sighted and inappropriate” to consider the issues
separately.  “Regulators should not approve dividend and capital
repurchases, which involve significant cash outlays by financial
firms, until we are all fully confident that these firms will
have the financial resources -- under both normal and stressed
conditions -- to repay debt guaranteed by the FDIC,” Cave said.
“It is of critical importance that financial institutions
continue to restructure their balance sheets and extend their
debt maturities.”  Dividend Policies  Large banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which also has
outstanding guaranteed debt, have said they may want to raise
dividends for the first time since February 2009, when the
central bank issued a letter saying financial firms “should
reduce or eliminate dividends” until earnings recovered and the
economic outlook improved.  The Fed in November issued  guidelines  for how it will
decide whether banks may increase dividends and buy back shares,
and U.S. lawmakers responded with a Feb. 15 letter urging
caution. The Fed subjected the 19 largest banks to stress tests
of their capital levels and said it expects to begin responding
to capital distribution requests in this year’s first quarter.  The FDIC has collected about $10 billion in fees on the
debt guarantee program, which backed about $350 billion at its
peak. Loss claims filed through the end of 2010 total $8
million, and losses through the end of the guarantee period are
expected to be “limited,” Cave said.  A separate part of TLGP that guaranteed business checking
accounts has lost $2.35 billion through the end of 2010. That
program, which backed $834 billion in deposits at its peak, has
collected $1.1 billion in fees, he said. If the collected
premiums from both guarantee programs are more than their
combined losses, any proceeds will go into the FDIC’s Deposit
Insurance Fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  