-- 
Fed Policy Makers Signal Support for Abrupt End to Asset Purchases in June

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-04T14:29:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/fed-policy-makers-signal-abrupt-end-to-bond-purchases-in-june.html
Federal Reserve policy makers are
signaling they favor an abrupt end to $600 billion in Treasury
purchases in June, jettisoning their prior strategy of gradually
pulling back on intervention in bond markets.  “I don’t see a lot of gain to reverting to a tapering
approach,” Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  told reporters
yesterday. “I don’t think that is necessary,” Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  said last month.  Central bankers, who next meet March 15, are about half way
through their second round of bond purchases. To bring the
program to a full stop in June, they must be confident that the
economy is strong enough to endure higher long-term interest
rates and rising expectations of an exit from the most expansive
monetary policy in Fed history, said  Dan Greenhaus  at Miller
Tabak & Co. LLC in New York.  “If this is a self-sustaining recovery that can withstand
higher interest rates, then why not get the hell out?” said
Greenhaus, Miller Tabak’s chief economic strategist. “Still, I
am nervous about their ability to withdraw from this policy
without broader disruptions.”  The Fed announced in November that it would buy $600
billion of Treasuries through June in a bid to boost the
recovery and reduce an unemployment rate lingering near a 26-
year high. The program, known as QE2 for the second round of so-
called quantitative easing, followed $1.7 trillion of asset
purchases that ended in March 2010.  Stock Versus Flow  Fed staff members, such as Brian Sack, the  New York  Fed
official in charge of carrying out the bond buying, have argued
the total amount, or stock, of securities the Fed has announced
it will buy has more impact on longer-term interest rates than
the timing of those purchases. That’s a view now held by several
members on the  Federal Open Market Committee , including the
chairman.  “We learned in the first quarter of last year, when we
ended our previous program, that the markets had anticipated
that adequately, and we didn’t see any major impact on interest
rates,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the Senate Banking
Committee during his March 1 semiannual monetary-policy
testimony. “It’s really the total amount of holdings, rather
than the flow of new purchases, that affects the level of
interest rates.”  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  supported that perspective,
saying at a monetary policy forum in New York last week that
“the stock view won out over the flow view.”  Monthly Pace  The New York Fed is buying around $80 billion a month in
Treasuries, according to estimates by Wrightson ICAP LLC. Yields
on U.S. 10-year notes were at 3.58 percent at 8:54 a.m. in New
York, a point higher than when the program began, as the
economic outlook has improved.  An end to Treasury purchases may not signal that tighter
monetary policy is imminent. The Fed won’t raise its benchmark
interest rate from close to zero until the first quarter of
2012, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists early
last month.  One reason is that inflation remains below the Fed’s long
run objective of about 2 percent. By contrast, mounting
inflation pressures in  Europe  prompted European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  yesterday to say the ECB may raise
rates next month for the first time in almost three years.  Stretching out Treasury purchases past the end of June
while reducing the monthly amount would help bond dealers adjust
to the Fed’s withdrawal from the market, said  Lou Crandall ,
chief U.S. economist at Wrightson ICAP in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey .  Absorbing Debt  “The risk of stopping suddenly on July 1 is that the
Treasury underwriting process is messy as  Wall Street  starts to
absorb large amounts of additional debt,” said Crandall.  Such concerns prompted Bernanke in August 2009 to slow
purchases under the first $300 billion Treasury-buying plan
while extending it by one month. In September 2009, the central
bank made a similar move on its $1.25 trillion in mortgage-
securities purchases, delaying the end-date to March 2010 from
December 2009.  At the time, the economy was still in the early phases of
recovery. The expansion is now in its seventh quarter, and Fed
officials see fewer risks. The low end of their range of growth
forecasts for 2011 moved up to 3.2 percent in January from 2.5
percent in November.  Bernanke Testimony  Bernanke, in his testimony to lawmakers this week, cited
rising equity prices and narrowing corporate bond spreads as
evidence of the success of the bond purchases. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 25 percent since Aug. 27, when
Bernanke first signaled the Fed was prepared to launch QE2.  Recent economic data suggest that the world’s largest
economy is gaining strength.  U.S. employers added 192,000 workers in February, driving
the  unemployment rate  down to 8.9 percent, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. Service industries expanded
last month at the fastest pace since 2005, and manufacturing
grew at the fastest pace in almost seven years, according to the
Institute for Supply Management.  Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Narayana Kocherlakota told reporters after a speech in St. Cloud,  Minnesota , yesterday that his bar for stopping the bond-purchase
program “would be pretty high, very high.”  “My inclination is to complete it,” said Kocherlakota, a
voting member of the FOMC this year.  Added Flexibility  Slowing the rate of purchases and extending them a few
weeks past June would give the Fed added flexibility in case the
36 percent rise in  oil prices  in the past six months deals a
blow to the recovery, said economists such as  Julia Coronado .  “The party has to continue” for Fed officials to end the
program in June, said Coronado, the chief economist for  North
America  at BNP Paribas in New York. “They have to continue to
see substantial strength in jobs, growth, and financial market
conditions.”  Economists such as Joseph Lavorgna say the Fed should stick
to its commitment to end the program in June.  “What markets would like are clear rules,” said Lavorgna,
chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New
York. “If they said they are going to end in June, they should
end in June.”  That’s a view shared by the Philadelphia Fed’s Plosser, who
is also a voting member of the FOMC this year.  “Barring a change in policy or a change in economic
conditions, we have already communicated what is going to
happen,” Plosser told reporters Feb. 23.  The Atlanta Fed’s Lockhart said officials can help prepare
markets for an end to the program.  “It is important that we communicate so we don’t surprise
markets, regardless of the chosen path of that particular
policy,” he told reporters yesterday after a speech in
Tallahassee,  Florida .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
   slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 