-- 
Fed’s Yellen Says Inflexible Currencies Foster Imbalances

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-03-04T17:14:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/fed-s-yellen-says-inflexible-currencies-foster-imbalances.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  reinforced the central bank’s criticism of China, saying
countries keeping currencies artificially weak are fostering the
kind of lopsided flows of goods and capital that contributed to
the 2007 financial crisis.  “Inflexible exchange rates” in some countries “have
tended to inhibit adjustment of unsustainable global
imbalances,” Yellen said today in a speech in Paris. “Such
imbalances appear to have fostered the buildup of
vulnerabilities in the run-up to the recent financial crisis.”  Yellen said that “some advanced economies struggle with
weak demand, high unemployment and disinflation” without
elaborating on the outlook for the  U.S. economy  and monetary
policy. Her comments, while not identifying China, echo a speech
last month by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said countries
with large trade surpluses should let their currencies
appreciate to aid global growth.  “If deficit countries curtail spending without offsetting
spending increases in the surplus countries, aggregate demand
would decline, with adverse consequences for the global
economy,” Yellen said during a panel discussion at a symposium
hosted by  France ’s central bank.  Policy makers including European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura also appeared as part of the group. Trichet said that
“excess volatility and disorderly movements in the  exchange
rate  have adverse implications for financial and economic
stability.”  ‘Strong Growth’  Yellen cited the challenges for advanced economies and said
that “many emerging market economies face increasing
inflationary pressures and capital inflows amid strong growth.”
She didn’t refer to the Fed’s program of purchasing $600 billion
in Treasuries, a stimulus plan criticized by officials from  China  and  Brazil .  “We must recognize that countries face diverse challenges
in such a transition” to a system with “more-flexible exchange
rates,” freer capital flows and “independent monetary
policies,” Yellen said. “For countries with undervalued
currencies, the adoption of more flexible exchange rates
requires an internal shift in resources across sectors -- a
transition that takes time.”  ‘Cooperative Spirit’  Yellen called for a “cooperative spirit among policy
makers” to aid the global economy, saying “we must also
support countries’ efforts to address their more immediate
challenges.”  Bernanke told U.S. lawmakers this week that he doesn’t see
any evidence of a “major shift” away from the dollar as the
world’s main reserve currency. The U.S. currency accounted for
61 percent of $9 trillion in global international reserve
holdings as of September. That’s down from 72 percent 10 years
earlier.  China’s central bank said this week that a trial allowing
the use of yuan settlement for cross-border transactions will be
expanded to the entire country from the current 20 provinces.
The central bank will “actively respond” to foreign countries
seeking to use the yuan as a reserve currency, and will help
overseas firms raise yuan-denominated capital for investments
outside China, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  