-- 
Foreclosure Settlement Terms Sent to Banks by U.S., States

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-03-05T05:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/foreclosure-settlement-terms-sent-to-banks-by-state-ags-u-s-.html
Federal agencies and state attorneys
general submitted to banks a proposal for resolving an
investigation of foreclosure practices and mortgage servicing
while continuing to talk about monetary penalties they will
seek.  The 27-page document given March 3 to mortgage-servicers
seeks “a binding legal requirement” for how they service loans
and conduct home foreclosures, Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for
Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  “This is a document that sets a foundation for
negotiations with the nation’s largest servicers,” he said.
Greenwood declined to identify the companies or say how many
received the proposal, made by states and U.S. agencies
including the  Justice Department , Federal Trade Commission and
Department of Housing and Urban Development.  The states and federal agencies haven’t yet agreed on the
monetary penalties they will seek from the companies, according
to a person familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. The government
officials also are discussing a proposal for loan-modification
procedures, the person said.    Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Ally
Financial Inc. said in their annual reports that they may have
to pay fines and penalties. The payments may be “material,”  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America and  New York- 
based JPMorgan said.  ‘Adverse Impact’  “Any of these potential actions could have a material
adverse impact on us,” Detroit-based Ally said in its
regulatory filing.  All 50 states began investigating banks’ foreclosure
practices in October. The probe was triggered by complaints that
banks were using faulty documents in seizing homes.  “We’ve had concerns for years about how they handle loan
modifications or not handle loan modifications, and we want that
changed,” Greenwood said.  The FTC is examining a “a variety of practices” among
mortgage servicers, including whether they post payments on time
and maintain accurate records, and methods they use to collect
on defaulted debt, Joel Winston, associate director of the
agency, said in an interview yesterday.  “It’s all unclear how it’s going to happen, if it’s going
to be done in an orderly way or with different agencies pursuing
separate relief,” he said about a settlement.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency separately
sent cease-and-desist orders to mortgage servicers, according to
a person familiar with the matter. Bank of America, JPMorgan and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among the eight national banks that are
expected to get an enforcement document of some kind, the person
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 