-- 
Frere Makes Offer for Nationale as Leverage Eclipses Strategy

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-03-04T16:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/frere-makes-offer-for-nationale-as-leverage-eclipses-strategy.html
Belgian billionaire  Albert Frere ’s
1.5 billion-euro ($2.1 billion) offer to buy out minority
investors in Cie. Nationale a Portefeuille SA may signal the end
of the investment firm’s unleveraged buyout strategy.  Nationale a Portefeuille’s strategy will be different from
that pursued in the past, Loverval, Belgium-based Fingen SA, the
unit of Erbe SA that’s making the offer, said today in a
statement. Managing Director Gilles Samyn, 61, has lamented
Nationale a Portefeuille’s lack of success in buying companies
at the annual  shareholders’ meeting  in Loverval in recent years.  The Frere-controlled investment firm can’t compete with
buyout funds because it refused to finance purchases mostly with
debt to minimize risk, Samyn said. Its most recent purchase was
IJsboerke NV’s 1.5 million-euro takeover of ice-cream maker
Arctic/Frisa NV in 2007, creating Belgian Icecream Group NV.  The Nationale a Portefeuille offer “may have an
influence” on the buyout strategy, Samyn said today on a
conference call.  “CNP’s wheeling-and-dealing in the 21st century has been
undermined by the professionalization of the private-equity
model, pushing deals through auction procedures instead of
Frere’s wine-and-dine model,” Tom Simonts, an analyst at KBC
Securities NV in Brussels, wrote in an investor note.  The planned 48.68 euro-a-share offer for the 27.8 percent
of Nationale a Portefeuille not already owned by Frere-Bourgeois
SA, Erbe and related parties, which is co-financed by  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA, also marks the start of a gradual exit of the Paris-
based bank from the Frere-controlled cascade of investment firms
that stretches via Nationale a Portefeuille and  Pargesa Holding
SA (PARG)  to Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA.  Minority Investors  BNP Paribas will sell one sixth of its Nationale a
Portefeuille stake, held through Erbe, in April and that
disposal will be done at the same terms as offered to minority
investors, Samyn said on the call.  At the same time, Frere, 85, and BNP Paribas extended their
partnership at the level of Erbe until 2028 from 2014, he said.
Frere’s family holding has 53 percent of Erbe. BNP Paribas owns
the remaining 47 percent of the investment firm, which currently
holds 45.6 percent of Nationale a Portefeuille.  The offer may begin “at the very end of March” and run
through the first half of April, Samyn said.  Fingen said the offer values Nationale a Portefeuille at a
7.5 percent discount to adjusted net asset value, after taking
into account a proposal to cancel 1.95 million own shares at an
extraordinary meeting on March 28.  ‘Patrimonial Entity’  Nationale a Portefeuille will in the long term become a
“patrimonial entity” that’s wholly owned by the Frere family,
Fingen said today. Its main focus will be the joint control over
Pargesa and Groupe Bruxelles Lambert “in the very long term,”
according to the statement.  The pact between Frere and the Desmarais family at the
level of Parjointco NV, the company that has a controlling
interest in Pargesa, has not yet been extended beyond December
2014, Samyn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  