-- 
Galleon Trial Scorecard: Rajaratnam, Friends, Colleagues and Cooperators

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-03-04T05:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/galleon-trial-scorecard-rajaratnam-friends-colleagues-and-cooperators.html
Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of the
Galleon Group LLC hedge fund, is at the center of the largest
U.S. crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
His trial begins March 8 in federal court in  Manhattan , where
his friends and former associates may testify against him.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Those involved in the case include:  Raj Rajaratnam: The Sri Lankan-born billionaire is accused of
making $45 million through illegal trading and conspiring with
others to obtain inside information on companies including
Google Inc.,  Intel Corp . and EBay Inc. Rajaratnam, who was
arrested on Oct. 16, 2009, schemed with several people who later
pleaded guilty, including Roomy Khan, Rajiv Goel, Anil Kumar and
Danielle Chiesi, prosecutors said. He faces five counts of
conspiracy and nine counts of securities fraud. If convicted, he
could spend as long as 20 years in prison on the fraud charges.
Rajaratnam, 53, denies wrongdoing.  Danielle Chiesi: The former New Castle Funds LLC consultant
admitted to getting tips from insiders at public companies.
Chiesi, 45, who was arrested with Rajaratnam, pleaded guilty on
Jan. 19 to three counts of conspiracy to commit  securities fraud 
and faces 37 to 46 months in prison under advisory sentencing
guidelines. She’s not cooperating with prosecutors against
Rajaratnam. Robert Moffat, a former International Business
Machines Corp. executive who pleaded guilty to securities fraud
and conspiracy, said he and Chiesi had an “intimate
relationship” and claimed she “played him” to obtain inside
information. She lives in New York.  Rajat K. Gupta: A former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director,
Gupta was accused on March 1 by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s enforcement division of tipping Rajaratnam about
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5 billion investment in Goldman
Sachs, the firm’s quarterly earnings, and earnings at Procter &
Gamble Co. Rajaratnam’s attorney John M. Dowd said he may call
Gupta as a trial witness. Gupta’s attorney  Gary Naftalis  has
called the SEC’s allegations “baseless.” From 1994 to 2003,
Gupta ran McKinsey & Co., the global consulting firm.    Roomy Khan : A former employee of Intel and Galleon, Khan pleaded
guilty to insider-trading charges on Oct. 19, 2009, three days
after Rajaratnam’s arrest. She also pleaded guilty in 2001 to
leaking stock tips to Galleon and was sentenced to probation.
She began helping prosecutors build a case against Rajaratnam in
2007. Khan implicated Rajaratnam in that case, although he was
not charged, said prosecutors in  San Jose ,  California . She lives
in Fort Lauderdale,  Florida .  Anil Kumar: A former McKinsey & Co. director, Kumar pleaded
guilty on Jan. 7, 2010, to leaking inside information to
Rajaratnam over five years in return for $1.75 million. He
agreed to testify against Rajaratnam in a bid for leniency at
sentencing. Kumar admitted to passing tips to Rajaratnam from
2004 to 2009, including one about Advanced Micro Devices Inc.’s
acquisition of ATI Technologies Inc. in 2006.  Rajiv Goel: A former managing director in Intel’s treasury
group, Goel pleaded guilty on Feb. 8, 2010, to conspiracy and
securities fraud charges. Goel, who is cooperating with
prosecutors, implicated Rajaratnam in his guilty plea and said
he had known him for 25 years. Goel leaked news about Clearwire
Corp. that he learned from investments made by Intel, and
Rajaratnam made about $579,000 in profit. In return, Rajaratnam
placed profitable trades for Goel’s benefit in Goel’s personal
brokerage account at Charles Schwab Corp., prosecutors said.  Richard Choo-Beng Lee: A co-founder of Spherix Capital LLC, Lee
pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud on Oct. 13,
2009, and is cooperating with prosecutors. Lee admitted that
from 2007 to March 2009, he got inside information from people
at publicly traded corporations and shared it with other hedge-
fund managers. His sources included people in  Asia  at technology
companies, according to his criminal charges. His employers
included SAC Capital Advisors LLC, the hedge-fund firm run by
Steven Cohen, where he was an analyst from 1999 to 2004, and
Stratix Asset Management LLC, a now-closed  New York  hedge fund
that he joined when it was started by two former SAC Capital
traders.  Ali Far: Another co-founder of Spherix Capital, Far pleaded
guilty on Oct. 19, 2009, and is cooperating with prosecutors. He
admitted that from 2003 to 2009, he traded on inside information
about technology companies, including Atheros Communications
Inc., making a profit of more than $5 million in Spherix
accounts. Far told the judge that payments to the tippers were
made through his hedge fund’s prime brokers. Far worked from
1999 to 2007 as an analyst and portfolio manager at Galleon. He
lives in San Jose.  Robert Moffat: Moffat, a former executive with IBM, pleaded
guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud and admitted that he
leaked inside information about IBM and Lenovo Group Ltd. to  Danielle Chiesi . He was sentenced to six months in prison and is
scheduled to be released in May. Moffat, a resident of
Ridgefield,  Connecticut , has been  serving  his time at the
Metropolitan Detention Center in  Brooklyn , New York.    Mark Kurland : Kurland is a co-founder of New Castle Funds and
was Chiesi’s boss. He was sentenced to 27 months in prison in
May after pleading guilty to charges that he used inside
information to trade in Advanced Micro, Akamai Technologies and
Sun Microsystems Inc. Kurland, who lives in Mount Kisco, New
York, is  serving  his sentence at the Federal Correctional
Institution in Otisville, New York. He is due to be released in
July 2012.  Steven Fortuna: A former managing director at S2 Capital
Management LP in  Boston , Fortuna pleaded guilty on Nov. 5, 2009,
to conspiracy and securities fraud charges. Fortuna admitted
trading on inside information on Akamai Technologies Inc., the
largest supplier of software and services to make websites load
faster, and chipmaker Advanced Micro Devices Inc. Fortuna worked
at Stratix for about a year and a half in 2006 and 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fortuna, who lives in
Westwood,  Massachusetts , is cooperating with prosecutors.  Ali Hariri: A former Atheros Communications Inc. vice president,
Hariri was sentenced to 18 months in prison and fined $50,000
for leaking information on the company’s forecast cut for the
fourth quarter of 2008. After getting the tip, Ali Far bet
Atheros’s stock would fall, using a short sale, prosecutors
said. Hariri pleaded guilty on March 3, 2010, and was sentenced
on Nov. 8. Hariri, who didn’t cooperate with prosecutors, is
serving his term at Metropolitan Correctional Center in San
Diego.  Deep Shah: A former analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, Shah
was criminally charged on Nov. 4, 2009, with tipping Khan about
the takeover of Hilton Hotels Corp. by Blackstone Group LP. Khan
traded on that information and tipped Rajaratnam, who traded on
behalf of Galleon, according to the SEC. He remains at large.  Shammara Hussain: Hussain worked in 2007 at Market Street
Partners, an investor-relations consulting firm that did work
for Google. Hussain was sued by the SEC on Jan. 10 and hasn’t
been criminally charged with wrongdoing. The SEC said Hussain
tipped Khan about Google’s earnings. She lives in Fremont,
California.  Jeffrey Yokuty: Yokuty worked as an analyst at Trivium Capital
Management LLC, where he reported to Robert Feinblatt. He was
sued by the SEC on Jan. 10 and hasn’t been criminally charged
with wrongdoing. The SEC said he received inside tips about
Polycom Inc., a maker of videoconferencing equipment, and other
companies from Roomy Khan. He lives in New York.  Robert Feinblatt: Feinblatt is co-founder and was a principal at
Trivium Capital Management LLC. He was sued by the SEC on Jan.
10 and hasn’t been criminally charged with wrongdoing. The SEC
said he received inside tips about Polycom and other companies
from Roomy Khan. He lives in New York.  Sunil Bhalla: Bhalla joined Polycom Inc. in 2000 and was a
senior vice president and general manager of the company’s voice
division. Bhalla, who lives in Fremont, was sued by the SEC on
Jan. 10 and hasn’t been criminally charged with wrongdoing. The
SEC said Bhalla tipped Roomy Khan about Polycom’s earnings.  Thomas Hardin: Hardin was a managing director at Lanexa
Management LLC, previously known as Camber Global Management,
until February 2009. Hardin pleaded guilty to insider trading
charges in December 2010 and is cooperating with prosecutors.
Hardin got inside tips from Roomy Khan and traded on Hilton
Worldwide Inc., Google and Kronos Inc., authorities said. He
hasn’t yet been sentenced. He is a 1999 graduate of the Wharton
School of the  University of Pennsylvania  and lives in Westwood,  New Jersey .  Michael Cardillo: Cardillo is a former Galleon trader and
portfolio manager who pleaded guilty to insider trading charges
and is cooperating with prosecutors. He worked at Galleon from
2003 to 2009. He admitted trading on illegal tips about Axcan
Pharma Inc. and said in court that he schemed with Rajaratnam
and others to trade illegally in Hilton Hotels,  Procter & Gamble
Co ., JM Smucker Co. and other companies. He lives in New York.  Adam Smith: Smith is a former Galleon portfolio manager who
pleaded guilty to insider trading charges and is cooperating
with prosecutors. He worked at Galleon from 2002 to 2009. He
admitted trading on tips about Integrated Device Technology
Inc.’s acquisition of Integrated Circuit Systems Inc. in 2005
and Advanced Micro’s acquisition of ATI Technologies in 2006.
Smith, a 1999 graduate of Harvard Business School, lives in New
York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 