-- 
Gasoline Surges to 30-Month High on Arab Unrest, Jobs Gain

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-04T21:11:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/gasoline-surges-to-30-month-high-on-arab-unrest-jobs-gain.html
Gasoline advanced to a 30-month high
as political strife in  Libya  and the Middle East escalated,
threatening global oil shipments, and an increase in U.S. jobs
indicated fuel demand may improve.  Futures rose a fourth straight week as Libyan leader
Muammar Qaddafi sent troops to recapture towns in western Libya
and rebels repelled government attempts to retake oil hubs in
the east. The U.S. Labor Department reported a gain of 192,000
jobs in February.  “There’s a lot of concern this is going to get worse in
Libya and across the region,” said Phil Flynn, vice president
of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “The economic numbers have
been pretty good this week and that means good demand so there
are a lot of reasons to be long.”  Gasoline for April delivery added 2.02 cents, or 0.7
percent to settle at $3.0464 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since Aug. 27, 2008. Gasoline
advanced 11 percent this week, the largest increase since the
week ended Oct. 16, 2009.  Libyan rebel forces said they have control of Ras Lanuf,
where the country’s biggest oil refinery and one of its main
tanker terminals are located, Al Arabiya television said. The
oil facility at Zueitina, near Benghazi, was ablaze, the U.K.’s
Daily Mail said.  “The genie is out of the bottle and it’s very difficult to
contain it,” said Tom Knight, vice president of trading and
supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas . “The only
thing that could potentially derail this is if expected protests
in  Kuwait  and  Saudi Arabia  fizzled.”  Brent Crude  Prices also gained as Brent crude for April settlement rose
$1.18 to $115.97 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Products futures are vulnerable to changes in Brent because
refineries supplying fuel to New York Harbor, the delivery point
for heating oil and gasoline futures, process crude grades
priced relative to Brent.  Gasoline has surged 22 percent since anti-government
protests began in Libya Feb. 15. The Libyan uprising follows the
ousting of longtime rulers by protest movements in Tunisia and
Egypt. Anti-government demonstrations have also erupted in
Yemen, Bahrain, Oman, Jordan, Algeria, Morocco,  Iran  and Iraq.  Fighting in Libya reduced oil output in North Africa’s
third-largest crude producer by two-thirds, or as much as 1
million barrels a day, according to the  International Energy
Agency , a Paris-based adviser to 28 oil-consuming nations.  Libyan Output  Libya normally pumps almost 1.6 million barrels of oil a
day, selling most of it to  Europe , which exports gasoline to the
U.S. and imports American diesel fuel. Less Libyan oil going to
European refiners could reduce the region’s available gasoline
exports and increase demand for distillate fuel from the U.S.  “People don’t dare to not be long in this market,” said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida . “People are playing with fire if they’re short. It’s
the best game in town right now.”  Technical indicators showed the market has been
“overbought” since Feb. 23. Gasoline’s 14-day relative
strength index rose to 82.32 from 81.61 yesterday, Bloomberg
data showed. A reading of 70 typically indicates prices are set
to retreat, while 30 suggests they may rise.  Heating oil for April delivery gained 4 cents, or 1.3
percent to settle at $3.0893 a gallon, the highest settlement
since Aug. 29, 2008. Prices rose 5.4 percent this week and have
gained 13 percent since Feb. 15.  “The upside focus is on the distillate because there are
disruptions to European supply forcing run cuts, and the
arbitrage is more likely to attract distillates,” Knight said.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
4.4 cents to $3.471 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .
That’s the highest level since Oct. 6, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  