-- 
Gassco Said to Shut Vesterled Norway to U.K. Natural Gas Pipeline in May

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-03-04T08:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/gassco-said-to-shut-vesterled-norway-to-u-k-natural-gas-pipeline-in-may.html
Gassco AS, the operator of  Norway ’s
natural-gas pipeline network, plans to close the Vesterled link
to the U.K. for maintenance in May, according to two people
familiar with the work schedule.  Vesterled , Norway’s second-biggest pipeline to the British
gas market after Langeled, will shut from May 21 to May 27, the
people said, declining to be identified because the information
isn’t public. Lisbet Kallevik, a spokeswoman for the Bygnes,
Norway-based company, declined to comment today.  Vesterled, a 350-kilometer (217-mile) pipeline, can
transport as much as 36 million cubic meters of gas a day from
Norwegian North Sea deposits, or about 13 percent of average
daily U.K. demand in May last year. The fuel arrives at  Total
SA (FP) ’s St. Fergus terminal in northeast  Scotland . Norway is the
biggest foreign supplier to the U.K.  Pipeline-import capacity at St. Fergus in Scotland, where
links including Vesterled terminate, is expected to be limited
to 115 million cubic meters a day in May, according to a
 document  published yesterday on the website of National Grid
Plc, the manager of Britain’s natural-gas network. That’s 26
percent less than its full capacity.  Maintenance is planned for May on other Norwegian
gas facilities. Gassco will conduct work at its Kollsnes
processing plant from May 2 to May 12, according to a
notification to the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange on Jan. 6. The
plant won’t consume any power during this period, Gassco said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s Ormen Lange natural-gas field will
cut power consumption by more than 90 percent from May 30 to
June 19 because of maintenance, the company also said in a Jan.
6 notice.  Ormen Lange is  Europe ’s third-largest gas field and
supplies fuel to the U.K. and other European markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net  