-- 
Gates Says U.S. Air Force May Resist Change Once He Leaves

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-04T19:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/gates-says-he-fears-air-force-will-resist-change-once-he-leaves.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said he is concerned the  Air Force  may revert to a Cold War-era
focus on fighter jets and bombers at the expense of drones and
other new weapons after he leaves office later this year.  While manned aircraft are needed, the Air Force must
recognize “the enormous strategic and cultural implications of
the vast expansion in remotely piloted vehicles” that already
play a major role over Afghanistan and  Iraq , Gates told about
2,000 cadets in a speech to the  U.S. Air Force Academy  in  Colorado .  “The view still lingers in some corners that, once I
depart as secretary and once U.S. forces draw down from Iraq and
Afghanistan in accordance with the president’s and NATO’s
strategy, things can get back to what some consider to be real
Air Force normal,” he said. “This must not happen.”  Even as it buys the manned F-35 Joint Strike Fighter built
by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and develops a new strategic bomber,
the Air Force must give equal weight to unmanned drones and
“the service’s important role in the cyber and space domains,”
Gates said.  The Air Force now has 48 Predator and Reaper combat air
patrols flying in Iraq and Afghanistan compared with 18 in 2007,
Gates said. Predators and Reapers, for surveillance or striking
ground targets, are drones made by closely held General Atomics
of  San Diego . The Air Force is now training more pilots for
advanced unmanned aerial vehicles than for any other single
weapons system, he said.  As he prepares to step down as defense secretary this year,
Gates has used his public appearances to press for changes in
the Pentagon structure that he says will better prepare the
country for 21st-century threats.  Congressional Audience  In a speech at the U.S. Military Academy at  West Point ,  New
York , he last week said any future defense secretary “should
have his head examined” if he advocates sending a large land
army into the Middle East,  Asia  or  Africa .  His words may carry weight in Congress, where he enjoys
bipartisan respect, if not outright support. Gates, who took
office in 2006, is the only defense secretary to have served
under both a Republican and Democratic president.  “I suspect that my remarks today will be construed as an
attack on bombers and fighters,” Gates said. “But my actions
and my budgets over the last four years belie these mistaken
interpretations.”  He noted his support of Air Force plans to buy 2,400 of the
F-35 fighters, with the first Air Force training versions due to
arrive in about two months.  F-22 Upgrade  His proposed 2012 budget, he said, includes money to
develop an “optionally manned, nuclear-capable, penetrating Air
Force bomber,” and money to modernize the F-22 Raptor fighter
jet with radar and electronic protection technologies borrowed
from the newer F-35 program.  Manned aircraft, he said, continue to play a pivotal role
in  Afghanistan , where the pace of air operations has increased
over the past year in support of a surge in ground operations.  The Air Force conducted more than 33,000 close-air-support-
mission flights in 2010, an increase of more than 20 percent
compared with 2009, Gates said.  Budget Pressures  Taking questions from cadets, Gates also addressed the
budget pressures that caused him to cut $78 billion worth of
programs over the next five years.  Noting the House decision to kill money for the alternative
engine to the F-35 that the Pentagon doesn’t want, Gates said,
“My hope is we can finally shed this potential extra $3 billion
expenditure that we don’t need.”  He said the budget “discipline” he has imposed will leave
the Defense Department in a “good place” and he doesn’t
foresee the need to put “other major programs on the block for
the next year or two.”  In the longer term, Gates said he worries whether the Air
Force will be able to build new refueling tankers and a new
bomber simultaneously, and whether the Navy will be able to
build all the surface ships it needs and a new ballistic missile
submarine at the same time.  Gates, 67, has said he plans to leave office sometime this
year, without specifying a month. He described his appearance
today as his “third and final visit” to the Air Force Academy
as defense secretary.  Gates was appointed to his job in December of 2006 by
former President  George W. Bush , following the departure from
the Pentagon of Donald Rumsfeld.  Bush and Gates had their first public reunion last night
since Bush left the White House. The two men appeared briefly on
stage together in  Dallas  to headline a fundraiser for the  Boy
Scouts of America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  