-- 
Nord Stream Completes Financing with $3.5 Billion Bank Loans

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-04T12:45:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/gazprom-led-nord-stream-raises-3-5-billion-completes-financing.html
Nord Stream AG  raised 2.5 billion
euros ($3.5 billion) from 24 banks, completing financing for
construction of the OAO Gazprom-led natural-gas pipeline from  Russia  to  Germany  under the  Baltic Sea .  Nord Stream will use the funding to start second-phase
construction in May, the Zug, Switzerland-based venture said in
a statement today. Work on the first line of the gas link will
be completed in April, Nord Stream said.  Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, and its partners,  BASF SE (BAS) ’s Wintershall AG unit, E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Nederlandse
Gasunie NV, and GDF Suez SA, plan to ship gas directly to  Europe , bypassing transit countries such as Ukraine. Nord
Stream’s first line will start delivering gas to European
consumers in early October, Managing Director Matthias Warnig
told reporters today in Berlin.  “The finance for the total project is absolutely in
place,” Finance Director Paul Corcoran said in a phone
interview from Berlin. “Our project is on track, on plan,
within timetable and within budget.”  A total of 24 banks, including Barclays Bank Plc,  BNP
Paribas (BNP) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA) , Credit Suisse AG and  Natixis (KN)  took part in
the financing, Nord Stream said. The commercial tranche is for
750 million euros, Corcoran said. The other 1.75 billion euros
are covered by  Euler Hermes SA (ELE) , the world’s largest trade-credit
insurer,  Italy ’s SACE SpA export credit agency and Germany’s UFK
government loan guarantee program, he said.    Libya  Unrest  The shareholders will provide 1 billion euros more, as they
fund 30 percent of the total costs, Corcoran said.  The venture raised 3.9 billion euros from 26 banks in March
of last year for the first of the two planned parallel links.  The second line will be completed in April 2012 and will
start deliveries in November 2012, doubling total deliveries to
55 billion cubic meters. That’s about 70 percent of what Germany
consumed in 2009, according to BP Plc. All of the transport
capacity has been sold, Corcoran said in the interview.  Unrest in North Africa “underlines how important it is to
have different supply routes,” Corcoran said. Gazprom said Feb.
28 that it has increased shipments 60 percent to Italy to
replace supply lost when a pipeline from Libya to Sicily was
shut last week.  Gazprom owns 51 percent of Nord Stream, while Wintershall
and E.ON Ruhrgas hold 15.5 percent each, and Gasunie and  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  have 9 percent each.  Warnig said he is “very happy” with the shareholder
structure and there is no sign that anyone wants to pull out.  The shareholders will start receiving dividend “quite
early following the start of the operations,” provided there is
excess cash after paying obligations to the banks, Corcoran said
in the interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net 
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  