-- 
German 10-Year Bonds Advance as North Africa Unrest Escalates

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-03-04T18:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/german-10-year-government-bonds-advance-as-north-african-unrest-escalates.html
German 10-year  government bonds  rose
as concern that North African and Middle East turmoil may
escalate spurred demand for the safest assets.  Two-year notes headed for their biggest weekly decline
since Jan. 14 after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday it’s “possible” that central bank
policy makers may increase rates at their April meeting. Greek
two-year yields jumped to the highest since May 10, when the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  created a 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout fund to backstop the euro.  “Geopolitical risk is still hanging over the market in
general,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-
markets strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in  London . “That’s good news for high-quality bonds.”  The yield on the 10-year bund fell five basis points to
3.27 percent as of 5:03 p.m. in London. The two-year note yield
was little changed at 1.76 percent, bringing the gain in the
week to 22 basis points.  Libyan rebel forces said they took control of the airport
in Ras Lanuf, where the country’s biggest oil refinery and one
of its main tanker terminals are located, according to Al
Arabiya television.  Greece’s two-year yields climbed 53 basis points to 15.44
percent, while the yield difference, or spread, between Greek
10-year debt and German securities of similar maturity increased
to 901 basis points, the most since Jan 11.  Labor Report  German 10-year bunds stayed higher as a U.S. labor market
report showed employers added 192,000 workers last month, after
a revised 63,000 gain in January. That was less than the 196,000
predicted by economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The report
also showed the jobless rate decreased to 8.9 percent from
9 percent a month earlier.  The yield difference, or spread, between German two-year
notes and U.S. securities of the same maturity, was at 108 basis
points. It reached 109 basis points yesterday, the highest since
December 2008, as traders added to bets that the ECB will raise
borrowing costs before the  Federal Reserve .  “We are seeing consolidation at substantially increased
yield levels,” on the German bonds, said  Kornelius Purps , an
interest-rate strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “The
market has priced in three interest rate hikes by the end of the
year.” UniCredit has “penciled in a rate of about 2.5 percent
by the end of this year,” on the two-year, he said.  Rate Support  Morgan Stanley strategists, headed by Laurence Mutkin in
London, predict the two-year German yield will rise above 2
percent by June, according to a note published today.  ECB Executive Board members Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo and
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi signaled today they may support raising  interest rates  next month.  An increase in April is “possible but not certain,”
Gonzalez-Paramo told reporters in  Cape Town  today. “Clearly the
risks to inflation are on the upside and it is the mission of
the ECB to prevent those from materializing, so we are ready.”  Bini Smaghi said in Paris today that a failure to lift
borrowing costs in response to faster headline inflation would
make the monetary policy stance “more accommodative” and
“over time fuel core inflation.”  Trichet said the central bank may raise borrowing costs
next month to prevent faster inflation becoming entrenched after
the rate accelerated to 2.4 percent in February, the third
consecutive month it has breached the ECB’s 2 percent limit.  Implied Yield  “Trichet was pretty clear that there would be a hike come
April, so that’s going to underpin the German front end going
forward,” said Eric Wand, a rates strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in London.  Euribor futures fell, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December 2011 up one basis point to
2.175 percent. Earlier it rose to 2.215 percent, the highest
since Feb. 22, 2010.  Forward contracts on the euro overnight index average, or
Eonia, signal investors think the ECB will increase the key rate
25 basis points by its July meeting, Deutsche Bank AG data
shows.  The ECB’s anti-inflation stance comes as European Union
leaders approach a March 25 deadline for a reinforced plan to
aid debt-strapped countries.  Since the end of January,  Greece ’s 10-year bonds have risen
on six trading days and fallen on 18. They declined for the
seventh-straight day today, pushing the yield up 18 basis points
to 12.26 percent, the highest since Jan. 11.  The yield difference between German two-year notes and
Greek securities of a similar maturity was 13.53 percentage
points, the widest since May 7, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  German government bonds handed investors a loss of 2.3
percent this year, compared with a 0.7 percent loss for  U.S.
Treasuries , according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek debt
returned 1.7 percent over the same period, the indexes showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net 
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  