-- 
German Two-Year Yields Reach 26-Month High on ECB Rate Bets

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-03-04T12:51:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/german-two-year-yields-advance-to-two-year-high-on-ecb-interest-rate-bets.html
German two-year government note
yields climbed to the highest in more than two years after  European Central Bank  President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday he may increase  interest rates  next month.  Greece’s two-year yields reached the highest since May 10,
the first trading day after the European Union and the
international Monetary Fund announced the creation of a bailout
fund to backstop the euro. Trichet said yesterday it’s
“possible” that rates will rise at the central bank’s April
meeting. His comments drove the German two-year yield up 23
basis points, the biggest increase since January 2009.  “Trichet was pretty clear that there would be a hike come
April, so that’s going to underpin the German front end going
forward,” said Eric Wand, a rates strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in  London .  The two-year note yield was little changed at 1.78 percent
as of 12:47 p.m. in London after reaching 1.84 percent, the
highest since December 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 1.5 percent security due March 2013 traded at
99.45. The yield on German 10-year bunds,  Europe ’s benchmark
government debt securities, was one basis point lower at 3.32
percent.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  told a central banking event in Paris today that a
failure to raise interest rates in response to faster headline
inflation would allow  core inflation  to quicken.  March 25 Deadline  “This over time will fuel core inflation,” Bini Smaghi
said. “This is a key sentence in my interpretation of
yesterday’s introductory statement.”  Trichet is due to speak at the same Banque de France
conference alongside other governing council members including
Athanasios Orphanides and  Christian Noyer . The ECB’s anti-
inflation stance comes as European Union leaders approach a
March 25 deadline for a reinforced plan to aid debt-strapped
countries.  Greece’s two-year yields surged 38 basis points to 15.29
percent. The yield difference between German two-year notes and
Greek securities of a similar maturity was 13.51 percentage
points, the widest since May 7, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  German debt was little changed before a U.S. labor market
report that is forecast to show employers added 196,000 workers
last month, after a 36,000 gain in January, according to the
median estimate of 84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
report may also show the jobless rate increased to 9.1 percent
from 9 percent.  U.S. Spread  “Right in front of payrolls data, people aren’t going to
want to set too much risk on their books,” Wand said.  The yield difference, or spread, between German two-year
notes and U.S. securities of the same maturity, narrowed four
basis points to 98 basis points. It reached 103 basis points
yesterday, the highest since Dec. 30, 2008, as traders added to
bets that the European Central Bank will raise borrowing costs
before the  Federal Reserve .  The rate at which European banks say they see each other
lending for three months in euros rose to the highest in 20
months amid speculation the Frankfurt-based central bank will
tighten monetary policy next month. Three-month Euribor climbed
six basis points to 1.162 percent today, the highest since June
24, 2009, data from the European Banking Federation showed.  Inflation Threat  The ECB, which left its key rate at a record low of 1
percent yesterday, is concerned about so-called second-round
inflation effects, when companies raise prices and workers
demand more pay to compensate for soaring energy and food costs,
Trichet said. Euro-area inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent
last month.  Euribor futures fell, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December 2011 up two basis points to 2.18
percent. Earlier it rose to 2.215 percent, matching the highest
since Feb. 22, 2010.  Forward contracts on the euro overnight index average, or
Eonia, signal investors think the ECB will increase the key rate
25 basis points by its July meeting, Deutsche Bank AG data
shows.  “We are seeing consolidation at substantially increased
yield levels,” said  Kornelius Purps , an interest-rate
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “The market has priced
in three interest rate hikes by the end of the year.” UniCredit
has “penciled in a rate of about 2.5 percent by the end of this
year,” on the two-year, he said.  Since the end of January,  Greece ’s 10-year bonds have risen
on six trading days, falling on 18. They fell for the seventh-
straight day today, pushing the yield up three basis points to
12.1 percent.  German  government bonds  lost investors 2.3 percent this
year, compared with a 0.7 percent loss for  U.S. Treasuries ,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek debt returned
1.7 percent over the same period, the indexes showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  