-- 
Blankfein Said to Agree to Be Prosecution Witness at Galleon Insider Trial

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-04T16:20:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/goldman-s-blankfein-said-to-agree-to-be-u-s-witness-at-rajaratnam-trial.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  agreed to be a prosecution
witness in Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s  insider
trading  trial next week, said a person briefed on the matter.  Blankfein, 56, may not testify because prosecutors
typically line up potential witnesses before a trial who aren’t
later called on, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  Rajaratnam is at the center of the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
billionaire is charged with earning $45 million from
confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and hedge
fund traders. If convicted, the 57-year-old could spend as long
as 20 years in prison on the fraud charges. He denies
wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on Galleon research.  Prosecutors are likely calling Blankfein as a witness to
show that Rajaratnam traded on inside information about Goldman
Sachs, said Andrew Stoltmann, a securities lawyer in  Chicago .
Rajaratnam got a tip from then-Goldman Sachs director Rajat Gupta about a $5 billion investment in the firm by Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., and Gupta allegedly passed the news immediately
to Rajaratnam, who bought shares, according to U.S. allegations
in court papers.  Timeline Issue  “There’s no question it’s a timeline issue,” Stoltmann
said in an interview. Also, “they really want to rope Goldman
Sachs into the trial” because the firm may be viewed
unfavorably by jurors, he said.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , has called the allegation
“baseless.” Rajaratnam’s lawyer,  John Dowd , said yesterday he
may call Gupta as a witness to explain why he was talking with
Rajaratnam.  Gupta may invoke his constitutional right not to testify if
he believes it would incriminate him, said Stoltmann, who is not
involved in the case.  The Securities and Exchange Commission has separately filed
administrative charges accusing Gupta of leaking confidential
information to Rajaratnam, including Berkshire’s investment in
Goldman, the securities firm’s quarterly earnings, and the
results of  Procter & Gamble Co ., where Gupta was also a
director. The action was filed March 1.  Gupta stepped down from Goldman Sachs’s board last year and
resigned from Procter & Gamble this week. Gupta is the former
managing director of McKinsey & Co., the consulting firm, and is
currently the firm’s senior partner emeritus.  ‘Powerful Evidence’    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, said he couldn’t
comment. Edeli Rivera, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in Manhattan, declined to comment.  Jim McCarthy , a
spokesman for Rajaratnam, declined to comment.  The SEC action threatens Rajaratnam’s right to a fair
trial, his lawyer, John Dowd, said in a filing yesterday in
federal court in  Manhattan . Dowd attached a Feb. 28 letter he
wrote to the SEC urging it not to take action against Gupta
until after Rajaratnam’s trial.  Gupta has given the SEC “powerful evidence that Mr. Gupta
and Mr. Rajaratnam did not engage in insider trading in the
stocks of Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble,” Dowd wrote to
the SEC, referring to a submission that Gupta gave the agency
last week. “Much of the specific information contained in that
submission was new” to Rajaratnam, according to Dowd, who said
he was preparing to call Gupta as a trial witness.  Gary Naftalis, a lawyer for Gupta, called the SEC’s
allegations “baseless” on March 1. He declined to comment
yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 