-- 
Greenwich YMCA's Default After Olympic Pool Leads JPMorgan to Deep Water

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-04T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/greenwich-ymca-s-default-after-olympic-pool-leads-jpmorgan-to-deep-water.html
A block from Greenwich,
Connecticut’s main street, where Saks Fifth Avenue and Tiffany
stores vie for shoppers, sits the hedge-fund capital’s YMCA,
brought to the brink of insolvency after building an Olympic-
size swimming pool.  More than five years after it began, a project to expand
and update the landmark Y remains unfinished as the cost soared
60 percent to $41 million. The Y halted construction and
defaulted on $20 million of municipal bonds, leaving it to
negotiate with creditors such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as it
tries to raise more money in a town that’s home to some of the
wealthiest people in America.  “It’s sad,” said Michael D’Andrea, 65, a former Y director
who dropped his membership last year to use another gym. “They
might be rich here but they’re not stupid. People are going to
say it’s like throwing money in a black hole.”  The Y’s predicament shows that even in Greenwich, charity
has its limits. The town is home to about 100  hedge funds  and
industry leaders including  Paul Tudor Jones , founder of Tudor
Investment Corp., and  Steven A. Cohen , the billionaire who runs
SAC Capital Advisors LP. Its more than 60,000 residents had a
median family  income  of $117,857 in 2007, more than double the
$52,673 U.S. midpoint, according to Census Bureau figures.  The Y’s directors counted on donations as they sought to
transform the institution into a modern, family-friendly place
worthy of its surroundings, where the average home sells for
about $2.5 million. Instead, as costs soared, contributions fell
30 percent to $3.7 million in 2009 from $5.3 million a year
earlier, according to U.S. Internal Revenue Service filings.  Building for Giving  “It was kind of like, if you build it they would give,”
said Jeffrey Asher, executive director of the  Connecticut Health
and Educational Facilities Authority  in Hartford, the agency
that  approved  the nonprofit’s $20 million tax-exempt bond sale
in 2005. “You’d think in Greenwich that would be realistic.”  The default also illustrates a peril of investing in the
$2.86 trillion municipal-bond market. The Y sold unrated
securities backed initially by a letter of credit from the  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  Municipal-bond defaults reached a
record $8.5 billion in 2008 amid the credit crisis, falling to
$2.7 billion last year, according to  Richard Lehmann , publisher
of Distressed Debt Securities newsletter.  Greenwich residents still support the Y, which opened the
50-meter (164-foot) pool in September 2007, according to Jeffrey Dishner, chairman of the organization’s board of directors. He
said $6 million is needed to pay bills and finish renovating the
original 57,200 square-foot building.  Return to ‘Fabulous’  “That will solve the problem once and for all,” said
Dishner, chief operating officer of Starwood Capital Group LLC,
a Greenwich-based private-equity firm started by hotelier  Barry Sternlicht . “I still firmly believe we are going to get this
project completed and return to a fabulous institution.”  Today, sections of the original red-brick building’s white-
columned facade remain shrouded in debris-retaining green mesh.
An exterior wooden staircase for construction workers extends
from a four-story wing to the ground. A second phase of the
expansion, to add a $7 million gym, has been suspended.  Parts of the Y’s unfinished interior are off-limits to its
6,000 members, including a planned child-care center and the old
pool, which was to be converted into a therapeutic facility.  The Y had to undertake the ambitious overhaul or risk going
out of business, said Sandra Waters, a director and Greenwich
resident. She and her husband, Steve, are named on the wall of
the new pool building to commemorate their donations. When
project planning began in the 1990s, the building was run down
and membership, at fewer than 4,000, was falling, she said.  ‘Leap of Faith’  “We decided that really to save the Y we had to do that,”
Waters said about the project. “We took a leap of faith.”  The board hired a new chief executive officer, John Eikrem,
from a YMCA in  Beverly Hills ,  California , in 1997 to oversee the
project. The organization was renamed the  Greenwich Family YMCA ,
to broaden its appeal.  In April 2002, the Greenwich  Planning and Zoning Commission 
approved renovating the building and adding 45,300 square feet.
The plan called for replacing the original 60-foot-long pool and
gym built in 1916, as well as adding a 95-space underground
garage on the 2.7 acre site, according to town records.
Membership was projected to rise to 7,500, the records show.  Property Sale  To help pay for the work, the Y  sold  a 30-acre island in  Long Island  Sound to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for
about $5.5 million in 2003. It also shut down rooms on the top
floors of the building that were rented to transients in
anticipation of the overhaul. The temporary residences were a
legacy from the origins of the  Young Men’s Christian
Association , started in  London  in 1844.  When the state agency approved the Y’s debt sale in 2005,
officials there were concerned that the amount might be too
great a burden, Asher said. The Y had less than $2 million of
cash and other easy-to-sell assets on hand, after excluding
proceeds from property sales, he said. At the time, he was the
authority’s chief financial officer.  The Y sold variable-rate bonds, instead of conventional
fixed-rate securities. The backing from the bank’s letter of
credit gave investors protection from losses in the event of a
default, Asher said. New York-based Gates Capital Corp.
underwrote the securities, according to bond documents.  Fundraising was certain to rise to meet costs once the work
began, and membership would reach 10,000, Eikrem told Asher’s
agency in June 2005, according to  minutes  of the meeting. The
minutes say that “$500,000 as capital campaign contributions
for each year has been added to the financial projections,”
based on fund-raising at  Connecticut  YMCAs.  Successful Fundraisers  In the months before the credit crisis began, the Y held
its most successful annual  golf tournament , raising about
$120,000 at the nearby  Tamarack Country Club , according to a
video of the event. In May 2007, it attracted about 600 people
for wine and hors d’oeuvres and brought in $25,000 at the Stone
Chase mansion, a new 18,000 square-foot home built “on spec”
by a Y director in the northern reaches of the town.  In all, the organization has raised $21.8 million since the
project began, including $13 million from directors and $8.8
million from the community, said Rachel Reese, a spokeswoman.  Some of that cash helped cover operating losses. In 2008,
the nonprofit reported expenses from operations of about $6.92
million and fee income of about $4.03 million, according to IRS
filings. In 2009, operating costs rose 14 percent to about $7.88
million, while fees increased 12 percent to about $4.5 million.  Cost Drivers  By the time the pool opened, the estimated cost to finish
the project was approaching $40 million, up from $25.8 million.
The increase stemmed partly from rising prices for materials
such as steel and from unanticipated site-preparation
complications. Eikrem left the Y in 2007 and was followed by a
succession of three leaders.  The project ground to a halt in July 2009. Later that year
the Y stopped making monthly interest and principal payments,
triggering a default on its bonds. The organization had budgeted
more than $1 million a year for debt service.  Worth Construction Co. , the project’s Bethel, Connecticut-
based general contractor, filed a lien against the property
seeking $4.1 million, according to court records. Erik Loftus, a
lawyer at Anderson, Reynolds & Lynch in  New Britain ,
Connecticut, which represents the company, declined comment when
reached by telephone. Four other companies also filed liens,
totaling about $856,000, according to the records.  Holding $13 Million  JPMorgan, which in 2008 succeeded the Bank of  New York  as
the letter of credit provider, now holds about $13 million of
the Y’s bonds. The New York-based bank  sued  late last year,
asking a Superior Court judge in neighboring  Stamford  to make
the Y’s property available for other uses.  Rebecca Witherell, an heiress whose $100,000 donation in
1912 paid for the original building, put a provision in the deed
that restricts it to the exclusive use by the Y. The building is
listed in the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.
JPMorgan’s suit remains pending, according to court records.    Tom Kelly , a spokesman for the bank, the second-largest in
the U.S. by assets, declined comment.  “The creditors are doing what they need to do to preserve
their position,” said Dishner, the Y’s board chairman. They are
“being quite helpful” by giving the organization more time to
raise money, he said.  Dishner declined to comment on local news reports that
 Greenwich Hospital , which is part of the  Yale New Haven Health
System , is in talks to take over the new pool.  Exploring Opportunities  “Greenwich Hospital is constantly exploring new
opportunities to enhance the health and wellness of our
community,” said George Pawlush, a spokesman for the
institution.  The Y has joined the bank in asking the court to remove the
deed restriction, according to Reese, the spokeswoman. Dean
Montgomery, a lawyer at Bentley, Mosher, Babson & Lambert PC in
Greenwich who represents the trustee for Mary D. Washbourne, an
heir of the Witherell estate, declined comment.  “A lot of people worked really, really hard to try to make
it a better Y,” said Frank Farricker, a Greenwich Planning and
Zoning commissioner. “A lot of people made exceptional
sacrifices. There is a lot of concern that it may not survive
and that would not be a good thing for the town.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 