-- 
Gross Says Inflation Matters More Than Fed Indicates: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-03-04T15:49:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/gross-says-inflation-matters-more-for-u-s-economy-than-bernanke-indicates.html
  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
gains in so-called headline inflation matter more for the  U.S.
economy  than Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggests.  Rising oil prices may cut U.S. gross domestic product by a
quarter to half a percentage point, Gross said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene.  Surges in oil and other commodity prices probably won’t
cause a permanent increase in broader inflation and borrowing
costs are likely to stay low, Bernanke said March 1 in his semi-
annual monetary policy testimony before Congress. Gasoline
advanced to a 30-month high today as political unrest in  Libya 
and the Middle East escalated, threatening global oil shipments,
and an increase in U.S. jobs indicated higher demand.  “Bernanke tends to think this doesn’t matter -- at least
in terms of headline versus the core -- we do,” Gross said.
“For the last 10 years, with the exception of maybe a year or
two recently, the headline has averaged about 0.5 percent more
than the core and that’s because basically we’ve seen a shift
based on globalization to increased commodity demand.”  Gross cut the holdings of U.S. government and related debt
in Pimco’s $237 billion Total Return Fund in January to the
smallest proportion in two years. The securities were cut to 12
percent of assets, from 22 percent in December. He reiterated
today that investors should reduce holdings of Treasuries and
U.K. gilts and buy higher-returning securities such as debt from
emerging-market nations and corporate bonds as central banks
keep borrowing rates low.  Treasury Yields  Ten-year Treasury yields have risen for each of the past
six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the longest
run since June 2006, as the economy showed signs of improvement
and prices of commodities climbed.  Treasury yields are about 150 basis points too low when
viewed on a historical context and when compared with expected
nominal GDP growth of 5 percent with the Fed scheduled to end
its asset purchases in June, Gross wrote in a monthly investment
outlook posted March 2 on the  Newport Beach , California-based
company’s website.  The Treasury 10-year note’s yield fell four basis points to
3.51 percent today as investors sought a refuge from the turmoil
in the Middle East.  Consumer Prices  The consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent for a second
month in January, exceeding the 0.3 percent median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor
Department showed Feb. 17. The so-called core rate, which
excludes volatile food and fuel costs, rose 0.2 percent, the
biggest gain since October 2009.  “The core basically assumes you revert to the mean level
of demand,” Gross said. “But when that demand curve shifts up
based upon globalization in emerging market economies you have a
difference.”  Crude oil for April delivery increased as much as $2.18, or
2.1 percent, to $104.09 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract is heading for a 5.2 percent
gain this week, and is up 28 percent from a year ago.  U.S. employers added 192,000 workers in February, amid an
improving economy and more seasonable weather, and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to 8.9 percent, the
lowest level since April 2009.  The gain in payrolls followed a 63,000 increase in January
and compared with the 196,000 median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures showed
today in  Washington . Employment rose in manufacturing,
construction and temporary help agencies, while state and local
government payrolls slumped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;  Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  