-- 
Libya Fund’s Zarti Must Face EU Sanctions, Austria Says

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-04T15:56:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/libya-fund-s-zarti-must-go-on-sanctions-list-austria-says-1-.html
Mustafa Zarti said he stepped down
as deputy head of the Libyan Investment Authority after  Austria 
froze his assets today and asked the European Union to add him
to a list of Libyan officials targeted by sanctions.  Zarti, 40, who has Austrian citizenship and was due to be
questioned by Austrian police today, announced his resignation
in an interview with Austrian public radio  ORF . He also told the
broadcaster that he had “no idea” how much money  Libya  held in
Austrian accounts or assets. In a separate interview with the
Austrian Press Agency, he called the Austrian asset freeze a
“joke” and denied that he was in the country to withdraw
funds.  Austria today froze all assets of Zarti via a central bank
decree that said he is a “close ally of the Libyan regime.” It
proposed widening the EU sanctions to make sure he can’t access
funds in other countries, Alexander Schallenberg, a Foreign
Ministry spokesman in Vienna, said in a telephone interview. The
EU-imposed asset freeze currently targets 26 people, including
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , his closest family members and
 state officials .  Zarti helped manage the $70 billion Investment Authority,
which holds shares of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and  Pearson Plc (PSON) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Qaddafi and his entourage may have
invested around 30 billion euros ($42 billion) in Austria,
Vienna’s Die Presse newspaper reported on March 2, citing an
unnamed former aide to the Libyan leader. Zarti told APA today
that the fund’s Austrian investment was “very small.”  Police Questions  Austrian police yesterday questioned Zarti’s brother in
Vienna and plan to question Zarti himself today, Interior
Ministry spokesman Rudolf Gollia said in a telephone interview.
He corrected Interior Minister Maria Fekter who had told ORF
television yesterday that Zarti had been questioned already.  Police have started an investigation to find assets in
Austria controlled by Qaddafi or his allies through trusts or
front men or companies, Gollia said.  Zarti has an Austrian passport because he spent part of his
teenage years in Vienna, where his father worked at the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Schallenberg
said. Zarti told APA he flew from Tripoli to Vienna on Feb. 21
to join his wife. He added that he hadn’t decided yet what his
next steps would be.  As a friend of Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, Zarti may have
funneled investments through Austrian trusts, according to a
March 2 report in Die Presse. Saif is a “fantastic man,” Zarti
told APA today.  Telephone calls to Zarti’s office at the  Libyan Investment
Authority  wasn’t answered during business hours in Tripoli today
or yesterday. He isn’t listed in Austria’s public phone
directory.  Libyan Deposits  Austrian banks have 1.2 billion euros in deposits from
Libyan clients, the Austrian central bank said in a March 1
statement, adding that it could not yet say how much of the
total assets were held by the people targeted by the freeze.  The Libyan-Austria relationship dates back to one of
Qaddafi’s rare Western state visits in 1982, when he was invited
by then Austrian chancellor, Bruno Kreisky. Saif al-Islam
studied in Vienna and appeared at social events including the
Vienna Opera ball in 2006, together with the late nationalist
politician Joerg Haider. Haider also was the Libyan leader’s
guest on several occasions since 1999.  Austrian oil group  OMV AG (OMV)  produced 10 percent of its oil in
the North African country in 2010, while cement maker Asamer
Holding AG and builder  Strabag SE (STR)  and  Allgemeine Baugesellschaft
Porr AG (POS)  all have business in Libya.  Bawag PSK, the lender owned by Cerberus Capital Management
LP, opened an  office in Tripoli  in 2005, according to the Bawag
website. The company has about 20 million euros in  project
financing  extended in the country, spokeswoman Sabine Hacker
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  