-- 
Qaddafi Strikes Rebels in West Libya; Battles Rage in Oil Ports

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m ,   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 
2011-03-04T15:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/libya-rebels-snub-chavez-s-mediation-offer-prepare-fight-to-oust-qaddafi.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  sent
troops to recapture towns in western  Libya  and prepared to quash
protests in the capital, Tripoli, as rebels fought for control
of oil ports on the country’s central and eastern coastal strip.  The conflict has left 6,000 people dead, the opposition
forces’ spokesman, Abdullah Al Mahdi, told Al Jazeera television
today. Al Mahdi, a colonel who defected from Qaddafi’s military,
said the rebels will next target Tripoli. Government forces
fired live rounds and tear gas at a group of about 1,500
protesters in the capital as the regime stepped up its crackdown
on dissent, the Associated Press said, citing witnesses.  Clashes in Misrata, a town about 90 miles (150 kilometers)
east of Tripoli that was under opposition control, left at least
33 dead and 120 injured, a witness told Al Arabiya. Government
troops attacked Zawiyah, west of Tripoli and the nearest rebel-
held town, where 13 people died, a doctor told Al Arabiya. A
rebel military leader was killed in Zawiyah,  Al Jazeera  said.  Fighting spread across the Gulf of Sidra with clashes in
the oil port of Ras Lanuf and the nearby desert area of Al
Agaila, according to Al Jazeera. Crude oil rose to a 29-month
high in  New York  on concern that the unrest in Libya will spread
to other regional oil producers, curbing exports.  Crude for April delivery rose 1.1 percent to $103.01 a
barrel at 9:08 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , heading
for a gain of more than 5 percent this week. Production in
Libya, which holds  Africa ’s largest reserves, has dropped by
more than half, with as much as 1 million barrels of daily
output lost.  Forces Retreat  Some pro-Qaddafi units withdrew from Ras Lanuf after a
split within the government forces during the battle with
rebels, the network said. A convoy of about 100 cars carrying
rebel fighters was headed toward the town, Al Jazeera said.  Ras Lanuf has a tanker terminal that exports about 200,000
barrels a day as well as Libya’s biggest refinery, with a
capacity of 220,000 barrels a day, more than half the country’s
total, according to the  International Energy Agency .  In Brega, an energy hub east of Ras Lanuf with a smaller
terminal and refinery, an oil company building was bombed,  Al
Arabiya  said. The rebels have repelled government attempts to
retake Brega over the past three days. Their stronghold is
Benghazi, the second-biggest city, at the gulf’s eastern end.  Interpol Alert  Interpol issued a global alert, known as an Orange Notice,
against Qaddafi and 15 other Libyans, including members of his
family and close associates. The notice is “to warn member
states of the danger posed by the movement of these individuals
and their assets” and to assist member states to enforce United
Nations sanctions against them and to aid the International
Criminal Court investigation into alleged crimes against
humanity in Libya, Interpol said in an e-mailed statement.  President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. military is ready to
protect civilians caught up in the conflict. Libyan rebels have
called for international enforcement of a no-fly zone over the
country, a measure Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has described
as a “big operation.” Speaking at the White House, Obama said
the U.S. is considering a “full range” of military options and
needs to have the capacity to act in a humanitarian crisis.  Air, Sea Evacuation  The U.S. is sending military and chartered civilian
aircraft to help repatriate foreign workers who fled Libya and
are now crowding border refugee camps in Tunisia and  Egypt ,
Obama said. The U.K. is carrying evacuees to Egypt and Malta by
air and sea, and  India  has dispatched two navy troop-carriers to
the Mediterranean.  The heads of the UN, European Union,  Arab League  and
Organization of the Islamic Conference yesterday urged Qaddafi
to permit immediate access for aid workers to help displaced
Libyans and migrant workers. More than 150,000 people have fled
Libya to neighboring Egypt and Tunisia since Feb. 19, the UN
refugee agency said on March 1. The EU said it may expand
sanctions on Libya next week.  Libya’s opposition leaders rejected a mediation offer by
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , an ally of Qaddafi. The Libyan
leader’s “hands are tainted with blood and we will not talk to
him,” rebel spokesman Mustafa Gheriani said, according to the  Associated Press . The Arab League said it was considering
Chavez’s plan.  The EU is considering widening its sanctions on Libya, an
EU official said. EU policy makers are discussing imposing the
sanctions on more people and the possibility of imposing them on
organizations as well as individuals, the official said today in
Brussels on condition of anonymity.  Ship Seized  A ship heading to Libya and believed to be carrying a
“significant amount” of Libyan currency subject to UN sanctions
was stopped and brought back to Britain two days ago, the U.K.
Home Office said today.  Protesters elsewhere in the region resumed their demands
for civil rights, higher  living standards  and the ouster of
entrenched autocratic regimes.  In Yemen, an opposition group said two people were killed
when security forces attacked protesters in Harf Sufian, north
of the capital, Sana’a. Tens of thousands joined demonstrations
in Sana’a calling for President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s three-
decade rule, and there were rallies in other cities.  Opposition leaders yesterday presented Saleh with a plan
for a transition to democracy this year. About a dozen people
have died in more than three weeks of protests.  Egyptian Leader  In Egypt, Prime Minister-designate Essam Sharaf addressed a
crowd of thousands in Tahrir Square, saluting the “martyrs”
who died in the fight to unseat  Hosni Mubarak , and saying he
would derive legitimacy from the people.  Egyptian protesters continued to demand further changes
after Mubarak’s Feb. 11 ouster, including a purge of old-regime
officials from the government. The ruling military council
yesterday bowed to one of their key demands, accepting the
resignation of Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik and inviting Sharaf
to take his place.  In Bahrain, there were clashes between Shiite and  Sunni
Muslims  in a central town, Reuters reported. The mostly Shiite
opposition, representing the majority sect in the Persian Gulf
island state, had planned rallies today in Manama, the capital,
to demand a transition toward democracy.  Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, a Sunni, said
dialogue with the opposition must begin “as soon as practically
possible” to end more than two weeks of unrest in which at
least seven protesters were killed in a security crackdown.    Tunisia , where the Middle Eastern turmoil began two months
ago, announced July elections for a national council that will
draw up a new constitution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud Derhally in  Beirut  at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  