-- 
ICC Chief Prosecutor May Request Arrest Warrant For Qaddafi Within Months

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-03-04T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/icc-chief-prosecutor-may-request-arrest-warrant-for-qaddafi-within-months.html
The  International Criminal Court ’s
chief prosecutor,  Luis Moreno-Ocampo , said he suspects Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and some of his sons of crimes against
humanity during the turmoil in the country and may request
arrest warrants within months.  The prosecutor will investigate between 10 and 20 people
including Qaddafi, members of his family, the foreign minister
and the heads of security and military intelligence, Qaddafi’s
personal security and Libya’s external security organization.  “Civilians were shot during demonstrations and allegations
are that security forces were doing that,” Moreno-Ocampo said
in an interview in his office in The Hague yesterday after
concluding a preliminary investigation. “We’re focusing on six
or seven incidents that are most serious” and expect to request
warrants from the court’s judges in a few months, he said.  The uprising against Qaddafi follows the ousting of
longtime rulers by protest movements in Tunisia and  Egypt  in the
past two months. More than 150,000 people have fled Libya to
neighboring Egypt and Tunisia since Feb. 19, the United Nations
refugee agency said March 1.  “The UN  Security Council  made a decision within two weeks
after the crimes and referred them to the court, with no
hesitation and unanimously -- that’s amazing,” Moreno-Ocampo
said, adding the court can profit from the “huge change” in
the Arab world. “Backing of the Arab world is critically
important; the rest of the world has to support them.”  Crimes  The Security Council has imposed an arms embargo on Libya
and called for an immediate end to violence that it says “may
amount to crimes against humanity.” The council referred the
allegations to the  International Criminal Court  for
investigation and possible prosecution.  President  Barack Obama  said late yesterday that the U.S.
and the rest of the world are outraged by the “appalling
violence” in Libya. Qaddafi “has lost legitimacy to lead and
he must leave,” Obama said at a White House news conference.  The International Criminal Court is the only permanent
tribunal for prosecuting individuals accused of  war crimes ,
genocide and crimes against humanity committed anywhere in the
world. Its first judges were installed in 2003.  The court was established under the 1998 Rome Statute, a
treaty now signed by representatives of 114 states. The Security
Council requested the ICC to investigate the alleged crimes as
Libya isn’t one of the treaty states.  “We always have a mission impossible, we will investigate
when no one else investigates or can investigate,” he said.
“There will be no impunity in  Libya .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in The Hague at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  