-- 
India’s Economy May Grow Near 9% This Year, Mukesh Ambani Says

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-03-04T17:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/india-s-economy-may-grow-near-9-this-year-mukesh-ambani-says.html
  India ’s economy may grow at near 9
percent this fiscal year and the nation must secure its food and
energy supply needs to grow at “double-digits,” said  Mukesh Ambani , the country’s richest man.  “India will probably end the year with a growth of near 9
percent. There is potential for double-digit growth,” Ambani
told bankers and officials from financial institutions in New
Delhi today. “We need to manage the supply side more than
inflation. Food and energy supplies need to be managed.”  Gross domestic product has grown almost sixfold since 1991,
when then finance minister  Manmohan Singh  introduced free-market
measures that cut red tape and allowed overseas companies
including  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to set up operations. India’s $1.3
trillion economy expanded 8.2 percent last quarter, making it
the fastest-growing major nation after China. The  finance
ministry  predicts GDP may grow as much as 9.25 percent in the
year starting April 1.  India imports more than 75 percent of its oil needs and is
vulnerable to supply constraints.  The country can become a $5 trillion economy, Ambani, the
billionaire chairman of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , said. “We
could argue if it will reach that in 2022 or 2025, but how many
countries can have that kind of growth.”  India needs fundamentally different solutions to help meet
future challenges, Ambani, said on March 1. He estimated the
country would need to create 15 million jobs annually for the
next 10 years through industrialization, building infrastructure
and rejuvenating agriculture.  Radical reforms are needed in health and education, Ambani
said in the speech to industrialists.  ‘Make Growth Inclusive’  “The challenge is to make growth inclusive,” he said
today. “It is not just about creation of wealth but equitable
distribution of wealth. India needs to be seen as a whole and
not just in parts.”  Singh, who became prime minister in 2004, has presided over
an annual average economic expansion of about 8.5 percent, the
fastest pace in the country’s history since independence in
1947. The growth was accompanied by inflation as demand for
infrastructure, including roads and ports, outstripped supply.  Even so, foreign direct investment in India is headed for
the first drop since the year ending March 2003, hindering a bid
to match  China ’s $5.88 trillion economy, which expanded 9.8
percent last quarter.  ‘Hostile Attitude’  India has the potential to become the world’s largest
economy by 2050, though growth is constrained by dilapidated
infrastructure and a “hostile attitude” toward foreign direct
investment, Citigroup Inc. said last month.    Nouriel Roubini , the New York University professor and
chairman of Roubini Global Economics who predicted the global
financial crisis, said in December  India’s economy  may expand
more than China’s in the next 10 years if the second-most
populous nation lifts curbs on foreign investment in retail and
boosts spending on roads and bridges.  “Food and agriculture are big opportunities in India,” he
said. “The emerging market story will continue to grow and
India will lead the way. India is well on its way to becoming
the fastest growing nation.”  Ambani was ranked by Forbes India as the nation’s richest
person with $27 billion of wealth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 