-- 
Indonesia Interest-Rate Pause `Golden Opportunity Missed' to Tame Prices

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-03-04T17:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/indonesia-holds-rate-as-rupiah-gains-give-temporary-inflation-reprieve.html
Bank Indonesia  kept  interest rates 
unchanged while highlighting rising price pressures, prompting
some economists to question its inflation-fighting credentials.  The central bank left its benchmark  reference rate  at 6.75
percent yesterday, a decision predicted by 10 of 17 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey, with the rest forecasting a quarter
percentage-point increase. A measure of price gains excluding
volatile items such as food, so-called  core inflation , is
starting to accelerate, the central bank said.  “We thought Bank Indonesia is finally and seriously
gearing up to attain the label of being ‘on the curve’ when it
comes to fighting inflation,” said Wellian Wiranto, an
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Singapore . “Nothing builds
credibility more than if they were to hike rates when inflation
is not snarling, rather than wait to be forced into tightening
when the inflation beast bares its fangs. We see it as a golden
opportunity missed.”  The Jakarta Composite Index is down more than 4 percent
this year on concern that a prolonged pause in borrowing costs
may eventually prompt more aggressive tightening later that
slows the economy. The rupiah closed at the highest since 2007
after the central bank said it saw scope for further gains and
that the currency’s appreciation is helping to curb import costs.    Bank Indonesia  yesterday said the direction of its monetary
policy is still “biased toward a tightening” as it seeks to
manage inflation pressures. The rupiah’s advance helped slow
inflation last month from the highest level in almost two years.  ‘Discordant Message’  “As much as they continue to posture towards future
tightening, an immediate hike would have done a lot in
strengthening their credibility,” Wiranto said. “Inflation
expectation continues to head up. We see a discordant message.”  The central bank unexpectedly raised borrowing costs by a
quarter point last month after opting not to join counterparts
from Malaysia to  India  in increasing rates in 2010. Efforts to
tame inflation have been sufficient and a proposed delay in the
phasing out of subsidized fuel sales may restrain prices, Deputy
Governor Hartadi Sarwono said last week.  The “pause after only one hike may raise concerns that BI
is tackling the inflation threat only half-heartedly, especially
as global energy inflation is likely to accelerate with the
Middle East crisis,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, a Jakarta-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “It is important for
BI to continually signal to the markets its willingness to hike
the policy rate further if there is any sign of an inflationary
threat.”  Rising Rupiah  The rupiah is the biggest gainer in  Asia  in the past month
against the dollar, climbing more than 2 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Jakarta Composite Index’s
decline in 2011 contrasts with the 1.1 percent gain in the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index over the same period.  Consumer-price growth in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy
slowed to 6.84 percent in February from a year earlier, compared
with a 7.02 percent pace in January, a report showed this week.
Core inflation was 4.36 percent, gaining from 4.18 percent.  “We are still targeting inflation of 5 percent, plus or
minus one percent, and we expect core inflation to be at that
range,” Governor Darmin Nasution said yesterday.  The rupiah’s appreciation is helping to manage the impact
of imported inflation and hasn’t affected export competitiveness,
Bank  Indonesia  said yesterday, adding that there is room for it
to strengthen further.  Economic Expansion  The economy expanded at the fastest annual pace in six
years last quarter, and a central bank index showed  consumer
confidence  in February held near the highest since August 2009.
Indonesians were more optimistic on income and employment.  Sentiment may improve further if the government decides to
extend sales of subsidized fuel to cushion the impact of rising  oil prices . The administration had initially planned to
gradually curb the sales from April 1 and will discuss a
possible delay with parliament before making a decision,
Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa has said.  Oil prices have exceeded $100 a barrel, to levels not seen
since 2008, as protests spreading across the Middle East and
North Africa stoke concern that supplies may be disrupted. The
rally in crude is temporary and the government has no plans to
raise the price of subsidized fuel, Rajasa said.  Continuing with subsidized sales would curb inflationary
pressures, spur growth and help the stock market, according to
Ari Pitoyo, head of research at PT Mandiri Sekuritas in Jakarta.
He recommends consumer stocks including instant-noodle maker PT
Indofood Sukses Makmur, cigarette producer PT Gudang Garam and
lender PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia.  Market Slide  Investors sold Indonesian stocks and bonds in January as
the central bank kept borrowing costs steady, a pattern that
Credit Suisse Group AG says may be repeated if policy makers are
seen as hesitating to raise rates when needed.  The benchmark  stock index  fell 8 percent that month, before
rising about 1.8 percent in February. Yields on benchmark 10-
year government bonds rose 1.26 percentage points in January,
the biggest monthly increase in almost two years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation erodes the value of a
bond’s fixed payments.  Other Asian central banks have boosted rates further since
Indonesia’s increase. China and  Vietnam  raised borrowing costs
last month, while  Thailand  will increase its benchmark rate by a
quarter point on March 9, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. The Bank of  Korea , meeting a day later,
is also forecast by economists to raise its key rate by 25 basis
points to 3 percent.  Commodity Costs  In the  Philippines , the only major Southeast Asian economy
that hasn’t tightened monetary policy, Governor Amando Tetangco
said March 1 the central bank has less scope to keep borrowing
costs at a record low after oil and food costs climbed.  Malaysia 
is also monitoring the impact of higher commodity prices on
inflation and economic growth ahead of its next rate decision on
March 11, Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said this week.  Besides its rate increase last month, Bank Indonesia has
lifted lenders’ reserve requirements and tightened rules on
banks’ foreign-exchange holdings to help curb price advances.  The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News in February was for Bank Indonesia to increase the
reference rate to 7 percent by the end of the second quarter and
7.25 percent by the end of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  