-- 
Insider-Trading Probes Send Investors Scurrying Even When No One’s Charged

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-03-04T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/insider-trading-probes-send-investors-scurrying-even-when-no-one-s-charged.html
On the morning of Feb. 11, David Ganek gathered employees in the New York offices of Level Global
Investors LP to tell them he was shutting the hedge fund he co-
founded eight years earlier.  The $4 billion firm hadn’t lost money. No senior people had
quit. What spurred Ganek’s decision was a November raid by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  of the company’s offices
overlooking Central Park, part of the U.S. government’s
investigation into insider trading.  Within weeks, investors started to pull money, even though
none of Level Global’s 61 employees had been accused of
wrongdoing. To this day, no one has been charged and the firm
maintains it isn’t a target of the probe. Still the damage was
done.  “When the feds knock on your door, it’s game over,” said
Brad Alford, head of Alpha Capital Management LLC in Atlanta,
which invests in hedge and mutual funds on behalf of wealthy
clients. “Integrity is all you have in this business.”  The insider-trading case that started with the October 2009
arrest of Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of New York-based hedge
fund Galleon Group, has sparked three dozen arrests and two
dozen guilty pleas from hedge-fund managers, corporate
executives and industry consultants. It’s expanded into the
largest  insider-trading  investigation in U.S. history.  Fragile Trust  When a high-ranking executive of a large, publicly traded
company goes to jail, the firm generally keeps operating,
whether it’s  Martha Stewart  or L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former
chief executive officer of Tyco International Ltd. Hedge funds,
which are smaller and almost always privately held, have proven
to be more fragile. Their success depends on the investment
skills of the founders and the trust placed in them by their
investors.  “The practical reality is that if everyone else is going
to pull out, then you have to pull out,” said Craig Slaughter,
executive director of the West Virginia Investment Management
Board, which had $50 million of its $12.5 billion in assets
invested with Level Global. “That’s the nature of the
business.”  Of the four hedge funds that were raided in November, Level
Global and Barai Capital Management LP in  New York  have
announced they are closing. Diamondback Capital Management LLC,
which placed one of its technology portfolio managers on leave
following the FBI raid, had investors pull about $1.32 billion,
or 23 percent, of the  Stamford , Connecticut-based firm’s assets.
Loch Capital Management LLC hasn’t returned phone calls since
the raid. A person working in the Boston-based fund’s office
declined to comment earlier this week when approached by a
reporter. No one at the firm has been charged.  The Odd Couple  “If there’s a fear that the people who are responsible for
generating the returns are in big trouble, even if there’s no
substance to those allegations, the uncertainty can drive
investors away,” said Mitch Nichter, a partner at Paul,
Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP, a New York-based law firm,
whose clients include  hedge funds .  Level Global clients had asked to withdraw about 20 percent
of the fund’s assets at the end of March, the first opportunity
to do so, a person familiar with the matter said last month.  The government investigation, while not crippling the firm,
presented managers with “significant challenges to maintaining
our collective focus,” Ganek wrote in a Feb. 11 letter to
clients, explaining the fund would close.  “So while we could continue to operate Level Global,”
Ganek wrote, “it would not be the business we promised our
investors.”  High Society  Ganek, 47, started Level Global in 2003 with Anthony Chiasson, 37, an analyst whom he met at SAC Capital Advisors LP,  Steven A. Cohen ’s hedge fund in Stamford,  Connecticut . At Level
Global, where Ganek was the main portfolio manager and Chiasson
the head of research, the two formed a sort of odd-couple team
whose talents and demeanors complemented one another, said
people who know them. Both men declined to be interviewed for
this article through  Andy Merrill , a spokesman for Level Global.  A New York native, Ganek grew up around money and leads the
sort of high-society life befitting the front-man of a multi-
billion hedge fund. His father, Howard Ganek, was a partner at
money management firm Neuberger Berman and a well-known
philanthropist. Last year, on his 80th birthday, the senior
Ganek was honored for his support of the  U.S. Memorial Holocaust
Museum  with a 600-person gala at  Manhattan ’s Pierre Hotel.  G&O Partners  The younger Ganek and his wife, Danielle, author of two
comic novels that feature New York’s upper class, own multi-
million-dollar homes, including a beachfront  property  in
Southampton that they bought for $12.7 million, and a $19.1
million Park Avenue duplex where Steve Schwarzman, chief
executive officer of private-equity firm Blackstone Group LP,
also has an apartment. Ganek sits on the board of the Guggenheim
Museum and, like his former boss  Steve Cohen , has a large modern
art collection that includes works by Diane Arbus,  Richard
Prince  and Ed Ruscha.  Ganek met Danielle at  Franklin & Marshall College  in
Lancaster,  Pennsylvania , where he was captain of the squash
team. The couple, who were married in 1990 and have three
children, are often  photographed  with artists and socialites at
parties and fundraisers in New York and the Hamptons on  Long
Island .  After graduating in 1985 with a bachelor’s degree in
government, Ganek joined New York investment bank Donaldson,
Lufkin & Jenrette, where he worked on the risk-arbitrage desk.
After an eight-month stint at NatWest Bank U.S.A. in New York,
he started hedge fund G&O Partners LP with Paul Orwicz, which
they closed after only a few years.  Ganek’s greatest skill is ingratiating himself with people,
doing favors and then collecting chits, says one former boss.  ‘Best Networker’  “Ganek is the best networker I’ve ever met,” according to
Robert Chapman, founder of Chapman Capital LLC in Manhattan
Beach,  California , who said he fired Ganek from NatWest in 1993
after he lost money on a merger-arbitrage trade and then
complained about his bonus.  Cohen offered Ganek a job in 1997, asking him to trade
technology stocks. Two years later, Chiasson joined SAC as a
tech analyst, working with Ganek. Ganek produced strong returns
in 2000 in his $300 million portfolio, even as the technology
bubble burst, and the two men used that track record to help
raise about $500 million and open Level Global, according to a
person familiar with the matter who asked not to be named
because the information was private.  Chiasson has sought the limelight less than his business
partner. A 1995 graduate of  Babson College  in Wellesley,  Massachusetts , he started his career as an analyst at  Salomon
Brothers  in New York and then moved to  Credit Suisse First
Boston  before joining SAC.  ‘Under-the-Radar’  One of four children, Chiasson grew up in  Portland , Maine,
where his father was a self-employed businessman and his mother
a librarian at  Cheverus  High School, the Jesuit preparatory
school that he attended. He sits on the boards of both Babson
and Cheverus.  “He’s low-key, under-the-radar,” said his 70-year-old
mother, Lucille. “He’s hardworking and dedicated. I would say
to him ‘Take a vacation, Anthony’ and his idea of a fun weekend
would be to come to home to Maine and attend Mass.”  Former colleagues and associates said Chiasson worked long
hours, often including weekends, and had few interests outside
of the office. They said he’s among the most knowledgeable
analysts covering the technology industry.  He lives on Manhattan’s Upper East Side with his wife,
Sandra, and son in a $4.25 million apartment he bought in 2006.
The only other property he owns is his mother’s $400,000 house
in Maine.  Expert Networks  Level Global posted an annualized return of 9 percent after
fees from inception through the end of 2010, according to an
investor letter obtained by Bloomberg News. That compares with a
gain of 8.4 percent for the Dow Jones Credit Suisse Long/Short
Equity Hedge Fund Index.  Level Global told potential investors its edge was having a
rigorous process of choosing the best ideas of several portfolio
managers, which then were included in a so-called center book
managed by Ganek, a model similar to that employed at SAC. It
also used about a half-dozen expert-network consulting firms,
according to people familiar with the situation who asked not to
be identified because the information was private.  Such firms, which provide research and connect industry
experts with investors, have come under scrutiny amid the
government investigation. Eight former employees of Primary
Global Research LLC, an expert-network firm based in  Mountain
View , California, have been charged in the probe. Level Global
was among the firm’s clients, according to a person familiar
with the sitution.  Kinnucan Connection  Level Global until last year used the services of Broadband
Research LLC, a one-man firm run by John Kinnucan in Portland,
Oregon, who was subpoenaed in December by federal officials
after he told clients that he refused an FBI request to wiretap
them.  Kinnucan provided Chiasson with supply data such as the
pricing of memory chips over a three-month period before Level
Global terminated its contract in August, according to people
with knowledge of the arrangement who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  Chiasson viewed himself as an integral part of the returns
at both SAC and at Level Global.  “For over four years, my partner and I managed the global
technology, media and telecom investing practice scouring the
globe for investment opportunities,” he wrote about his years
at SAC in a 2006 essay published in a Cheverus newsletter.  ‘Highly Confident’  The two men jointly signed letters they sent to clients,
including the announcement in April 2010 that they had sold a
minority stake to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s leveraged-buyout
firm, according to an investor and a copy of the Goldman letter
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The February letter to clients announcing the closure of
the firm said that Level Global wasn’t a target of the U.S.
government’s investigation nor had it been alleged to have
engaged in any misconduct.  The letter also said that the firm had worked with outside
legal advisers to perform an independent review of its
electronic communications and technology-related trading
records, and conduct interviews.  “After learning the results of their in-depth review, I
remain highly confident that my conduct in leading the firm and
its investment process was lawful and ethical at all times,”
the letter said.  Only Ganek’s name appeared at the bottom of the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  