-- 
Missouri Population Shift Moves Votes From Political Bellwether to Kansas

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   K i a h   H a s l e t t
-- 
2011-03-04T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/missouri-bleeds-kansas-red-as-presidential-prophesying-fades-census-finds.html
  Missouri  and Kansas share a history
of differences, starting with bloody battles over slavery in the
19th century and, in the 20th, a record of the Show-Me state
picking presidential winners while its neighbor voted reliably
Republican.  The political distinction is blurring and Missouri’s
weather-vane status is probably over, political scientists say,
as  U.S. Census Bureau  figures suggest the two states with a
sometimes violent past have more in common.  “You can see it with all the growth in southwest Missouri
and the suburban and exurban growth,” said  Terry Jones , a
political scientist at the  University of Missouri-St. Louis .
“We’re leaning Republican, and we won’t be as competitive in
presidential races.”  Three of the state’s fastest-growing counties are in
heavily Republican southwest Missouri, according to census data.
The Democratic bastion of  St. Louis , which once entertained
thoughts of becoming the nation’s capital, saw its population
slide 8.3 percent to 319,294, the lowest level since 1870.  President  Barack Obama  is only the second president since
1904 to win the White House without taking Missouri. The other
was Dwight Eisenhower, in 1956. Republican  John McCain  beat
Obama by 3,903 votes out of 2.9 million cast.  Aging Bellwether  Obama won 53 percent to 46 percent nationwide. That
signaled the death of Missouri’s bellwether standing, said
Kenneth Warren, a political scientist at Saint Louis University.  “Missouri is now more socially conservative than the rest
of the nation,” Warren said, “and it is getting to be a
Republican state.”  Missouri’s population grew 7 percent to 5,988,927 in 2010
from 5,595,211 in 2000, according to the census.  Those residents will vote more like  Kansas , if not in the
same proportions, Warren said. While Kansas has elected
Democratic governors -- most recently  Kathleen Sebelius , Obama’s
secretary of health and human services -- the state last voted
for the party’s presidential candidate in 1964, when  Lyndon Johnson  defeated Republican Barry Goldwater.  Kansas’s population increased 6.1 percent to 2,853,118 in
2010 from 2,688,539 in 2000, the census found. The number of
white residents dropped 0.2 percent to 2,230,539 as Hispanics
surged 59.4 percent to 300,042.  Meatpacking Draw  While the state is now 78.2 percent non-Hispanic white,
Hispanics are a plurality in some counties with large
meatpacking facilities that have attracted new immigrant groups.  In Finney County, an 18.1 percent drop in the white, non-
Hispanic population left Hispanics with a slight plurality,
17,182 to 17,049. Statewide, Hispanics grew to 10.5 percent from
7 percent of Kansas’s population.    Garden City  in Finney County, about five hours southwest of
Topeka, is home to two packing plants. Nearby Dodge City is home
to four. The factories also employ a large number of Somali
refugees, said  Laszlo Kulcsar , a professor of sociology at
 Kansas State University  in  Manhattan .  In recent years, Kansas has taken a sharp turn to the
right, according to  Joseph Aistrup , a professor of political
science at Kansas State. Voters swept Republican candidates into
every major statewide office last year. Democrats now occupy
only 33 seats in the 125-seat  House of Representatives  -- the
smallest minority Democrats have had since the 1950s, according
to Aistrup.  Kansas and Missouri increasingly share political climates,
he said. The national tide favoring the  Republican Party  “hit
Missouri headlong,” with 71 percent of voters passing a
constitutional amendment in August banning the government from
forcing people to buy health care.  Violent Rivalry  The rivalry between Kansas and Missouri began in the 1850s
during the formation of the Kansas territory. Kansas allowed
males 21 and older to vote whether it would be free or slave-
owning. Many residents of Missouri, a slave-holding state,
crossed the border to vote, angering abolitionists, according to
Tony Mullis, an adjunct professor at  Benedictine College  in
Atchison, Kansas.  A group of Missourians raided Lawrence, Kansas, in 1858.
John Brown responded by murdering Missourians, setting off a
burst of violence that gave rise to the term “Bleeding Kansas.”  “There’s definitely emotions, the spirit of revenge and
vengeance,” Mullis said. “Every state went through this debate,
but there’s no ‘Bleeding Iowa.’ That’s why, even to this day,
there is such passion in the Border War football and basketball
games. Just hopefully, no one gets killed.”  Electoral Split  As Kansas and Missouri have leaned more to Republicans, a
surge in the minority population of  Nebraska  helped tilt the
state in the other direction in the last presidential election.
Nebraska splits its electoral votes based on who wins the
popular count in individual congressional districts.  In 2008, Obama captured the electoral vote for the district
that includes Omaha -- the first time since the system was
changed in 1991. The high voter turnout among blacks in North
Omaha made the difference, said Mike Wagner, an assistant
professor of political science at the University of Nebraska-
Lincoln.  Nebraska’s population rose 6.7 percent to 1,826,341 from
1,711,263, according to the census. A growing part of the
Nebraska electorate is Hispanic; their numbers increased by 77.3
percent during the decade to now represent 9.2 percent of the
state’s population, the census found.  Immigration Debate  The Latino vote is up for grabs between Republicans and
Democrats, Wagner said. The outcome of legislation in the
Nebraska statehouse will determine whether that changes, he
said. Senator Charlie Janssen has proposed an Arizona-style law
that would require police to check the immigration status of
people suspected of being in the country illegally.  “There’s a real chance Nebraska could become more liberal,”
if the legislation passes, Wagner said.  Latinos are central to Nebraska’s future, said Lourdes
Gouveia, a professor of sociology and director of the Office of
Latino/Latin American Studies of the Great Plains at the
University of Nebraska at Omaha.  Between 1980 and 2009, Nebraska’s total population grew 14
percent, while the Latino population grew 435 percent, according
to a study done by the office. Most of the state’s Hispanics
work in meatpacking facilities and manufacturing plants, though
more are taking service-sector jobs such as those with roofers
and laundromats, Gouveia said.  “Employers, managers and company owners are quite aware of
how dependent businesses and the economy of the state are on
this supply of labor,” she said, noting that Nebraska has been
losing its workforce population through aging and young people
moving away.  “The future of the state depends on their children and how
well we educate them,” Gouveia said. “Not simply as cheap labor
that replenishes their parents but as educated, highly skilled
workers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  