-- 
Italy Committee to Consider Libyan Asset Freeze, People Say

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 
2011-03-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/italy-committee-said-to-weigh-freeze-on-qaddafi-assets-during-rome-meeting.html
Authorities in Italy,  Libya ’s main
trading partner, will meet today to consider freezing assets
linked to Muammar Qaddafi and his family, two people familiar
with the matter said.  The  Financial Security Committee , chaired by Treasury
Director General Vittorio Grilli and including representatives
of the government, the central bank, regulators and intelligence
services, will meet in Rome, they said, declining to be named in
line with policy. The meeting precedes a formal decision to
freeze assets tied to Qaddafi, they added.  The European Union agreed on Feb. 28 to implement a
resolution by the United Nations on Libya, imposing an arms
embargo and freezing the assets of Qaddafi and close associates.
The EU may widen sanctions to include more individuals as well
as possibly organizations, an EU official in Brussels said today
on condition of anonymity. While the governments of Spain,
Austria and Germany have announced measures to implement the EU
decision,  Italy  has so far stopped short of freezing assets.  Italy “is applying exactly what was agreed on
internationally,” Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti told
reporters in Istanbul yesterday, according to Ansa newswire.
“We have applied the UN resolution and in Europe we are
discussing” widening the sanctions. A Finance Ministry
spokeswoman, contacted by Bloomberg News, wasn’t immediately
able to confirm the meeting.  The risk for Italy “is that Libya will react and might
even re-nationalize assets we own there,”  Giuseppe Di Taranto ,
an economics professor at Rome’s Luiss University, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  Eni’s Role    Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s biggest oil company, has been present in
Libya for half a century, leaving Italy reliant on the country
for a quarter of its crude oil. Libya has invested in Italian
companies including  Fiat SpA (F) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) 
and  Juventus Football Club SpA (JUVE) , which owns Italy’s most
successful soccer team.  The Bank of Italy this week asked lenders to report
suspicious transactions involving Libyan holdings. In a March 1
 note , the Rome-based central bank cited the UN resolution and
said reporting of such transactions may allow its  financial
intelligence unit  to “suspend” the operations.  Interior Minister Roberto Maroni told a parliamentary
committee on March 2 that Italian market regulator  Consob  should
have a say on whether the country blocks the stakes of Italian
companies belonging to Libyans. Consob and the Treasury said on
that day that the issue was likely to be discussed at the next
meeting of the Financial Security Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  