-- 
Jardine Matheson Says Profit Increased on Car Sales, Residential Projects

-- B y   L i n u s   C h u a
-- 
2011-03-04T10:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/jardine-matheson-underlying-profit-up-31-on-cars-hotels.html
  Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd. (JM)  said
underlying profit rose 34 percent, boosted by car sales in
Indonesia, residential projects in Singapore and rising demand
for its  Mandarin Oriental International Ltd. (MAND) ’s hotel rooms.  Underlying profit, or earnings from its ongoing businesses,
increased to $1.4 billion from $1 billion a year earlier, it
said in a Regulatory News Service statement. Net income surged
78 percent to $3.1 billion from $1.7 billion. The average
estimate of four analysts Bloomberg surveyed was $1.4 billion.  “The positive economic environment seen in  Asia  throughout
2010 underpinned strong performances from most of the group’s
businesses,” Chairman Henry Keswick said in the statement.
“Growth will be harder to achieve in the current year” with
lower contribution from residential sales, he said.  Asian economies led a global recovery last year that’s been
restrained by  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and high U.S.
unemployment. Greater China made up 41 percent of Jardine’s
underlying profit while Southeast Asia contributed 56 percent,
boosted by contributions from its Indonesian auto unit, it said.  The Bermuda-incorporated company, which operates out of  Hong Kong , said sales increased 31 percent to $47 billion.  Jardine shares, which trade in Singapore, have climbed 9.1
percent this year. The shares rose 1.5 percent today to close at
$48. The Straits Times Index has fallen 4 percent this year.  Indonesian Cars  PT Astra International, Indonesia’s biggest automotive
retailer, said 2010 net income jumped 44 percent from a year
earlier, beating analysts’ estimates as auto sales gained with
the central bank maintaining its benchmark interest rate at a
record low and the economy expanded at the fastest pace in six
years. Jardine unit Jardine Cycle & Carriage owns 50 percent of
Astra, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.    Hongkong Land Holdings Ltd. (HKL) , a Jardine unit that’s one of
the biggest office landlords in the city’s financial hub, said
2010 underlying profit rose 4 percent as it completed two
residential projects in Singapore.  While contribution from residential developments at
Hongkong Land will be lower in 2011, this year still looks
positive, Jardine Managing Director Anthony Nightingale said at
a press conference in Hong Kong today. There will be a “gradual
increase” in rent from commercial properties in Hong Kong’s
Central business district, he added.    Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd. (DFI) , Hong Kong’s second-
biggest retailer, said profit rose 13 percent after sales from
hypermarkets in Southeast Asia and its health and beauty chain
in  China  increased.  Jardine recommended a full-year dividend of $1.15 a share,
an increase of 28 percent from the previous year.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  