-- 
U.S. Housing Aid Programs Fall `Far Short,' Panel Head Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-03-04T17:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/kaufman-says-treasury-s-housing-programs-falling-far-short-.html
U.S. housing programs are failing to
help enough homeowners even as taxpayer-funded bailouts
contributed to rescuing the broader economy, the chairman of a
congressional watchdog panel said.  The Troubled Asset Relief Program “has fallen far short in
its efforts to help homeowners stay in their homes,” former
Senator Ted Kaufman, chairman of the Congressional Oversight
Panel for TARP, said at a hearing in Washington today. Overall,
bailout programs “helped pull our markets back from the
abyss,” said Kaufman, a Delaware Democrat.  The U.S. government-backed programs were started to help
homeowners struggling to pay their mortgages, with the aim of
reducing foreclosures.  House Republicans  took a first step
yesterday toward eliminating two of the plans.  The House Financial Services Committee voted along party
lines, 33-22, to kill a program that lowers mortgage payments
for so-called underwater borrowers and an emergency fund for
homeowners who have lost their incomes. To become law, the bill
would need to clear the House as well as the Democratic-
controlled Senate and be signed by President  Barack Obama .  Timothy Massad, the Treasury Department’s acting assistant
secretary for financial stability, said that of the $700 billion
Congress approved for TARP in 2008, the government will spend no
more than $475 billion. About $411 billion has been disbursed,
of which $277 billion has been repaid, Massad said in testimony
prepared for the hearing.  Most Criticized  While the housing programs “have been the most criticized
component of TARP,” they “can continue to ease the pain of
this terrible crisis,” Massad said. “Beyond those immediately
helped, TARP housing programs have also had a positive impact on
mortgage servicing.”  TARP helped pull the  U.S. economy  “back from the brink”
even as it has been “a dismal failure” in reducing
unemployment and jumpstarting the recovery, said Nobel laureate
economist  Joseph Stiglitz , an economics professor at  Columbia
University , in prepared testimony to the panel.  “Four years after the bursting of the real estate bubble
and three years after the onset of recession, unemployment
remains unacceptably high and our economy is running far below
its potential, a waste of resources in the trillions of
dollars,” Stiglitz said. “ The way the program was managed
has, I believe, contributed to the economy’s problems.”  ‘Fundamental’ Problems  Stiglitz said there are “fundamental” problems with the
process of bundling mortgages into securities and selling them
on the secondary market. He said proposals to make mortgage
lenders retain part of the risk associated with their loans
should be considered carefully.  “Securitization means that risks are spread -- no one
bears the full consequences of issuing bad mortgages,” he said.
“That the banks are so reluctant to assume even the 5 percent
risk is disquieting; my own view is even that amount does not
suffice to resolve the risks.”    Allan Meltzer , a professor of political economy at  Carnegie
Mellon University  in Pittsburgh, said TARP “avoided a potential
financial disaster.” The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law
enacted last year fails to discourage future bailouts, he said.  Congress should require banks to increase capital relative
to their assets as assets grow, Meltzer said. For example, if a
bank increases assets by 10 percent, its capital should be
required to increase more than that, he said.  TALF Income  A Federal Reserve official told the panel that the central
bank’s Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility has generated
interest income of almost $600 million, and risk controls are
likely to prevent future losses.  “The experience to date suggests that the multiple risk
controls built into the TALF program have been effective and
losses appear unlikely,” William R. Nelson, deputy director,
division of monetary affairs, said in his testimony. “We
believe that the TALF program represents a very successful use
of TARP funds.”  The Fed program helped restart the asset-backed  securities
market  when credit was tight, Nelson said.  An official of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. official
told the panel that U.S. bank regulators are reviewing the
liquidity plans of Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
other big banks that used a government debt-guarantee program
during the financial crisis.  FDIC testimony  About $267 billion in corporate debt remains backed by the
Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, with 37 percent due to
mature this year and the remaining $167 billion in 2012, said
Jason Cave, the FDIC’s deputy director for complex financial
institutions monitoring.  Cave said banks need to make sure they have enough reserves
to pay off their obligations and obtain new funding, especially
before deciding whether to raise dividends.  The FDIC and the Fed “currently are evaluating the
validity of liquidity plans at the biggest users of TLGP debt,
and we will challenge assumptions that seem overly optimistic,”
Cave said in prepared testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  