-- 
Kenya's President Calls for Domestic Banks to Reduce Their Interest Rates

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-03-04T13:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/kenyan-president-calls-for-domestic-banks-to-cut-interest-rates.html
Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  called
for banks and other financial institutions in the East African
country to lower lending rates to “reasonable levels” in order
to help fuel economic growth.  Kibaki urged Robert Diamond, chief executive officer of  Barclays Plc (BARC) , during a meeting in Nairobi, the capital, to slash
borrowing costs in Kenya as an example for the industry to
follow, according to a statement from his office today.    Barclays Bank of Kenya Ltd. (BCBL) , the country’s second-biggest
lender by market value, is among the local banks reporting
higher profits against the backdrop of economic expansion.
Growth in East Africa’s biggest economy accelerated to 5.4
percent last year from 2.6 percent in 2009, and will probably
reach between 6.5 percent and 8 percent over the next two years,
according to the government.  The economy has been given a boost by eight reductions to
the central bank’s key lending rate since December 2008 to a
record low of 5.75 percent.  The series of cuts have failed to persuade Kenyan lenders
to lower the cost of credit. Interest-rate spreads of 5 percent
to 6 percent would be “profitable,” Kibaki said. Kenyan banks’
 average lending rate  dipped to 14.03 percent in January,
compared with a deposit rate of 3.43 percent.  Surging Profits    Barclays Bank  of Kenya said on Feb. 22 that full-year
profit jumped 74 percent, partly helped by the sale of a custody
business, while  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , Kenya’s biggest lender by
market value, surged 69 percent.  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) ,
said profit in the period climbed 76 percent and  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB) ,
a Kenyan lender, reported a 71 percent increase.  Barclays aims to increase lending in rural locations of 11
African nations, including Kenya, as part of a 10 million pound
($16.3-million) program in partnership with  Care International 
and  Plan International , two U.K.-based charities, Diamond said
in an e-mailed statement today.  The stock of Barclays Bank of Kenya advanced 0.7 percent to
68 shillings at the 3 p.m. close in Nairobi today, bringing its
gain since the start of the year to 6.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 