-- 
Korea Export Bank to Overshoot 2011 Debt Sale Target as Ship Orders Boom

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-04T02:40:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/korea-export-bank-to-overshoot-2011-debt-sale-target-as-ship-orders-boom.html
Export-Import Bank of  Korea , the
state-run lender known as Kexim, boosted its 2011 fundraising
target by about 10 percent as it helps finance A.P. Moller-
Maersk A/S’s order for the world’s largest ships.  The state-run bank will exceed a plan set this year to
raise $8.8 billion through bonds and loans, Chief Executive
Officer Kim Yong Hwan said yesterday. Kexim will issue more debt
in currencies other than dollars, such as pounds, he said.  “A lot of the companies want to get financing in place
before major contracts are awarded and that’s why financing is
becoming more important,” Kim said in an interview in Seoul.
“It’s crucial for us to get more funding quickly.”  Kexim plans to provide loans to Copenhagen-based Maersk to
build as many as 30 of the world’s biggest container ships, an
order that could be worth $5.4 billion, Kim said. Political
upheaval in the Middle East is adding urgency to the fundraising
plan because it may drive yields higher, he said.  “We want to raise funds as soon as we can before the
situation in the Middle East and Africa worsens,” Kim said.
“We also want to make sure we have plenty of funds in place.”  The $8.8 billion fund-raising target is a record for Kexim,
according to the company. In 2010 it raised $8.3 billion, of
which $4.4 billion was in dollars and the remainder in
currencies such as the Hong Kong and Singapore dollars, Indian
rupees and Brazilian real.  Kexim is considering selling U.K. sterling bonds and wants
to spread its funding sources to include emerging countries, Kim
said, without specifying which markets.  Shipbuilders, Refiners  The weighted-average coupon on Kexim’s outstanding bonds is
currently 4.8 percent, compared with 5.5 percent in the first
quarter of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About half of Kexim-backed industry funding this year will
go to shipbuilding and projects such as refineries and power, as
orders are expected rise at least 10 percent according to
government estimates.  South Korean builders may win more than $70 billion of
overseas orders this year, the Transport Ministry estimates. The
world’s top six shipyards, all based in  South Korea , aim to
garner $50.1 billion of contracts this year, 33 percent more
than in 2010, the Knowledge Economy Ministry has said.  Kexim expects to agree by the year’s end how much funding
it will provide for a nuclear power plant order from the  United
Arab Emirates , Kim said. South Korea, led by  Korea Electric
Power Corp. (015760) , won the project in December 2009, the country’s
first overseas nuclear power plant contract. Kim said Kexim
offered to provide as much as $10 billion in its 2009 proposal.  Japan Rivalry  South Korea is competing with countries including Japan and  China  to support exports of equipment and technology by winning
infrastructure projects worldwide. Like Kexim, the state-run  Japan Bank for International Cooperation  is increasing funding
for companies bidding for work abroad.  “To maintain our lead in technology and quality over China
and Japan, we need to make sure there are enough funds available
for South Korean companies as they have ample funds in hand,”
Kim said.  JBIC is considering financial assistance for Toshiba Corp.
in its bid to build a nuclear power station in  Turkey , Tadashi Maeda, head of corporate planning at the state-owned Japanese
bank, said in an interview on Feb. 28.  South Korea aims to secure $400 billion of contracts by
2030 as demand for nuclear energy increases. Korea Electric has
said it’s seeking to build reactors in India and  Malaysia , and
considers  South Africa ,  Thailand ,  Kuwait  and  Saudi Arabia  as
potential markets.  South Korean builders and train makers plan to jointly bid
to build and operate a high-speed railway in  Brazil , competing
with rivals in China and Japan.  Kexim expects the Korean government to decide as early as
the first half of 2011 on a request to increase its capital to
help improve its funding capacity, Kim said. The lender also
plans to provide funds for renewable energy projects, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Seoul at
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  