-- 
Korea Express Shareholders Said to Seek up to $1.8 Billion From Stake Sale

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-04T11:28:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/korea-express-shares-surge-most-in-six-weeks-on-bid-interest-deadline-day.html
Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co.
and  Asiana Airlines (020560)  Inc. aim to raise as much as 2 trillion won
($1.8 billion) from the sale of a controlling stake in Korea
Express Co., according to a person familiar with the situation.    Posco (005490) , Lotte Group and CJ Group expressed interest today in
buying the stake of about 40 percent in the logistics company,
said the person, who declined to be identified as the
information is private. Posco, South Korea’s biggest steelmaker,
and Lotte separately confirmed their interest. CJ Group declined
to comment in an e-mail when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Daewoo E&C and Asiana want to sell Korea Express shares for
as much as 200,000 won apiece, the person said, which is 81
percent more than today’s closing price. The winning bidder will
get control of a company with terminals in  South Korea ’s busiest
ports, a nationwide network of about 10,000  express-delivery
outlets  and a fleet of more than 5,000 trucks.  “Acquiring Korea Express will definitely be a plus because
of its distribution network in the country as well as
overseas,” said Shin Ji Yoon, a KTB Securities Co. analyst in
Seoul. “The sale is gaining a lot of interest and that could
probably push offer prices higher.”  Asiana, South Korea’s No. 2 airline, declined to comment in
a text message sent to Bloomberg News today. It referred calls
to Korea Development Bank, which is arranging the sale. Daewoo
E&C similarly referred calls to the bank, which is also its
parent. Park Chan Ho, a spokesman for the lender, declined to
comment.  Shares Jump  Korea Express, based in  Seoul , advanced 5.7 percent, the
biggest gain since Feb. 7, to close at 110,500 won in the city.
The stock has almost doubled in the past 12 months, compared
with a 24 percent gain for South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index.  Asiana advanced 2.9 percent to close at 10,500 won in Seoul.
Daewoo Engineering rose 3.6 percent to 11,550 won. Both
companies own 24 percent of Korea Express, the nation’s biggest
logistics company.  Shinsegae Co., South Korea’s biggest operator of  discount
stores , scrapped plans to bid for control of Korea Express, said
spokesman Hwang Jong Soon. He declined to elaborate. The sale
may be completed by the end of June,  Korea Development Bank 
Chief Executive Officer Min Euoo Sung said in January.  Daewoo E&C was an affiliate of Asiana until it was taken
over by creditors last year. Parent Kumho Asiana Group lost
control as it struggled to repay debts stemming from its 2006
acquisition of the construction company. Kumho Asiana in January
2010 said that it planned to raise 1.3 trillion won from asset
sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 