-- 
Kravis Says Markets Allow Cheapest Financing `Ever' on Del Monte Takeover

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-03-04T12:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/kravis-says-markets-allow-most-attractive-financing-on-del-monte-buyout.html
  Henry Kravis , co-founder of KKR &
Co., said his firm got the cheapest financing ever to fund its
$5.3 billion takeover of  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM)  after credit
markets rebounded from the global financial crisis.  “It’s probably the most attractive financing that we’ve
ever done,” Kravis said in a speech in Paris yesterday at a
conference organized by political-science university Sciences
Po. “The financial markets rebounded much faster than the
economy.”  KKR, Vestar Capital Partners and  Centerview Partners  said
in November they were offering to take Del Monte, the San
Francisco-based maker of pet foods Meow Mix and Kibbles ‘n Bits,
private. Leveraged-buyout firms including New York-based KKR are
acquiring and selling assets again as banks resume lending and
investors regain appetite for riskier debt such as high-yield
bonds. They led $23.7 billion of buyouts so far this year,
almost double the amount in the same period last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kravis, 67, said his firm achieved a weighted average cost
of capital of about 5.5 percent on the  Del Monte  financing, by
using 72 percent debt to fund the takeover.  Low  interest rates  are pushing financial institutions and
pension funds to buy riskier assets because they are looking for
better returns, Kravis said.  “All the prognosticators who said that private-equity
firms would go out of business much faster than anybody else,
and that they would be gone, this didn’t come true,” Kravis
said. “And one of the reasons is that you could refinance that
debt very soon.”  Tighter Regulatory Environment  Reflecting on the tighter regulatory environment private-
equity firms face, Kravis said managers “could have done a
better job over a longer period of time at explaining what we
do.”  “Politicians, on the other hand, haven’t done a good job
either at understanding what we do,” he said. Kravis told an
anecdote about U.S. government officials unable to distinguish
between  hedge funds  and private equity.  While deal-making is picking up, firms still have
difficulty raising funds, Kravis said.  KKR, which manages about $61 billion and is marketing a new
buyout pool, faces a “tougher fund-raising environment than in
2006,” when it put together a $17.6 billion fund, Kravis said.
He declined to elaborate on the amount KKR may amass this time.  “I worry about everything,” Kravis said when asked about
the economic and geopolitical environment. “You constantly have
to look over your shoulder.”  Private-equity firms pool investors’ money to take over
companies, financing the purchase with mostly debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  