-- 
Kuwait’s Zain 2010 Profit Surges on Sale of African Holdings

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-04T08:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/kuwait-s-zain-2010-profit-surges-on-sale-of-african-holdings-1-.html
Mobile Telecommunications Co.,  Kuwait ’s biggest phone operator known as Zain, posted a fivefold
rise in full-year profit on gains from selling most of its
African operations and adding customers.  Net income climbed to 1.06 billion dinars ($3.8 billion),
or 275 fils a share, from 195 million dinars a year earlier,
Zain said today in an e-mailed statement.  Profit included a 770.3 million-dinar capital gain from the
sale of Zain’s African assets, excluding Morocco and  Sudan , to  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest wireless carrier, for $9
billion in June. Customer numbers rose 23 percent to 37.2
million, Zain said.  Zain, which was in talks to sell a majority stake to
Emirates Telecommunications Corp., had a fourth-quarter profit
of 87.4 million dinars after a loss a year earlier, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on full-year data provided by the
company.  “The decision of divesting the African assets has helped
the Group settle its financial obligations and invest a large
part of the financial gains in its main and cash generative
Middle East markets where the focus will be going forward,”
Chairman Asaad al-Banwan said in the statement. The company
added that its board recommended a dividend of 200 fils per
share.  Commitment Terminated  Zain said March 1 a commitment to sell a 46 percent stake
in the company to  Emirates Telecommunications , known as
Etisalat, was terminated after the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
phone company missed a second deadline in its attempt to acquire
a controlling stake in Zain.  Etisalat failed to complete the due diligence process on
time, according to Kuwait’s Kharafi Group, Zain’s second-biggest
shareholder who were leading the stake sale.  Etisalat said March 2 it is still interested in buying a
stake in Zain. “Information related to the due diligence have
been collected and Etisalat is in the process to study and
analyze the information,” the company’s spokesman Ahmed bin Ali
said in an e-mailed statement.  Etisalat announced Sept. 30 it offered 1.7 Kuwaiti dinars a
share for a majority stake in Zain. Etisalat said Jan. 29 it was
making “good progress” with its due diligence after missing a
Jan. 15 deadline to reach a definitive agreement. Zain needed to
sell its stake in a “timely fashion” for the deal to proceed,
Etisalat also said.  Zain’s board last month turned down offers from Bahrain
Telecommunications Co. and  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM)  to acquire the 25
percent stake in its Saudi unit. Bahrain Telecommunications,
known as Batelco, said March 1 it may consider a revised offer
to buy Zain’s stake in its Saudi unit.  Zain shares rose 4.7 percent to 1,340 fils at the close in
Kuwait yesterday, the last trading day before the weekend. The
stock has lost 11.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  