-- 
Nestle Doesn’t Need New Coffee Brands in U.S., CEO Says

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-03-05T11:58:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/nestle-doesn-t-need-new-coffee-brands-in-u-s-ceo-bulcke-says.html
  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food
company, has strong enough brands to compete in the U.S. single-
serve coffee market without making acquisitions, Chief Executive
Officer Paul Bulcke said.  “We have to do with what we have,” Bulcke said yesterday
in an interview in New York. The Vevey, Switzerland-based
company plans to accelerate expansion of the Nespresso and
Nescafe Dolce Gusto brands in the U.S., he said.  The U.S. single-serve market is dominated by  Green Mountain
Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) , whose Keurig system has an 80 percent
market share. Nestle may consider acquiring  Green Mountain ,
Mitchell Pinheiro, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, said last month. The U.S. company’s market value
is now $5.9 billion.  Nespresso entered the U.S. several years ago and its growth
has been slower than in  Europe  as Americans traditionally are
less fond of Italian espresso, Bulcke said. Nestle started
selling its Dolce Gusto brand at Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in the
U.S. last year. Dolce Gusto can make a wider range of milk-based
coffees, while Nespresso makes espresso.  The first priority for the maker of KitKat bars, which
received more than $28 billion last year from its sale of a
stake in Alcon Inc., is investing for the future, said the 56-
year-old executive. Nestle is boosting its capital expenditure
20 percent this year to 5.5 billion francs ($5.95 billion). It
plans to spend more on marketing, research and factories after
it last month reported 2010 sales growth that beat analysts’
estimates after selling more Nespresso capsules.  ‘True Believers’  “We are true believers in our own growth,” Bulcke said.
“That has always been, if you see it over time, the biggest part
of our growth base.”  Nestle dropped 85 centimes, or 1.6 percent, to 51.95 Swiss
francs yesterday in Zurich trading. The shares have declined 5.1
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 180
billion francs.  The company will also consider acquisitions after spending
5.6 billion francs last year on purchases including Kraft Foods
Inc.’s frozen pizza business, the CEO said. Growth from
acquisitions has “spiked” occasionally, as when Nestle bought
Ralston Purina Co. for $11.9 billion in 2001. “Over time, it has
been one part only of our growth and I feel that’s going to
continue,” he added.  No Worldwide Gap  “There’s no such thing as a worldwide gap that we want to
fill,” Bulcke said. The company has “also reduced our debt,
which is not a bad thing,” Bulcke said, adding that Nestle
wanted to be cautious with its debt level.  Nestle aims to expand its bottled-water business in
emerging markets such as Latin America and  Asia , Bulcke said.
Nestle gets 15 percent of its bottled-water revenue from
emerging markets, compared to 10 percent two years ago, he said.  Nestle also aims to expand its existing brands such as
Butterfinger and Wonka in the U.S. chocolate market. The
company’s U.S. chocolate sales rose more than 10 percent last
year, he said. Nestle is the third-largest chocolate maker in
the country.  When asked if Nestle was interested in bidding for  Hershey
Co. (HSY) , Bulcke said “You can only buy what’s for sale.” He declined
to comment on whether Nestle had ever tried to buy Hershey,
which has the rights to make KitKat in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Tom Mulier} in  New York  at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  