-- 
Ravens Union Representative Says Extension Means Progress Toward NFL Deal

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-03-07T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/nfl-players-agree-on-seven-day-contract-extension-amid-labor-negotiations.html
Chris Carr, a players’ union
representative from the  Baltimore Ravens , said he’s optimistic
that the  National Football League  and its players union resume
efforts will make progress this week toward a new labor
contract.  League and union officials -- arguing over how to divide $9
billion in revenue and avoid a work stoppage in the U.S.’s most-
watched sport -- on March 4 agreed to a seven-day extension of
their current collective bargaining agreement.  Had last week’s deadline had passed without agreement or an
extension, the owners could have locked out the players and shut
down the sport a month after the Super Bowl championship game
drew the biggest audience in U.S. television history. That a
lockout hasn’t happened is a sign that an agreement can be
reached this week, Carr said.  “If they thought the best strategy was to lock the players
out, they would not delay,” the Ravens’ cornerback said in an
e-mail. “I am optimistic.”  George H. Cohen, head of the  Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service , said the extension would end the evening
of March 11. Cohen,  NFL Players Association  Executive Director  DeMaurice Smith  and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell all declined
to discuss specifics of the talks when they left mediation on
March 4.  “There’s a commitment on both sides to engage in another
round of negotiations at the request of the mediation service,”
Smith told reporters in Washington. “We look forward to a deal
coming out of that.”  Antitrust Lawsuits  The union could have abandoned its role in the talks and
become a trade association, starting a process that would let
individual players file antitrust lawsuits against a shutdown of
the sport. The union used the same legal tactic after a 1987
strike broken by replacement players, spawning about 20 lawsuits
-- including one that helped create free agency.  It’s a “good sign” that the union hasn’t decertified and
the owners haven’t instigated a lockout, Carr said.  “The owners go about their business in a way that’s very
conducive to getting a deal done, the players as well,” said
Carr, who’s in his seventh NFL season. “I know the union has
been doing everything they can to get a deal.”  Asked how he gets opposing sides to agree on issues, Cohen,
who brokered a contract agreement last year between  Major League
Soccer  and its players, said it’s not easy.  “The answer is based on longstanding -- look at my gray
hair -- experience in collective bargaining negotiations,” he
told reporters outside his office.  Negotiating Topics  Along with how to divide the league’s record revenue,
negotiation topics include health-care for retirees, extending
the regular season to 18 games from 16 and limiting salaries for
rookie players.  The week-long extension came three days after U.S. DistrictJudge David Doty in  Minneapolis  ruled that team owners
improperly negotiated $4 billion in television rights fees they
might have tapped in a work stoppage. He will consider damages
in a yet-to-be-scheduled hearing.  Doty, ruling on March 1, upheld a union complaint that the
NFL improperly negotiated to receive about $4 billion from its
most prominent television partners --  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox, Comcast Corp.’s NBC,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and  DirecTV (DTV)  --
even if a work stoppage cancels games in 2011.  Repaying Stadium Bonds  A day after Doty’s ruling, the rating company  Standard &
Poor’s  halved, to one year, a two-day-old estimate on the impact
of a work stoppage on the ability of the NFL to repay stadium
bonds.  A lockout that extends into the season, which begins in
September, would empty stadiums financed with a combined $7
billion in taxpayer money, interrupt the schedules of the
largest U.S. broadcasters and leave fans without the sport that
last season was watched by a record 207.7 million viewers.  The league estimates the labor dispute has cost $120
million in ticket sales and sponsorship revenue, and that the
total would increase to $1 billion if it takes until the
scheduled start of the season in September to reach agreement.  Every week of lost games would diminish revenue by about
$400 million, according to Jeff Pash, the league’s chief
negotiator, and Eric Grubman, the NFL’s executive vice president
of business ventures.  Owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the deal, saying it
didn’t account for costs such as those of building stadiums.
They want to double the amount of revenue set aside for expenses
before paying players, according to the union. Under the current
agreement, about $1 billion is deducted before player payrolls
are calculated, for costs related to stadiums, marketing,
NFL.com and the NFL Network, according to Smith.  Paid Too Much  Grubman, a former executive at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
said the deal gives players too much money before accounting for
costs. New stadiums raise league revenue, for example, thus
increasing income for players. Meanwhile, owners bear the
finance and operation costs.  The NFL’s popularity historically has bounced back from
work stoppages. Paid attendance was about 13.6 million the
season before a 57-day strike in 1982 and 13.3 million the
season after. It reached a then-record 13.9 million three years
after the 1987 strike, the most recent work stoppage.  The possibility of a lockout leaves governments that have
subsidized NFL stadiums wondering if those facilities will stand
empty during the season. Mayors and city officials of Houston,
Miami, Minneapolis,  San Diego  and  Kansas City ,  Missouri , have
written the NFL saying a lockout may cost millions in revenue
and wages for workers at stadiums, hotels, restaurants and other
businesses that depend on games.  Pash said he wouldn’t be surprised if owners attend talks
this week.  “I think there has been enough discussion and enough
substance to the discussions that the mediators thought it makes
sense to come back and keep at it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington  at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  