-- 
Nigeria's Sanusi Says Increasing Oil Price Making His Job `More Difficult'

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a ,   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-03-04T14:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/nigeria-s-sanusi-says-increasing-oil-price-making-his-job-more-difficult-.html
Nigerian central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi signaled he may raise  interest rates  for a second
time this year as higher oil prices and state spending threaten
to boost inflation, while the banking crisis eases.  Oil above $100 a barrel was making the central bank’s job
“more difficult” as the government increases subsidies on fuel
imports, adding to inflation pressure, Sanusi said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in London today.  The bank has kept interest rates low since 2009, while
pumping 620 billion naira ($4 billion) into commercial banks to
avoid a collapse of the industry. Now government spending is
rising ahead of April elections, banks are signing
recapitalization accords and inflation accelerated to 12.1
percent in January from 11.8 percent a month earlier.  “We have had to have easy money because we had a banking
system on the brink of collapse,” Sanusi said in a separate
interview today. “We bailed out the banks and everybody knows
you don’t tighten money when your banks are suffering a
liquidity crisis.”  Sanusi raised the central bank’s benchmark interest rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 6.5 percent on Jan. 25 to
help bring inflation down below 10 percent.  Subsidies  Rising  government spending  and an increase in liquidity as
the central bank recapitalizes commercial banks are “reasons
for tightening” monetary policy, Sanusi told Bloomberg TV.
Further rate increases will depend on the March inflation data,
he said.    Nigeria ,  Africa ’s top oil producer, relies on fuel imports
for more than 70 percent of its domestic needs because of a lack
of refining capacity. Sanusi estimated in June last year the
subsidy on domestic fuel prices will cost the government 520
billion naira in 2010.  “Because we import a lot of our energy, we don’t get the
full benefit of the higher oil price because it translates into
higher prices for the petroleum products that we import,”
Sanusi said. “The government is subsidizing those products,
which then means you get an increase in government deficits and
government spending. So my job gets more difficult managing
those things.”  Crude oil has surged 51 percent in the past six months,
reaching as high as $116.30 a barrel in  London  today.  ‘Realistic’  The  International Monetary Fund  said on Feb. 17 that low
interest rates helped to fuel inflation in Nigeria and the
central bank may have to raise rates further to curb prices.
Nigeria should also consider more flexibility in the  exchange
rate , rather than peg the naira at about 150 to the dollar, the
IMF said.  Sanusi said inflation was driven by “structural forces,”
such as rising food prices, and the bank couldn’t lift interest
rates to curb that impact on inflation.  “We are more realistic about the limitations of monetary
policy when inflation is driven by structural forces,” the
governor said. “We think we stand the risk of exaggerating the
short-term impact of tightening” of monetary policy. “If
you’ve got bad weather, there’s nothing you can do about it.”  -- Editors: Ana Monteiro, Philip Sanders, Ben Holland  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;  Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 