-- 
Nigeria Sees Two Banks Agree Takeover Deals, Four More Close, Sanusi Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   P h i l i p   S a n d e r s
-- 
2011-03-04T12:48:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/nigeria-sees-two-banks-sign-takeover-deals-central-bank-says.html
Two Nigerian lenders bailed out by
the  central bank  in 2009 have signed accords to receive more
capital, either through mergers or acquisitions, and four others
are close to signing takeover agreements, central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi said.  “I can confirm that two banks have signed memorandums of
understanding, I’m just not able to disclose their names because
we do have an approval waiting from the Securities and Exchange
Commission,” Sanusi said in an interview in London today. “One
signed almost two weeks ago and one signed yesterday. We have
two that are ready to sign in the next week or two,” and two
others that are also close.  The transactions are part of plans by the Central Bank of  Nigeria  to recapitalize the banking system after the industry
neared collapse following a debt crisis. The central bank fired
the chief executives of eight of the country’s 24 banks and
bailed out the industry with 620 billion naira ($4 billion).  Nine Nigerian lenders were in a “grave situation” and one
was undercapitalized after the crisis, said Sanusi. Since then,  Wema Bank Plc (WEMABANK)  and  Unity Bank Plc (UNITYBNK)  have fixed their problems, he
said.  While the banks have signed accords and four others are
close to signing, agreements with another two lenders have been
held up by “thorny issues,” Sanusi said. The other two banks
in financial trouble are are “very tiny” and “frankly are not
causing us too much concern,” he said.  Takeover Bets  Nigeria’s banking industry will have as many as eight
mergers in the “near future,” most of them within weeks, Deputy
Governor Kingsley Moghalu said Feb. 22.  BusinessDay on Feb. 21 reported at least four of the 10
banks that failed the central bank’s 2009 audit will sign buyout
accords with investors before the end February.  Vine Capital will sign an agreement to buy  Afribank Nigeria
Plc (AFRIBANK) , the Lagos-based newspaper reported, without saying how it
got the information.  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS)  will invest in
Intercontinental Bank Plc, while  First Bank of Nigeria Plc (FIRSTBAN)  will
take a stake in Oceanic Bank International Plc, it said. First
City Monument Bank Plc plans to invest in Finbank Plc, it said.
Capital Alliance will sign an agreement with Union Bank of
Nigeria Plc, according to the newspaper.  Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, a state-owned company,
is seeking approval from the central bank to start the second
phase of its program to buy bad debts from banks, Chief
Executive Officer Mustapha Chike-Obi said Feb. 22.  Amcon, as the company is known, on Dec. 31 signed debt
purchase agreements with 21 of Nigeria’s 24 banks and issued
1.04 trillion naira ($6.8 billion) of so-called consideration
bonds that are not tradable to buy non-performing loans from
them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Sanders in London at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  