-- 
BP Delays TNK-BP Board Vote on Rosneft Deal to Study Plan

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-03-04T16:53:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/tnk-bp-board-to-meet-march-13-to-review-bp-rosneft-alliance.html
TNK-BP’s board delayed a vote on
replacing  BP Plc (BP/)  in an alliance with OAO Rosneft for a second
week, as directors from the U.K. explorer and an independent
member asked for more time to study proposals, the venture said.  The next board meeting is scheduled for March 12 in Paris
and TNK-BP’s participation in the deal is the only agenda item,
the Moscow-based oil venture, owned equally by BP and a group of
billionaires, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Management last month recommended TNK-BP pursue a plan to
explore for Arctic offshore resources with Rosneft and swap a 5
percent stake in BP for shares in  Russia ’s largest oil producer.
A board meeting scheduled for Feb. 25 failed to convene as BP’s
representatives weren’t available.  Joining Rosneft in the deal is “extremely compelling for
TNK-BP and its shareholders, both strategically and
financially,” billionaire owner and interim Chief Executive
Officer  Mikhail Fridman  said in the statement. “We hope that
the next board of directors meeting will support the
management’s recommendations.”  BP spokesman  Vladimir Buyanov  confirmed the next meeting,
while declining to explain why the vote was delayed.  The board must decide on management’s recommendation in two
meetings, according to a request for an injunction filed by the
billionaires last month, a copy of which was read by Bloomberg.  A favorable board vote will give TNK-BP the right to start
talks with BP and Rosneft, Fridman said. Rosneft has said it
needs BP’s expertise to explore offshore Arctic resources,
rather than a partnership with TNK-BP.  ‘Strategic Priority’  Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin , who is also
Rosneft chairman, described the alliance with BP as a
“strategic priority” and warned both BP and the billionaire
shareholders of legal action if the deal is sabotaged, according
to an interview with the Wall Street Journal published on Feb.
22 and confirmed by Rosneft spokesman Rustam Kazharov.  TNK-BP can raise the financing it may need to carry out the
deal, Chief Financial Officer  Jonathan Muir  said this week. The
BP stock for the share swap had a market value of about $7.8
billion when the deal was announced in January, and the U.K.
company was to cover the first $1 billion of investment in the
Arctic project.  BP and AAR, which represents billionaires Fridman,  German Khan ,  Viktor Vekselberg  and  Len Blavatnik , agreed to arbitration
in the week starting March 7, BP said last month. The deal has
been blocked until the end of arbitration.  TNK-BP, Russia’s third-biggest oil producer, has exclusive
rights to pursue opportunities for BP in Russia under the
shareholders’ agreement, according to AAR.  BP and AAR each have four representatives on the board, and
there are three independent directors: former German Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder; Alexander Shokhin, the head of the Russian
Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs big business lobby,
and James Leng, a senior adviser to HSBC Holdings Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  