-- 
North Korea Blocks Citizens' Return Over Four Who Want to Stay in South

-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-03-04T11:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/north-korea-tells-south-korea-to-return-all-31-nationals-rescued-from-boat.html
  North Korea  refused to open gates
with the South to allow the return of 27 of its citizens who had
drifted across the western sea border by boat last month,
demanding four who had requested to stay also be repatriated.  North Korean officials said they wanted all 31 people to be
transferred and didn’t open the border, Lee Jong Joo, a
spokeswoman at the Unification Ministry in Seoul, said by phone.
The North Koreans were returning to a hostel, she said. The
South Korean government will next week continue discussing the
matter with the North, Lee said, without elaborating.  The latest conflict risks worsening relations between the
two countries, which exchanged artillery fire in November after
North Korea shelled a South Korean island, killing four people.
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said on March 1 his country
was open to talks with North Korea.  The government in Seoul “pressured them to remain in  South
Korea  by appeasement, deception and threat,” North Korea’s  Red
Cross  said late yesterday in a statement carried by the state-
run Korean Central News Agency, referring to the four people who
didn’t attempt to return today. “This cannot be interpreted
otherwise than a grave provocation.”  “The incident dims prospects of any talks between the two
nations as it gives a reason for North Korea to doubt South
Korea’s sincerity in wishing to engage in dialogue,” said Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies
in  Seoul . “It also gives an excuse for North Korea to detain
South Koreans if any similar incident occurs in the future.”  Walk Out  The first talks between the two sides in four months
collapsed in February after North Korean military officials
walked out, refusing to acknowledge their country’s role in
sinking a South Korean warship in March that killed 46 sailors.  South Korea “is ready to engage in dialogue with the North
anytime with an open mind,” President Lee said in a national
address on March 1 to mark the anniversary of a 1919
independence movement against Japan’s colonial rule of the
Korean peninsula.  More than 20,000 North Koreans have defected to South Korea
since their 1950-53 conflict ended in a cease-fire, leaving the
two nations technically at war, according to estimates by the
 Unification Ministry .  The number of North Koreans who defected to South Korea
fell for the first time in five years last year as North Korean
leader  Kim Jong Il  tightens border security, according to Seoul-
based rights groups, including the Citizens’ Alliance for North
Korean Human Rights.  In 2010, 2,423 North Koreans are estimated to have arrived
in South Korea, down from a record 2,927 in 2009, according to
the Unification Ministry.  North Korea has boosted cooperation with  China  since the
mid-2000s to crack down on defectors, according to Lee Young
Hwan, head of research at the Citizens’ Alliance, which helped
400 North Koreans enter South Korea since 1996.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  