-- 
Notre Dame Tops Bloomberg Businessweek Undergrad B-Schools List

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-04T19:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/notre-dame-tops-bloomberg-businessweek-undergrad-b-schools-list.html

Press Release  Villanova,  North Carolina ’s Kenan-Flagler and Georgetown’s
McDonough Moves to Top 10  NEW YORK --  University of Notre Dame ’s Mendoza College of
Business was awarded the top spot on Bloomberg Businessweek’s
sixth annual ranking of “The Best Undergraduate Business
Schools.”  Rounding out the top five are  University of Virginia 
(McIntire), Emory (Goizueta),  University of Pennsylvania 
(Wharton), and  Cornell University  (Dyson).  “We’ve seen one common theme in our 2011 rankings: prospective
students are increasingly seeking undergraduate business school
programs that provide international experience,” said Josh
Tyrangiel, editor of Bloomberg Businessweek. “This year’s
rankings reflect programs that have undertaken efforts to answer
the call from students by enhancing their international
curriculum.”  For the second year in a row,  Notre Dame ’s Mendoza College of
Business tops the list, in large part because of the school’s
98% job placement rate three months after graduation and student
satisfaction that’s higher than any other school in the
rankings, according to the Bloomberg Businessweek web site.
Additionally Mendoza’s business program has also focused on the
demand for global exposure and experience by offering study
abroad programs and students are encouraged to take on a
business-related research project while away from  South Bend .  
Student satisfaction is up at each of the 113 schools in the
ranking--8% overall--and the number of senior business students
with internships and job offers is up as well, according to
surveys of more than 86,000 business majors compiled by the
magazine.  Forty-six percent of the senior business majors who
responded to the survey in January reported having a job offer
in hand, up eight percent compared to seniors who responded a
year ago.  Bloomberg Businessweek used nine measures to rank these
programs, including surveys of senior business majors and
corporate recruiters, median starting salaries for graduates,
and the number of alumni each program sends to top MBA programs.
Bloomberg Businessweek also calculated an academic quality
rating for each program by combining average SAT scores,
student-faculty ratios, class size, the percentage of students
with internships, and the number of hours students devote to
classwork.  Bloomberg Businessweek’s ranking of “The Best Undergraduate
Business Schools” will be featured on March 3rd on
businessweek.com and will include expanded content, the full
ranking and methodology.
 http://www.businessweek.com/bschools/content/feb2011/bs20110223_ 
471722.htm.  For more information on Businessweek, please visit
 http://www.businessweek.com/and  follow us on Twitter
( @Businessweek ) and  Facebook .  About Bloomberg Businessweek  Bloomberg Businessweek is a trusted source of essential,
comprehensive insight that business leaders depend on to get
ahead. Combining the innovation and scale of Bloomberg with the
insight and depth of Businessweek, the new Bloomberg
Businessweek offers a global perspective to help senior
executives profit from smarter, faster, and more informed
decisions. Founded in 1929, the magazine is a market leader,
with more than 4.7 million readers each week in 140 countries.
Delivering to a high-income and highly educated audience,
Businessweek.com is an award-winning provider of decision-making
global business news, information, and services, reaching 10
million monthly users. Drawing on 2,300 journalists in 146
bureaus across 72 countries, Bloomberg Businessweek is capable
of covering the business world like no one else can.  Contact for Bloomberg Businessweek:  Heidi Tan, +1 212-617-5375,  htan14@bloomberg.net 
