-- 
Noyer Says ECB Must Reaffirm Commitment to Price Stability Amid Recovery

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 
2011-03-04T15:55:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/noyer-says-ecb-must-reaffirm-commitment-to-price-stability-amid-recovery.html
European Central Bank council member  Christian Noyer  said the bank must reaffirm its commitment to  price stability  as soaring energy costs and faster growth in
“core” euro-area countries fuel inflation pressures.  “Some question marks start to arise that some pressure for
second-round effects develops, that some pass-through is being
seen,” Noyer, who heads the Bank of  France , said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Paris today. “We need to
reaffirm very strongly that we will never let that happen.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  took investors and
economists by surprise yesterday when he said the bank may raise  interest rates  next month for the first time in almost three
years. Euro-area inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent in
February, the third straight month it has been in breach of the
ECB’s 2 percent limit, as political tensions in North Africa and
the Middle East drive oil prices above $100 a barrel.  “So far, inflation expectations have remained fairly well
anchored, but we know that there are risks with having a number
of months with an excessive inflation rate due to the cost of
commodities and energy,” Noyer said.  The ECB’s benchmark rate has been at a record low of 1
since May 2009. Investors now expect the Frankfurt-based central
bank to lift the rate to 1.75 percent by the end of the year,
Eonia forward contracts show.  ‘Core’ Nations  Noyer said companies in “core” euro-area nations are
“doing rather well” and economic growth is “strong,” so
price pressures may develop there.  “On the periphery, it’s less the strength of the economy
than the persistence of indexation mechanisms. We should get rid
of these indexation mechanisms as soon as possible,” he said.  While  Germany ’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, is booming,
peripheral nations such as Ireland and Greece are struggling to
cope with the terms of last year’s European Union bailouts. EU
governments are hammering out a plan for a permanent crisis-
response mechanism to replace the region’s current rescue fund
after it expires in 2013.  “I personally would be in favor of maximum capacity of the
future fund to intervene not only in financing the member
states, which is the basic task it has to do, but also, in case
of need, to intervene on secondary markets,” Noyer said. “We
are clearly in the ECB in favor of maximum flexibility and
enough strength to embrace markets.”  By purchasing  government bonds  to help ease market
tensions, “the ECB has been up to its responsibility,” Noyer
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Paris at  jrandow@bloomberg.net ;  David Tweed  in Paris at  dtweed@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  