-- 
Obama to Name Leibowitz to New Term as FTC Chairman, Glaser to Terror Post

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-03-04T00:07:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/obama-to-name-leibowitz-to-new-term-as-ftc-chairman-glaser-to-terror-post.html
President  Barack Obama  will nominate
Federal Trade Commission Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  to another
seven-year term on the panel, according to a White House
statement.  The president also intends to nominate Daniel Glaser to be
the Department of Treasury’s assistant secretary for terrorist
financing.  Leibowitz was sworn in as an FTC commissioner in 2004 and
was named chairman by Obama in 2009. He is one of five FTC
commissioners.  Leibowitz, 52, has set his sights on fighting so-called
“Pay for Delay” agreements in the pharmaceuticals industry,
when name brand drug firms pay makers of generic drugs to stay
out of the market. Under his leadership, the FTC also called on
the Internet industry in December to come up with a “Do Not
Track” mechanism allowing consumers to say they don’t want
their online behavior and data collected or used in targeted
advertising as part of a wider report on Internet privacy.  Among Leibowitz’s accomplishments are last year’s
settlement with  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, to
prohibit the use of threats, retaliation or exclusive deals to
block customers from buying competitors’ products. The FTC also
settled in June with Countrywide Financial Corp., which paid
$108 million to resolve U.S. claims it charged excessive fees to
struggling home buyers.  Glaser is currently Treasury’s deputy assistant secretary
for terrorist financing and financial crimes, a post he’s held
since 2004. He will be nominated to replace  David Cohen , whom
Obama selected last month to be under secretary for terrorism
and financial intelligence, the department’s top official for
fighting terrorist financing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  