-- 
Obama Tells Miami High School `Highly Educated' Workers Vital to Economy

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/obama-says-highly-educated-workers-essential-to-u-s-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
future of the  U.S. economy  depends on investing in education to
produce “highly skilled” workers, and defended teachers by
imploring the nation to honor them.  “The single most important thing companies are looking for
are highly skilled, highly educated workers,” the president
told students and teachers yesterday at Florida’s  Miami Central
Senior High School . Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, a
Republican, and Education Secretary Arne Duncan accompanied
Obama on the visit.  The president, who has called for the U.S. to lead the
world by 2020 in the percentage of adults with college degrees,
has said that Americans will succeed only by investing to
improve the country’s education system.  The visit was Obama’s eighth to  Florida , a state hit hard
by job losses, since he took office in January 2009. His
appearance at the school was part of the administration’s
campaign to promote Obama’s budget priorities and economic
policies in the face of resistance from Republicans in Congress.  After his remarks, the president attended two fund-raisers
for the  Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee . At the first,
Obama said the U.S. must step up investments not just in
education, but in infrastructure, citing the development of
high-speed rail in  China . “We could use some faster trains,”
he said, drawing applause from supporters at the Fontainebleau
Hotel in  Miami Beach .  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican, has rejected
$2.4 billion in federal funding for a high-speed rail line
between Tampa and  Orlando .  ‘Huge Opportunity’  During the second fund-raiser at the home of  Michael Adler ,
chairman of The Adler Group, a Miami real estate and investment
firm, the president addressed the turmoil in North Africa and
the Middle East, calling recent events a “huge opportunity” to
reshape relations among countries in the region.  The forces that removed  Hosni Mubarak  as president of  Egypt 
“should naturally be aligned” with the U.S. and with  Israel ,
Obama said. He said he had met this week with the heads of
Jewish organizations and assured them that the U.S. relationship
with Israel was “inviolable” and “sacrosanct.”  “But we should not be afraid of the possibilities of the
future,” he said, predicting that the current upheaval in the
region will be seen as “the dawning of an entirely new and
better era.”  Fund-Raisers for 2012  The two DSCC events -- Obama’s first fund-raisers for the
2012 election cycle -- were expected to raise $1 million,
according to a committee spokesman who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Florida has long been considered a swing state in
presidential elections, voting for Republican  George W. Bush  in
2000 and 2004 and for Obama in 2008. Obama beat Republican
Senator  John McCain  in Florida 51 percent to 48 percent,
according to the  Florida Department of State .    Jack Jennings , president of the  Center on Education Policy ,
a Washington-based group that advocates for public education,
said Obama “badly” needs bipartisan agreement on education.  “From his perspective, having Jeb Bush there is wonderful.
From Jeb Bush’s perspective, having a national spotlight on Jeb
Bush is wonderful,” Jennings said.  Bush may be able to help Obama combat Republican concerns
over additional spending on education. When Bush, brother of the
43rd president, left office in 2006, his approval ratings were
above 60 percent.  The 58-year-old Bush, who served two terms as governor and
is now a senior adviser at Barclays Plc, has sometimes been
mentioned as a potential Republican nominee in the 2012 election.  Improved Graduation Rates  In his remarks at Miami Central, Obama said while
graduation rates have risen at the school, he expects them to be
“100 percent.”  “You are proving the naysayers wrong,” he told his
audience at the predominantly black school. “We are proud of
what you do each and every day,” he told the teachers, and said
their profession must be “honored” rather than vilified. He
also said teachers must be accountable.  The Miami school “did it the right way” and fired some
teachers and replaced the principal with the support of the
unions, Obama said.  Florida had a  12 percent unemployment rate  in December,
compared with a nationwide rate of 9.4 percent in December and
8.9 percent in February, according to the U.S. Labor Department.
The Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Pompano Beach metro areas had an
unemployment rate of  11.8 percent  in December, according to
Labor Department figures.  Bipartisan Efforts  Obama has pointed to education overhaul, including merit-
based pay for teachers, improving standardized testing and
providing funding for schools that put innovative reforms in
place, as one of the potential areas for bipartisan cooperation,
said Chester E. Finn Jr., president of the  Thomas B. Fordham
Institute , a Washington education research organization.    Arne Duncan  wants to dramatize their proposal for
reauthorizing the No Child Left Behind Act, in which a key
provision is to institute concentrated turnaround efforts,”
Finn said.  Obama said he wants to revamp education laws to concentrate
on reform and results.  According to the White House, the Miami school is an
example of a “turnaround model for school improvement”
benefiting from $790,000 of  Title I School Improvement Grant 
funds that are designed to help poor-performing schools. Changes
at the school included bringing on a new principal, with an
expanded role, and rehiring no more than 50 percent of the
school’s staff. The school offers after-school sessions in
reading and math, tougher graduation requirements and financial
literacy programs.  $3.5 Billion in Grants  Duncan told reporters in a March 1 conference call that
last year the Education Department spent about $3.5 billion on
so-called School Improvement Grants to help turn around failing
schools.  He said that fewer than 2,000 schools account for about
half of the dropouts, who are mostly blacks and Latinos. Duncan
described these schools as “educational emergencies.”  Miami-Dade County schools established the  Education
Transformation Office  to help 19 consistently poor-performing
schools through revamping curriculum, training teachers and
working with families.  “If they think they have a school that shows the good
effects of a concentrated, targeted, focused turnaround effort,
they will celebrate it,” Finn said.  Budget Proposal  Obama’s  2012 budget proposal  sent to Congress Feb. 14 calls
for a reduction in higher education outlays by $10 billion,
while increasing spending for kindergarten through high school
education by 6.9 percent to $26.8 billion.  “Our job is not just to cut, even as we find ways to cut
Spending,” Obama said yesterday. “What we can’t do is cut back
on investments like education that help us create jobs.”  “We can’t sacrifice our future,” he said.  The president has vowed to expand programs such as  “Race
to the Top,”  which offers money for states that follow the
administration’s prescriptions for raising standards in grade
schools and high schools. Obama proposed $1.4 billion for the
 Education Department  for competitions such as “Race to the
Top,” which doled out $4.35 billion to states in two rounds of
funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  