-- 
Mobius Says Oil's Rally Not Over Amid Middle East Turmoil, Trend is Up

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   L i s a   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-03-04T19:44:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/mobius-says-trend-is-up-for-crude-oil-as-middle-east-turmoil-escalates.html
Oil will gain, extending a rally
that sent prices to a 29-month high amid turmoil in the Middle
East, said  Mark Mobius , executive chairman of Templeton Asset
Management’s Emerging Markets Group.  “The trend is up” for oil, Mobius said in an interview
today with Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s “Fast
Forward.” “I’m not predicting any particular level. Of course,
there will be lots of volatility. But if you look at the long-
term trend it’s definitely up.”  Crude in  New York  surged this week on concern unrest in  Libya  will spread to other North African and Middle East energy
exporters, curbing shipments. Mobius also said popular revolts
in the region are putting governments on notice that they must
change to benefit their citizens.  Copper prices will also continue to rise and  Brazil  still
offers opportunities for investors, Mobius said.  “We’re still pretty bullish on Brazil,” Mobius said. “If
you look at Brazil, they have everything going for them”
including increasing consumer demand and surging commodities, he
said.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’
equities has slipped 1.1 percent this year, compared with a 4.6
percent gain in the MSCI World gauge of developed countries. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 5.8 percent in the
period.  Emerging Market Fund Flows  Brazilian stocks have outperformed regional peers Chile and
Mexico this year as rising oil and iron-ore prices boosted
Petroleo Brasileiro SA and Vale SA, the benchmark Bovespa
index’s biggest companies by share-weighting. Last year, the
Bovespa posted its worst-ever performance against the MSCI
Emerging Markets gauge, climbing 1 percent as Petrobras issued
$70 billion in shares.  Mobius said investors are continuing to bet on emerging
markets.  “The flows of funds in emerging markets continues at a
pretty high rate,” he said. “That tells you something about
the risk appetite out there.”  Chinese property prices are too high and it’s still too
early to invest in the industry, he said.  “We think it’s overbought,” Mobius said. “It’s not quite
time to be in the property sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Murphy in New York at 
 lmurphy25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  