-- 
Crude Oil Heads for Its Third Weekly Gain as Unrest Spreads to Middle East

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-03-04T08:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/oil-falls-a-second-day-on-offer-to-mediate-libya-conflict-from-venezuela.html
Oil rose, heading for a third weekly
gain, as unrest in  Libya  renewed concern supply disruptions may
spread to the Middle East while signs of U.S. economic recovery
stoked speculation fuel demand will increase.  Futures are 5 percent higher this week, after surging to
the highest in 29 months, as Libyan forces loyal to Muammar Qaddafi continued attacks on rebels and protests spread to Iran
and Oman. Oil climbed as much as 0.9 percent today before a
report that will probably show U.S. employers added more workers
last month.  “It’s fear and the expectation that this unrest could
spread” that has driven oil higher,  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, said by
telephone today. Economic data from the U.S. this week has been
“positive,” he said.  Crude for April delivery rose as much as 94 cents to
$102.85 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, and was at $102.66 at 4:14 p.m. in  Singapore . Yesterday, the contract slipped 32 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $101.91, the first decline in three days. Prices are
28 percent higher than the past year.    Brent crude  for April settlement was at $115.85, up $1.06,
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It slid $1.56,
or 1.3 percent, to $114.79 yesterday.  Technical indicators showed the market was “overbought”
for a fourth consecutive day. Crude’s 14-day relative strength
index rose to 74.6 from 73.5 yesterday, Bloomberg data showed. A
reading of 70 typically indicates prices are set to retreat,
while 30 suggests they may rise.  Supplies Cut  Oil fell as much as 2 percent yesterday after Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  offered to mediate the conflict in Libya,
which has cut supplies from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries’ ninth-biggest producer. The plan was
rejected by Libyan opposition leaders.  Fighting has cut crude production in the North African
country by as much as 1 million barrels a day, the  International
Energy Agency  said. Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest producer,
pumped 1.6 million barrels a day in January, according to
Bloomberg estimates.  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt,
while there have been protests in countries including  Iraq ,
Iran, Yemen and Oman OPEC’s biggest oil producer. Websites have
called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on March 11 and
March 20, according to Human Rights Watch.  Prices closed at the highest since September 2008 on March
2 after Iranian protesters clashed with security forces in
Tehran while demonstrations escalated in Oman.  Iran  is the
second biggest producer in OPEC and Oman is the largest Middle
East producer outside the group.  ‘Enough Oil’  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said yesterday
that the world has enough oil available to soften the blow of
any disruption.  Saudi Arabia  is “ready to supply incremental
change in demand,” to cover any shortfall from Libya, Saudi
Arabian Oil Co.’s Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al-Falih said
Feb. 28.  Oil at $100 a barrel will have a “bad impact” on the
global economic recovery, especially on emerging economies, IEA
Executive Director  Nobuo Tanaka  said in an interview with  Andrea
Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television yesterday. The IEA is the
Paris-based adviser to 28 nations on energy issues.  Prices also rose on signs the  U.S. economy  is gaining
strength and fuel demand is recovering. Service industries
expanded in February at the fastest pace since 2005 and fewer
Americans unexpectedly filed claims for jobless benefits,
reports showed March 3.  U.S. Economy  A U.S. government jobs report today will probably show
employers added more workers last month, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, bolstering confidence
growth in the world’s biggest economy is accelerating.
Applications for  unemployment benefits  fell by 20,000 to 368,000
last week, beating estimates, Labor Department data showed
yesterday.  U.S. crude inventories dropped by 364,000 barrels to 346.4
million in the seven days ended Feb. 25, the first decline in
seven weeks, a March 2 report from the Energy Department showed.
A 750,000-barrel gain was projected, according to the median of
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Crude’s gains are inflating the cost of refined oil
products. Gasoline prices are up 11 percent this week, heading
for the biggest weekly gain since Oct. 16, 2009. Motor fuel for
April delivery advanced as much as 2.21 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $3.0483 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  