-- 
Mongolia Concerned ‘Hot Money’ Heats Economy, Javkhlan Says

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-04T06:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/mongolia-concerned-hot-money-heats-economy-javkhlan-says-1-.html
Mongolia is concerned about the
destabilizing effect of “hot money” inflows on the economy as
it begins to develop large coal and copper mines, said Bold
Javkhlan, the first deputy governor of the central bank.  The country spent an equivalent 180 billion tugrik ($140
million) last year to stabilize the  exchange rate  and will keep
the policy this year as expected commodity price gains and the
start of operations at new mines pressure the currency, Javkhlan
told a forum in Ulan Bator, Mongolia’s capital. About 40 percent
of money inflows into Mongolia are short-term, he said.  “One issue I’d like you all to be concerned with is hot
money,” Javkhlan said. “The real exchange rate has quite a gap
with the nominal. The more this grows, the more speculative
money will come in.”  The tugrik has gained 15.4 percent against the dollar since
Jan. 1 last year and 19.2 percent versus the euro as the
country’s second-largest export, copper, hit a record $10,190 a
metric ton on Feb. 15, and coal prices advanced on supply
disruptions from  Australia . Mongolian banks hold about 1.5
trillion tugrik of “extra” liquidity, Vice Minister of Finance
Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt said March 2.  Oyu Tolgoi  Oyu Tolgoi, a copper and gold mine being developed by Rio
Tinto Group with Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. and the Mongolian government,
is due to start operating in 2012. The mine will account for 30
percent of Mongolia’s gross domestic product when fully
operational in 2020, according to the venture.  Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi, operator of the eastern part of the
coal field which is estimated to hold some 6.4 billion tons of
the fuel, will start mining and exporting within two months. It
may produce about 1 million metric tons this year, Lkhagva
Ganbat, a company board member, said March 2. Annual output may
reach 15 million tons in three years, he said.  “From 2014, when most of the mining projects are up and
running we don’t need to be scared of this money flows coming in,
because it will be real money going into the economy,” Javkhlan
said. “The main goal now is stability of the fiscal system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  