-- 
Orders to U.S. Factories Climb Most in More Than 4 Years

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-04T16:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/orders-to-u-s-factories-jumped-by-most-in-more-than-four-years-in-january.html
Orders to U.S. factories climbed in
January by the most in more than four years as demand for
commercial aircraft rebounded after slumping the previous month.  Bookings for manufacturers’ goods increased 3.1 percent,
the most since September 2006, after a revised 1.4 percent gain
in December that was larger than previously estimated, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington. Orders
excluding transportation equipment also advanced, propelled by a
jump in demand for non-durable goods that may reflect higher
commodity prices.  Companies including  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Deere & Co. are
benefiting from improving demand in the U.S. and abroad, which
may prompt further gains in factory employment. The Federal
Reserve this week said “solid growth” at manufacturers led to
stronger labor market conditions in several regions.  “The manufacturing sector is quite strong,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in
Pittsburgh. “We have a good increase in orders, a very good
increase in shipments, and even inventories are showing some
rise.”  Economists forecast factory orders would rise 2 percent,
according to the median of 65 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from 1 percent to 4 percent.  Factory Payrolls  Employers added 192,000 workers to payrolls in February and
the jobless rate unexpectedly dropped to 8.9 percent, figures
from the Labor Department also showed today. Factories created
33,000 jobs after a 53,000 increase in January.  Orders for durable goods, which make up more than half of
total factory demand, increased a revised 3.2 percent in
January, after an initially reported 2.7 percent gain, today’s
figures from the Commerce Department showed.  The value of airplane bookings jumped to $7.4 billion in
January, up from $141 million the prior month.  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, fell 6.2
percent after a 4 percent gain in December, the figures were
little changed from last week’s report on durable goods.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, decreased 1.9 percent after a 2.4
percent increase in December, also little changed from last
week.  Bookings for non-durable goods, including petroleum and
chemicals, climbed 3.1 percent in January for a second month,
today’s report showed.  Input Prices  In January, the value of petroleum refinery shipments
climbed 8.1 percent, and that of chemical products advanced 1.3
percent, which may reflect higher prices.  Factory inventories increased 1.3 percent in January, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.25 months at
the current sales pace, down from 1.26 the prior month and the
fewest since April.  All  Federal Reserve  districts except  St. Louis 
“experienced solid growth in manufacturing production” in
January and early February, the central bank said this week in
its Beige Book report, an anecdotal account of the economy
released two weeks before meetings of the  Federal Open Market
Committee .  GM’s U.S. sales in January rose more than analysts’
estimates, aided by bigger discounts, pickups and new models,
according to research firm Autodata Corp. GM sales gained 22
percent to 178,896 vehicles from a year earlier.  January ‘a Good Start’  “January signaled a good start for the year for us,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of U.S. sales operations, said Feb.
1 on a conference call. “It’s good for the  U.S. economy .”  Sales at carmakers picked up further last month, pointing
to production gains in coming months. Vehicle sales rose to a
13.4 million annual rate, the fastest since the 14.2 million
pace during the U.S. government’s “cash for clunkers” program
in August 2009.  Other reports showed manufacturing, which accounts for 11
percent of the economy, remained at the forefront of the
economic recovery in February. Factories expanded at the fastest
pace in more than six years, according to an Institute for
Supply Management report released March 1. The Institute for
Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business barometer rose to the
highest level since July 1988.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  