-- 
Total Agrees to Buy 60% of SacOil Block in Democratic Congo

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-03-04T15:21:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/total-agrees-to-buy-60-of-sacoil-block-in-congo-sacoil-s-ceo-vela-says.html
  Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
producer, agreed to buy 60 percent of an oil block in Democratic
Republic of Congo along the border with Uganda partly owned by
two South African companies.    SacOil Holding Ltd. (SCL)  and Divine Inspiration Group Ltd. will
each retain a 12.5 percent share in block 3, while Congo is
expected to take a 15 percent stake, SacOil Chief Executive
Officer Robin Vela said by phone today from Johannesburg. Total
spokeswoman Phenelope Semavoine confirmed the agreement by phone
from Paris.  Total will pay a fee of $15 million and all exploration
costs, according to a SacOil statement. DIG and SacOil could
receive as much as $108 million in bonus payments if the
decision is made to develop the blocks and commercial production
begins, it said.  Total is the second major company in the past six months to
join Congo’s burgeoning oil exploration sector after  Italy ’s  Eni
SpA (ENI)  bought into a block. The central African country, which is
about the size of Western Europe, is in the process of
allocating dozens of oil blocks.  “This will be a nice addition to our portfolio given our
interest in the region,” Semavoine said.  Ugandan Side  Total is also in talks to buy into blocks owned by  Tullow
Oil Plc (TLW)  on the Ugandan side of the border, Total Chief Executive
Officer Christophe de Margerie told reporters Feb. 16. The
Ugandan government has delayed final approval of the agreement
pending its claim for capital gains tax from Heritage Oil Plc,
which was Tullow’s former partner in the region.  Block 4, the last available oil block along Congo’s border
with  Uganda , is also of interest to Total, Congo’s Oil Minister
Celestin Mbuyu said Feb. 14.  SacOil shares rallied to the highest intraday level since
May 1998, climbing as much as 15 percent to 2.48 rand and
trading 6.5 percent up at 2.30 rand by 5:15 p.m. in
Johannesburg, a fourth day of gains.  DIG, which is waiting for presidential approval for three
oil licenses in Congo’s central basin, plans to list on the
Toronto Stock Exchange later this year, Chief Executive Officer
Andrea Brown said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 