-- 
OTP Fourth-Quarter Net Income Declines 15% on Bank Tax, Misses Estimates

-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-03-04T12:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/otp-fourth-quarter-net-income-declines-15-on-bank-tax-misses-estimates.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, said fourth-quarter profit dropped 15 percent after the
country introduced a banking tax last year.  Net income declined to 17.2 billion forint ($88.2 million)
from 20.3 billion forint a year earlier, the company said in a
 statement  published on the Budapest Stock Exchange  website 
today. That missed the 19.3 billion-forint average projection of
11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Profit excluding the payment of extra taxes in Hungary and
goodwill impairment charges was 31.8 billion forint in the
period. Revenue gained 1 percent to 202.8 billion forint.
Budapest-based OTP, which has subsidiaries in nine countries in
central and eastern  Europe , said results in  Russia  and Ukraine
were “well above expectations,” while  Romania  and Montenegro
are “still making losses.”  “Russia was once again a key positive, with strong volume
growth,” Mark Macrae, an analyst at KBC Securities with a
“buy” recommendation on the stock, wrote in a note to clients.
OTP rose for the first time in four days, adding 2 percent to
5,668 forint as of 12:39 p.m. in Budapest trading.  The result in Russia was driven by growth in credit cards
and personal loans and expansion in the country and Ukraine may
help OTP’s loan growth to continue, according to a presentation
handed to reporters in Budapest today.  ‘Relatively Slow Growth’  “We are expecting relatively slow growth but nevertheless
growth in loans,” said Deputy Chief Executive Officer Laszlo Bencsik, declining to give a 2011 profit forecast. The bank may
pay a “moderate” dividend this year as it wants to preserve
capital, Bencsik said. This “is justified as we can’t say the
crisis is gone,” he added.  Net interest income, the difference between what OTP pays
on deposits and charges for loans, rose an annual 2 percent to
155.1 billion forint in the period. Fees and commissions climbed
9 percent to 37.6 billion forint. The bank cut provisions for
bad loans by 12 percent to 69.8 billion forint.  OTP wants to increase its market share in  Croatia ,
Slovakia,  Serbia  and Romania and doesn’t exclude acquisitions
there, according to Deputy CEO Daniel Gyuris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  