-- 
Loughner Charged With Slaying of Six at Giffords' Tucson Community Meeting

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-04T22:53:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/loughner-indicted-by-grand-jury-on-multiple-murder-charges-in-tucson-case.html
Jared Lee Loughner was charged with
killing six people in a Jan. 8 shooting rampage in Tucson,
Arizona, as U.S. prosecutors broadened their case to include
victims who weren’t federal employees.  Loughner, 22, was charged in a 49-count grand jury
indictment with the murder of U.S. District Judge John M. Roll
and Gabriel M. Zimmerman, an aide to U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , as well as the slaying of four other Arizona
residents who attended Giffords’s community meeting outside a
Tucson supermarket.  The four people killed, including a 9-year-old girl, who
weren’t federal employees were participating in a federally
provided activity, U.S. Attorney Dennis Burke in Phoenix said
today in a statement. Loughner may face the death penalty if
convicted on the murder charges, according to the statement.  “These final four Arizonans’ lives were extinguished while
exercising one of the most precious rights of American citizens,
the right to meet freely and openly with their Member of
Congress,” Burke said in the statement.  The indictment follows an earlier one in which Loughner was
charged with attempting to assassinate Giffords, who survived a
gunshot through the head, and the attempted murder of two of her
aides at the community meeting. Loughner pleaded not guilty to
those charges on Jan. 24. The superseding indictment also
charges Loughner with injuring the participants who weren’t
federal employees.  March 9 Hearing  Larry A. Burns, the San Diego-based federal judge who was
assigned to the case after U.S. judges in  Arizona  recused
themselves, has set a hearing in Tucson for March 9, when
Loughner is expected to answer to the new charges. Burns has
said he wants the trial to start no later than Sept. 20.    Judy Clarke , Loughner’s lead lawyer, didn’t immediately
return a call to her office.  The significant expansion of the case may make a September
trial date overly ambitious, Marcellus McRae, a trial lawyer
with Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP in  Los Angeles  and a former
federal prosecutor, said in a telephone interview.  “It certainly reflects a desire by the government to be
comprehensive,” McRae, who isn’t involved in the case, said.  It is possible prosecutors will streamline the case and not
bring duplicative charges, such as the numerous counts of using
a firearm in committing a violent crime, so as not to confuse
jurors, McRae said.  13 People Wounded  Roll and Zimmerman were among those killed before
bystanders tackled the suspect. Thirteen people were wounded.
Roll, 63, was the chief judge of Arizona federal court. He had
gone to the meeting to thank Giffords, an Arizona Democrat, for
her help with the shortage of jurists in the state.  Loughner told police he was “taking the Fifth,” a
reference to his constitutional right not to incriminate
himself, after he was arrested, his lawyers said in a March 1
court filing. That filing was a request for a court order
barring prison officials from providing their observations of
Loughner’s behavior in prison to the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation .  The superseding indictment also charges Loughner with
using, carrying, brandishing and discharging a firearm in
relation to a crime of violence and causing death through the
use of a firearm.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  