-- 
House to Support Defense of Marriage Act That Obama Rejects, Boehner Says

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-04T21:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/house-to-defend-u-s-defense-of-marriage-act-boehner-says.html
The Republican-controlled  House of
Representatives  will take steps to defend a U.S. law banning
federal recognition of gay marriage, a statute the Obama
administration concluded is unconstitutional.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said he will convene a
leadership group to take action to defend the 1996 Defense of
Marriage Act. The  Justice Department  has told courts it won’t
defend the constitutionality of the law, which bars gay married
couples from collecting federal benefits when eligibility is
determined by marital status, such as Social Security survivor
payments.  “The constitutionality of this law should be determined by
the courts -- not by the president unilaterally -- and this
action by the House will ensure the matter is addressed in a
manner consistent with our Constitution,” Boehner said in a
statement.  Attorney General  Eric Holder  announced Feb. 23 the Justice
Department’s conclusion that the law, passed by Congress with
bipartisan majorities, discriminates against gay couples who
were married in jurisdictions where such unions are legal.  Five states and the  District of Columbia  allow gay
marriages. A gay marriage measure has passed one house of
Maryland’s legislature.  Boehner said he will convene a bipartisan leadership group,
which is controlled 3-2 by Republicans and has authority to
instruct the House counsel to take legal action.  ‘Indefensible’ Law  House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, a member of the
leadership group, called the law “indefensible” and said
Boehner’s decision was a “distraction from our most pressing
challenges.”  The legal effort “will cost the House hundreds of
thousands of taxpayer dollars,” said Pelosi of  California .  The Obama administration said it will continue to enforce
the law’s prohibition of benefits such as joint-filing status on
federal income tax returns for married couples.  At a March 2 hearing on the Justice Department’s 2012
budget, Republican lawmakers questioned Holder about whether his
decision was politically motivated.  “Considering the fact that DOJ has vigorously defended the
law in the past, can you see why this would be viewed as a case
of political opportunism?” Virginia Republican Frank Wolf asked
Holder.  “What we did was apply the facts and the law in a neutral
and detached way and made the determination” to stop defending
the statute, Holder said.  Death of Spouse  In a  New York  federal court, Edith Schlain Windsor is
seeking $350,000 in estate taxes she says she shouldn’t have
been required to pay on the death her spouse, Thea Clara Spyer,
whom she married in  Canada  in 2007.  Another challenge to the law in Connecticut involves a
retired Navy employee, Joanne Pederson, who sued after the
government wouldn’t let her enroll her female spouse for federal
health-insurance benefits.  The government said in 2004 that there were 1,138 federal
programs -- such as veterans’ survivor benefits, Social Security
and government pensions -- for which eligibility was determined
by marital status.  The cases are Windsor v. U.S., 1:10-cv-8435, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York, and Pedersen v. OPM, 3:10-
cv-1750, U.S. District Court, District of  Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  