-- 
How Buying Sex Evolved Into Helping Prostitutes: Ann Woolner

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-03-04T00:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/how-buying-sex-evolved-into-helping-prostitutes-ann-woolner.html
One morning this week, two Georgia
lawmakers did a remarkable thing. These Republican men from
affluent, conservative districts stood before the state House of
Representatives to speak up for teenage prostitutes.  Girls are manipulated and violated, held captive through
violence, isolation, threats, economic dependence and emotional
abuse, said Majority Whip  Edward Lindsey , whose district covers
the wealthiest neighborhoods of Atlanta.  “Right now there are hundreds of girls all across Atlanta
and this region who are waiting in hotel rooms to be purchased
by men on the Internet,” said Representative Buzz Brockway,
from the suburbs northeast of the city.  My, how times have changed. In the 1950s, when Georgia
lawmakers came to the state’s biggest city for their annual
legislative sessions, they held their own “whore auctions,”
says historian  Clifford Kuhn , who teaches at  Georgia State
University .  The legislator with the winning bid didn’t always keep the
prize for himself. Sometimes he’d give her to a key constituent
in exchange for continued support at election time, says Kuhn.  As for the woman, traditional views of the prostitute
justified whatever came her way. Whether considered a good-time
girl, a fallen woman, a call girl leading a life of glamour, she
had chosen her lot. And though she was a lawbreaker, hers was a
victimless crime.  Maybe there are some happy hookers out there, but they are
a comparative few within a sea of misery that their outsized
myth helps create. If you meet such a person,  ask  her how she
started out in the business and how old she was.  Victim Status  Increasingly, the prostitute is now understood to be a
trafficked object, a slave to a pimp, a victim trapped in
demeaning, dangerous servitude.  What if she’s too young to legally consent to sex? State
laws say she is a victim of rape even if she willingly engaged
in sex. But if money’s involved, she can be jailed as a
prostitute in most states, even if a pimp forced her into it.  With so many conflicting views, it can be difficult to
write laws to help people brutalized by those who buy and sell
them. If she’s a victim, she should be protected. If she’s a
criminal, she should be prosecuted.  In grappling with such conflicts, states across the country
have been rewriting laws to make it tougher on traffickers,
pimps and johns and easier on those they prostitute.  Twenty-Five Years  New York, Illinois and Washington state, for example, have
so-called safe harbor laws that “ensure that children, from the
moment they are discovered in prostitution, are assisted with
services rather than placed in the juvenile justice system,”
says Mary Ellison, policy director for the  Polaris Project  in
Washington, D.C.  At the same time, beefed-up sentences meant a 25-year  stint 
for an Iowa man who prostituted two runaway teens. In  Louisiana ,
a man who kept a 15-year-old in a motel room while pimping her
got 18 years.  This week, the Georgia House passed some of the most
progressive  legislation  in the country on the subject. The vote
was 168-1, and when it passed the lawmakers broke into applause.  For traffickers, pimps and johns, the bill imposes higher
fines and longer sentences, which get even longer if their
victims are young. There would be a 25-year minimum prison
sentence for using coercion to traffic someone under 18. Buying
sex with a 16-year-old would bring a sentence of at least 5
years. Younger than that and it’s a 10-year minimum.  Jail Pass  At least as important, the bill would make it harder for
the sellers and buyers of sex to defend themselves. Didn’t know
her age? Wouldn’t matter. Was she previously involved in selling
sex? It would be harder for pimps to raise that as a defense.  As for the prostituted child or adult (regardless of
gender), the  Georgia  bill would offer a get-out-of-jail-free
card to those who can show they were coerced into it. Physical
abuse, threats, confinement, destruction of immigration
documents, drugging, financial control -- all would be
considered coercion and could be used as a defense against a
prostitution charge.  It’s not everything advocates had wanted. Children can
still be prosecuted, and it doesn’t set up services to help them
get out of prostitution.  But it’s a giant step forward. And it applies to those
trafficked for labor servitude, not just for sexual purposes.  Bipartisan  The legislation is headed for likely passage in the  Senate ,
an assembly that caters to the Christian Coalition on issues
like the Sunday sale of alcohol.  But on this one, people usually on opposite sides of social
issues came together: religious groups and feminists,
Republicans and Democrats.  The new Republican attorney general, Sam Olens, contributed
ideas he picked up from the National Association of  Attorneys
General . Prosecutors worked on the bill with a group called  A
Future Not a Past , which aims at ending the prostitution of
girls.  Georgia Women for a Change  suggested approaches from
national anti-trafficking organizations. A Baptist group that
last year opposed a bill that would have banned prosecuting
underage prostitutes supported this one.  Atlanta’s public  radio  and television stations ran special
reports on the topic. A conservative columnist for the Atlanta
Journal-Constitution, Kyle Wingfield,  lauded  the bill.  A state commission and a private study opened lawmakers’
eyes to the deeply troubling scope of the problem and its
consequences.  “We created a cultural shift,” says Stephanie Davis,
executive director of Georgia Women for a Change.  A cultural shift is exactly what it took.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Charles W. Stevens at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  