-- 
Toyota Motor Debt Rating Cut to AA- at Standard & Poor’s on Profit Outlook

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-04T21:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/toyota-s-debt-rating-cut-one-level-at-standard-poor-s-on-profit-concern.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
biggest carmaker, had its long-term debt rating cut by  Standard
& Poor’s , which cited the company’s “weak” profitability, five
weeks after Japan’s credit rating was lowered.  Toyota’s rating was reduced one step to AA-, the fourth-
highest level, from AA, S&P said today, giving the debt a
“stable” outlook. Moody’s Investors Service rates the Toyota
City, Japan-based carmaker’s debt Aa2, the third-highest level.  “The downgrade reflects our opinion that Toyota’s
profitability is unlikely to recover in the next one to two
years to a level that we view as appropriate for the rating,”
S&P said in a statement.  Toyota, whose net income declined 39 percent to
93.6 billion yen ($1.1 billion) in the quarter ended Dec. 31,
last week recalled 2.2 million vehicles. That followed earlier
recalls of more than 8 million cars for repairs related to
sudden unintended acceleration.  “The downgrade is regrettable,” said Keisuke Kirimoto, a
Toyota spokesman. “However we want to continue to take care of
each of our customers and work toward improving our
profitability in the long term.”  Toyota’s rating by S&P remains the highest among global
carmakers. Honda Motor Co. is a notch behind with a long-term
rating of A+ from S&P.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s rating is A-, Nissan
Motor Co. and Daimler AG rate BBB+, and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  is
BBB.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the most profitable U.S. automaker, and  General Motors Co. (GM)  have BB- ratings from S&P, or three levels
below investment grade.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts fell $1.20, or
1.3 percent, to $90.99 at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. They’ve gained 16 percent this year.  Sovereign Ratings  On Feb. 8, Toyota boosted its full-year profit forecast by
40 percent, saying net income may more than double to
490 billion yen for the 12 months ending March 31. Toyota
followed Honda in boosting its earnings estimates as the global  auto industry  recovers from the financial crisis.  “The downgrade shouldn’t have any big impact on Toyota’s
ability to raise funds,” said Masataka Kunugimoto, an analyst
at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo, adding that the downgrade may
be triggered by the recent lowering of Japan’s rating. “It
doesn’t mean Toyota’s credit is shaky.”  S&P lowered Japan’s credit rating on Jan. 27 for the first
time in nine years as persistent deflation and political
gridlock undermine efforts to reduce a 943 trillion yen debt
burden. The world’s most indebted nation is now ranked at AA-,
putting the country on a par with  China , which likely passed
Japan last year to become the second-largest economy.  Toyota was rattled by recalls totaling more than 10 million
vehicles over the past 1 1/2 years, most of which related to the
risk of cars uncontrollably speeding out of control.  U.S. Probe  President  Akio Toyoda  appeared before the  U.S. Congress 
last year to testify on the recalls. The U.S. National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration last month wrapped up a probe into
the matter, freeing the company from further government
allegations related to it.  The carmaker on Feb. 25 won approval for a $10 million
settlement with the family of a California Highway Patrol
officer who, along with three others, died in a crash in August
2009 after he couldn’t bring his Lexus ES350 sedan to a stop.  Toyota and rivals including VW and GM, as well as their
suppliers, have been grappling with rising raw-material prices
that inflate costs. Rubber prices may advance as much as
32 percent to 605 yen a kilogram ($7,407 a metric ton) by
December, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts and
traders last month.  Steel prices will rise faster than raw-material costs in
the first half of 2011 as steelmakers themselves cope with
higher iron ore costs, European trade association Eurofer said
last month.  Denso, Aisin Seiki  Toyota’s “profitability is still weak, its pace of
recovery is slower than those of Japanese peers, and its
profitability might remain under pressure from higher raw
material prices and gasoline prices as well as the strong yen,”
S&P said in today’s statement.  S&P also cut its debt ratings for  Denso Corp. (6902) , a Toyota-
affiliated auto-parts maker, to “AA-” form “AA” following
the Toyota downgrade.  The ratings agency also revised to stable from negative its
outlook on the long-term corporate debt ratings of Toyota group
suppliers Toyota Industries Corp. and Aisin Seiki Co. Ltd.,
saying the suppliers will probably maintain their “recovery in
profitability and financial standings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  