-- 
Paramo, Bini Smaghi Say Inflation May Warrant ECB Rate Increase Next Month

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-04T13:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/paramo-bini-smaghi-say-inflation-may-warrant-ecb-rate-increase.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board members Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo and Lorenzo Bini Smaghi signaled they may support raising  interest rates  next
month.  A rate increase in April is “possible but not certain.”
Gonzalez-Paramo told reporters in Cape Town today. “Clearly the
risks to inflation are on the upside and it is the mission of
the ECB to prevent those from materializing, so we are ready.”  Bini Smaghi said in Paris today that a failure to lift
borrowing costs in response to faster headline inflation would
make the monetary policy stance “more accommodative” and
“over time fuel core inflation.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  took investors and
economists by surprise yesterday when he said the central bank
may raise borrowing costs next month to prevent faster inflation
from becoming entrenched. The inflation rate rose to 2.4 percent
in February, the third straight month it has breached the ECB’s
2 percent limit.  The central bank’s benchmark interest rate has been at a
record low of 1 percent since May 2009. Economists at UniCredit
Group, Morgan Stanley, Nomura International and JPMorgan now
expect the ECB to boost its main lending rate to 1.75 percent by
the end of the year.  Asked whether the central bank is embarking on a series of
rate increases, Gonzalez-Paramo said: “we are addressing risks
to  price stability  at this moment. We are not pre-committing to
anything more than that.”  Stronger Economy  The ECB yesterday raised its inflation and growth
forecasts. Inflation will average 2.3 percent this year, up from
a December forecast of 1.8 percent, before slowing to 1.7
percent in 2012, the projections show. The 17-nation euro-area
economy will expand 1.7 percent this year and 1.8 percent next,
up from previous forecasts of 1.4 percent and 1.7 percent,
according to the ECB.  “Sooner or later we need to raise the interest rate if
inflationary pressure becomes too high,” ECB council member
Nout Wellink said in an interview with a magazine published by
the Dutch central bank, which he heads. “That can be done
without difficulty when the economy has come onto a reasonable
growth path.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in  Cape Town  at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in Frankfurt at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  