-- 
Payrolls Probably Rebounded in February as U.S. Economy, Weather Improved

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-03-04T05:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/payrolls-probably-rebounded-as-u-s-economy-weather-improved.html
Payroll gains in the U.S. probably
accelerated in February, spurred by an improving economy and
more seasonable temperatures, economists said ahead of a
government report today.  Employment increased by 196,000 workers last month, the
most since May, after a 36,000 gain in January, when winter
storms depressed the count, according to the median forecast of
84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The report may also
show the jobless rate increased to 9.1 percent from 9 percent.  Bigger, sustained monthly payroll gains would underscore
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s testimony to Congress
this week that there are “grounds for optimism” about the
labor market in coming months. Employment growth and the
resulting increases in income and confidence are contributing to
sales improvements at companies like J.C. Penney Co. and  Macy’s
Inc. (M)   “The labor market has passed an important threshold and is
starting to create a good number of jobs,” said  Chris Rupkey ,
chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in  New York . “It’s partly a snow-related rebound, but I think
there’s some real substance there. We’re looking for jobs to run
200,000 plus in coming months as the recovery reaches the self-
sustainable stage.”  The Labor Department figures are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg payroll survey forecasts ranged from gains
of 100,000 to 297,000.  Weather’s Influence  Nationwide, temperatures during the week of the February
employment survey were near normal, except for the central and
southern Great Plains, according to  National Weather Service . In
contrast, economists said a storm that spread from the Midwest
and the South to  New England  during the prior month’s survey
week likely depressed January numbers as businesses temporarily
closed.  The bad weather reduced January payrolls by about 100,000
workers, said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . He said those jobs
are likely to be captured in the February payrolls report.  Private payrolls, which exclude government workers,
probably rose by 200,000 last month, the most since April,
according to the Bloomberg survey. Companies added 50,000
workers in January, the smallest gain in eight months, the Labor
Department said on Feb. 4.  The projected increase in the jobless rate would mean it
has been 9 percent or higher for 22 consecutive months, the
longest stretch at such elevated levels since monthly records
began in 1948. At the same time, the rate has dropped 0.8
percentage point over the past two months, the biggest decrease
in such a short period since 1958.  Bernanke’s View  The labor market “has improved only slowly” and it may
take “several years” for the  unemployment rate  to reach a
“more normal level,” Bernanke said March 1 during testimony
before the Senate Banking Committee.  Still, “we do see some grounds for optimism about the job
market over the next few quarters, including notable declines in
the unemployment rate in December and January, a drop in new
claims for  unemployment insurance , and an improvement in firms’
hiring plans,” Bernanke said.  President  Barack Obama  last week told the first meeting of
his panel of outside economic advisers that the U.S. must deal
with stubbornly high unemployment even as the recovery is well
under way.  J.C. Penney, Macy’s and  Ross Stores Inc. (ROST)  were among
retailers yesterday reporting February same-store sales that
topped analysts’ estimates. Purchases at stores open at least a
year climbed 6.4 percent at J.C. Penney, 5.8 percent at Macy’s
and 3 percent at Ross, company data showed.  Retailer ‘Encouraged’  “We are encouraged by our solid start to the year,”
Michael Balmuth, chief executive officer of Pleasanton,
California-based discounter Ross Stores, said in a statement.
Even so, “the much more important March/April holiday selling
period is still ahead.”  Manufacturing remains a bulwark to the expansion. Orders to
U.S. factories probably rose 2 percent in January, the most
since September, economists said ahead of a report from the
Commerce Department in Washington due at 10 a.m.  The jobs report will show factory employment climbed by
25,000 workers last month after a 49,000 gain in January, the
biggest increase since August 1998, according to the Bloomberg
survey median.  Shares of manufacturers in the past year have outperformed
the broader market. The Standard & Poor’s Machinery Index has
increased 50 percent, compared with a 19 percent gain in the  S&P
500 Index. (SPX)   Job gains are broadening out to include retailers and
manufacturers.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  are among U.S. companies that announced plans
last month to hire thousands of new workers.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  