-- 
Philippine Inflation Quickens, Adding Rate-Rise Pressure

-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-03-04T04:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/philippine-inflation-quickens-adding-rate-rise-pressure-2-.html
Philippine inflation accelerated in
February to the fastest pace in nine months as food prices
climbed, adding pressure on the central bank to raise the
interest rate from a record low. Bonds fell.  Consumer prices increased 4.3 percent from a year earlier,
after a revised 3.6 percent gain in January, the  National
Statistics Office  said in Manila today. That’s faster than the
3.7 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 14
economists.    Asia ’s policy makers are battling inflation as global food
and commodity prices surge, prompting countries from  Indonesia 
to  China  to raise borrowing costs this year. Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco, who has kept the rate at 4
percent for more than a year, said today February’s price gains
support the view that “the scope for keeping rates steady has
narrowed.”  “A rate hike looks increasingly likely for this month,
with more to follow in the second quarter,” Sherman Chan, a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc., said after the
report. “Given that global crude prices are rising, the central
bank may become a little more tolerant of exchange-rate strength
to ease the cost of imported materials.”  Benchmark three-year bond yields climbed 12.5 basis points
to 5.5 percent today, the biggest jump since Feb. 10. The peso
gained a second day to 43.31 per dollar, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc.  ‘Revisit Everything’  Inflation has accelerated to the “higher end of the policy
range” and changing the rate should be discussed this month,
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima, a member of the central bank’s
Monetary Board, said after the report.  “We will have to revisit everything on March 24, the
policy meeting,” Purisima told reporters today in Bacolod City.
“You have the normal courses of action, which is adjusting the
policy rate. That’s something we need to discuss.”  Philippine food, beverage and tobacco costs rose 4.2
percent last month from a year earlier. Fuel, electricity and
water prices climbed 9.9 percent, the report showed.  Policy makers will use the latest information “to see how
much it moves the inflation path by, and determine if the new
expected path would lead to average inflation forecasts that
would risk breaching the target for the policy horizon,”
Tetangco said in a mobile-phone text message today.  Oil Surges  The surge in  oil prices  past $100 a barrel following unrest
in the Middle East and  Libya  is putting pressure on central
banks around to world to fight inflation while trying to sustain
a recovery from the 2009 recession. U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week persistent increases in
oil and commodity costs would be a “threat” to economic growth
and price stability.  “Inflation pressures are coming from all dimensions, not
just from oil but also food, and the central bank needs to act
now rather than later,” HSBC’s Chan said. “It’s better to make
pre-emptive moves rather than wait for inflation numbers to
reach intolerable levels.”  The Philippine central bank will ensure that “monetary
policy is appropriate,” Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in
a mobile-phone message today. “Greater vigilance and
anticipation are required’0’.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in  Manila  at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  