-- 
Gilts Rise, Pound Fluctuates as Housing Data Curbs Bets Rates May Increase

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-03-04T18:34:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/pound-near-one-month-low-versus-euro-after-house-prices-decline.html
U.K. government bonds rose after a
report showed British  house prices  fell more than estimated last
month, indicating the economic recovery may not be strong enough
to withstand an increase in interest rates.  The Halifax House Price Index fell 0.9 percent last month,
more than the 0.5 percent drop forecast in a Bloomberg survey,
the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in  London 
today. The pound fluctuated before weakening against the dollar
after U.S. employers added 192,000 workers in February, lower
than the 196,000 forecast in a Bloomberg survey, according to
Labor Department figures in  Washington .  “Today’s rally in gilts has been in part due to the weak
economic data we had earlier,” said Don Smith, a fixed-income
strategist at ICAP Plc, the world’s largest broker of
transactions between banks. “The  Bank of England ’s concern is
that there’s general underlying weakness in the economy and the
data seems to be bearing that out. They probably won’t look to
raise rates until they’re comfortable that underling growth will
be okay.”  Ten-year gilt yields dropped nine basis points to 3.63
percent as of 5:51 p.m. in London. The 4.75 percent bond due
March 2020 rose 0.69, or 6.9 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,625)
face amount, to 108.55. The yield was 3.62 percent a week ago.
Yields on two-year notes declined five basis points today to
1.39 percent.  Two-year gilts, typically more sensitive to interest-rate
expectations, have fallen for six straight months on bets rates
in the U.K. will need to rise to curb an inflation rate that’s
almost twice the government target. Policy maker  Andrew Sentance 
has led calls for the central bank to increase borrowing costs
since June and last month voted for a 50 basis-point increase.  Short Sterling  Minutes from the bank’s Feb. 10 meeting showed Spencer Dale
joined Sentance and  Martin Weale  in voting for higher borrowing
costs, though they favored a 25 basis-point rise. Policy makers
are expected to leave the main rate unchanged at 0.5 percent
when they announce their next decision on March 10, according to
the median estimate of 61 analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Short-sterling futures rose, reducing the implied yield on
the contract expiring in December by seven basis points to 1.61
percent. A lower yield shows investors reduced bets the Bank of
England will raise borrowing costs.  “Worse-than-expected economic data would persuade the BOE
to be less hawkish on rates,” said  Wilson Chin , a senior  interest-rates  strategist in London at HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s biggest bank by market value.  Rate Bets  Money markets are factoring in a 50 basis-point increase in
the central bank’s main rate by year-end, according to sterling
overnight index average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show.
So-called Sonia rates indicate the first 25 basis-point raise
will happen in June.  Investec Plc expects the Bank of England to raise interest
rates by 25 basis points in August, followed by another 25
basis-point increase in November, the brokerage said on March 2.
The company had previously predicted that the first rate
increase would be in November, it said.  The pound weakened 0.2 percent to $1.6247, trimming its
gain for the week to 0.9 percent. Sterling fell for a third day
against the euro, weakening 0.3 percent to 86.07 pence, the
weakest level since Jan. 31.  Gilts have returned minus 1.9 percent this year, compared
with 7.6 percent in 2010, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. That compares with a negative 2.3 percent for  Germany 
and minus 0.7 percent for the U.S., the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  