-- 
Punishments Issued in U.S. Navy ‘XO Movie Night’ Scandal

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-03-04T00:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/punishments-issued-in-u-s-navy-xo-movie-night-scandal.html
A U.S. Navy probe is recommending
punishment for 40 officers and enlisted sailors, including six
admirals, for their role in making and showing videos that
depicted sailors denigrating gays and using profane language.  The investigation found at least 25 videos featuring
inappropriate or sexually suggestive content were produced and
shown to the crew of the  aircraft carrier   USS Enterprise  on
deployments from October 2005 through December 2007 in what was
referred to as “XO Movie Night.”  “The production and broadcast of these videos represent a
significant departure from expected standards of personal
behavior and professional leadership in the Navy,” according to
a press release announcing the findings of the investigation led
by Admiral John Harvey, head of U.S. Fleet Forces Command in
Norfolk, Virginia.  Captain Owen Honors was relieved of command of the USS
Enterprise on on Jan. 4 for his role in producing the videos
when he was the executive officer, or second in command, of the
ship.  Harvey recommended for Honors to receive a “secretarial
letter of censure,” a punitive letter that would go into his
service record. Also recommended for censure were Honors’ former
boss, Rear Admiral Lawrence Rice, commanding officer of the
Enterprise from January 2005 to May 2007; Captain John Dixon,
executive officer of the Enterprise from September 2007 to June
2009; and Dixon’s former boss, Rear Admiral Ron Horton,
commanding officer of the Enterprise from May 2007 to May 2010.  Punitive Letters  If Navy Secretary Ray Mabus “chooses to issue these
letters, they have a punitive effect,” Captain Steve Barney,
fleet judge advocate for U.S. Fleet Forces Command, said in a
telephone interview. “They’ll be considered an adverse matter”
for the future of their careers, he said.  Harvey has also issued non-punitive letters of caution to
Rear Admiral Raymond Spicer and Vice Admiral Daniel Holloway,
strike group commanders who served on the Enterprise during
ship’s deployments in 2006 and 2007.  Harvey “counseled” Rear Admiral Gregory Nosal and Rear
Admiral Clifford Sharpe, the carrier air wing commander and
destroyer squadron commodore, respectively, who served on the
Enterprise during the ship’s 2006 deployment.  Harvey also issued non-punitive letters of caution to 32
additional officers, senior enlisted sailors and sailors who
“demonstrated deficiencies in personal behavior or professional
judgment related to the production and broadcast of these
videos.”  The videos, designed to entertain sailors during months-
long deployments, included anti-gay slurs, simulated
masturbation and two women, shown from the shoulders up,
showering together.  The videos and documents from the investigation are posted
online at
 http://usfleetforcesfoia.info/enterprise_investigation.htm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  