-- 
Libya's Rebels Claim Another Oil Hub in Day of Clashes

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-04T21:43:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/qaddafi-s-opponents-hold-eastern-oil-facilities-advance-along-libya-coast.html
Forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi 
used tear gas and gunfire to suppress protests in Tripoli, as
rebels pushed their front lines westward to Ras Lanuf, an oil
port town about halfway to the capital from opposition-
stronghold Benghazi.  In a day that saw some of the most widespread fighting so
far, government forces moved against Zawiyah, the main
opposition-held city west of Tripoli, according to Al Jazeera
television. At least 18 people were killed, including the
city’s top rebel commander, according to the  Associated Press .  In the other direction, there were clashes along the coast
of the Gulf of Sidra, where opposition fighters claimed control
of Ras Lanuf, about 400 miles (650 kilometers) from Tripoli,
according to  Al Jazeera . Rebels found 20 handcuffed corpses at
the military base in town, Al Jazeera said.  Oil rose to a 29-month high in  New York  on concern that
the unrest in Libya will spread to other regional oil
producers. Qaddafi’s son, Saif, told Al Jazeera in a lengthy
interview that the opposition doesn’t represent the majority of
Libyans and that the  air force  bombed rebel-held Brega, near
Ras Lanuf, only to keep opposition fighters away from oil
facilities, not to kill them.  Qaddafi “can prolong this battle for weeks,” Shashank
Joshi, associate fellow at the  Royal United Services Institute 
for defense and security studies in  London , said today in a
telephone interview. “Only if he escalates it will he face
intervention. He knows this is on the boil very slowly.”  Next Target: Tripoli  The opposition forces’ spokesman, Abdullah Al Mahdi, said
6,000 people have died since anti-Qaddafi protests began Feb.
16 in Benghazi, compared with the 1,000 estimate that has been
cited by the  United Nations . He didn’t indicate the basis for
his higher figure.  Al Mahdi, a colonel who defected from Qaddafi’s military
said the rebels will next target Tripoli.  In the capital, security forces moved quickly to break up
demonstrations after Friday prayers. They used tear gas
followed by live ammunition, witnesses told the AP. It wasn’t
clear whether they shot at protesters or fired into the air as
the crowds scattered, AP said.  Eyewitness Account  In Zawiyah, resident Belgassem al-Zawee said rebels
repelled an attack by government forces advancing on the
western side of the city. Later, snipers perched on rooftops
opened fire at unarmed demonstrators marching toward a local
hospital treating those wounded in the violence, he said.  “This has been a very, very difficult day,” he said in a
telephone interview. “It was horrible.”  Holed up at home, Zawiyah residents are hearing
intermittent gunfire and news that tanks surround the city, he
said. “We are living in horror; our children are terrified.”  In Ras Lanuf, some pro-Qaddafi units withdrew after a
split within the government forces during the battle with
rebels, Al Jazeera said. The government denied losing control
of Ras Lanuf. The town has a tanker terminal that exports about
200,000 barrels of oil a day as well as  Libya ’s biggest
refinery, with a capacity of 220,000 barrels a day, more than
half the country’s total, according to the  International Energy
Agency .  Oil Rises  Crude oil for April delivery increased $2.51 to $104.42 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Sept. 26, 2008. The contract rose 6.7 percent
this week, the third straight advance, and is up 30 percent
from a year ago.  Fighting in Misrata, a town about 90 miles east of Tripoli
that was under opposition control, left at least 33 dead and
120 injured, a witness told  Al Arabiya .  Hospital officials said at least 17 people were killed at
an explosion at an ammunition depot near Benghazi. The cause of
the blast was unclear.  More than 200 volunteers in rebel military garb staged a
parade today in Benghazi, stomping their feet and chanting,
“Long live free Libya.” Women ululated and bystanders clapped
as the men marched through the city, Libya’s second biggest, on
the eastern shore of the Gulf of Sidra.  “We are being trained by officers,” said Sameh Iskandar,
17. Another participant, Emad Caplan, said he hoped the
volunteers would get to defend cities west of Benghazi.  Tear Gas, Bullets  Interpol, the international police organization, issued a
global alert, known as an Orange Notice, against Qaddafi and 15
other Libyans, including members of his family and close
associates. The notice is “to warn member states of the danger
posed by the movement of these individuals and their assets”
and to assist member states to enforce United Nations sanctions
against them and to aid the International Criminal Court
investigation into alleged crimes against humanity in Libya,
Interpol said in an e-mailed statement.  More than 150,000 people, most of the foreign workers,
have fled Libya to neighboring  Egypt  and Tunisia since Feb. 19,
the UN refugee agency said on March 1, creating a crisis in the
border areas. The  United States , U.K. and  France  said they were
dispatching aircraft to deliver humanitarian aid and to help
move the refugees to their home countries.  President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. military is ready to
protect civilians caught in the conflict. Libyan rebels have
called for international enforcement of a no-fly zone over the
country, a measure Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has described
as a “big operation.” Speaking at the White House yesterday,
Obama said the U.S. is considering a “full range” of military
options and needs to have the capacity to act in a humanitarian
crisis.  Venezuela’s Offer  Libya’s opposition leaders rejected a mediation offer by
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , an ally of Qaddafi. The
Libyan leader’s “hands are tainted with blood and we will not
talk to him,” rebel spokesman Mustafa Gheriani said, according
to the AP. The Arab League said it was considering Chavez’s
plan.  The European Union is considering widening its sanctions
on Libya, an EU official said. EU policy makers are discussing
imposing the sanctions on more people and the possibility of
levying them on organizations as well as individuals, the
official said today in Brussels on condition of anonymity.  A ship heading to Libya and believed to be carrying a
“significant amount” of Libyan currency subject to UN
sanctions was stopped and brought back to Britain two days ago,
the U.K. Home Office said today.  ‘We Know the West’  When asked about travel bans and asset freezes, Saif al- Islam Qaddafi said on Al Jazeera, “We know the West, we know
them very well. When you are strong they are like cats, when
you are weak they are like tigers. We don’t pay attention to
them.”  Protesters elsewhere in the region resumed their demands
for civil rights, higher  living standards  and the ouster of
entrenched autocratic regimes.  In Yemen, an opposition group said two people were killed
when security forces attacked protesters in Harf Sufian, north
of the capital, Sana’a. Tens of thousands of demonstrators in
Sana’a called for an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s
three-decade rule, and there were rallies in other cities.  Opposition leaders yesterday presented Saleh with a plan
for a transition to democracy this year. About a dozen people
have died in more than three weeks of protests.  Egyptian’s Promise  In Egypt, Prime Minister-designate Essam Sharaf addressed
a crowd of thousands in Tahrir Square, saluting the “martyrs”
who died in the fight to unseat President  Hosni Mubarak  and
saying he would derive legitimacy from the people. He promised
demonstrators to do his best to meet their demands.  Egyptian protesters continued to demand further changes
after Mubarak’s Feb. 11 ouster, including a purge of old-regime
officials from the government. The ruling military council
yesterday bowed to one of their key demands, accepting the
resignation of Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik and inviting Sharaf
to take his place.  In Bahrain, there were clashes between Shiite and  Sunni
Muslims  in a central town, Reuters reported. The mostly Shiite
opposition, representing the majority sect in the Persian Gulf
island state, had planned rallies today in Manama, the capital,
to demand a transition toward democracy.  Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, a Sunni, said
dialogue with the opposition must begin “as soon as
practically possible” to end more than two weeks of unrest in
which at least seven protesters were killed in a security
crackdown.    Tunisia , where the Middle Eastern turmoil began two months
ago, announced July elections for a national council that will
draw up a new constitution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  