-- 
Queen Elizabeth to Make First British Royal Visit to Ireland Since 1921

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-04T18:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/queen-elizabeth-plans-first-state-visit-to-ireland-since-1921-independence.html
  Queen Elizabeth II  will pay a state
visit to Ireland this year, the first by a British monarch since
the country gained its independence in 1921.  The queen accepted an invitation from Irish President Mary McAleese and will be accompanied by her husband, the Duke of
Edinburgh, according to a statement released by  Buckingham
Palace  in  London  today. It didn’t give a date for the visit.  “The visit will mark a further improvement in the very
good relations between Ireland and the United Kingdom,” the
Irish government said in a statement. Irish broadcaster RTE said
the trip would probably take place in the spring.  Britain formally included Ireland in the U.K. in 1801 and
ruled the country until 1921, when fighting by the nationalist  Irish Republican Army  resulted in a treaty granting partial
independence to 26 of Ireland’s 32 counties. The six
northeastern counties became Northern Ireland and remained under
British control.  The treaty, which aside from partitioning the country also
required lawmakers in the Irish parliament to swear an oath of
allegiance to the British monarch, sparked a civil war. Those
who fought against the treaty lost and went on to form  Fianna
Fail , the dominant political party in Ireland since 1932. In
1948 Ireland declared itself a republic.  In 1998, a Northern Ireland peace deal supported by the
U.K. and Irish governments largely ended three decades of
violence between nationalists and pro-British unionists that
claimed more than 3,500 lives. The IRA decommissioned its
weapons in 2005 and said it would work toward its goal of a
united Ireland peacefully.  “The peace process has not only transformed the lives of
people in  Northern Ireland  but cemented a new era in the
relationship between the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland,”
Shaun Woodward, Northern Ireland spokesman for Britain’s
opposition  Labour Party , said in a statement. “Today’s
announcement is the next chapter in an extremely positive
story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 