-- 
U.S. Ten-Year Notes Are Little Changed Before February Employment Report

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-04T12:37:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/treasuries-head-for-weekly-loss-on-speculation-u-s-added-jobs-last-month.html
Treasury 10-year notes were little
changed amid speculation a report forecast to show accelerating
growth in employment won’t be enough to persuade the  Federal
Reserve  to curtail its plan to buy  U.S. debt .  The yield on 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities was also little changed as the Fed prepared to  buy  $1
billion to $2 billion of TIPS maturing from April 2013 to
February 2041. Global government debt dropped yesterday after
the  European Central Bank  signaled it may raise interest rates
next month to contain inflation.  “Yields can’t go much higher unless the Fed is tightening,
and the market knows that the Fed will take some convincing,”
said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London. “The U.S. market cannot ignore European
short-term yields going up, and Treasuries will have to
adjust.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes were little changed at
3.56 percent at 7:35 a.m. in  New York , according to BGCantor
Market Data. The price of the 3.625 percent security maturing in
February 2021 dropped 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount,
to 100 18/32.  Ten-year notes were headed for their first five-day drop in
four weeks after economic reports indicated accelerating growth,
pushing the yields up 14 basis points.  Initial claims for  unemployment insurance  unexpectedly
dropped last week, the Labor Department reported yesterday. The
Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-manufacturing
businesses increased in February to its highest level since
August 2005. A separate ISM report on March 1 showed
manufacturing in the U.S. grew last month at the fastest pace in
almost seven years.  U.S. Employment  U.S. employment climbed by 196,000 in February, while the
jobless rate increased to 9.1 percent from 9 percent, according
to Bloomberg News surveys of economists before the Labor
Department issues the figures today.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday he
favors completing the purchases of government debt under
quantitative easing because the economy faces risks.  “I don’t think the situation yet exists that would justify
cutting the program off or reducing it, particularly this close
to the end,” Lockhart told reporters after a speech in
Tallahassee,  Florida .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in congressional
testimony this week that he hasn’t ruled out expanding the so-
called quantitative-easing program.  German Debt Spread  Two-year notes yielded as much as 103 basis points less
than equivalent-maturity German securities yesterday, the widest
spread in more than two years, after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said an “increase of  interest rates  in the next meeting
is possible.” The yield spread was at 98 basis points today.  Ten-year yields were within a half-percentage point of
levels that Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of
BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, said would
lead him to buy.  “If rates creep up over 4 percent, I would be
incrementally buying,” BlackRock’s Fink, who is based in New
York, said in an interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television’s
Erik Schatzker on the “InsideTrack” program. “Inflation may
be in the short run a problem, but in the long run not.”  The yield will advance to 3.67 percent by midyear and to
3.93 percent by Dec. 31, according to a Bloomberg survey of
banks and securities companies, with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings.  The Fed’s efforts to spur the economy and rising oil prices
may be fueling inflation expectations. The difference between
yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, reached 251 basis points yesterday, the
most since July 2008. It was at 250 basis points today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  