-- 
Treasuries Gain on Pace of U.S. Employment Growth, Turmoil in Middle East

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-04T22:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/treasuries-fluctuate-as-unemployment-rate-unexpectedly-declines-to-8-9-.html
Treasuries rose for the first time
in three days after a government report showed the economy added
fewer jobs than some traders expected and wage growth was flat
in February.  “We’ve seen a generally improving economic picture, and I
think we are still on that track, but the market was pricing in
a more optimistic number this morning and we didn’t see that,”
said Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York  of government
and agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors.  U.S. government debt prices hit their highs of the day,
driving two-year note yields down by the most this year, as
tensions in the Middle East escalated. Milstein said few traders
want to go into the weekend betting against Treasuries after
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  sent troops to recapture towns in
the western part of the country and prepared to quash protests
in Tripoli.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.49 percent at 5:01 p.m.
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the
3.625 percent security maturing in February 2021 rose 17/32, or
$5.31 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 3/32.  Yield Measures  U.S. 30-year bond yields fell two basis points to 4.6
percent. Two-year note yields dropped eight basis points to 0.68
percent, the largest drop since Dec. 29.  Treasury 10-year note yields rose eight basis points this
week, while 30-year bonds increased 10 basis points. The
Treasury announced plans to sell $32 billion of 3-year notes,
$21 billion of 10-year securities and $13 billion of 30-year
bonds next week.  The yield curve, the difference between 2- and 10-year
Treasury notes reached 283 basis points, the widest since Feb.
21.  “We are moving in the right direction, but it wasn’t
stellar given what we’ve seen from recent reports,” said
Jeffrey  Cleveland , senior economist at Payden & Rygel in  Los
Angeles , which manages $56 billion. “If the report was stronger
we would see a flatter curve and some sense in the market that
the Fed would start to prime to exit, but we are still seeing
relatively steepening.”  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 0.8 percent this
year, compared with a gain of 5.9 percent last year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Economic Trends  The turmoil sweeping the Middle East and North Africa has
driven crude this year to the highest level since 2008, fanning
gains in oil products just as economies emerge from the
recession.  Crude oil for April delivery increased $6.54, or 6.7
percent, to $104.42 a barrel this week on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures are up 30 percent from a year ago.  “There has been a tremendous amount of instability in the
Middle East and events over the weekends, so no one wants to be
short,” said Russ Certo, a managing director and co-head of
rates trading at Gleacher & Co. in New York. “The Middle
Eastern story is not a simple linear story that is just going to
vanish. It’s going to be here for a while, and will continue to
give the market an underlying bid over the short term.”  Fed Buys  The  Federal Reserve  bought $1.5 billion of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities due from July 2013 to February
2041 today as part of its effort to spur growth.  Fed policy makers are signaling they favor an abrupt end to
$600 billion in Treasury purchases in June, jettisoning their
prior strategy of gradually pulling back on intervention in bond
markets. Central bankers, who next meet March 15, are about
halfway through their second round of bond purchases.  “I don’t see a lot of gain to reverting to a tapering
approach,” Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  told reporters
yesterday. “I don’t think that is necessary,” Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  said last month.  Speculation about gains in the February jobs numbers
increased after U.S. initial jobless claims declined last week
to the lowest level since May 2008, the Labor Department
reported yesterday. The U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly declined
to 8.9 percent in February, the lowest in almost two years, and
employers added 192,000 jobs in a sign of growing confidence in
the recovery.  The increase in payrolls partly reflected a return to more
seasonable weather and followed a 63,000 gain in January, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was for an
addition of 196,000 jobs last month, with estimates running as
high as 297,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  