-- 
Record Gasoline Grips Europe While California Faces $4 a Gallon

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-03-04T13:58:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/record-gasoline-grips-europe-while-california-faces-4-a-gallon.html
Gasoline prices are setting records
across Europe and exceeding $4 a gallon in  California  as the
rise in crude oil caused by the conflict in Libya punishes
companies and consumers.  Households are cutting back on travel, cinema visits and
groceries in the U.K., where prices jumped to 130.68 pence a
liter ($8.06 a gallon) yesterday, according to research from the
Automobile Association, Britain’s largest motoring organization.
Prices set records in the Netherlands and  Italy  today. The
current average U.S. gasoline price is near a two-year high at
$3.81 a gallon, according to the  AAA website .  Crude oil’s rise to as high as $119 in Europe has pushed
fuel costs up and put the economic recovery at risk. The impact
on consumer prices may push European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  to raise interest rates as soon as next
month to discourage higher wages and head off the threat of an
inflationary spiral.  “Rising fuel costs are negative because they push
inflation up and slow the economy down,” said  Philip Shaw ,
chief economist at Investec Securities in London. “It is
essentially energy costs that have resulted in ECB putting its
finger on the interest rate trigger.”  Higher fuel prices are pushing up costs for retailers such
as Tesco Plc in the U.K. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in the U.S.
and increasing concern that consumers will pare back spending.  “As we think about rising prices of gasoline, clothing,
food, etc., we are concerned with the impact on the consumer
confidence and spending,” Robert Hull, chief financial officer
of Lowe’s Cos., the second-biggest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, said on Feb. 23.  Armed Rebellion  Oil has gained 23 percent in London this year as the armed
rebellion in oil producer Libya spurs prices. The jump in prices
to $147 a barrel in 2008 exacerbated the recession following the
global financial crisis.  Brent futures, the benchmark for  Europe , traded at $116.20
a barrel today. The futures contract reached a two-year high of
$119.79 on Feb. 24. In the U.S., West Texas Intermediate futures
traded at $103.03 a barrel today, close to this year’s high of
$103.41 also reached on Feb. 24.  In contrast to Trichet, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested the U.S. is unlikely to raise interest rates
soon, saying this week that the surge in oil and other commodity
prices probably won’t cause a permanent increase in broader
inflation.  “The economy’s recovery is not firmly established, and we
think monetary policy needs to be supportive,” Bernanke said.
Trichet, by contrast, said yesterday that “strong vigilance is
warranted” and that an increase from record low  interest rates 
is “possible” in April.  In  Germany   In Italy, gasoline prices reached 1.544 euros a liter and
diesel climbed to 1.438 euros a liter ($8.17 a gallon),
according to a chart published by web energy daily Quotidiano
Energia. Gasoline prices in the Netherlands reached a record
1.697 euro a liter from 1.692 euro in June 2008, according to
Paul van Selms, head of UnitedConsumers, a lobby group for
consumers in the Netherlands.  The average price for super-grade gasoline in Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, was 1.55 euros per liter today, close
to the 1.58 euro record from 2008.  Drivers in California are paying more than $4 a gallon for
premium grade, according to AAA.  ‘Strong Echoes’  “If you go out into the country, people are down on their
knees asking for lower prices,” said Luke Bosdet, a spokesman
for the AA in the U.K. “The echoes of 2008 are very strong. The
only thing we can hope for is an economic recovery strong enough
to push up wages to absorb the costs. Until then, the lower-
income driver has to leave their car in the garage.”    Oil companies  such as BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc
aren’t reaping a windfall from the surge in fuel prices because
of weak refining margins and the risk higher costs will reduce
demand, said  David Hart , an analyst at Westhouse Securities Ltd.  “The price at the pump grabs headlines, but it’s not where
oil companies make money,” said Hart. “It’s crude prices. But
energy costs are detrimental to demand at this level.”  The price of oil is nearing the point at which it will
start to hurt the world economy, said  Adam Sieminski , chief
energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG. An increase in the oil
price to $150 a barrel would reduce global economic growth by
2.5 percentage points, returning it to recessionary territory,
and there’s a 10 percent to 15 percent probability of that price
being reached, he said in a report published yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 