-- 
Record Food Prices May Persist as Economic Growth Boosts Demand, IMF Says

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-03-04T08:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/record-food-prices-may-persist-as-economic-growth-boosts-demand-imf-says.html
Record worldwide food prices may
remain high because the output response needed to ease supply
concerns may take years, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Increasing incomes in developing countries have boosted
demand for meat and dairy, requiring more grain for livestock
feed and land for grazing animals, Thomas Helbling, an adviser
for the IMF’s research department, and Shaun Roache, an
economist, wrote in an article. Rising demand for biofuels and
adverse weather also have tightened food supplies, the IMF said.  “Over time, supply growth can be expected to respond to
higher prices, as it has in previous decades, easing pressure on
food markets, but this will take time counted in years, rather
than months,” according to the article published yesterday in
the agency’s Finance & Development magazine.  The global food price index, compiled by the  United
Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization, surged to a record in
February as all food groups except sugar rose, the agency said
yesterday. Rising food costs and corruption sparked political
unrest across North Africa and the Middle East, ousting leaders
in Tunisia and  Egypt , the largest buyer of wheat.  “There’s a risk that the current price spike could persist
for longer than the 2007-2008 experience,”  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said in
a phone interview from Sydney today. “There are more
commodities involved in this current spike and that means it’s
going to take longer to rebuild the inventories of all those
back up to what we would deem safer levels.”  Futures Surge  Corn futures in Chicago surged 92 percent in the past year
as rising demand for livestock and ethanol in the U.S. pushes
the global stocks-to-use ratio to the lowest in 37 years.  Wheat jumped 65 percent in the past year after drought last
year in  Russia  and Eastern Europe prompted countries to restrict
exports. Dry weather curbed corn output in the U.S., and floods
in  Asia  have restricted rice supplies, the IMF said.  Global inventories for all grains will drop 13 percent
before the next harvest, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. That’s the first decline since 2007. Surging food
prices the following year sparked more than 60 riots from  Haiti 
to Egypt. Increasing demand is causing isolated food shortages
and accelerating inflation in developing countries even as it
boosts farmers’ incomes and shifts planting strategies.  Rice Supply  While stockpiles will decline, supplies of rice, the staple
food for more than half of the world’s population, may be
sufficient to avert a repeat of the 2008 crisis,  Abdolreza
Abbassian , a senior economist at the FAO, said yesterday.  “Probably rice is the commodity which is separating us
from a food crisis,” Abbassian said by phone. “I’ve never
loved rice more than now.”  That may not be the case for long. The price of rice may
advance as consumers seek cheaper substitutes for wheat,
according to the International Rice Research Institute.  “If drought in  China  continues, that would affect rice
lands and could adversely affect rice supplies,” the
institute’s Director-General Robert Zeigler said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. Drier-than-normal conditions are
expected across the North China Plain through next week,
AccuWeather Inc. said in a March 3 forecast.  “Rice typically lags behind wheat prices by a few
months,” Zeigler said. “As people substitute rice for wheat,
that just increases demand” for rice, he said, reiterating
comments that he made on Feb. 11.  Prices May Drop  Rough-rice futures gained 7.22 percent in the past year,
trailing the jump in wheat, and almost erasing its premium to
the rival cereal. At today’s prices, a ton of rough rice will
buy 1.03 tons of wheat, compared with the average 1.3 tons in
the past five years, according to Bloomberg data.  Global farm prices including wheat, soybeans and sugar may
drop from next year as their advance prompts farmers to boost
planting, potentially cutting record food costs, the Australian
Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics & Sciences, a
government forecaster, said in a report March 1.  The surge in food prices in 2008 was cut short after the
global financial crisis pushed the world economy into recession
and slowed demand, Mathews said. It will take the same “type of
economic calamity” to curb demand for food enough to allow
farmers to keep pace with production, he said.  Three-quarters of the global growth in demand for major
crops in the past decade has been in emerging markets, according
to the article. High food costs still have the biggest impact on  developing countries , where consumers spend a greater percentage
of their incomes on food, the IMF said.  Rebuilding Stockpiles  Food output will have to climb by 70 percent between 2010
and 2050 as the world population swells to 9 billion and rising
incomes boost meat and dairy consumption, the FAO forecast.
Producing 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of pig meat can take 3.5
kilograms of feed, USDA  data  show.  It will take at least two years of good harvests to rebuild
food stockpiles that were drained after drought and excessive
rains damaged crops in some of the world’s biggest exporting
nations, Dominic Schnider, director for wealth management
research at UBS, said March 2.  “The world may need to get used to higher food prices,”
Helbling and Roache wrote. “Policy makers, particularly in
emerging and developing economies, will likely have to continue
confronting the challenges posed by food prices that are both
higher and more volatile than the world has been used to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net 
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  