-- 
U.S. Senate Leader Wants Votes on Competing Budget-Cutting Plans

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/reid-wants-senate-to-vote-on-democratic-republican-budget-plans-next-week.html
The U.S. Senate’s top Democrat said
he wants votes next week on competing budget-cutting plans from
Democrats and Republicans, who remain more than $50 billion
apart in their proposals to reduce federal spending.  Both measures are likely to fail, signaling to lawmakers --
including House Republican freshmen who are demanding big cuts -
- that neither plan can get through the Senate.  “Not to spoil the surprise, but we all know how this vote
will turn out -- we know neither will reach the president’s desk
as written,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, said yesterday. After the votes, he said, “we at
least know where we stand” and can “move this ball down the
road a little further.”  Republican rejected a proposal by President Barack Obama’s
administration to cut an additional $6.5 billion from the budget.  “This latest proposal is unacceptable, and it’s
indefensible,” Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a
Kentucky Republican, said of the Obama offer. “The American
people are tired of hearing the same tired talking points from
our Democrat friends. They want action.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said
“Americans have a right to know: When will Democrats get
serious about cutting spending?”  Stopgap Measure  On March 2, Obama signed a stopgap measure that cut
spending by $4 billion while funding most of the government at
current budget levels until March 18. That leaves lawmakers two
weeks to decide funding levels for the rest of the 2011 fiscal
year, which ends Sept. 30, or risk a government shutdown.  House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a
Kentucky Republican, said lawmakers may have to approve another
short-term spending bill to buy more time for a deal.  “My goal, and I think the Republicans’ goal in the House,
is to not have a government shutdown -- that’s our overriding
goal,” Rogers said in an  interview  for C-Span’s “Newsmakers”
airing this weekend.  Congressional leaders of both parties met behind closed
doors with Vice President  Joe Biden  to begin negotiations. “The
conversation will continue,” Biden said in a one-sentence
statement following the meeting.  Attending the meeting with Biden were the four top
congressional leaders -- Reid and McConnell from the Senate and
Boehner and Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
from the House  -- as well as White House officials including
Budget Director Jack Lew and Obama’s chief of staff,  William Daley .  Alternative Plan  Senate Democrats unveiled an alternative plan that would
cut $6.5 billion in spending while sparing education, health
care, transportation and other programs from big cuts proposed
by the House. On Feb. 19, Republicans in that chamber passed
legislation cutting $61 billion out of this year’s budget -- an
amount that Democrats say goes too far and would harm the
economic recovery.  “We know that we have to make cuts,” Reid said. “We also
know that when we cut, we have to cut in a way that strengthens
our economy -- not weakens it.”  He praised a Government Accountability Office report
released this week documenting scores of redundant government
programs. “Those are places that we can cut money -- let’s do
it,” Reid said.  Democratic Contention  Democrats contend that they are meeting Republicans halfway
in their demands to cut spending by $100 billion. They say that
extending current budget levels for the duration of the fiscal
year amounts to $41 billion in savings compared with what Obama
had sought in his original 2011 budget, released more than a
year ago. That, combined with the $4 billion cut earlier this
week, as well as the proposal to cut $6.5 billion more, produces
more than $50 billion in savings, the Democrats say.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
rejected the Democrats’ math. “That’s unacceptable to our side
-- it’s unacceptable to the American people,” he said.  Cantor said his colleagues want the equivalent of $2
billion in cuts per week through Sept. 30.  Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the House’s No. 2
Democrat, countered that Republicans were nevertheless counting
the savings from current spending levels that fall short of what
Obama requested in saying that they are living up to campaign
promises to cut $100 billion.  Math Dispute  “While there may be some disputes on math and some other
things heading into this, we remain optimistic we’re going to be
able to get this done,” said White House spokesman  Dan Pfeiffer .  Rogers, in the C-Span interview, suggested that it would be
difficult to reach an agreement acceptable to both sides. He
said that a bill splitting the difference between the $61
billion Republicans have proposed cutting and the Democratic
alternative could not pass the House.  He said the 87 newly elected Republicans -- most of them
fiscal conservatives -- are stiffening the party’s resolve to
fight for deep cuts.  “The freshmen especially are very adamant in their views,
and admirably so, and they don’t have a lot of give in their
opinions about deficit spending -- but neither do I,” Rogers
said. “We all are in agreement that we’ve got to cut spending
and stop this spending spree that’s driving our nation into a
fiscal crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  