-- 
Republicans Dismiss Obama's Proposal for Additional $6.5 Billion of Cuts

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-04T16:18:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/republicans-dismiss-obama-proposal-to-cut-another-6-5-billion-in-spending.html
President  Barack Obama  offered to
cut another $6.5 billion in  government spending , a proposal
rejected as inadequate by Republicans in negotiations over the
federal budget and avoiding a government shutdown.  “This latest proposal is unacceptable, and it’s
indefensible,” Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  said on
the Senate floor today. “The American people are tired of
hearing the same tired talking points from our Democrat friends.
They want action.”    Michael Steel , House Speaker  John Boehner ’s spokesman,
yesterday called the Obama proposal “little more than the
status quo,” and said, “The American people have been clear
that status quo spending in Washington is simply unacceptable.”  House Republicans last month passed a plan to cut $61
billion from 2011 spending, which would mean reductions of 10
percent or more in hundreds of programs. Democrats, who control
the Senate, have balked at that measure.  White House National Economic Policy Director  Gene Sperling 
told reporters yesterday, “We are willing to cut spending
further if we can agree on cuts and find common ground in a way
that does not do harm to the economy in the short term or in the
long term through gutting education, research, innovation --
things that are critical to winning our economic future.” He
didn’t identify which programs would be cut.  Meeting With Biden  Congressional leaders of both parties met behind closed
doors yesterday with Vice President  Joseph Biden  to begin
negotiations. Afterward, Biden issued a statement saying “the
conversation will continue.”  Attending the meeting with Biden were the four top
congressional leaders -- Boehner, of  Ohio , House Democratic
leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and McConnell, a Kentucky Republican --
as well as White House officials including Budget Director Jack Lew and Obama’s chief of staff,  William Daley .  Obama signed a stopgap measure March 2 that cuts spending
this year by $4 billion while funding most of the government at
current budget levels until March 18. That gives lawmakers two
weeks to decide funding levels for the fiscal year ending Sept.
30 or risk a shutdown.  Democrats have said extending current budget levels through
Sept. 30 would amount to $41 billion in savings when compared
with the 2011 budget request Obama released last year.  $100 Billion  Sperling argued that combined with $4 billion cut in the
stopgap measure and the $6.5 billion spending decrease
administration now was offering, the total would amount to
roughly half of the $100 billion Republicans had pledged last
year to cut from the president’s 2011 budget request.  That request never advanced in last year’s Congress and the
government has continued to be funded at 2010 levels.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
rejected the Democrats’ math. “That’s unacceptable to our
side,” he said. “It’s unacceptable to the American people.”  Cantor said his colleagues want the equivalent of $2
billion in cuts per week through Sept. 30. That would track with
the $61 billion in cuts sought by the House bill.  White House spokesman  Dan Pfeiffer  said before the meeting
Biden convened that “while there may be some disputes on math
and some other things heading into this, we remain optimistic
we’re going to be able to get this done.”  Environment, Health Care  McConnell said that in the Senate version of a budget bill
he would seek the $61 billion in cuts approved by the House,
though he hasn’t endorsed that measure’s specific cuts. The
bill’s provisions include spending reductions in programs
affecting education, the environment, health care, energy,
science and the arts. The Peace Corps budget would be cut by 20
percent and the maximum Pell college tuition grant would be
slashed by 15 percent.  Some Senate Republicans say they won’t vote for any budget
bill that contains less than the $61 billion in cuts. “I can’t
under any circumstances vote for anything less than that,” said
South Carolina Republican  Jim DeMint .  The negotiations also must resolve a number of policy
measures approved by the House, including a ban on funds for
Obama’s health-care overhaul and for Planned Parenthood, which
provides abortions. Democrats want those provisions deleted.  Some Democratic lawmakers said they don’t want to focus on
spending cuts until Congress considers ways of raising more
federal revenue through taxes, such as increases on those
earning more than $250,000 a year or ending breaks for oil and
gas companies.  “I’m not going to vote for anything unless there’s
revenues in it,” said Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat.
“From now on, if there’s something that’s just cutting
spending, I’m not for it. We’ve got to do both.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  