-- 
Republicans, Fed Clash on Impact of Party's Planned Spending Cuts on Jobs

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-03-04T17:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/republicans-federal-reserve-clash-on-jobs-cuts-in-party-s-spending-cuts.html
U.S. Representative  Kevin McCarthy 
thought he had an ally in Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
on the impact that Republican budget cuts will have on jobs.  McCarthy, of California, the third-ranking House
Republican, said this week the spending cuts won’t cost the
nation jobs, pointing to Bernanke for support. Within hours,
Bernanke testified on  Capitol Hill  that the budget reductions
may lead to the loss of 200,000 jobs.  The Fed chief said the House Republican plan to slash $61
billion from 2011  government spending  could also subtract “a
couple of tenths” of a percentage point from U.S. economic
growth over several years.  “We need to address the deficit; that’s very important,”
Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee in a March
2 hearing. “But I think it would be most effective if we did
that over a timeframe of five or 10 years and not try to do
everything immediately.”  Bernanke’s words will pose a danger for Republicans, who
say their top priorities are jobs and cutting spending, if
voters see them in conflict with the head of the central bank.  The House approved the Republican plan last month, with all
but six party members backing the proposal. Senate Republicans
say they are seeking the same level of reductions in talks with
Democratic leaders and the White House. The plan includes cuts
of 10 percent or more in hundreds of programs.  Don’t Believe It  McCarthy and other Republicans say their budget cutting
won’t increase the nation’s  unemployment rate , which declined to
8.9 percent in February.  “I don’t believe the $61 billion is going to be a short-
term hit on jobs,” McCarthy, 46, the House majority whip, said
at a Bloomberg News breakfast on March 2.  McCarthy also dismissed analyses by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moody’s Analytics, that
said the Republican budget move would shed jobs and slow
economic growth. He suggested that Bernanke was more credible.  “I think Bernanke refuted that it’s going to be a job
loss,” McCarthy said. “Any time that you create private-sector
jobs over the public sector, you’re in a much stronger
position.”  Bernanke, 57, later testified on Capitol Hill.  Republicans have struggled to balance calls for steep
spending cuts from newly elected members of their caucus, those
aligned with a Tea Party movement urging deep reductions in
government spending, with the political fallout that could come
from possible job losses.  ‘Irresponsible Cuts’  Democrats seized on the potential losses today, releasing a
state-by-state breakdown of what they say would be a decrease in
jobs under the Republican budget plan.  “This map shows exactly how  House Republicans ’
irresponsible cuts will hit home,” said Senator  Charles Schumer 
of  New York , who heads the Democratic Policy and Communications
Committee.  A national survey by the Wall Street Journal and NBC News
found less than one-quarter of Americans support significant
cuts in two of the biggest pieces of the budget, Social Security
or Medicare. The poll of 1,000 adults was conducted Feb. 24-28,
with a 3.1-percentage-point margin of error.  House Speaker  John Boehner  came under fire last month after
he appeared insensitive to losses of federal government jobs
that could result from the Republican spending plan.  ‘So Be It’  “If some of those jobs are lost in this, so be it,” the
Ohio Republican told reporters on Feb. 15. “We’re broke. It’s
time for us to get serious about how we’re spending the nation’s
money.”  The  Federal Reserve ’s estimate of job losses is
significantly lower than the study of the proposal by Zandi, who
frequently analyzes the economic impact of legislation for House
Democrats. Zandi also worked as an economic adviser for
Republican Senator  John McCain ’s 2008 presidential campaign.  Zandi said the measure would cost the country 700,000 jobs
by the end of 2012 and reduce real economic growth this year by
0.5 percentage points and by 0.2 percentage points next year.  “Significant government spending restraint is vital, but
given the economy’s halting recovery it would be
counterproductive for that restraint to begin until the U.S. is
creating enough jobs to lower the unemployment rate,” Zandi
said.  An independent analysis released by Goldman Sachs last
month found that the Republican proposal would reduce economic
growth by 1.5 to 2 percentage points during the second and third
quarters of this year.  Realistic Analysis  Bernanke attributed the lower Federal Reserve estimates to
some “differences in assumptions.”  “We’ve tried to do a realistic analysis of what those cuts
would do over a couple of years,” he said.  Republicans say the positive effect that making a serious
effort to tackle the deficit would have on long-term economic
growth would outweigh any short-term job losses.  “The deficit and debt are key issues to get our economy
back on track, and that’s the intangible that has to be factored
in,” said Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican. “What is
the real short-term hit if the market’s going to respond
favorably to us getting our act together?”  Boehner called Zandi the “pet economist” of House
Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , citing his support
for an economic-stimulus bill that the White House once
estimated would keep unemployment below 8 percent. Boehner cited
a  statement  signed by 150 economists sent to President  Barack Obama  calling for spending cuts.  Stanford University economist  John Taylor , a Treasury
undersecretary under former President  George W. Bush ,  says  both
Zandi and Goldman Sachs relied on a flawed methodology. He wrote
that he found “no convincing evidence” that the budget-cutting
bill would reduce employment or economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at   or
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  