-- 
De Niro Testifies Against Dealer Accused of Stealing Dad’s Art

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-03-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/robert-de-niro-to-testify-as-ex-salander-employee-starts-trial-for-fraud.html
  Robert De Niro , testifying in
the trial of Leigh Morse, an  art dealer  employed by  Lawrence Salander  before his conviction for felony fraud,
said he didn’t consent to having proceeds from the sale of
his father’s paintings deposited in Morse’s personal bank
account.  Morse was director of Salander-O’Reilly Galleries,
which declared bankruptcy in November 2007 amid claims that
eventually totaled $299 million. She is accused of stealing
from the estate of De Niro’s late father, and she has
pleaded not guilty in New York Supreme Court to one count
each of fraud and grand larceny.  De Niro, 67, testified Friday in the Manhattan
courtroom that he didn’t give permission to anyone at the
gallery to have $77,000 from the sale of three paintings by
Robert De Niro Sr. wired directly to Morse’s account. The
actor owned two of those paintings.  De Niro Sr. died in 1993 of prostate cancer on his
71st birthday. His son explained that his father did both
figurative and abstract paintings and drawings. De Niro
inherited his father’s estate of more than 1,000 works and
has preserved the artist’s 2,000-square-foot lower-  Manhattan  studio as a kind of shrine.  The 13th-floor courtroom was packed for De Niro’s
testimony. The rest of the trial has played to a largely
empty room.  Wearing a loose green corduroy jacket, light-blue
shirt and dark slacks, De Niro said his father chose
Salander as his dealer. De Niro himself formally signed
with Salander after his father died.  “He gave me the impression he liked my father’s art,
he was enthusiastic,” De Niro testified. “That was good
for me.”  Proceeds Split 50-50  According to documents presented in court, De Niro
agreed to split proceeds 50-50 with the gallery.  Assistant District Attorney Micki Shulman Hendricks
asked whether he objected to anyone at the gallery keeping
the entire proceeds of a sale.  “That I have an issue with,” he said.  In his opening statement for the prosecution,
Assistant District Attorney Kenn Kern said Morse withheld
information about sales so consignors wouldn’t ask to be
paid.  The actor said he couldn’t remember whether Morse or
Salander told him about the $77,000 sale of his father’s
paintings to  San Francisco ’s Hackett-Freedman Gallery in
2007.  “I don’t recall,” he said. “They could’ve. I don’t
recall.”  Salander pleaded guilty to 30 counts of fraud and
grand larceny a year ago and is serving six to 18 years in
state prison.  Ponzi Scheme  Prosecutors said Salander operated a Ponzi scheme out
of his Upper East Side gallery to finance spending sprees
in Renaissance art and an extravagant lifestyle for him and
his wife and seven children.  Lawyers for the actor spent almost two years in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  fighting to recover the De Niro paintings
consigned to the gallery. The actor was able to retrieve
them in a settlement that included paying $14,000 to the
bankrupt gallery.  De Niro said he had trusted Salander “absolutely”
and wasn’t focused on the gallery’s dealings.  When De Niro met Salander in  Portugal , Salander had
his own airplane.  “It just didn’t seem to add up,” De Niro said.  Gallery in  Rome   De Niro described learning that the Benucci gallery in
Rome had taken title to several of his father’s works. De
Niro said he had never sold any artworks to the gallery and
called Salander. Salander said the gallery misled the
actor.  “I felt he was delusional or deluding himself or just
not being honest,” De Niro said of his onetime friend.  Morse’s lawyer,  Andrew Lankler , described her in his
opening statements as an employee with no responsibility
over the gallery’s finances or payouts to consignors.  He acknowledged that $77,000 was wired into Morse’s
personal bank account from the 2007 De Niro Sr. sale. He
added that she was owed hundreds of thousands of dollars by
the gallery and in the past had received the proceeds of
sales directly to compensate for the money she was owed.  Under cross-examination by Lankler, De Niro said
Salander-O’Reilly’s shows of his father’s art “were pretty
well done.”  De Niro said he understood that art dealers who sell
work are paid a commission.  “What you care about if your work is sold, you want
to get paid what you’re owed?” Lankler asked.  “That’s about it,” De Niro said.  The criminal case is People v. Morse, 09-03581,  New
York  State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 