-- 
India Rupee Completes Weekly Gain as Budget Cuts Boost Sentiment

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 
2011-03-04T12:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/rupee-heads-for-weekly-gain-as-budget-cuts-boost-sentiment.html
  India ’s rupee rose, completing a
weekly gain, after stocks surged and the government unveiled
plans to narrow the  budget deficit  in the fiscal year that
starts April 1.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
completed its biggest weekly rally in four months after Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee announced on Feb. 28 that India will
cut its fiscal shortfall to 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product from 5.1 percent this year.  “The budget was certainly very investor friendly and we
saw a pop up in the rupee this week in reaction,” said  Tim Condon , head of Asian research at ING Groep NV. The narrower
fiscal deficit and sustained expenditure on infrastructure
boosted  market sentiment , he added.  The rupee rose 0.1 percent to 44.9875 per dollar at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It gained 0.7 percent for the week, paring losses this year to
0.6 percent.    Oil prices  were poised for a third weekly rise due to
tensions in the Middle East that threaten to disrupt supplies.
Crude climbed 5 percent to $102.8 a barrel in  New York . India
imports almost 75 percent of the oil it uses.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.74 to
the dollar in three months, compared with 46.15 at the end of
last week. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  “I’m amazed at the resilience of these Asian currencies,”
Condon said. “While it doesn’t look like the turmoil in the
Middle East will abate soon, the markets seem to have concluded
at least for now that it won’t be that big an impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  