-- 
Rusal Rejects Norilsk's $12.8 Billion Buyout Offer; Plans Interros Talks

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-04T16:56:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/rusal-rejects-norilsk-s-12-8-billion-buyout-offer-plans-interros-talks.html
United Co. Rusal, locked in a battle
for control of OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, rebuffed a $12.8 billion
bid from the mining company to buy back 20 percent of its stock,
saying it’s not in the best interests of shareholders.  “The company carefully studied the analysis of the
situation provided by the board’s committee on Norilsk Nickel
matters, and approved the committee’s recommendation to reject
the proposal,” Moscow-based Rusal said today in a statement.  Billionaire Oleg Deripaska, who owns 47 percent of Rusal,
has rejected three offers since October to sell out of Norilsk,
even as Rusal investors Mikhail Prokhorov and Viktor Vekselberg
push for a sale. A decision to exit the nickel company would
bring an end to an ownership feud with fellow investor  Vladimir Potanin  that dates back to 2008.  Rusal yesterday approved a special resolution that commits
management to begin talks with Potanin’s Interros Holding Co.
after a Norilsk shareholders meeting on March 11, said two
people with knowledge of the matter. Rusal owns 25 percent of
the nickel producer,  Russia ’s largest mining company.  Rusal climbed 3.6 percent to HK$12.76 at the 4 p.m. close
of trade in  Hong Kong , the steepest one-day gain since Feb. 14.
That compares with a 1.2 percent advance for the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  Deripaska rejected a $9 billion buy-out offer from Potanin
in October and a $12 billion bid from Norilsk in December for
Rusal’s entire 25 percent holding. Norilsk’s latest bid, made
Feb. 11, represented a 43 percent premium to the company’s share
price at the time.  Prokhorov, a former head of Norilsk and business partner of
Potanin, called the bid a “beneficial proposal” for Rusal, in
which he holds 17 percent. Vekselberg, who is also Rusal’s
chairman, said Feb. 22 that Norilsk’s valuation for the offer
“seems fair” and should be “discussed seriously.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  