-- 
Salgado Favors Easing Greek Bailout Terms as EU Wrangles on Crisis Accord

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-03-04T09:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/salgado-favors-easing-greek-bailout-terms-as-eu-wrangles-on-crisis-accord.html
  Spain  favors giving Greece “more
flexibility” on rescue loans as European leaders wrangle over
an agreement on bolstering the region’s crisis tools, Finance
Minister Elena Salgado said.  Spain supports considering “different formulas” for the
Greek loan to ease the interest-rate burden as the country steps
up austerity measures, Salgado said in an interview in  Madrid 
yesterday. Terms should be “re-examined” as they’re “the same
when the country is bearing the impact of the austerity measures
as when those measures will be easing” in two or three years.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has increased her
resistance to cutting rates on bailout loans while European
leaders are still seeking to reach a consensus on boosting the
firepower of the region’s 440 billion-euro ($613 billion) rescue
fund. Officials have set a March 25 deadline to come up with
fresh measures to help restore investor confidence.  “Talking about moral hazard in the case of  Greece  seems to
me very tough,” Salgado, 61, said. “Aid is only given under
very strict conditionality and that’s what avoids moral
hazard.”  Spain wants to see the fund’s effective lending capacity
increased to the full complement of 440 billion euros, and
expects officials to reach an agreement to do so this month,
Salgado said. Governments may need more time to decide whether
the European Financial Stability Facility should also be allowed
to purchase  government bonds , she said.  “The more instruments we have to support the euro the
better,” Salgado said.  Bank Rules  The gap between Spanish and German borrowing costs widened
today for the first time this week, increasing to 212 basis
points from 208 basis points yesterday. That compares with a
euro-era record of 298 basis points on Nov. 30 and an average of
15 basis points in the euro’s first decade. The spread between
Spanish and Portuguese yields is 206 basis points.  Spain is stepping up efforts to distance itself from other
so-called peripheral nations including  Portugal , whose borrowing
costs have surged on investor concern that the country will
become the third euro nation to require external aid after
Greece and Ireland. Spain isn’t “contemplating” the
possibility of Portugal asking for support, Salgado said.  Capital Raising  The Bank of Spain will tell lenders on March 10 how much
capital they need to raise to avoid partial nationalization. The
new rules set a minimum requirement for core capital, a measure
of financial strength, of 8 percent, rising to 10 percent for
lenders that don’t have private shareholders holding at least 20
percent of their shares and that depend on wholesale financing.  The rules, first laid out in January, have spurred a flurry
of activity among non-traded savings banks as they announced
plans to raise capital with stock listings and asset sales.  The prospect that savings banks will have to sell shares at
a discount is a price they may have to pay to benefit from the
looser capital rules that apply to lenders with listed shares,
according to Salgado.  “This is the trade-off,” she said. “Because the time
periods that have been imposed are short, maybe they will have
to accept valuations that maybe in a few years would be
greater.”  Salgado also said the “worst has passed” for the
country’s property market. The “default rates on mortgages
remain very low,” she said. Bank of Spain figures show the
default rate on mortgages at about 2.5 percent compared with
more than 5.8 percent for lending across the banking industry.  It may be too early for Salgado to play down the issue of
mortgage defaults at a time when unemployment is exceeding 20
percent and borrowing costs are set to increase, said Luis Garicano, a professor at the  London School  of Economics. “I
hope she’s right but there are real uncertainties.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday the central bank may raise  interest rates  next month
to fight inflation. About nine out ten mortgages in Spain are
linked to changes of interest rates and the country has more
than 600 billion euros in outstanding home-mortgage loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 Cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  