-- 
Sanusi Says Naira Shouldn't Be `Whipping Boy' for Wrong Economic Policies

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-03-04T16:43:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/sanusi-says-naira-shouldn-t-be-whipping-boy-for-wrong-economic-policies.html
Nigerian central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi said the bank won’t let the naira depreciate as a
stable  exchange rate  is the most effective tool for controlling
inflation and that a weaker currency wouldn’t compensate for
poor economic policy.  “The exchange rate, to us, seems to be far more important
for  price stability  than  interest rates ,” Sanusi said in an
interview in  London  today. With local farm produce, fuel and
imported food making up more than 70 percent of the inflation
index, borrowing costs have a limited impact on prices, he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  said on Feb. 17 that the
naira was overvalued and the central bank should allow more
exchange rate flexibility. The currency has remained close to
150 to the dollar since it was devalued in December 2008,
helping to keep inflation below 15 percent since January of the
next year.  The central bank is “comfortable” with the current band
in which the naira trades, Sanusi told Bloomberg television
today. The bank aims to keep the currency within a range of 3
percent above or below 150 per dollar, he said.    Nigeria ’s foreign exchange reserves plunged by almost $10
billion to $33.1 billion in the year through Nov. 29 as the
central bank propped up the currency and the government withdrew
oil savings from its excess crude account. The government has
now reversed that trend, with reserves increasing by $700
million in January and February, Sanusi said.  ‘Whipping Boy’  A weaker naira would push up inflation and fail to boost
economic growth, Sanusi said.  “If I devalue the naira by 20 or 30 percent it wouldn’t
make textile products in Nigeria cheaper than imports from  China 
because it doesn’t fix the power problem or infrastructure
problems,” Sanusi said. “The exchange rate cannot continue to
be the whipping boy and carry the burden of wrong economic
policies.”  Power cuts occur daily in Nigeria, where demand for
electricity is almost double the current supply of more than
3,000 megawatts. The government wants to increase output to
40,000 megawatts by 2020.  “We are the world’s number one producer of cassava and we
don’t produce refined starch,” Sanusi said. “We’re an oil-
producing country, yet our refineries do not meet the needs of
the country. This is what I keep telling the IMF. That you may
have a point beating up on the exchange rate, but for god’s
sake, are there no more important and fundamental issues facing
the economy?”  The naira weakened to its lowest intraday level against the
dollar since Dec. 22, to 154.3 naira per U.S. currency by 5:29
p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital.  Investor Confidence  The stability of the exchange rate also “gives us a
transparent anchor for expectations and for fixing prices,”
Sanusi said. “It gives investors a transparent nominal anchor
for the return on their investments.”  Investors in Nigerian  government bonds  have to keep their
money in the country for one year.  Given that “you want to make sure you’re not taking a
heavy exchange rate risk for indirect investment into the
economy,” Sanusi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 