-- 
Scene Last Night: Polizzi, Nadel, Vranos, Scaramucci Help Kids

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/scene-last-night-polizzi-vranos-anthony-scaramucci-at-hedge-funds-care.html
Gerry Polizzi, a managing director
at UBS, stood next to an ornate teller’s window Thursday night
at Cipriani 42nd Street, formerly a grand Bowery Savings Bank.  The annual benefit for  Hedge Funds Care  had waiters serving
Bellinis as guests dipped into penne pasta and risotto
primavera.  Polizzi has been taking in money like a bank teller lately
as a member of the child-abuse charity’s Committee of Hearts,
which solicits donations for the event.  “One e-mail brought in $25,000,” he says. “I had at
least 10 e-mails with gifts of $15,000 to $20,000.”  Near a buffet station offering shrimp cocktail and tuna
tartare, Steven B. Nadel, a board member of Hedge Funds Care and
a partner at the law firm Seward & Kissel LLP, isn’t eating. He
says he had a burger at 4 p.m., but is tempted by one of the
“chopstick/breadsticks” on offer.  Nadel is focusing on working the room, which is filled with
more than 1,000 people in the financial industry, including
hedge funds Tudor Investment Corp.,  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG) , Moore Capital Management LLC and Ellington Financial LLC.  Michael W. Vranos, chairman and co-chief investment officer
of Ellington and a Hedge Funds Care board member can be seen in
the distance dressed, unlike many of the guests, in a tuxedo.  Nadel too is wearing a tuxedo. “The board has to wear a
tux,” he says. “This is the tux I wore to my wedding in ‘97!”  His firm has given $35,000 this year. “We’ve given at
least $25,000 for 13 years straight,” Nadel says.  Clinking a Glass  DJ Mr. Chachi, who spins regularly at the night club
Tenjune and has worked for Hedge Funds Care free for the past
four years, turns down the volume. Honoree Anthony Scaramucci,
managing partner of Skybridge Capital LLC, is clinking his glass
to quiet the crowd.  “This is bigger than my bar mitzvah back in 1978,” he
says.  The joke from the Roman Catholic gets people’s attention as
he explains the mission of  Hedge Funds  Care.  Children “are suffering humiliation and fear and
decreasing self-esteem,” Scaramucci says. “We need to break
these children out of the cocoon of self-consciousness and
victimization.”  Dean Backer, worldwide brokerage sales and fund-raising
head at Goldman, Sachs & Co., says Hedge Funds Care works in 11
cities in four countries, and has given out $24 million in
grants since 1998.  The organization raised almost $2 million.  Then the music starts up again and it’s back to the party.  “I love Cipriani,” Scaramucci says. “I had my share of
Bellinis, shrimp and unfortunately too much pasta.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 