-- 
Serbian Premier to Cut Ministries in New Cabinet to 17

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-03-04T15:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/serbian-premier-to-cut-ministries-in-new-cabinet-to-17-1-.html
Serbian Premier Mirko Cvetkovic will
reduce the number of ministries in a shuffled Cabinet to 17 from
24 previously as the government prepares for an election in
2012.  The government will send the bill reorganizing the Cabinet
to Parliament on March 7 for approval, Cvetkovic told reporters
today in Belgrade.  The shuffle is taking place a year before general elections
in 2012 and the coalition is now looking for “adequate
candidates” for the new ministers, whose names will be revealed
by March 6, Cvetkovic said.  On March 1,  Serbia ’s ruling coalition agreed on a shuffle,
preserving a one-seat parliamentary majority for the prime
minister.  Cvetkovic’s Cabinet, the longest-serving since the 2000
fall of  Slobodan Milosevic , is struggling to stay in power after
clashing with Mladjan Dinkic, the leader of the junior coalition
party G17 Plus. Cvetkovic last month ousted Dinkic, his former
deputy, raising the risk of a government collapse and early
elections.  Opposition Protests  The biggest opposition party, the Serbian Progressive
Party, plans to launch peaceful protests on April 16 until early
elections are called.  Earlier this week, Cvetkovic said improving the standard of
living is his top policy priority. Of 7.5 million people in
Serbia, only 1.8 million work and 1.6 million are pensioners,
earning an average monthly 320 euros ($447) and 200 euros
respectively, deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic said at the
Kopaonik Business Forum this week.  The government is facing growing public-sector wage
demands, with teachers, police and health workers demanding a
wage increase of 20 percent to 40 percent.  Under its ongoing bailout-loan program with the  International Monetary Fund , Serbia needs to keep its fiscal
deficit within 4.1 percent of gross domestic product. The
program closes in April with the lender continuing to monitor
compliance with the terms of the loan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in London at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  