-- 
Short Budget Extensions Could Harm Financial Markets, Senator Warner Says

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-04T21:08:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/short-budget-extensions-could-harm-market-senator-warner-says.html
Democratic Senator  Mark Warner  said
House Republicans’ plans for two-week stopgap budget extensions
could harm financial markets, even as prospects grow for a
longer-term measure to curb  U.S. debt .  “If we keep kind of loping along on two-week extensions, I
think that could have an effect on the markets, absolutely,”
Warner said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Any longer-term measure to address the U.S. debt must
include tax increases in addition to spending cuts, said Warner,
a first-term senator and former governor of Virginia and a lead
negotiator in budget talks between Democrats and Republicans.  The stock market has had a good week as Congress passed and
President  Barack Obama  signed a two-week plan to avert a
government shutdown while paring $4 billion in spending this
year, the senator said.  Warner said the budget battle in  Washington  is helping by
him andRepublican Senator Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia  to forge a
broader bipartisan deal to curb annual deficits and the long-
term debt. Budget cuts under consideration affect only
discretionary programs that make up about 12 percent of the
budget, and the fight is highlighting the need to look much
further, he said.  “The odds were pretty low at the beginning of the year”
of enacting a long-term budget-cutting plan, Warner said. “I
think they’re going up” as more people recognize that to reach
a solution “you’ve got to put entitlements, you’ve got to put
defense, you’ve got to have a frame for  tax reform .”  Social Security  Warner praised House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and other
Republican House leaders who say they will take the tough step
of proposing cuts to entitlement programs, such as Social
Security, in a budget for next fiscal year. He said, though,
that they also must be ready to consider tax increases.  He said it was “constructive” that “they’re going to go
ahead and say, ‘let’s go to where the money is,’ which is around
some of the entitlement programs.”  Still, he said, “doing this simply on the spending side,
without looking at the revenue side” is “just spending by any
other name.”  The federal debt is approaching its current limit of $14.3
trillion. A vote in the next few months to raise the ceiling --
which Republicans say they won’t support without steps to bring
down the deficit -- may offer a vehicle for enacting any plan
Warner and other senators are discussing.  Debt Commission  Obama’s deficit-cutting commission rejected a $3.8 trillion
budget-cutting plan in December as members from both parties
opposed its mix of tax increases and spending cuts in programs
such as Social Security and Medicare. Even so, the commission’s
plan is seen as a starting point in talks on debt-reduction
legislation.  Warner said he can’t support a proposal by House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, to convert
the Medicare health program for the elderly to a voucher
program. It would be better, the senator said, to curb health-
care costs through an overhaul of Medicare’s payment systems to
cut duplication and paperwork.  “I don’t think a voucher program makes a lot of sense
around the Medicare issue,” Warner said. “It’s strangely
reminiscent of some of the earlier attempts to privatize Social
Security. I’m not sure that’s where we ought to be headed.”  Warner, 56, reiterated his support for boosting the Social
Security retirement age by two years, as proposed by leaders of
the debt commission. Their plan would gradually increase the  retirement age  from 67 to 68 by 2050 and 69 by 2075.  Social Security Taxes  The cap on income subject to Social Security taxes should
be increased, and the wealthy should eventually see smaller
benefit increases, the senator said.  A deficit-cutting plan should include an overhaul of the
corporate  tax code , including an end to deductions, credits and
other writeoffs that allow some companies to reduce their tax
liability significantly below 35 percent, he said.  “There’s a lot of companies out there paying mid-20s, some
paying single digits,” he said.  Turning to politics, Warner said he sees an increased
chance that  Democratic National Committee  Chairman  Tim Kaine 
will run for the seat of Senator Jim Webb, a  Virginia  Democrat
who said last month he won’t seek re-election in 2012. Many are
urging Kaine -- like Warner a former governor of the state -- to
run.  “I think he would be our strongest candidate, and I think
he’s somebody that would be a great voice in the Senate,”
Warner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at  
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  