-- 
Shorenstein Said to Buy Office Complex Considered for Twitter Headquarters

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-03-04T19:13:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/shorenstein-said-to-agree-to-acquire-san-francisco-s-market-square-complex.html
Shorenstein Properties LLC agreed to
buy a 1.2 million-square-foot office and retail complex in  San
Francisco  that Twitter Inc. is considering for its headquarters,
according to a person with knowledge of the deal.  The acquisition of the Market Square property from  ADCO
Group , a New York-based real estate investment company, is
scheduled for completion next week, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the deal isn’t public. The block-
long building is located in an area known as Mid-Market, which
San Francisco city officials are trying to rejuvenate by
offering incentives to companies that move there.  Twitter, the San Francisco-based messaging service with 175
million users, has looked at Market Square as it seeks a new
headquarters, according to two people with knowledge of the
search. The property is on Market Street between Ninth and Tenth
streets, near San Francisco City Hall and the Orpheum and
Warfield theaters.  Market Square consists of two buildings and has 890,000
square feet (83,000 square meters) of  office space , 200,000
square feet of retail space and more than 450 underground
parking spots, according to ADCO, which has owned the property
since 1968. The property was once known as the Western Furniture
Exchange and Merchandise Mart, ADCO said on its  website .  Telephone messages for Alvin Dworman, chairman of ADCO, and  Andy Merrill , ADCO’s outside spokesman, weren’t immediately
returned. Tim Gallen, a spokesman for San Francisco-based
Shorenstein, and Carolyn Penner, a Twitter spokeswoman, both
declined to comment.  Building Improvement Project  A “multimillion dollar capital improvement project” that
includes new windows, elevators, restrooms and storefronts is
under way, according to the property’s  website .  San Francisco officials have discussed “public safety,
transportation and neighborhood amenities needs” with Twitter
executives, Christine Falvey, a spokeswoman for San Francisco
Mayor Edwin Lee, wrote in a March 1 e-mail.  The mayor and members of the Board of Supervisors
introduced legislation to institute a Mid-Market payroll tax
exemption after discussing with Twitter its needs. The incentive
would be available to any company locating in the area.  Falvey declined to say if the company was considering
Market Square as a new home.  “Specifics about any lease negotiation are strictly
between Twitter and the respective building ownership,” Falvey
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  