-- 
Singapore Court Rejects Former Standard Chartered Clients' Bid to Sue Bank

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-03-04T08:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/singapore-court-rejects-former-standard-chartered-clients-bid-to-sue-bank.html
Singapore’s Court of Appeal rejected
a bid by four former  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  private banking
clients to pursue a $700,000 claim against the bank for selling
them complex investment products.  “We don’t think there’s any merit in this appeal,” Chief
Justice Chan Sek Keong said today. A three-judge panel dismissed
the case, which claimed there were extraordinary circumstances
for the bank’s former customers’ non compliance with a lower
court’s order to provide information about their previous
financial investments.  Singapore High Court  Judge Tay Yong Kwang  had thrown out
the complaint by Lee Chang Rung and three of his relatives in
September, saying there was a “serious risk” the trial
wouldn’t be fair after they failed to disclose their previous
investments in structured products.  Sim Chong , the lawyer for Taiwanese businessman Lee and his
relatives, said earlier that his clients apologized for not
disclosing their previous investments with other banks in
structured products and accumulators.  “Their previous lawyer had told them their previous
transactions weren’t relevant,” Sim said.  The group claimed they were conservative investors who
placed most of their money with American Express Bank Ltd. in
fixed deposits. Lee and the others claimed American Express,
which has since been acquired by  Standard Chartered ,
misrepresented that the investments they bought were safe and
had guaranteed returns.  “The sins of the counsel are vested on the client,”
Standard Chartered’s lawyer  Hri Kumar  of Drew & Napier LLC said.  The case is Lee Chang Rung v. Standard Chartered Bank
CA121/2010 in the Singapore Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  