-- 
Sony Says Playstation 3 Game Consoles Seized by Dutch Customs Authorities

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-03-04T08:05:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/sony-playstation-3-consoles-seized-by-dutch-customs-after-lg-patent-win.html
  Sony Corp. (6758)  said some of its
PlayStation 3 game consoles were seized by Dutch customs
authorities following a patent-infringement complaint lodged by  South Korea ’s  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   The consoles were seized late last month, said Yasuhiro
Okada, a Tokyo-based Sony spokesman, declining to specify the
number of consoles taken. Ken Hong, a spokesman at Seoul-based
LG, said the company doesn’t comment on pending legal matters.  The move highlights the widening legal feud between the two
Asian electronics makers, which compete in products ranging from
televisions to mobile phones. Sony’s earnings may be hurt if the
injunction continues for more than a month, according to Shiro Mikoshiba, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “If this is resolved within a month or so, Sony can
probably avoid an impact by using its products in inventory,”
Mikoshiba said.  The Netherlands confiscated thousands of Sony PS3s after LG
Electronics won a court injunction over a patent claim, the
Financial Times reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  Sony is considering ways to divert to other shipping points
in  Europe , according to a person with knowledge of the plan. The
Japanese maker is also considering a move to overturn the Dutch
ruling, the person said, declining to be identified because the
plans haven’t been made public. PS3 consoles are distributed to
other parts of Europe from the Netherlands, the person said.  Patent Disputes  Sony sold 12.2 million PS3s in the nine months ended Dec.
31, or 81 percent of its annual sales target of 15 million, the
company said last month. Sony’s networked products group, which
handles games, posted a profit of 45.7 billion yen in the
quarter ended Dec. 31, cushioning a slump in the consumer
product group that makes TV and cameras.  Sony doesn’t disclose regional breakdowns of its PS3
shipments.  “Patent disputes between Japanese and South Korean
manufacturers will probably continue,” said Yoshio Takahashi, a
Tokyo-based analyst for Moody’s Investors Service.
“Consciousness for managing  patent rights  is rising, especially
at South Korean companies, as competition intensifies.”  Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics,
brought cases in Los Angeles federal court and the International
Trade Commission in  Washington  on Dec. 28 seeking to block LG’s
shipments of mobile phones, saying LG handsets use Sony’s
technology without permission.  LG, the world’s third-largest maker of mobile phones, on
Feb. 4 countered with complaints with the ITC seeking to block
sales of Sony Bravia televisions and PS3 consoles, claiming they
use LG’s patented technology without permission.  On Feb. 9, Sony filed two separate complaints with the Los
Angeles court and the ITC against the South Korean company’s LCD
televisions and monitors.  Sony rose 1.2 percent to close at 2,978 yen in Tokyo
trading. LG climbed 1.3 percent to 115,000 won in  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  