-- 
Spitzer Outshines New Sidekicks; Trump’s Freak Show: TV Review

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-03-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/spitzer-outshines-new-sidekicks-trump-s-celebrity-freak-show-tv-review.html
Why doesn’t  CNN  trust  Eliot Spitzer ?  Freed of  Kathleen Parker ’s superfluous presence, Spitzer’s
news and talk show (formerly “Parker Spitzer,” now “ In the
Arena ”) had a chance at complete reinvention. Instead, the
network hedged its bets.  Rather than risking Spitzer solo for 60 minutes, CNN added
two sidekicks, conservative commentators E.D. Hill and Will
Cain. Perhaps the decision was made for balance: Hill and Cain
lean right, Spitzer left. Hill and Cain are news-anchor pretty;
Spitzer, on the network boasting silver fox Anderson Cooper,
looks like a balding coyote.  Granted, the former New York governor is an oddity on the
cable landscape. He doesn’t yell like Chris Matthews, play the
rodeo clown like  Glenn Beck  or posture as a soapbox populist
like  Bill O’Reilly . His teleprompter skills are, to put it
kindly, in the development stage. When he smiles, he seems to be
testing something new.  But his lawyerly tenacity as an interviewer puts his CNN
compadre Piers Morgan to shame. Grilling a Wisconsin Republican
senator this week about the state’s budget crisis, Spitzer was
relentless but respectful. He plays worthy opponent, not enemy
combatant.  So why clutter the program with frequent intrusions from
Hill and Cain? The trio’s discussions feel rushed, loud and
practiced. Spitzer, with his rapid-fire recitation of facts and
history, makes mincemeat of his partners.  Hill, best known as the Fox News host who put “terrorist
fist jab” into the national lexicon, is especially ill-matched
here. With the exaggerated mannerisms of a red-carpet
interviewer, she speaks in sound bites and talking points.  “I’m not a policy person,” she said during a roundtable
debate this week. “I’m just a regular American.”  Duly noted.  “In the Arena” airs weeknights on CNN at 8 p.m. New York
time. Rating: **  ‘Celebrity Apprentice’  Maybe  Donald Trump  should have been a shrink. His ability
to transform apparent lunatics into functional members of
society -- if society is defined as the shamelessly addictive
“ The Celebrity Apprentice ” -- is unmatched.  All celebrity-based reality programs swim in the shrinking
pool of the formerly famous (someone should sue “Dancing With
the Stars” for false advertising), but Trump has a knack for
latching onto D-listers treading the shallow end of sanity. The
result is like one of his gilded skyscrapers: gaudy,
embarrassing and hard to sidestep.  Model, Housewife  This season’s competitors for charity and the honorary
title of apprentice range from an ex-teen idol (David Cassidy)
to an actress best known for her recent lip reduction (Lisa Rinna, looking fabulous). I’ll save you the trouble of googling
Hope Dworaczyk (Playboy model) and NeNe Leakes (Bravo
housewife).  Based on the first episode, this year’s villain will be
Richard Hatch, formerly of “Survivor” and federal prison. But
the celebrity most likely to go bonkers is actor Gary Busey, an
impressive distinction considering the cast includes La Toya
Jackson and Star Jones.  With his wild eyes, growl of a voice and mug-shot hair,
Busey all but speaks his own language. If one teen is scared
straight or inspired to rent “The Buddy Holly Story,” this
season of “The Celebrity Apprentice” might be worth more than
anything raised for charity.  “Celebrity Apprentice” airs Sunday on NBC at 9 p.m.  New
York  time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Justified’  The plaudits for “ Justified ” haven’t always matched that
title. True, this adaptation of Elmore Leonard’s Appalachian
noir potboilers can turn a wicked phrase (barking dogs are
“hillbilly doorbells”) and Timothy Olyphant is a charmer as
the deputy marshal hounding all manner of backwoods bad guys.  But too many ingredients can weaken the moonshine, and last
season was watered down with meandering subplots and wayward
romance.  Fortunately, one bad mother has arrived to set things
right. Mags Bennett, played by Margo Martindale (“Dexter”), is
a Harlan County Ma Barker, the plainspoken, death-dealing
matriarch of a dope-selling mountain clan. Mags is shaping up as
an even better nemesis for Olyphant’s lawman than Walton
Goggins’ syrup-voiced hoodlum Boyd Crowder.  Check out Mother Bennett in the March 9 episode. When one
of her hulking, dimwitted sons needs a lesson in obedience, Mags
provides it -- with a hammer.  “I have to hurt Coover,” she says. “And I like Coover.”  “Justified” airs Wednesday on FX at 10 p.m. New York
time. Rating: ***    Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 