-- 
MSR Resorts to Draw $5 Million of $30 Million Loan

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-15T21:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/msr-resorts-seeks-approval-of-30-million-loan-from-paulson-five-mile.html
MSR Resorts, the bankrupt operator
of five luxury hotels, won court permission to use
$5 million of a $30 million loan provided by affiliates of
owners Paulson & Co. and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  today
approved the interim loan and MSR’s use of cash collateral while
it seeks approval of the full loan amount. The financing will be
used to fund improvements to the hotels, according to court
documents.  “Since we filed cases, parties have been in extensive
negotiations,” leading to revised agreements on the loan’s
terms and the use of lenders’ cash collateral, Edward Sassower,
a lawyer for MSR, told Chapman, who was filling in for Judge
Sean Lane.  Midland Loan Services Inc., the special servicer on MSR’s
$1 billion mortgage loan, had objected to the cash collateral
request. Midland said the motion would restrict its ability to
report revenue, cash use and expense accruals to its own
servicer and the mortgage lenders it serves as an agent to.  MSR said that data needed to be protected because Midland’s
operating adviser, Lexington Investments Ltd., is an affiliate
of KSL, which owns Rancho Las Palmas Resort & Spa in  Palm
Springs ,  California . That hotel competes with MSR’s La Quinta
Resort & Club and PGA West, MSR said in court papers.  The parties agreed to resolve the issue at a later time,
Sassower told Chapman.  20 Lenders  The so-called debtor-in-possession loan was the best
available after marketing to 20 potential lenders, MSR said in
court papers. An offer from the Singapore government was less
favorable, Saul Burian, managing director of MSR adviser  Houlihan Lokey , said in court filings.  Paulson and other funds put the owner of the Grand Wailea
Resort Hotel & Spa in Maui, Hawaii; the Arizona Biltmore Resort
& Spa in Phoenix; and three other luxury properties into
bankruptcy Feb. 1, after seizing control from  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s
real estate funds.  The case is In re MSR Resort Golf Course LLC, 11-10372,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 