-- 
St. Joe Names Berkowitz Chairman of Landowner, Eliminates Takeover Defense

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-04T22:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/st-joe-names-berkowitz-chairman-ends-anti-takeover-measure.html
  St. Joe  Co., the Florida landowner
that overhauled its board this week, named  Bruce Berkowitz , its
largest shareholder, as chairman and eliminated an anti-takeover
provision.  “I will not sugarcoat the current situation,” Berkowitz,
founder of investment firm Fairholme Capital Management LLC,
wrote in a note to employees released today in a regulatory
filing. “St. Joe is losing money, selling valuable assets to
cover losses and is under attack. We cannot continue on this
course for long or there will be no Joe. Starting today, we will
not continue down this road.”  Britt Greene resigned as St. Joe’s chief executive officer
and three other directors left the board earlier this week under
pressure from Berkowitz, who disagreed with the company’s
compensation and corporate-governance practices. Miami-based
Fairholme owns about 29 percent of the developer, the biggest
private landowner in northern  Florida .  The board passed the anti-takeover measure, known as a
poison pill, last month in an effort to prevent large
shareholders from accumulating more stock, after Berkowitz
announced a proxy fight to change management.  The developer, based in Watersound, Florida, on March 1
reported a fourth-quarter loss of $2.7 million, or 3 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $58.7 million, or 64 cents, a
year earlier. The loss was the 11th straight after Florida’s
real estate crash drove down property values.  Durden as CEO  Hugh Durden, the outgoing chairman of the board, was named
CEO while the company recruits a replacement for Greene, St. Joe
said today.  Adding Berkowitz, Fairholme President Charles Fernandez,
former Florida Governor  Charlie Crist  and  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  Chief
Operating Officer Howard Frank to the board will “create a new
vision, a meritocracy -- where you are paid for performance, no
matter your position,” Berkowitz wrote. “I know change is
painful, but the seeds of greatness are planted during tough
times.”  St. Joe gained 76 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $27.42 as of
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It has
gained 1.2 percent in the past year, compared with the 19
percent by the Russell 1000 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 