-- 
SThree First-Quarter Profit Rises 19%, Led by Permanent Hiring

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-03-04T09:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/sthree-first-quarter-profit-rises-19-led-by-permanent-hiring.html
  SThree Plc (STHR) , the U.K. recruiting
company founded as Computer Futures in 1986, said first-quarter
gross profit rose 19 percent, led by permanent placements.  Gross profit, which is calculated as payment from clients
less the payroll costs, was about 42 million pounds ($68.4
million) in the quarter which ended Feb 27, the London-based
company said in a statement. Gross profit from permanent hiring
gained 32 percent, and from temporary 8 percent, SThree said.  Recoveries are usually led by temporary hiring because
employers are cautious, yet this one has been led by countries
such as  Brazil , Russia, India and  China , the so-called BRIC
countries, Chief Executive Officer Russell Clements said in a
telephone interview.  “Some of the strongest regions, like southeast  Asia  and
the BRIC countries, tend to be markets where the opportunity is
for more permanent hiring,” Clements said. “That’s skewed
it.”  SThree is expanding overseas as growth in the U.K. slows.
Gross profit increased 12 percent in the U.K. during the
quarter, and 24 percent abroad, SThree said. It’s also
diversifying beyond technology hiring in countries such as
Brazil, where it’s involved in energy.  British recruiter  Hays Plc (HAS)  said Feb. 28 that 62 percent of
its net fees were generated outside the U.K.  SThree, which has 52 offices, will add outlets in Sao
Paulo, Doha and Antwerp before the end of June, the company
said. Clements said the company is considering opening its first
office in  Russia  before the end of the year.  Temporary placement is picking up in technology as
companies find they can’t put off projects anymore, he said.  Bank hiring is off to a “fairly slow start” this year,
perhaps because bonuses have been delayed, leading to fewer
people leaving their jobs, he said. Also, banks hired
“aggressively” early last year, and may simply be slowing job
growth, Clements said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  