-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline as Crude Oil Advances to 29-Month High

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-04T21:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/stock-futures-in-u-s-erase-gains-as-growth-in-wages-less-than-estimated.html
U.S. stocks declined, erasing almost
half of the biggest daily gain in three months, amid investor
concern that the surge in crude oil price to a 29-month high
will curtail the expansion in the world’s biggest economy.    Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  slumped at least
1.1 percent, pacing declines in industrial companies, which are
among stocks most dependent on economic growth.  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  fell more than 2.1 percent after
Bank of America Corp. cut their ratings.  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL)  tumbled 11 percent as the maker of processors for the
BlackBerry phone forecast sales that missed estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 0.7 percent to
1,321.15 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after climbing 1.7 percent
yesterday. The gauge added 0.1 percent this week. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  decreased 88.32 points, or 0.7 percent, to
12,169.88. Crude oil rose to $104.94 a barrel in New York as
Libyan rebels repelled government attempts to retake oil hubs.  “It’s all about oil,” said  Quincy Krosby , chief market
strategist for Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential Financial
Inc., which oversees $750 billion. “Investors are really
concerned about more geopolitical disruption over the weekend.
If oil continues above $100 barrel, it will certainly have a
negative impact on businesses and  consumer spending .”  Economic Surprise Index  The  S&P 500  had climbed 0.8 percent this week through
yesterday, pushed up by reports showing claims for first-time
jobless benefits decreased, U.S. businesses grew at the fastest
pace in two decades and gauges of manufacturing and service
industries climbed to the highest levels since at least 2005.
Better-than-estimated data pushed the Citigroup Economic
Surprise Index to its highest level ever, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Crude rose 2.5 percent today amid concern unrest in Libya
will spread to other oil producers in the region, curbing
exports, and as a falling U.S. jobless rate signaled that fuel
demand will climb. Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  sent troops to
recapture towns in the western part of the country and prepared
to quash protests in the capital, Tripoli.  “We’ve had a V-shaped recovery, but it’s a slower move
coming off the bottom,” said Liz Ann Sonders, the New York-
based chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab Corp., which
has $1.6 trillion in client assets. “We’ve gotten to sentiment
extremes and that increases the market vulnerability and that’s
exactly what we saw with the unrest in the Middle East. There’s
no question the rise in commodity prices hits consumption.”  Oil will gain, extending a rally that sent prices to a 29-
month high, said  Mark Mobius , executive chairman of Templeton
Asset Management’s Emerging Markets Group.  ‘Trend is Up’  “The trend is up," Mobius said in an interview today with
Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s ‘‘Fast Forward.’’ ‘‘I’m
not predicting any particular level. Of course, there will be
lots of volatility. But if you look at the long-term trend it’s
definitely up” for oil, he said.  Average hourly earnings were unchanged in February, Labor
Department data showed. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had
forecast 0.2 percent growth. The data offset a 192,000 increase
in payrolls and an unexpected decline in the unemployment rate
to 8.9 percent, the lowest level since April 2009.  “The numbers point both to a much-needed improvement in
the jobs picture and to remaining challenges,” said Mohamed El- Erian, chief executive officer at Newport Beach, California-
based  Pacific Investment Management Co.  He cited “declining
labor participation” as a lingering hurdle. The labor
participation rate held at 64.2 percent, compared with January,
and is down from 64.8 percent in February 2010.  ‘More Normal Level’  The labor market has improved slowly and it may take
several years for the  unemployment rate  to reach a “more normal
level,” Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said March 1
during testimony before the Senate Banking Committee.  Private payrolls have increased for 12 straight months
after plunging by as many as 841,000 jobs when President Barack Obama took office at the depths of the recession in January
2009, Labor Department data show.  The recovery in the job market has helped propel a rebound
in the U.S. equity market after the collapse of the subprime
mortgage market triggered the worst  bear market  since the Great
Depression. The S&P 500 rallied 97 from a 12-year low in March
2009 through yesterday, the biggest advance over the same period
of time since the 1930s, according to data compiled by  Howard Silverblatt , senior index analyst at S&P.  Industrial Companies Slump  Shares of industrial companies in the S&P 500 slumped 1.2
percent as a group. Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of
construction equipment, dropped 1.2 percent to $103.04. GE slid
1.8 percent to $20.37. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index fell
1.1 percent as 26 of its 30 stocks retreated. The Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index fell 1.9 percent.  Financial stocks had the biggest decline in the S&P 500
among 10 industries, dropping 1.3 percent. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) 
slumped 1.5 percent as 22 of its 24 stocks retreated.  Citigroup dropped 3 percent to $4.54. The third-largest
U.S. bank was cut to “neutral” from “buy” by Bank of
America, which also cut Goldman Sachs Group to “neutral” from
“buy.” Goldman Sachs shares fell 2.1 percent to $161.  Marvell Technology fell 11 percent to $16.13. The maker of
the processor that runs BlackBerry smartphones announced fourth-
quarter earnings and revenue that missed estimates.    Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)  slipped 6.4 percent, the most in the
S&P 500, to $15.90. The online-recruiting company was cut to
“market perform” from “outperform” at William Blair & Co.  Highest Since June  The S&P 500 has risen 5.1 percent this year as government
stimulus measures, higher-than-estimated earnings and takeovers
bolstered investor confidence. The rally left the benchmark
gauge for American equities trading at 15.5 times its operating
earnings, near the highest valuation since June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks fell today even after a report showed that orders at
U.S. factories climbed in January by the most in more than four
years as demand for commercial aircraft rebounded after slumping
the previous month. Bookings for manufacturers’ goods increased
3.1 percent, the most since September 2006, after a revised 1.4
percent gain in December that was larger than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department said.    Agilent Technologies Inc. (A)  rose 9.2 percent, the most in the
S&P 500, to $46.75. The world’s biggest maker of scientific-
testing equipment increased its long-term sales and operating
margin forecasts at a meeting with analysts yesterday, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said in a note to clients.  JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDSU) , which
bought Agilent’s network solutions test unit last year, climbed
8.9 percent to $27.37.    Cadence Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CADX)  soared 15 percent to $8.62.
The biopharmaceutical company reported a loss of 33 cents a
share in the fourth quarter, 1 cent less than the average
analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  