-- 
Clegg Says Don't Write Off Libdem Party After Special Election Drubbing

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-03-04T13:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/u-k-s-opposition-labour-party-wins-barnsley-central-election.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick
Clegg  said his Liberal Democrat party will bounce back after it
slumped to sixth place in a special parliamentary election.  The opposition  Labour Party  candidate, Dan Jarvis, held the
Barnsley Central seat in northern  England , with 61 percent of
the vote yesterday, up 14 percentage points from the May 2010
general election. The Liberal Democrats’ Dominic Carman took 4
percent, down from 17 percent in May when the party came second.  “I have no doubt people will try to use this single result
to write off the Liberal Democrats. They have done it in the
past and we have proved them wrong and we will prove them wrong
again,” Clegg told reporters today. “In government, nationally, 
we will continue to do what I think is absolutely vital for 
the long-term benefit of the country, namely sort out the 
economic mess we inherited from Labour for the long-term benefit 
of  Great Britain .”  Labour attacked Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservative-led government during the campaign for cutting the  budget deficit  at a rate that it says will damage public
services and endanger the economic recovery. Liberal Democrat
ministers have been forced to defend changes of policy since
they went into coalition, including the ditching of a pledge not
to increase student tuition fees, a step that led to riots in
central London.  The U.K. Independence Party, which advocates British
withdrawal from the European Union, came second yesterday with
12 percent of the vote. The Conservative candidate was third
with 8 percent, down from 17 percent in May. The Liberal
Democrats lost the 500-pound ($812) deposit that candidates
forfeit if they fail to take 5 percent of the total vote.  ‘Fed Up’  Speaking in Barnsley today, Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said
voters had sent “a very clear message” to the government that
they are “fed up” with the cuts and the squeeze on  living
standards .  “Nick Clegg posed a year ago as the great champion of the
new politics,” Miliband said. “He is now breaking his promises
every day.”  Voters across Britain go to the polls on May 5 in a
referendum on whether to change the first-past-the post voting
system in parliamentary elections in favor of the alternative-
vote system. That allows voters to rank candidates in individual
districts in order, with the second preferences of lower-scoring
candidates redistributed until someone has the support of 50
percent of electors.  The referendum was a key demand of the Liberal Democrats
for joining the coalition with Cameron last year. The prime
minister and other leading Conservatives are campaigning for a
‘No’ vote.  There will also be elections to the Scottish and Welsh
legislatures and some English local councils the same day.  Yesterday’s vote was called after Eric Illsley, the Labour
lawmaker who previously held the seat, was convicted of making
false expenses claims. Illsley was imprisoned for a year on Feb.
10 for fraudulently claiming 14,500 pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  