-- 
U.S. to Keep Targeted Sanctions on Zimbabwe's Mugabe, Senior Officials

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a
-- 
2011-03-04T14:30:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/u-s-to-keep-targeted-sanctions-on-zimbabwe-s-mugabe-senior-officials.html
The U.S. will keep targeted
sanctions on Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe and his inner
circle, said Susan Page, deputy assistant secretary for African
affairs.  The measures will stay until rule of law and respect for
human rights are established in the southern African country,
Page told reporters today in Harare,  Zimbabwe ’s capital. The
U.S. is concerned by an increase in political violence, partisan
arrests and prosecutions, she said.  “We applaud President Mugabe’s clear statement on Feb. 26
that violence is unacceptable and will not be tolerated,” Page
said. “We hope President Mugabe, as head of state and
commander-in-chief of the armed forces, also conveys that
message to the police and security services. The credibility of
that statement, however, ultimately will be reflected in, if or
how, it is honored.”  Mugabe last week called for an end to violence and said
elections can’t be held before a new constitution is in place.
Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front formed
a power-sharing government with the Movement for Democratic
Change after disputed elections to try end a political crisis
and a decade of recession. Morgan Tsvangirai, prime minister and
leader of the MDC, warned political attacks are increasing ahead
of elections that may happen this year.  Mugabe had previously said elections must be held by June,
even if a new constitution isn’t in place.  Potential Investors  Sanctions are an important tool to encourage individuals in
government and the security forces to play a role in the
transition to democracy, Page said.  While U.S. companies were interested in investing in
Zimbabwe, uncertainty around laws seeking to take over foreign
companies kept potential investors away, she said.  “Foreign companies will not expose themselves to
investment risks in Zimbabwe until a clear and consistent set of
ground rules governing the protection of private property, the
sanctity of contracts and unbiased enforcement of the law are in
place,” Page said.  Zimbabwe’s Indigenization and Empower Act, approved by
lawmakers, will compel foreign and white-owned companies to cede
51 percent to black Zimbabweans. The government will seize local
assets of foreign companies in Zimbabwe that don’t denounce
European and U.S. travel bans against him and senior members of
Zanu-PF, Mugabe said on Feb. 26.  Mugabe is in  Singapore  for medical checks after an earlier
eye operation in that country, the state-controlled Herald
newspaper reported today, citing a government spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  