-- 
U.S. Retailer Shares' Slide Since Black Friday Signals Squeeze on Margins

-- B y   A n t h o n y   F e l d   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-03-04T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/u-s-retail-share-slide-since-black-friday-shows-margin-squeeze.html
The era of cheap jeans may be ending
as U.S. apparel retailers take advantage of the economic
recovery to boost prices on some products for the first time in
more than a decade.  The increases may contribute to a slowing in consumer
spending, while not fully offsetting record cotton costs, higher
wages in China and rising freight charges that are squeezing
margins. As companies juggle how much more they can charge
without losing sales, New York-based  AnnTaylor Stores Corp. (ANN)  is
reducing production costs and  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  is closing
one of two distribution centers in  New Albany ,  Ohio , its
hometown, to trim expenditures.  “For all retailers and all wholesalers, we’re flying into
unknown territory, because we haven’t seen price increases,
we’ve actually seen price decreases, in the past 10 to 15
years,” said Blake Jorgensen, chief financial officer of Levi
Strauss & Co., which supplies jeans to retailers in more than
110 countries. The San Francisco-based company raised spring
prices on some namesake pants and plans increases for fall, said
Jorgensen, who declined to provide details.  Americans paid less on average for jeans in 2010 than the
previous two years, according to a consumer survey by NPD Group,
a  Port Washington , New York-based research firm. The average
price was $19.32 last year, down from $19.64 in 2009 and $19.73
in 2008.  The Standard & Poor’s Retail Exchange-Traded Fund has risen
4.2 percent since Black Friday on Nov. 26, the start of the
year’s biggest selling season. That trails a 12.4 percent gain
for the SPDR  S&P 500  ETF, even though holiday sales were the
strongest in five years.  ‘Taking From Peter’  Since then,  consumer spending  cooled more than forecast in
January as rising food and fuel costs caused Americans to cut
back on trips to malls and restaurants. Higher price tags on
apparel might exacerbate that trend, creating a “taking from
Peter to give to Paul” phenomenon, said  Michael Feroli , chief
U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  With wage growth weak, consumers have “a shrinking
amount” for discretionary items, “so if they have to spend
more on apparel, they will spend less on other goods and
services,” he said. Consumer purchases account for about 70
percent of the  U.S. economy .  Cost pressures have intensified since November and may
accelerate in the second half of 2011, prompting Citigroup Inc.
to trim annual earnings forecasts as much as 8.5 percent for
seven retailers, including Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) , the biggest U.S. discounters, as
well as Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney Co. and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , according to a Feb. 17 note by
analyst Deborah Weinswig.  Cost Forecast  Apparel costs may rise between 4 percent and 6 percent in
the first half of the year, followed by a jump of 13 percent to
15 percent in the second half, Weinswig wrote in the note.  “Everybody’s margins are going to be under pressure,”
said Randal Konik, a retail analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New
York. He recommends buying only five of the 20 stocks he
follows:  Body Central Corp. (BODY)  in Jacksonville,  Florida ;
Abercrombie & Fitch;  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  in
Pittsburgh; Los Angeles-based Guess? Inc. and Richardson, Texas-
based  Fossil Inc. (FOSL)   Consensus earnings estimates for the eight multi-line
retailers in the S&P 500 may be too ambitious, said Douglas Cliggott, U.S. equity strategist at Credit Suisse in New York.
Per-share profits for Minneapolis-based Target and the seven
other businesses are forecast to climb 13 percent this year on
revenue growth of 3 percent, according to a Feb. 4 report by
Credit Suisse, which rates the category “underweight.”  ‘More Realistic’  “What looks like a stretch is the 3 percent revenue
generating 13 percent earnings,” Cliggott said. A profit
increase of 3 percent to 5 percent is “more realistic. All of
these factors are going to make it just that much more
challenging,” he said.  Record cotton prices are one of the challenges. A men’s
dress shirt that sold for $40 in a department store a year ago
may sell for $44 or $45 now, said Jeremy Rubman, a  New York- 
based retail strategist for consulting company Kurt Salmon.  “The world has gorged on cheap cotton for a long time,”
said Levi’s Jorgensen. This has shifted as the commodity topped
$2 a pound in New York on Feb. 17 for the first time ever, after
prices surged 92 percent last year, the biggest annual gain
since 1973. Prices extended the rally this week, to $2.057 a
pound March 3, on signs that global supplies will remain limited
this year amid increased demand from  China , the world’s biggest
cotton consumer.  Low Wages  China is also the world’s largest importer of cotton,
partly because the country’s low wages relative to the U.S. and  Europe  have lifted demand for garments made there. Now the Asian
nation is embracing higher pay for workers, with all 31 Chinese
provinces and regions likely to boost their minimum wages in
2011 for the second consecutive year, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Labor represents about 20 percent of the cost of a garment,
and “these wage pressures are not going away, they are actually
getting worse,” said Jefferies analyst Konik.  Retailers also are coping with tight shipping capacity,
which is raising the expense of moving apparel from the
manufacturing site to the point of sale in the U.S. Freight
accounts for about 10 percent of garment costs, said Konik, who
added that some freight charges are jumping as much as 100
percent.  Graphic T-Shirts  Teen retailer Abercrombie & Fitch, which reported gains in
December same-store sales as customers traded up to dresses from
graphic T-shirts, is boosting international store openings as it
holds down costs and raises some prices, Chief Executive Officer
Michael Jeffries told analysts Feb. 16, without providing
details.  “We are comfortable that we can pass some of these
increases on to the consumer,” he said. “The question is how
much. That’s the question of the day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Feld in  New York  at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net 
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  