-- 
U.S. Faces Increased Pressure to Tap Strategic Oil Reserve

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-03-04T21:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/u-s-faces-increased-pressure-to-tap-strategic-oil-reserve-1-.html
The Obama administration faces
increasing pressure from Democrats to draw on the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve if political unrest in  Libya  keeps pushing up
fuel prices.  “We must be prepared to tap that emergency supply,” Jon
Summers, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, said
in an e-mail today. “The main purpose of the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve is to protect against significant disruptions
of our nation’s oil supply.”  Representatives Ed Markey of  Massachusetts , Rosa DeLauro of  Connecticut  and Peter Welch of Vermont also  urged  use of the
federal inventories, in a letter Feb. 24. Senator Jeff Bingaman
of New Mexico, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, and New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand issued
similar requests.  The U.S. reserve holds 727 million barrels of crude oil,
according to the U.S. Energy Department’s website. The U.S.
 approved release  of some of the oil in 2008 after hurricanes
Gustav and Ike struck the  Gulf Coast .  Gasoline futures hit a 30-month high today as political
strife in Libya and the Middle East escalated, threatening
global oil shipments, and as an increase in U.S. jobs indicated
fuel demand may improve.  Gasoline Futures Up  Gasoline for April delivery added 2.02 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $3.0464 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
advanced 4.4 cents to $3.471 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its
 website .  The turmoil in Libya is causing a “very small” disruption
in world oil markets and isn’t enough to make the U.S. dip into
the reserve, Energy Secretary Steven Chu said March 1.  Major economies have enough crude oil reserves to soften
the blow of any sustained supply disruption in the Middle East
and North Africa, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
yesterday.  Congressional Republicans are calling for opening oil
production off the Alaska coast and for increasing output in the  Gulf of Mexico  and on federal lands.  “The speaker is a long-time supporter of the all-of-the-
above energy strategy to increase the supply of American
energy,”  Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner, a Republican from Ohio, said by phone today.  Stephanie Mueller, a spokeswoman for the Energy Department,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail today asking if the
strategic reserves had made any releases or sales. On March 2
she said no releases had been made in response to supply
disruptions in Libya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 