-- 
Unemployment Report ‘Very Solid’ Across Board, Goolsbee Says

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-04T15:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/unemployment-report-very-solid-across-board-goolsbee-says-1-.html
Today’s unemployment report shows
that “private sector job growth was extremely strong,”  Austan Goolsbee , the White House’s chief economist, said.  “It’s pretty solid, and across the board,” Goolsbee, the
chairman of the  Council of Economic Advisers , said on CNBC.  The Labor Department said employers added 192,000 workers
in February as the jobless rate fell to 8.9 percent from 9
percent in January. The jobless rate declined as the number of
unemployed fell by 190,000 and number of employed rose by
250,000. The size of the  labor force  increased by 60,000.  “It’s a very solid number,” said Goolsbee, who added that
unemployment still is too high and that “the hole we are coming
out of was very, very deep.”  In a statement issued later, Goolsbee said administration
policies including a payroll tax cut last December and
investment tax credits “are creating the conditions for
sustained growth and job creation.”  “The overall trajectory of the economy has improved
dramatically over the past two years, but there will surely be
bumps in the road ahead,” Goolsbee said.  Republican leaders in Congress welcomed increased hiring
and a lower jobless rate but said the administration must do
better.  “Unemployment is still far above where the Obama
administration promised it would be,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in a statement.  “An unemployment rate of 8.9 percent is still too high,”
said House Republican Leader Eric Cantor, of  Virginia , in a
statement. “We need to continue our efforts to make sure
private sector employers have sure footing to invest in new
employees and expand their businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  