-- 
Unilever’s Sanex Sale Said to Interest P&G, Henkel, Colgate

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-03-04T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/unilever-s-sanex-sale-is-said-to-draw-interest-from-p-g-henkel-colgate.html
Unilever’s forced sale of the Sanex
deodorant business is drawing bids and interest from rivals
including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , Henkel AG and  Colgate-Palmolive
Co. (CL) , people briefed on the discussions said.  The maker of Dove soap, which gained Sanex when it bought  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) ’s international toiletries business in December
for 1.21 billion euros ($1.69 billion), is in advanced talks to
sell the brand for as much as $1 billion, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private.
A transaction may be completed in the next few weeks, they said.  P&G and Colgate “clearly have the financial firepower” to
acquire Sanex,  Jack Russo , an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St.
Louis , said in a telephone interview. Colgate is “trying to
lessen their dependence on oral care,” while P&G “has been
making a lot of changes to its portfolio.” Russo recommends
buying P&G and Colgate shares.  Cincinnati-based P&G had $3.25 billion of cash and cash
equivalents as of Dec. 31 and Colgate, based in New York, had
$490 million, according to their respective earnings statements.  Unilever, based in  London  and Rotterdam, agreed to sell
Sanex to allay competition concerns from the European Union. The
maker of Knorr soup didn’t want to sell the business, because
Sanex was the brand it wanted most, according to the people.  Sanex was “the biggest jewel brand in the whole Sara Lee
basket,” said Andy Smith, an analyst at MF Global in London.
“It’s a massive loss because it’s the whole reason they did the
deal in the first place. It’s a huge embarrassment for them.”  Higher Price  Competitive bidding from a number of large consumer-product
firms may allow Unilever to fetch $900 million to $1 billion for
the business, said the people. That’s a higher price than had
been expected and may offset concerns the required sale would
lead to a lower price and leave Unilever with the less-desired
units, the people said.  P&G, Dusseldorf-based Henkel and Colgate have talked with
Unilever about acquiring Sanex, according to the people. Johnson
& Johnson and  L’Oreal SA (OR)  have also expressed interest and could
make a second-round bid as well, said two of the people.  Second-round bids for Sanex, which had sales of 168 million
euros in the year ended June 2009, are due next week, said three
of the people. Unilever aims to complete the sale by the end of
the month or in early April, two of the people said. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. is running the sale process for Unilever, they said.  Trevor Gorin, a Unilever spokesman, declined to comment.  Paul Fox, a P&G spokesman, Wulf Klueppelholz, a Henkel
spokesman, and Tom Dipiazza, a Colgate spokesman, declined to
comment. William Price, a  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  spokesman, and
Stephanie Carson-Parker, a spokeswoman for L’Oreal, declined to
comment.  Double Sales  Unilever Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman, the first
outsider to lead the company, broke a nine-year stretch with no
major acquisitions by offering to buy the Sara Lee unit, which
includes more than 90 brands in 19 European countries. Unilever,
which aims to double its sales, sees the majority of future
growth led by emerging markets and health and personal-care
products.  Unilever is in the process of acquiring Alberto Culver Co.,
adding hair-care products including Nexxus and TRESemme, for
$3.7 billion in cash, its biggest deal in a decade.  Unilever fell 0.3 percent to 21.72 euros in Amsterdam
trading yesterday. P&G slid 52 cents to $62.03 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading, while Colgate-Palmolive dropped 57
cents to $77.50.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in London at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  