-- 
Vale Aiming to Sell as Much as 49% of Fertilizer Unit in Second-Half IPO

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-03-04T18:34:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/vale-aiming-to-sell-as-much-as-49-of-fertilizer-unit-in-second-half-ipo.html
  Vale SA (VALE5) , the Brazilian miner that
bought assets worth $5.8 billion for its fertilizer business
last year, said it plans to sell as much as 49 percent of the
unit in an initial public offering in the second half of 2011.  Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro, is in talks with financial
institutions including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as part of plans to hire
advisors on a sale of between 25 and 49 percent, Mario Barbosa,
head of Vale’s fertilizer unit, said yesterday in an interview.  The company will seek to almost triple potash and phosphate
rock output to 16.1 million metric tons by 2015 as a rising
population’s food needs lead to an increase in demand. Vale
plans to invest about $2.5 billion in the fertilizer business
during 2011, about 10 percent of the year’s total spending, as
it develops projects in countries such as Argentina and Brazil.  “We are taking all the internal measures for the company
to be ready to do the IPO,” he said. “There is a big demand
from people interested to be part of the company.”  Vale is “unlikely” to buy more assets before the IPO and
isn’t talking to Brazilian smelter  Paranapanema SA (PMAM3)  about its
Cibrafertil fertilizer unit, Barbosa said.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s
Copebras SA, a Brazilian phosphate producer, has “tremendous”
synergy with Vale operations in the same region of Center West
Brazil, Barbosa said in the interview from  Sao Paulo .  Vale Chief Financial Officer Guilherme Cavalcanti said in
an interview in London Oct. 20 that the IPO wouldn’t be ready
before the second quarter of 2011. Delays are due to the
“bureaucratic” processes, Barbosa said yesterday.  Share Declines  Vale fell as much as 87 centavos, or 1.8 percent, to 48.73
reais and was trading at 48.76 reais as of 3:33 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. Before today, the stock gained about 2.3 percent this
year, compared with a 1.7 percent decline for the benchmark
Bovespa Index.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA,  Brazil ’s second-
largest steelmaker, recently postponed plans for an IPO of its
mining and railroad business. QGEP Participacoes SA, the energy
exploration and production unit of Queiroz Galvao SA, and
Brazilian oil and gas company HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA,
both raised less than expected in initial public offerings as
investor appetite for emerging market assets waned.  “With every day that goes by, the outlook for liquidity
and demand are deteriorating,” Rogerio Freitas, a  fund manager 
at Teorica Investimentos in Rio de Janeiro, said today in a
telephone interview. “We’re entering a less optimistic period
of global economic growth.”  Consolidating  Fertilizer producers are consolidating as demand for
nutrients that boost crops is rising on increased  population
growth  and higher incomes in emerging markets. OAO Uralkali,  Russia ’s largest potash producer by market value, agreed to buy
OAO Silvinit for $8.2 billion in December, after  BHP Billiton ,
the world’s largest mining company, failed in its attempt to buy
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. for $40 billion.  Vale expects to start working on its Rio Colorado potash
project in  Argentina  this year after getting licenses required
by the local authorities, Barbosa, 64, said. The project, which
Vale bought from Rio Tinto Group in 2009 for $850 million, will
start producing in the second half of 2013 to “mainly” meet
Brazilian fertilizer demand, he said.  Vale has an output target of 3.4 million metric tons of
potash and 12.7 million metric tons of phosphate rock by 2015.
The company produced 662,000 metric tons of potash and 5.3
million tons of phosphate rock last year, according to Vale’s
2010  production report .  Potash Corp., the world’s largest fertilizer producer, more
than doubled its potash production last year to 8.1 million
metric tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at o
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  