-- 
Venezuela's Chavez Summons Regional Allies to Back Mediation Bid for Libya

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-03-04T00:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/venezuela-s-chavez-summons-regional-allies-to-back-mediation-bid-for-libya.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  has
summoned an emergency meeting of his closest Latin American
allies in a bid to mediate in the Libyan civil crisis that has
divided the country and sent oil prices surging.  Chavez, who has compared Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  to
Latin American liberation hero Simon Bolivar, said today he is
committed to a "peaceful" resolution of the Libyan conflict.
Representatives from his regional bloc known as Alba, which
includes Ecuador, Bolivia, Nicaragua and Cuba are heading for a
meeting in Caracas tomorrow. The Arab League is studying
Chavez’s proposal, Secretary-General Amr Moussa said today.  “It’s important for us to confirm what is happening in
Libya and consider any initiative that could contribute to
bringing a peaceful conclusion to such an important problem,”
Ecuador Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino said today in Quito.
“We welcome and we are going to listen to the Venezuelan
government’s proposal.”  Chavez’s plan would face stiff opposition from Libyan
opposition groups and the U.S. and  France , who have called on
Qaddafi to step down from power after hundreds of people have
died from battles between the military and anti-government
protesters since Feb. 17. Venezuela, the largest oil producer in  South America , has strengthened ties with the fellow OPEC nation
since Chavez took power in 1999.  Venezuela’s foreign ministry didn’t respond to messages
left by Bloomberg.  Libya’s willingness to accept mediation is unclear after
Qaddafi’s son Saif Al-Islam told Sky News today that the
government doesn’t need outside help. Venezuelan Information
Minister Andres Izarra said on his  Twitter account  that Libyan
Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa supports the plan, speaking in
the name of Qaddafi.  Oil Falls  Crude oil fell from a 29-month high today on the Venezuelan
proposal and after the  Associated Press  reported army deserters
secured oil facilities in the rebel-held port of Brega.  U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said that
if Qaddafi’s “not responding to the many calls across the
international community for him to step down, it’s uncertain to
me what an international commission is going to accomplish.”  Peru said it will support Chavez’s plan, even after
breaking diplomatic ties with Libya on Feb. 23. Bolivian Foreign
Minister David Choquehuanca will travel to Caracas for the
meeting, his office said.  Chavez as a peace broker is unlikely to prove effective
because of his alliance with Qaddafi and the dim prospects
that Libyan rebel groups would negotiate with the strongman,  Win Thin , head of emerging market strategy at Brown Brothers 
Harriman & Co. in  New York  said in a research note.  “Chavez is hardly an impartial third party in this
conflict, as he has cozied up to Qaddafi over the years,” Thin
said. “We would not expect opposition forces to be very open to
any sort of Chavez intervention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Gill in  Quito  News at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  