-- 
Wal-Mart Supplier Moves to Short-Term Deals on Cotton Volatility

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-03-04T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/wal-mart-supplier-moves-to-short-term-deals-on-cotton-volatility.html
  Alok Industries Ltd. (ALOK) , an Indian
supplier of textiles to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Target Corp. (TGT) ,
cut the length of its sales contracts to about three months from
one year after volatility surged in the cotton market.  “Customers want to pay according to the prevailing cotton
prices,” Alok Agarwal, the chief executive officer of Alok’s
international unit, said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“It is very difficult to evaluate the cost of cotton on a long-
term basis.”  The 100-day historical volatility for cotton futures traded
in New York jumped to 46.6 percent yesterday, the highest since
January 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Prices have more
than doubled in the past year as adverse weather damaged global
crops and economic growth lifted buying from mills in  China , the
world’s biggest user.  “We could see an increase in prices again,” Agarwal said.
Demand seems to remain strong, he said.  Cotton for May delivery gained 5.1 cents to $2.057 a pound
yesterday on ICE Futures U.S. The commodity touched a record
$2.0893 on Feb. 18.  Mumbai-based Alok is selling its textiles to clients with
contracts based on cotton prices in the range of $1.80 to $1.90,
Agarwal said. The retail price of a towel may rise by as much as
40 percent because of cotton jumping to above $2 from $1 in
September, he said.  Costs may climb for U.S. retailers including Gap Inc. and
J.C. Penney Co. Apparel manufacturer Olah Inc., a U.S. company
which supplies Gap, said last month it raised prices for
“several products.”  Higher cotton prices are also prompting several companies
to use more man-made fabrics, Agarwal said. The commodity’s
share of the global textile market will shrink to 20 percent by
2020 as mills switch to polyester and other chemical fibers to
remain profitable, according to the  International Cotton
Advisory Committee .  “Since we are a large polyester manufacturer, it is
natural to increase usage of man-made textiles,” Agarwal said,
without giving details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Patrick McKiernan  at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 