-- 
Warner Says More Stopgap Budgets Could Harm Market (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-04T21:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/warner-says-more-stopgap-budgets-could-harm-market-transcript-.html
Democratic Senator  Mark Warner 
of Virginia said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
accepting House Republicans’ plans for two-week stopgap
budget extensions could harm financial markets.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Democratic Senator
Mark Warner of Virginia, who joins in our studios. Senator,
thank you for being with us.  SENATOR MARK WARNER: Al, thanks for having me.  HUNT: You’re deeply involved in all the budget
deliberations. The two-week extension of the budget for
2011, Republicans say they’re going to keep passing these
short extensions until they get the $61 billion of cuts
that they’ve been looking for. Don’t they have the upper
hand?  WARNER: Well, to me, Al, that’s a crazy way to run a
business. It’d be a crazy way to run the balance of this
year in terms of the government, because the effects of
these two weeks doesn’t allow not only the effect it has on
federal employees, but folks who rely on project funding,
folks who rely on kind of the research that goes on in NIH.  And I think that you’re going to see more and more a
reluctance we’ve shown, willingness to negotiate here. We
need to do that in good faith. But we’ve also got to
realize, at the end of the day, you’re not going to solve
the deficit when all you’re cutting is the 12 percent of
the federal spending that’s around domestic discretionary.  HUNT: Do these short-term extensions have any effect
on markets?  WARNER: Well, listen, I think you get through the
first one - you know, the market’s been pretty good the
last few days. We saw good unemployment numbers. But if we
keep kind of loping along on two-week extensions, I think
that could have an effect on the markets, absolutely.  HUNT: You do? A bad effect?  WARNER: Yeah.  HUNT: Let me ask you this. You don’t like the plan,
you’ve said, that the Republicans have put forth on this,
but at least they have one.  John Boehner  said  Harry Reid 
and you Democrats don’t have any plan for 2011 at all. Are
you going to reveal a 2011 budget?  WARNER: I’m not going to reveal a 2011 budget, but I
do know -  HUNT: At some point in the negotiations -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: - not here, as much as I’d like it.  WARNER: This is something that - you know, the
majority leader and others are working on. But I do think
the fact is, I hope we get a chance to vote on the House
Republican plan, you know, which slashes things like  National Institutes of Health  funding, which slashes things
like construction on our road projects, which takes away
money that - for projects where we might be taking a single
-  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: But will you offer a specific alternative?  WARNER: - and leverage it four or five times. I think
the Democrats absolutely will come out with a different
alternative.  HUNT: Soon?  WARNER: Absolutely.  HUNT: Let’s talk about the long term.  WARNER: Sure.  HUNT: As you say, that’s the real issue. And you’re a
central figure in bipartisan deliberations to try to come
to grips with this. What are the odds of success right now,
would you guess?  WARNER: You know, I would say the odds were pretty low
at the beginning of the year. I think they’re going up,
because I think more and more people are coming to the
recognition that you can’t simply cut your way out of this
problem, particularly when you’re only looking at domestic
discretionary, that you’ve got to put entitlements, you’ve
got to put defense, you’ve got to have a frame for  tax
reform . Saxby Chambliss and I have said let’s go ahead and
take the deficit commission, the so-called Simpson-Bowles
commission, and use that as a starting point. And I think
there’s a lot of interest.  HUNT: Do you think the odds are, what, better than
50/50 at this stage?  WARNER: Well, in this town, predictions I’ll leave to
you, but I’d tell you this -  HUNT: Getting better?  WARNER: - every day that we punt on this, we add $4
billion to our national debt, not our short-term deficit,
but our national debt, $4 billion a day. So the choices
aren’t going to get any easier.  HUNT: But without getting into the specifics, you’ve
said President Obama has to be part of this, yet the White
House has ducked entitlements in his budget, they have
ducked his own presidential commission, the Simpson-Bowles
commission, saying whether they - you know, what they are
for and what they are against there. Wouldn’t it be better
if he were off the sidelines and involved right now?  WARNER: I think you’ll see the president get more
involved as we try to lay out this framework. We’ve got to
start with a bipartisan effort, because what you don’t want
to start with is a grand plan that then becomes the
starting line with some of the - for negotiations with some
of our friends in the House.  HUNT: House leaders  Kevin McCarthy  and John Boehner
said this week that in their April budget for 2012 they
will propose entitlement cutbacks. Is that a constructive
move? And do they also have to move and put taxes on the
table, too?  WARNER: I think that is a constructive move, that
they’re not going to - they’re going to go ahead and say,
“Let’s go to where the money is,” which is around some of
the entitlement programs. I think you’ve also got to
recognize that, at the end of the day, doing this on one
side of the balance sheet alone, doing this simply on the
spending side, without looking at the revenue side, even if
that revenue side is about lowering rates and at the same
time closing down some of our tax expenditures, that’s just
spending by any other name.  HUNT: But that raises revenue?  WARNER: Well, that net-net raises revenue, but at the
same time lowers rates.  HUNT: Right.  WARNER: You know, that’s what the president’s
commission, the Simpson-Bowles commission laid out, because
at the end of the day this deficit not only - for your
audience, they realize the effect it’ll have on the markets
if we don’t get our act together. But at the end of the
day, improving our nation’s balance sheet helps us grow the
economy. Because at the end of the day, what we most need
is a growing economy, and we need the market’s confidence
that we will get our act together to do that.  HUNT: Let me talk about Medicare for a second. House
Budget Committee Chair  Paul Ryan  wants to turn it into a
voucher system. He said that would save a lot of money. Is
that something Mark Warner could consider?  WARNER: I don’t think a voucher program makes a lot of
sense around the Medicare issue. I think that, you know,
it’s strangely reminiscent of some of the earlier attempts
to privatize Social Security. I’m not sure that’s where we
ought to be headed.  I do think we’ve got to realize that we can’t spend 16
percent, 17 percent of our GDP on health care and most of
our competitors in the world are spending single digits or
10 percent or 11 percent. We’ve got to drive down health
care costs, not just in Medicare, but across the board, and
that means payment system reform, it means trying to make
sure that we avoid some of the duplication, it means using,
frankly, a lot of more administrative simplifications.  There are tools out there, but we’ve got to go even
further than where we went in the health care bill.  HUNT: You mentioned Social Security. You have said we
have to raise the  retirement age , that’s the reality. Would
you also reduce the annual cost-of-living increase and
increase the base upon which -  (CROSSTALK)  WARNER: I think the frame of where - and this is just
me speaking - this is not by any means the Democrats’
position. But some of this is just math. There were 16
workers for every retiree in 1950. There are 3 workers for
every retiree -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: So you’re going to raise the retirement age?  WARNER: So I think raising - a slow, gradual raising
of the retirement age, as they suggested, two years over a
40-year timeframe, anybody that’s viewing that’s less than
35 years old, don’t have to worry a bit. And, frankly, most
folks under 35 don’t think they’re going to get Social
Security.  But I do think that you’re going to have to raise the
cap, in terms of how much is taxable, and I think at some
point folks maybe in the absolute top quintile years out
could see less increase in benefits than others.  Now, that’s - if we’re going to protect on the bottom
end, you know, some of us at the top end might see less
benefit increases, not cutting, but less benefit increases.  HUNT: Will corporate tax reform - first of all, what
are the possibilities of getting it done this year? And
will that be dealt with separately? And will it be part of
what you’re talking about?  WARNER: You know, my hope is - and what, again,
Senator Chambliss, Republican senator from  Georgia , who’s
been a great partner - we’ve both been taking some hits.
He’s been taking them, too, and he has been wonderful to
work with. We believe that you’ve got to do both the
entitlements, you’ve got to do the discretionary spending,
but you’ve got to go ahead and make America more
competitive. That means lowering our corporate tax rates,
but it also means you’ve got to do it in a way that
actually closes down some of these tax expenditures -  (CROSSTALK)  WARNER: We all know corporate  tax rate ’s at 35
percent, but any major company that’s paying 35 percent
ought to be firing their CFO. You know, there’s a lot of
companies out there paying mid-20s, some paying single-
digits.  HUNT: So you think it could be part of this?  WARNER: I think it could be part of it.  HUNT: You have urged former  Virginia  Governor  Tim
Kaine  to run for that vacant - or the Senate seat that will
be vacant. He’s going to decide soon. Do you think he’s
likely to do it?  WARNER: I think the chances were slim to start with. I
think they’re getting a lot better right now. He and his
wife are down taking a few days off trying to make that
decision. I think he would be our strongest candidate, and
I think he’s somebody that would be a great voice in the
Senate.  HUNT: Mark Warner, thank you so much for being with us
today. And when we come back, all options on the table for  Libya . What can Obama do? And Vice President Biden trying
to make a deal. We’ll talk to Bloomberg reporters, next.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF
THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<610771.1204164.2.1.77.31389.25>#
-0- Mar/04/2011 21:26 GMT
 