-- 
You’re to Blame for NFL’s Latest Labor Mess: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-03-04T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/you-re-to-blame-for-nfl-s-latest-labor-mess-scott-soshnick.html
Anxious fans keep asking who’s to
blame for the  National Football League ’s collective bargaining
quagmire.  Does responsibility rest more with owners or players,
factions that, as parents in the playground might say, can’t
play nice. Management and labor can’t agree on the best way to
share, get this, more than $8 billion in revenue.  After years of chronicling sports leagues and their labor
squabbles, as well as much rumination and a careful analysis of
the facts, here’s the answer on who’s to blame: You, that’s who.  The enabler in all this sports greed gone wild is the fan,
a word, let’s remember, that’s derived from fanatic. And
fanatics rarely act sensibly. Fanatics allow their zeal to cloud
reason.  And the NFL has lots of fans, many who are unhappy in the
dysfunctional relationship but stay hitched anyway. Fans just
keep going. They keep watching, keep paying. They just keep
supporting a league and industry that repeatedly shows that they
don’t give a damn about the linchpin of it all. Lip service
begets lockouts. And yet, fan loyalty lives.  It’s those blindly loyal customers who will make this a
lockout without consequence, which is why owners won’t think
twice about shutting down the U.S.’s most popular sports league
for however long it takes to get everything they want.  Contrary to what a dour NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell will
assert in the coming days, weeks and maybe even months, there’s
no risk to the owners. They’ll collect their money. Dollars
deferred, yes, but they’ll get it. Until fans make autumn
Sundays about something other than football, the owners simply
cannot lose.  Record Viewership  The biggest source of revenue for teams is television.
Seems the NFL sets a record every time an important game is
played.  Green Bay ’s Super Bowl win over Pittsburgh drew the
biggest audience in American TV history.  Take away the eyeballs and advertisers disappear. Take away
commercials and revenue shrinks. Take away revenue and you kill
the gargantuan rights fees networks pay to the NFL.  See how this works? You, the fan, control everything,
except, it seems, your insatiable appetite for football.  David Stern, commissioner of the  National Basketball
Association , which faces its own labor woes -- yet again -- once
told me he wasn’t concerned about the fans that made noise about
swearing off the game, staying home and never again watching.  Their emotion, he said, was all the proof he needed that
they’d come back. Let’s just say NFL enthusiasts are making a
lot of noise.  ‘Let Us Play’  Folks like Jillian Ricard, a Miami Dolphins follower who
showed up in  Washington , where owners and players were
negotiating, armed with a T-shirt that read “Block the Lockout
- Let Us Play” and a petition with 150,000 names of fans.
Ricard carried binders that included a  letter  to owners,
imploring the lords of football to let the games continue.  “We the fans of the NFL demand that you NOT lock out
players in 2011,” the letter reads. “The players want to play
football and we passionately want to see America’s most popular
sport.”  As if owners are supposed to start caring about their
customers and their needs and wants now.  Owners will prattle about mounting losses. The  New York
Jets  didn’t even wait for a lockout to begin before letting it
be known that assistant coaches face a 25 percent pay cut.  Back for More  Goodell proved a deft grandstander, too, telling the world
he’d work for $1 should there be a work stoppage. As if owners
won’t shower their mouthpiece with tens of millions once he gets
them what they want.  No matter how poorly fans are treated they come back for
more.  Does anyone believe that a lockout would end Ricard’s
relationship with the Dolphins or the NFL? Of course not.  You know those disclaimers that fund managers have to
include in their literature, the one about past performance
being no indicator of future success.  It’s the opposite in sports. Fan behavior after previous
lockouts, in all sports, is the best indicator of what’ll happen
this time. Owners are counting on it when they consider that
lost ticket sales, which are about 25 percent of revenue, pose
the greatest risk to NFL teams.  History shows that fans flocked to stadiums after previous
work stoppages.  “Attendance rebounded fairly quickly after a
strike/lockout and reached or surpassed previous levels within
two to five years,” Standard & Poor’s analyst Jodi Hecht wrote
in a report.  There’s going to be a lot of finger-pointing before this is
resolved. Reserve yours for the mirror, where blame, like
objects, is often closer than it appears.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  