-- 
Yuan Rises Toward 17-Year High as Inflation Spurs Appreciation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-04T09:47:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/yuan-rises-toward-17-year-high-as-inflation-spurs-appreciation.html
  China ’s yuan rose toward a 17-year
high on speculation policy makers will tolerate appreciation to
achieve their goal of reining in inflation.  The government “must maintain basic stability in the
overall level of prices,” Jia Qinglin, chairman of the  Chinese
People’s Political Consultative Conference , said yesterday.
Rising food and home prices, a widening wealth gap and
corruption have fueled concerns of social unrest in China.
Consumer price gains quickened to 4.9 percent in January and
have topped the government’s 4 percent target for 2011.  “The gradual appreciation of the yuan can ease the rising
pressure on consumer prices,” said Kenix Lai, a foreign-
exchange analyst at Sun Hung Kai Financial in  Hong Kong . She
predicts the currency will strengthen 5.6 percent this year to
6.20 per dollar.  The yuan gained as much as 0.1 percent to 6.5665 per dollar,
before closing at 6.5686 per dollar at 4:36 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched
6.5654 on Feb. 21, the strongest level since China unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The central bank set the reference rate for yuan trading
0.04 percent higher at 6.5671, its strongest level since July
2005. The Chinese currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent
on either side of the official rate.  ‘Steady’ Appreciation  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said Feb. 27 gradual
appreciation is beneficial to the economy as it will help damp
inflation, which reached a two-year high in the fourth quarter
of 2010. The government is signaling a potential shift in
currency policy as inflation quickens and investors should buy
yuan-denominated assets to profit from “steady” appreciation
in the currency, according to Standard Chartered Plc.  “The Chinese authorities are ready to use the yuan as a
counter-inflationary tool,”  Robert Minikin  and Eddie Cheung,
Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange strategists at the bank, wrote
in a report published yesterday. Like Lai, they forecast a year-
end exchange rate of 6.20.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.06 percent to
6.4075 per dollar, reflecting bets the currency will strengthen
2.5 percent in a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  reiterated
yesterday in  Washington  that China’s currency “remains
substantially undervalued.” In a report to Congress on Feb. 5,
the Treasury said China had made “insufficient” progress in
allowing the currency to appreciate. U.S. lawmakers, including
Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , complain that an
undervalued yuan gives China’s exporters an unfair advantage
over American rivals.  --Fion Li and Sonja Cheung. Editors: James Regan, Dirk Beveridge  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at
   fli59@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  