-- 
Zara's Parent Buys Fifth Avenue Store for $324 Million

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-03-05T00:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-04/zara-parent-inditex-pays-324-million-for-fifth-avenue-store-in-manhattan.html
Spanish retailer  Inditex SA (ITX)  said it
bought the former NBA Store at 666 Fifth Ave. in  Manhattan  for
$324 million, in a record deal for a U.S. retail property.  The company will make the 39,000-square-foot (3,600-square-
meter) storefront between West 52nd and 53rd streets into a
flagship store for its Zara clothing chain, Arteixo, Spain-based
Inditex said today in a  statement  posted on its website. The
site was the home of a National Basketball Association shop that
sold team jerseys and other memorabilia.  The transaction values the space at about $8,300 a square
foot. That exceeds the $8,000 a square foot paid in 2008 for a
6,000-square-foot retail outlet at 713 Madison Ave., according
to  Real Capital Analytics Inc. , a New York-based company that
researches commercial property sales worldwide.  “Demand from global retailers is pushing values for
irreplaceable locations to new heights in city centers all
around the world,”  Dan Fasulo , Real Capital’s managing
director, said in an e-mail.  The 41-story tower that houses the store, completed in 1957
and originally known as the Tishman Building, has been the site
of two other price records since 2007. Kushner Cos. paid $1.8
billion for the building that year, then a record for a single
U.S. property. Last year, the parent of Japanese clothier Uniqlo
rented retail space at the building for 15 years for $300
million, the most expensive lease for a New York store.  ‘Major Fashion Shopping’  The site, close to Rockefeller Center, the Museum of  Modern
Art  and St. Patrick’s Cathedral, is “one of the major fashion
shopping areas in the world,” Inditex said today.    Carlyle Group , the world’s second-largest private-equity
firm, and Crown Acquisitions paid $525 million for a stake in
the retail portion of 666 Fifth Ave. in 2008, as real estate
values were sliding during the credit crisis. That deal helped
Kushner cover some of the debt incurred in its 2007 purchase.  Kushner’s sale of the interest valued the retail space at
$6,187 a square foot, according to Real Capital. Kushner kept a
51 percent stake in the retail segment after the transaction
with Carlyle and Crown, and retains 51 percent of the remaining
retail after Inditex’s purchase, said a person familiar with the
structure who declined to be identified because the ownership
breakdown is private.  Inditex will spend a total of $400 million on the property,
with $324 million going to the sellers, said another person
familiar with the transaction. The $76 million difference
includes payments to the NBA to buy out its lease and the cost
of reworking the space to Zara’s needs, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the agreements are private.  The building’s owners are planning today to complete a
refinancing of the retail portion of the property that they
retain, the person said.  Inditex was represented by the New York-based U.S. division
of  Savills Plc (SVS) , a London-based real estate services firm, said
Parke Chapman, a Savills spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  