-- 
Alibaba Says Alipay Move Was ‘Lawful’ After Yahoo Says It Was Blindsided

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-05-14T07:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/alibaba-says-alipay-spinoff-lawful-after-yahoo-s-failed-disclosure-claim.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman
Jack Ma said the spinoff of the Alipay online payment business
is “lawful” and “transparent,” after biggest shareholder
Yahoo! Inc. claimed it wasn’t consulted on the transfer.  “We are always committed to ensure our operations are 100
percent lawful,” Ma said today in  Hong Kong . “The matter of
Alipay is not settled yet” amid ongoing negotiations with Yahoo
and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , Alibaba’s second-biggest shareholder, on the
post-transfer commercial arrangements, Ma said.  Yahoo, owner of the biggest U.S. Web portal, this week said
it wasn’t informed until March 31 about an August 2010 transfer
of Alipay equity to a vehicle outside of Alibaba.  Ma said today Alibaba’s board discussed for three years the
need to comply with restrictions on foreign ownership of payment
services in China, which prompted the reorganization of Alipay,
the nation’s biggest online payment service.  “We are transparent in all we do,” Ma said at the
shareholders meeting of Alibaba Group unit  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) 
“For the management, there was only one option open to us, and
we have done the right thing.”  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman at Yahoo, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail seeking comment outside of office hours today.
Yahoo is in talks with Alibaba Group and Softbank to “preserve
the integrity of this investment and maximize  shareholder
value ,” the company said yesterday.  Shares Decline  Yahoo shares have declined 11 percent in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading since May 10, when the Sunnyvale, California-
based company disclosed the entire equity of Alipay had been
transferred to a company controlled by Ma, who is also chief
executive officer at Alibaba Group. Alipay has a value of $5
billion, Gabelli & Co. analyst Brett Harriss wrote in a May 12
report.  Through its stake in Alibaba Group,  China ’s biggest e-
commerce company, Yahoo is able to benefit from rising Internet
demand in the Asian nation, where restrictions on Web content
make it hard for U.S. companies to do business on their own.  It’s “inappropriate” for Internet companies in China to
have high foreign ownership given the increasing regulations on
overseas investment rules in the industry, Alibaba Group Chief
Financial Officer Joseph Tsai said at the meeting today. Alibaba
has raised this issue with Yahoo, he said.  Buyback Talks  Tsai and his Yahoo counterpart Tim Morse held talks last
year for Alibaba to buy back some of the shares held by the U.S.
company. The negotiations ended in June 2010, though Alibaba is
“always interested” in such a buyback, Tsai said.  “We think, in the future, an opportunity for the buyback
will arise,” Tsai said. Still, the breakdown of the buyback
negotiations last year caused a “loss of confidence” in Yahoo,
Ma said today.  Alibaba yesterday said its board, which includes Yahoo co-
founder Jerry Yang and Softbank President Masayoshi Son, was
told in July 2009 that the majority of Alipay’s shareholding was
transferred to a Chinese owner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  