-- 
Manchester City Wins F.A. Cup for First Time in 42 Years, Defeating Stoke

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-14T16:44:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/manchester-city-wins-f-a-cup-for-first-time-in-42-years-defeating-stoke.html
Manchester City beat Stoke City 1-0
to win English soccer’s F.A. Cup for the first time in 42 years.  Yaya Toure scored the only goal at  London ’s Wembley Stadium
as City captured its first trophy since winning the English
League Cup in 1976. Today’s victory comes four days after it
beat Tottenham 1-0 to secure a place in next season’s Champions
League for the first time.  “It’s fantastic to win, it’s fantastic for the history of
the club,” Toure, who scored in the 1-0 win over  Manchester
United  in the semifinals, told ITV. “We wanted to win something
and get through to the Champions League. It’s amazing.”  City has spent more than 350 million pounds ($567 million)
to strengthen its squad since being bought by Abu Dhabi’s Sheikh
Mansour in 2008.  “We’ve laid down the first brick and now we can build a
house on it,” City’s Vincent Kompany told ESPN.  City had the majority of possession in the first half but
was unable to beat Stoke goalkeeper  Thomas Sorensen , who stopped
an fifth-minute attempt from captain  Carlos Tevez . Toure then
sent a shot just wide of the post and Sorensen blocked an effort
from  Mario Balotelli .  City’s best chance came 10 minutes before halftime as
Sorensen cleared a ball toward  David Silva , who hit the ball
into the ground to bounce over the open goal.  Off Line  Tevez chased down a long ball 10 minutes into the second
half and passed to Silva, who was running alone toward the
middle of the box. Silva tried to bring the ball back to his
left foot and was stopped without getting a shot away.  Stoke’s Kenwyne Jones was sent clear in the 61st minute but
City goalkeeper  Joe Hart  came off his line to block the attempt.  City finally broke through in the 74th minute as the ball
bounced around the Stoke area before falling to Toure, who
blasted a left-footed blasted from near the penalty spot past
Sorensen. City then held on down the stretch as Stoke pressured
but was unable to get a good shot off.  “I can only say that I’m very happy for all the
supporters,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  told ITV. “After
many years they deserve to win this trophy.”  The loss ended a strong run for Stoke, which was playing in
its first F.A. Cup final.  “They played the best stuff on the day,” Sorensen told
ITV. “It’s disappointing that we didn’t play better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  