-- 
Manchester United Wins Record 19th English Soccer Title With Rooney’s Goal

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-14T15:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/manchester-united-wins-record-19th-english-soccer-title-with-rooney-s-goal.html
Manchester United  won its record 19th
English soccer championship today with a 1-1 tie at Blackburn.  Following a win over second-place Chelsea last week, United
needed just to draw at Ewood Park to eclipse the mark of 18
titles it shared with Liverpool.  Wayne Rooney ’s 73rd-minute penalty kick secured the tie and
gave United its 12th Premier League title in the 19-year history
of the league.  “Winning the Premier League is an incredible feeling,”
Rooney said in an on-field interview with  Sky Sports . “To get
the 19 titles, the most successful English team, it’s a great
feeling for us.”  When he took over as United manager in 1986,  Alex Ferguson 
said he wanted to knock Liverpool, which had 16 championships at
the time, “off their perch.” Since the Merseyside club won its
18th title in 1990, the Scotsman has led United to 12.  “If you look back 20 years, we were nowhere near
Liverpool,” United midfielder  Ryan Giggs , who also captured his
12th championship medal, told Sky Sports. “To overturn that
deficit is a great credit to the club and players. It’s great to
be in front of our nearest rivals.”  United just missed taking the lead in the fourth minute as
Nani hit the crossbar with a header. Blackburn’s Christopher Samba then put the ball in the net in the 18th minute but the
goal was disallowed for his foul on Nemanja Vidic.  United Penalty  Blackburn went in front two minutes later as Brett Emerton
took a pass from Martin Olsson and put a shot pass Thomas
Kuszczak, who started in the United goal in place of the resting
Edwin van der Sar.  Blackburn goalkeeper  Paul Robinson  dived to stop  Javier
Hernandez ’s shot and Olsson sent a volley wide, before Nani sent
a shot well over the crossbar just before halftime.  Olsson almost doubled the Blackburn lead midway through the
second half when his header rang off the left post. United then
tied the game as Hernandez went down in the area from a
challenge by Robinson.  Referee Phil Dowd didn’t immediately signal the penalty and
checked with his assistant, as players from both teams
surrounded them, before pointing to the spot. Rooney then
stepped up and buried his kick into the left corner as Robinson
went the opposite way.  “It was terrifying, the ref took a long time to give it,”
Rooney said. “I just had to compose myself.”  Unbeaten Run  United started the season unbeaten, but five ties in the
first eight games left it eight points behind Chelsea. It took
over first place after a 7-1 rout of Blackburn on Nov. 27 and
would battle rival  Manchester City  for the top spot for the next
two months.  United moved back atop the standings for good in late
January and extended its unbeaten run to 24 games before a 2-1
loss at Wolverhampton on Feb. 5. The Red Devils would then
increase their lead to 10 points over second-place Arsenal in
April.  As Arsenal faded, defending champions Chelsea began a late-
season charge. The Blues trailed United by 15 points in late
February, but climbed back to within three heading into a
showdown at Old Trafford on May 8. With Hernandez and Vidic
scoring in the opening 23 minutes, United posted a 2-1 win that
put it on the verge of the record-breaking title.  “It’s a better league this year, teams have been beating
each other from the bottom to the top, which makes it more
exciting for the fans,” United defender  Rio Ferdinand  said to
Sky Sports.  Champions League Final  Giggs said he wasn’t concerned about media criticism that
this United team doesn’t compare with others in the past.  “We’re champions and in the Champions League final, we’re
rubbish aren’t we?” Giggs said with a smile. “It’s a pleasure
to play on this team.”  United plays in the Champions League final against Spanish
champions Barcelona at Wembley Stadium in  London  on May 28. Both
teams will be trying for their fourth European Cup as Ferguson
seeks to tie former Liverpool manager Bob Paisley’s record of
three titles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  