-- 
Australian Finance Minister Wong Says ‘Positive’ Budget Aims to Boost Jobs

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-14T06:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/australian-finance-minister-wong-says-positive-budget-aims-to-boost-jobs.html
Australia ’s Finance Minister  Penny Wong  said this week’s budget was aimed at boosting jobs growth
as the government stays committed to returning the country’s
finances to a surplus.  “It’s a budget all about jobs, about creating jobs, about
training more Australians for jobs,” Wong told reporters in
Brisbane today. “We put a forward a budget that has us back in
the black. That’s positive policy.”  Wong dismissed suggestions the measures outlined by
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  on May 10 are already proving unpopular
with voters, less than a month after a survey showed public
approval of Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government was
at a 15-year low.  The government unveiled its budget on May 10, committing to
end 23 years of spending growth to ease inflation from a mining
boom. It plans A$22.2 billion ($23.5 billion) in savings over
the next four years to deliver a A$3.5 billion surplus in
2012-13, an election year.  Public support for Labor fell to a 15-year low last month,
according to a survey that showed most voters opposed Gillard’s
plan to tax  carbon emissions . The Nielsen poll was published in
the Age newspaper on April 18.  Wong avoided questions about a poll in today’s  Daily
Telegraph  newspaper that showed fewer than a third of
Australians thought the budget was good for the country. The
newspaper didn’t say how many people were polled or reveal the
margin of error for the survey.  “The only numbers I’m focused on are the 500,000 jobs that
will be created in the years ahead and getting the budget back
into black by 2012-13 as we promised,” Wong said today.  Mining Investment  The government has forecast economic growth will accelerate
to 4 percent in the year to June 30, 2012, from 2.25 percent in
the prior 12 months. Driving this will be a mining investment
spree totaling A$76 billion next fiscal year, spurring companies
to hire workers and prompting the government to predict a drop
in the  unemployment rate  to 4.5 percent by mid-2013.  Australia recorded its biggest annual job growth on record
last year and employers added 37,800 workers in March, more than
economists forecast, led by hiring in the mineral- and energy-
rich states of  Western Australia  and Queensland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  