-- 
Berlin Philharmonic Quits Scandal-Hit Salzburg Easter Festival

-- B y   S h i r l e y   A p t h o r p
-- 
2011-05-14T08:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/berlin-philharmonic-quits-scandal-hit-salzburg-easter-fest-for-baden-baden.html
The  Berlin Philharmonic  is to leave
the  Salzburg Easter Festival  and start anew in Baden-Baden, the
orchestra said last night.  The e-mailed announcement came as a shock in Salzburg,
where the orchestra has long played a role in the festival
founded by its former chief conductor Herbert von Karajan in
1967. Salzburg has reorganized following a $5 million fraud and
embezzlement scandal last year.  “I deeply regret the decision of the Berlin Philharmonic,”
Peter Alward, managing director of the festival, said in a news
release also issued last night. “The original demands of the
orchestra for four opera performances and a significant
expansion of chamber music and educational activities could not
be met, given the financial situation.”  Baden-Baden’s Festspielhaus, an affluent, privately funded
institution in a south German casino and spa town, can offer
more financial security than the beleaguered Salzburg Easter
Festival.  “It was not an easy decision,” Olaf Maninger, an orchestra
spokesman, said in yesterday’s news release. “For our opera and
concert activities at Easter, we need the kind of long-term
security that the Baden-Baden Festspielhaus is able to offer.”  Alward will continue to lead the festival. Planned Salzburg
performances of “Carmen” will go ahead next Easter. It isn’t
clear what will happen with “Parisfal,” mooted for Salzburg in
2013, when the Baden-Baden collaboration is set to begin.  Vienna Hope  The  Vienna Philharmonic  has long been eager to oust its
Berlin rival at the prestigious Easter events and may move in to
fill the gap.  The partnership with Baden-Baden, mooted already in 2009,
guarantees the Berlin orchestra more performances of its annual
opera, and more scope for other forms of musical work. It comes
with a long-term commitment and an assurance that planned
collaborations with  Madrid ’s  Teatro Real  can continue.  Baden-Baden was made famous by visits from heads of state
and Russian authors. Its Festspielhaus, opened in 1998, is the
largest in  Germany . Queen Victoria and Napoleon III stayed in
Baden-Baden while Tolstoy’s “Anna Karenina” and Dostoyevsky’s
“The Gambler” were in part inspired by the town.  Bill Clinton 
said Baden-Baden was “so nice that you have to name it twice.”  Information:  http://www.berliner-philharmoniker.com .  (Shirley Apthorp is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Shirley Apthorp in Berlin at  Sarabande@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 