-- 
Bunds Rise Fifth Week on Safety Bid Amid Greek Debt Speculation

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-05-14T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/bunds-rise-fifth-week-on-safety-bid-amid-greek-debt-speculation.html
German 10-year bunds rose for a fifth
straight week, the longest run since August, as investors sought
the safest assets amid renewed speculation the euro area’s
weakest nations may require additional financial support.  Bunds outperformed two-year notes, narrowing the difference
in yield between the two securities to the least in almost 2 1/2
years, as investors added to bets the  European Central Bank  will
continue raising  interest rates  to contain inflation. European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
restructuring Greek debt would have “devastating
implications,” as officials sought to cool concern that
bondholders face losses following an unannounced meeting of
finance officials last week.  “Bunds have rebounded since the Greek situation came back
up,” said Norbert Aul, a strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
London. “The market still has worries about what private-sector
involvement would look like.”  The yield on the bund, Europe’s benchmark government debt
security, fell nine basis points to 3.08 percent as of 4:47 p.m.
in London yesterday.  The difference in yield between two-year and 10-year notes
dropped to 131 basis points, the least since January 2009.
German consumer prices last month rose at a 2.7 percent annual
rate from 2.3 percent in March, the Federal Statistics Office
said on May 11. The European Commission yesterday raised its
2011 inflation forecast for the euro region to 2.6 percent from
a previously projected 2.2 percent.  Greek Tension  The bund yield has fallen 42 basis points from a high for
the year of 3.51 percent as economic data suggested growth may
be fading, commodity prices slid and renewed tension flared up
in  Europe ’s so-called peripheral bond markets. Greek, Portuguese
and Irish two-year note yields reached records last week.  Bond markets may fluctuate between gains and losses next
week as European finance ministers meet in Brussels on May 16-17
with a discussion of  Greece  on the agenda.  Spain  is among
nations selling bonds next week, with auctions of 10-year and
30-year securities planned for May 19. Greece and  Portugal  plan
to sell bills on May 17 and May 18 respectively.  German bonds handed investors a 0.7 percent loss this year
through May 12, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek
debt lost 11 percent, while Spanish securities returned 3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  