-- 
Geithner Says Default Damage May Be ‘Irrevocable’

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-05-14T17:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/damage-from-defaulting-on-debt-would-be-irrevocable-geithner-tells-bennet.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said a default arising from failing to raise the debt
limit could cause “irrevocable damage” to the economy, risk a
“double-dip” recession and increase unemployment.  “Default would not only increase borrowing costs for the
federal government, but also for families, businesses and local
governments -- reducing investment and job creation throughout
the economy,” Geithner said in a letter dated yesterday to
Senator Michael Bennet, a Colorado Democrat.  Failing to raise the $14.29 trillion debt ceiling would
“force the  United States  to default” on obligations such as
payments to service members, citizens, investors and businesses,
Geithner wrote. “This would be an unprecedented event in
American history. A default would inflict catastrophic, far-
reaching damage on our nation’s economy, significantly reducing
growth and increasing unemployment.”  The U.S. is scheduled to reach the debt limit May 16 and
can keep borrowing until about Aug. 2 by taking steps that
include declaring a “debt-issuance suspension period” under
the statute governing the Civil Service Retirement and
Disability Fund, Geithner said May 2. That would allow the U.S.
to redeem existing Treasury securities held by that fund as
investments.  Cuts Debated  Democrats and Republicans are debating how much to trim the
deficit and whether to extend the debt ceiling. Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said May 12 he
wants “significant” near-term cuts in federal agency budgets
paired with longer-term reductions to programs like Medicare and
Medicaid in exchange for his support for an increase in the debt
limit.  “Even a short-term default could cause irrevocable damage
to the American economy,” Geithner said in response to a letter
from Bennet requesting an estimate of the consequences of
failing to increase the limit.  Raising the debt ceiling “does not authorize new spending
commitments,” Geithner said. “It simply allows the government
to finance existing legal obligations that Congresses and
presidents of both parties have made in the past.”  In response to Geithner’s letter, Bennett said it was
“absolutely urgent and essential” that lawmakers draft a plan
that “materially reduces the deficit.”  Still, “playing politics with the debt limit would rattle
the capital markets, blow an even bigger hole in our deficit and
would likely throw our economy into another deep recession,” he
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  