-- 
Death Toll Mounts as Syria Extends Crackdown on Protesters

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-14T13:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/death-toll-mounts-as-syria-extends-crackdown-on-protesters-1-.html
At least 10 Syrian protesters have
died in the past 24 hours as thousands took to the streets
nationwide, defying mass arrests amid an intensifying crackdown
on dissent that began about two months ago.  The security forces killed four protesters in the central
city of Homs yesterday, two in the southern city of Daraa and
three in the suburbs of the capital, Damascus, Ammar Qurabi,
head of the National Organization for Human Rights, said in a
telephone interview today.  Gunfire was heard in the Syrian town of Talkalakh near the
Lebanese border today. Tanks are positioned there and the unrest
has caused about 500 Syrians to flee across the border to the
neighboring country, Qurabi said. At least one person from the
town died as a result of their wounds after fleeing to Lebanon,
according to Qurabi and Nadim Houry, Lebanon director for New
York-based Human Rights Watch.  Security forces are conducting widespread arrests and
house-to-house searches, Qurabi and Mahmoud Merhi of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, who also spoke by phone, said.  Today’s events follow protests yesterday in Hama, Banias,
Aleppo and Idlib as thousands took to the streets and joined
rallies. In Daraa, people were barred from attending Muslim
Friday prayers with “tanks outside every mosque,” according to
Qurabi. Gunfire was heard in Barzeh, the port city of Latakia
and in Madaya, near the border with Lebanon, he said.  Emergency Law  Syria’s suppression of pro-democracy protests began mid-
March after popular revolts ousted leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .
The uprising drew initial pledges of reform from President
Bashar al-Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place since 1963
and named a new government. He hasn’t repeated the assurances in
recent weeks as security forces stepped up their assaults.  More than 800 demonstrators have been killed since the
uprising began, according to Qurabi and Merhi, who have compiled
a list of the names of victims. As many as 10,000 people have
been detained, according to their estimates. Most foreign
journalists have been banned from Syria and the government has
restricted media access.  The army and security authorities say they are pursuing
“terrorist elements” and have aired footage on state TV of
what they said were confiscated arms and ammunition, as well as
confessions of alleged members of terrorist or extremist groups.  ‘National Dialogue’  The Interior Ministry said 6,131 people “involved in riot
acts” have surrendered under an amnesty that expires tomorrow,
the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency  reported  today.  Syria  will hold a “national dialogue” in the coming days,
and army units have started a gradual withdrawal from Banias,
Information Minister Adnan Hassan Mahmoud told a  press
conference  yesterday.  “There is no point in having a dialogue without the
release of all political prisoners, stopping the arbitrary
arrests,” Louay Hussein, a writer and activist, said in a
telephone interview today.  The European Union has imposed sanctions including a visa
ban and an asset freeze on 13 Syrian officials and relatives of
Assad. The U.S. has applied sanctions against Syrian officials.  The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has
been in contact with the Syrian government “seeking their full
cooperation” with a fact-finding mission to assess the
situation in the country, spokesman Rupert Colville said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  Assad has rejected Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s request
to send a humanitarian assessment team to Syria and hasn’t
responded to the UN  Human Rights Council ’s call for a fact-
finding mission. Assad reneged on a May 4 pledge to allow UN aid
workers into the country, UN spokesman  Martin Nesirky  said
yesterday.  The U.K. summoned Syrian Ambassador Sami Khiyami to the
Foreign Office in  London  yesterday and said EU countries will
take further sanctions “targeted at the highest levels of the
regime” if the violence doesn’t stop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  