-- 
Merkel Risks Revolt Over Greece

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-14T22:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/merkel-risks-revolt-over-greece-aid-as-fdp-ally-splits-on-bailout-s-terms.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  faces a
gathering storm in her coalition over Germany’s share of euro-
area rescues, threatening to undermine her ability to make
concessions on additional help for Greece.  Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner signalled a
hardening of its stance on bailouts at a convention as the party
leadership fought to quash a revolt over granting rescues. While
a motion to eject aid recipients that miss debt-cutting targets
from the euro was defeated, a leading rebel said that as many as
50 coalition lawmakers are ready to reject the post-2013 euro
bailout fund when it goes to parliament later this year.  “We know that public acceptance of European themes is
dwindling,” Economy Minister Philipp Roesler told FDP members
in the Baltic Sea port of Rostock yesterday in his first speech
as party leader. Aid appraisals must be based on “clear
conditions with sanctions for failure to adhere to rules,” he
said, pledging “no taboos.”  One year after she agreed to aid  Greece  to save the euro,
Merkel must again balance domestic resistance to bailouts with
the need to tackle a resurgence of the debt crisis where it
started. The euro fell to a six-week low against the dollar on
concern Greece may have to restructure its debt even as European
finance ministers prepare to discuss further support tomorrow.  Eighty-five percent of international investors surveyed by
Bloomberg this week said Greece will probably still default on
its debt. Greek two-year notes rose to a record 26.77 percent
last week amid restructuring speculation before declining to
24.99 percent on May 13.  Debt Crisis Dilemma  FDP delegates in Rostock passed a motion that demanded
investors share the bill for any aid given to indebted states,
saying that “in no case whatsoever” can the German public
assume the debts of other countries. About one third of members
failed to support the leadership-backed motion.  The Free Democrats, one of three parties in Merkel’s
coalition, are struggling to present a  united front  on the debt
crisis as factions demand harsher conditions on debt-wracked
states including their banishment from the euro area. Others see
that as anathema for the party of Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the
foreign minister who oversaw German reunification in 1990 after
the fall of the  Berlin Wall  and went on to symbolise European
unity.  ‘Populist’ Path  “We’re at a crossroads,”  Otto Fricke , the FDP’s budget
spokesman in parliament, said in an interview. “We can either
take the populist anti-euro road that some are advocating, or
work on becoming a byword for economic stability and common
sense, be it over tax cuts, budget discipline or the euro.” The
FDP “needs to show we’re the other voice in the coalition, and
that may mean taking a tougher stance on the debt crisis where
necessary.”  FDP lawmaker  Frank Schaeffler , who last year called for
Greece to sell its islands to cut debt, saw his demand for
states to be ejected from the euro “at short notice” in cases
of rule breaking defeated in a vote yesterday.  Even so, he said that as many as 50 lawmakers across the
coalition are prepared to join his revolt against the European
Stability Mechanism due to take over from the current rescue
fund in mid-2013. That’s an increase of at least 10 votes in the
past three weeks, enough to eliminate Merkel’s  41-seat advantage 
over the opposition when the ESM goes to a vote after the summer
recess, leaving her reliant on opposition support.  “A year ago I was isolated in the party, but that’s no
longer the case,” Schaeffler said in an interview. “A good
many Free Democrats share the view in private that something is
going badly wrong in solving this crisis.”  AAA Skeptics  The bailout skeptics aim to tap a vein of resentment that’s
brewing in Germany and other AAA-rated countries such as  Finland 
over being forced to rescue their euro-area neighbors.  Twenty percent of Germans view Merkel’s decision last year
to help Greece as “right,” according to a poll published May 8
by consumer survey company GfK SE. Another 47 percent of
respondents said the decision was “wrong,” suggesting that
Merkel’s coalition may struggle to justify any additional aid.  The Free Democrats, who won a record 14.6 percent in the
September 2009 federal election to enter Merkel’s second-term
government, are battling to re-inflate their ratings after
 support  collapsed amid bickering over policy, an unpopular
leadership and failure to deliver their core policy of tax cuts.  FDP backing rose one percentage point to 5 percent, the
threshold for seats in parliament, an Infratest poll for ARD
television showed two days ago. While Merkel’s CDU still placed
first with 33 percent, the FDP’s weakness means the coalition
trails the opposition  Social Democrats  and Greens by 38 percent
to 48 percent.  ‘Not Credible’  The FDP “won’t garner points by fanning anti-euro
sentiment,” Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, head of the Psephos polling
company, said by phone. “That’s not credible from a party that
has so long been an advocate of European unity.”  The Free Democrats remain committed to the euro and the
idea of European integration, “whatever a minority of critics
say,” according to Werner Hoyer, deputy foreign minister and an
FDP lawmaker.  The party divisions “are damaging to our efforts to tackle
this crisis” and the new leadership elected this weekend “will
make this clear,” Hoyer said in an interview in Rostock. “The
euro’s stability architecture has holes, but we can plug them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Rostock,  Germany  at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  