-- 
Euro Drops to Six-Week Low Versus Dollar Before Ministers Meet on Greece

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-14T04:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/euro-drops-to-six-week-low-versus-dollar-before-ministers-meet-on-greece.html
The euro fell against all but two of
its 16 most-traded counterparts, reaching a six-week low against
the dollar, on concern Greece may have to restructure its debt
and the nation’s problems may spread in the region.  The 17-nation currency weakened before European finance
ministers meet next week to discuss further support for Greece
as the nation’s cost of borrowing hovers at almost record
levels. The dollar gained versus most peers this week as stocks
and commodities fluctuated.  South Africa ’s rand was the worst
performer among major currencies, dropping the most in 18 months
against the dollar as unemployment jumped.  “The overall prevailing theme is the European debt market
mood, and the euro has been caught up in that this week,” said
 Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co .
in New York. “There’s been a role reversal in the context of
recent events; the short-term inclination of the markets,
instead of being to sell the dollar, is to sell the euro.”  The euro dropped 1.4 percent to $1.4118, from $1.4316 on
May 6, in its second weekly loss versus the greenback. It
touched $1.4067 yesterday, the lowest level since April 1. The
shared currency fell 1.2 percent to 114.06 yen and touched
113.52, the strongest level since March 18, when Group of Seven
central banks sold yen in the  currency markets  to stem its surge
after an earthquake and tsunami.  The dollar rose 0.2 percent to 80.79 yen, from 80.63.  Commodities Fluctuate  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
ended the week up 0.4 percent after gaining as much as 2.2
percent on May 9 and tumbling as much as 3.1 percent on May 11.
It slumped 9 percent last week, the most since December 2008.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2 percent after
falling 1.7 percent last week.  The yen touched the strongest level in two months versus
the euro yesterday as  Japan ’s economy and fiscal policy
minister,  Kaoru Yosano , said its strength resulted from a weaker
dollar, not independent gains.  The currency also strengthened amid speculation Tokyo
Electric Power Co. is repatriating overseas funds to pay for
damages and compensation in the wake of the nuclear power-plant
disaster after the quake and tsunami March 11.  Futures traders lowered their bets the euro will gain
against the dollar after raising them a week earlier to an
almost four-year high.  Euro Bets Tumble  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 61,447 on May 10,
data from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. That compared with net longs of 99,516 a week
earlier, the most since July 2007.  The euro slid yesterday as Die Welt reported that  Germany 
backed a “voluntary restructuring” of Greek debt. The German
newspaper didn’t say where it got the information.  The German government has “no knowledge” of any plan for a
Greek restructuring, spokesman Christoph Steegmans said in an
interview. It is waiting for the conclusions of a European and
International Monetary Fund mission to  Greece  before making any
decision on further steps.  Greece’s debt, already the biggest in the euro’s history at
143 percent of gross domestic product last year, will jump to
almost 158 percent this year and 166 percent in 2012, the
European Commission said yesterday in Brussels. Greek two-year
note yields rose to a record 26.77 percent May 12, compared with
1.79 percent on German two-year securities.  Additional Support  Finance ministers on May 16 will discuss support for Greece
beyond the 110 billion-euro ($155 billion) rescue granted a year
ago, said Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group.  “Because of weaker growth last year than expected and the
burden of that, there’s a need to take additional measures of
fiscal consolidation,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in Brussels.  South  Africa ’s rand tumbled against the dollar yesterday as
data showed the jobless rate in Africa’s biggest economy
increased to 25 percent in the first quarter. The South African
Reserve Bank left  interest rates  unchanged this week at 5.5
percent to help spur economic recovery even as a report next
week is forecast to show inflation at 4.4 percent in April.  “They’re not going to be able to hike because they’re
under pressure to maintain stimulus due to the labor sector,”
said  Win Thin , global head of emerging market strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York.  The rand plunged 4.5 percent this week to 7.0206 per
dollar, the biggest drop since October 2009.  The Swiss franc was the second-worst performer among major
currencies, losing 1.5 percent to 89.25 centimes per dollar.  Australian Dollar  Australia ’s dollar dropped versus its U.S. counterpart and
the yen as investors sought safety. It also fell after the
People’s Bank of China raised banks’ reserve requirement May 12
for the fifth time this year to cool inflation, spurring concern
global growth may slow. The South Pacific currency depreciated
1.2 percent to $1.0573 and lost 1 percent to 85.42 yen.  The Aussie gained 1.4 percent over the past month among the
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. It was the second-best
performer, with the yen gaining 4.9 percent. The  U.S. dollar 
gained 0.7 percent, while the euro dropped 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  