-- 
India Raises Gasoline Prices To Cut Losses At State-Run Refiners

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-05-14T15:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/india-to-raise-gasoline-price-tomorrow-to-cut-losses-at-state-run-refiners.html
India  will raise gasoline price by as
much as 8.5 percent tomorrow, a move that may limit losses at
state-run refiners and help the government cut fuel subsidies.  State refiner Indian Oil Corp., the country’s largest, will
raise price of petrol by 5 rupees a liter to 63.37 rupees ($1.4)
in New Delhi, while in Mumbai the fuel will cost 68.33 rupees,
up from 63.08 rupees, the company said on its  website .  The first nationwide increase in petrol prices in four
months may help reduce losses at government-run refiners and
also address a disadvantage they face against non-state
companies such as  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which sell fuels at
market rates in India and overseas. Indian Oil loses 2.97
billion rupees a day on fuel sales, Chairman R.S. Butola said
April 25.  Crude oil has climbed as much as 26 percent in  New York 
this year as unrest in the Middle East and North Africa toppled
leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and spread to  Libya , Algeria,
Bahrain,  Iran , Syria and Yemen.  India’s state-run refiners also sell diesel, cooking gas
and kerosene below market prices to help curb inflation, while
the government set gasoline prices free of all controls on June
26. Indian Oil hadn’t increased diesel prices since June 26 and
gasoline since Jan. 16, according to the company’s website.
Diesel has a 4.7 percent weighting in India’s benchmark
wholesale-price index and gasoline 1.1 percent.  Inflation erodes purchasing power in the second-most
populous nation where, the  World Bank  says, 66 percent of the
people live on less than $2 a day.  Tens of thousands of protesters from 19 of India’s 28
states gathered in  New Delhi  on Feb. 24 to protest against
rising costs, a week before the government announced the state
elections. The result of the polls were announced yesterday.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. may change gasoline prices every 15
days or monthly, then Chairman Ashok Sinha had said in June last
year. India last freed prices of oil products from government
control in April 2002, giving state-owned refiners freedom to
set retail prices twice a month. That stopped in December 2003
after the then  Bharatiya Janata Party -led government barred them
from raising rates before the May 2004 elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  