-- 
Mississippi River Floodgate Opens, Inundating Cajun Country in Louisiana

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-14T21:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/mississippi-river-floodgate-opens-inundating-cajun-country-in-louisiana.html
Louisiana’s  Morganza  floodway was
opened today, sending torrents of brown water from the
 Mississippi River  into the Atchafalaya River basin, a move
designed to spare  Baton Rouge  and  New Orleans .  The spillway gates were opened as the  National Weather
Service  forecast the river’s flow at Baton Rouge would exceed
1.62 million cubic feet per second, exceeding the 1.5 million
cubic feet per second the city’s levees were designed to
withstand.  Within 20 minutes after the first gate was lifted, several
square miles of the  Atchafalaya River  basin were submerged. The
spillway, built in 1954 and not opened since 1973, can release
600,000 cubic feet per second of water at maximum capacity. It
may send enough water to fill a football field 10 feet deep
every second across the heart of what is known as Cajun country,
eventually filling an area almost as large as  Connecticut .  The river system is Louisiana “is under tremendous
pressure and it is going to be under tremendous pressure for a
long time,” said Major General Michael Walsh, president of the
Mississippi River Commission. “We will give the river what it
needs.”  The high flow of the Mississippi is challenging waterborne
commerce. As many as 25 barges moored along the river broke
loose in Baton Rouge, with four striking the Highway 190 bridge,
closing the structure to vehicular traffic, U.S. Coast Guard
Petty Officer Jeremy Green said.  Bridge Closure  The bridge is a major traffic artery for movement over the
river and won’t be opened until the state and the Coast Guard
complete inspections.  “You have to make sure the integrity of the structure is
sound,” JoAnne Moreau, director of East Baton Rouge Parish
Mayor’s Office of  Homeland Security  said in a telephone
interview from Baton Rouge today. Public works employees and
engineers are assessing the situation, she said.  The river flooded  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s docks at its refinery
in Baton Rouge, company spokesman Kevin Allexon said. The plant,
the second-largest in the U.S. after Exxon’s refinery in
Baytown,  Texas , remains in production and can process 525,000
barrels of oil a day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The corps is opening the Morganza bays slowly to avoid
damaging the structure, said Colonel Ed Fleming, district
commander and district engineer for the corps in New Orleans.  State Warning  The agency also wants to give the wildlife living behind
Morganza, located about 310 river miles above New Orleans, time
to escape and avoid overwhelming those living downstream,
Fleming said.  About 2,500 people and 2,000 structures are within the
spillway and another 22,500 and 11,000 buildings are vulnerable
to the rising water, according to  Louisiana  Governor Bobby Jindal.  “We wanted to give people as much advance notice as we
can,” Jindal said yesterday.  An estimated 15,000 acres of farmland will be underwater
initially in the south-central part of Louisiana along the
Mississippi River as the water flows 100 miles toward  Morgan
City  and into the  Gulf of Mexico , said Kyle McCann, a spokesman
at Louisiana Farm Bureau Federation. The water will take about
three days to reach the Gulf.  Inside the threatened area are 2,264 wells that each day
produce 19,278 barrels of crude oil, about 10 percent of
Louisiana’s onshore total, and 252.6 million cubic feet of
natural gas, according to the state.  Morganza, a 5,000-foot, dam-like structure that carries
Louisiana Highway 1 and a freight line of the Kansas City
Southern railroad atop it, may be open for as many as three
weeks, said Fleming.  The corps is projecting the most water it will have to
release through the spillway will be about 125,000 cubic feet
per second, or 25 percent of capacity, Fleming said.  Unless Morganza was opened, the  Mississippi  was forecast to
crest at 19.5 feet in  New Orleans , which is protected by levees
to 20 feet, according to the corps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 