-- 
Mississippi River Floodgate to Open, Inundating Cajun Area

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-14T18:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/mississippi-river-floodgate-to-open-today-inundating-louisiana-cajun-area.html
Louisiana ’s Morganza floodway will be
opened today at 3 p.m., local time, sending torrents of brown
water from the  Mississippi River  into the Atchafalaya River
basin, a move designed to spare Baton Rouge and  New Orleans .  The corps expects to release 150,000 cubic feet per second
from the Morganza, which is 310 river miles above New Orleans.
The spillway, built in 1954 and not opened since 1973, can
release 600,000 cubic feet of water per second at maximum
capacity. It may send enough water to fill a football field 10
feet deep every second across the heart of what is known as
Cajun country, eventually filling an area almost as large as
 Connecticut .  About 2,500 people and 2,000 structures are within the
spillway and another 22,500 and 11,000 buildings are vulnerable
when the waters rise, according to Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal. Inside the threatened area are 2,264 wells that each day
produce 19,278 barrels of crude oil, about 10 percent of
Louisiana’s onshore total, and 252.6 million cubic feet of
natural gas, according to the state.  The water flow “is putting tremendous stress on the entire
system,” said Major General Michael Walsh, president of the
 Mississippi  River Commission. “I directed the commander to open
those bays today.”  Earlier today the river’s flow reached 1.5 million cubic
feet per second at Louisiana’s  Red River Landing , the U.S.  Army
Corps  of Engineers said in a statement.  Opened Gradually  Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal said yesterday that the
Morganza would be opened gradually and wouldn’t result in a wall
of water running the length of the state to Morgan City, 70
miles west of New Orleans, where the Atchafalaya empties into
the Gulf of Mexico. He stressed the need for residents to move
quickly.  “Now is the time to take action,” Jindal said at a press
conference. “We wanted to give people as much advance notice as
we can.”  An estimated 15,000 acres of farmland will be initially
underwater in the south-central part of Louisiana along the
Mississippi River as the water flows 100 miles toward Morgan
City and into the  Gulf of Mexico , said Kyle McCann, a spokesman
at Louisiana Farm Bureau Federation. The water will take about
three days to reach the Gulf.  The Mississippi River flooded  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s river
docks at its refinery in Baton Rouge, Kevin Allexon, a company
spokesman said. The plant, second-largest in the U.S. after
Exxon’s refinery in Baytown,  Texas , remains in production and
can process 525,000 barrels of oil a day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Door-to-Door  National Guard troops and local sheriffs are going door-to-
door in the affected areas warning residents to flee, Jindal
said. It would take the water three days to travel the length of
the floodway from Morganza to  Morgan City .  A voluntary evacuation notice has been issued for Melville,
Krotz Springs and Three Mile Lake, according to the St. Landry
Parish government.  “We are building earthen, sandbag and Hesco basket levees
in Amelia,” said Paul Naquin, St. Mary Parish president, based
in Franklin, Louisiana. “In five days we should be OK. We are
working 24 hours a day trying to beat the clock.”  A Hesco basket is a container that can be filled with dirt
to build a temporary levee.  Naquin said there is also a plan to sink a barge in a bayou
to slow down the rising water.  For weeks, the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, swollen by
heavy rain and melted snow, have been inundating cities and
towns, flooding cropland and disrupting shipping. The Ohio rose
to a record 61.72 feet (18.8 meters) in Cairo,  Illinois , before
joining the Mississippi there.  River System  The flooding in  Tennessee  has affected 650,000 acres of
cropland in the western part of the state, including 86,000
acres of wheat, said Lee Maddox, a spokesman for the Tennessee
Farm Bureau, citing numbers from the state’s farm service
agency, a unit of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Farmers
were just getting ready to harvest the wheat, and it’s probably
destroyed now, Maddox said.  The Mississippi River system was engineered to absorb a
major flood while maintaining flow rates through  Baton Rouge  and
New Orleans to ensure the integrity of levees, according to the
corps. The corps wants to limit flow to 1.5 million cubic feet
per second at Baton Rouge and 1.25 million at New Orleans, said
Ken Holder, a spokesman.  When the river flows exceed that, the system is designed to
have water diverted elsewhere by using the Morganza or the
Bonnet Carre spillway outside New Orleans, he said.  Opening the Morganza may lower the river’s crest in Baton
Rouge by as little as a foot, said Bryan Harmon, the city’s
deputy public works director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 