-- 
New York Rangers’ Forward Derek Boogaard Is Dead at 28, NHL Team Reports

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-14T05:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/new-york-rangers-forward-derek-boogaard-is-dead-at-28-nhl-team-reports.html
New York Rangers ’ forward Derek Boogaard, who earned a reputation as a fighter on the ice, has
died at the age of 28, the National Hockey League team said.  Boogaard’s body was discovered by his family last night in
his Minneapolis home, the Minneapolis Star Tribune reported
earlier. The team declined to release additional details.  “Derek was an extremely kind and caring individual,” New
York Rangers President and General Manager Glen Sather said.
“He was a very thoughtful person, who will be dearly missed by
all those who knew him.”  Boogaard, who signed a four-year, $6.5 million contract
with the Rangers on July 1, missed the final 52 games of the
season after sustaining a concussion and shoulder injury. He
recorded 589 penalty minutes during 277 regular-season games
with the  Minnesota  Wild and Rangers between 2005 and 2011.  The 158 penalty points he amassed during his first season
with the Wild still stands as a franchise record for most
penalty points by a rookie.  “Derek was a fan favorite during his five seasons with the
Wild and will be greatly missed here in Minnesota and throughout
the NHL,” the Wild said on their website. “Our thoughts and
prayers go out to the Boogaard family during this tragic time of
loss.”  Boogaard started in the NHL with the Wild, appearing in 255
games before he signed with the Rangers as a free agent. During
his career, he tallied three goals and 13 assists.  Boogaard, of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, was Minnesota’s
seventh-round choice in the 2001 draft.  “Derek was a well-liked and respected member of the NHLPA,
and his passing is a great loss to the entire hockey
community,” National Hockey League Players’ Association
Executive Director Don Fehr said in a statement. “Our sincere
condolences to Derek’s many friends and family during this
difficult time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 