-- 
Nuclear-Plant Emergency Equipment Flaws Cited in Checks by U.S. Regulators

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-05-14T01:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/nuclear-plant-emergency-equipment-flaws-cited-in-checks-by-u-s-regulators.html
Inspections of the 104 U.S.
commercial nuclear reactors found some emergency equipment that
“would not start when tested,” was being used for other
purposes or was stored in “potentially vulnerable areas.”  The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission , reporting yesterday on
the state of emergency preparedness, said the flaws wouldn’t
prevent the safe handling of “extreme events” from floods to
earthquakes.  “All the reactors would be kept safe even in the event
their regular safety systems were affected by these events,
although a few plants have to do a better job maintaining the
necessary resources and procedures,” Eric Leeds, NRC director
of reactor regulation, said in a statement.  U.S. reactors are getting closer scrutiny after a March 11
earthquake and tsunami crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant with fires, explosions and radiation
leaks. The NRC’s inspections are part of a 90-day safety review
to see if the U.S. needs tougher nuclear-reactor regulations.  While the NRC didn’t specify the plants that need to take
further actions, it released some of the inspection reports on
its website late yesterday.  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s Diablo Canyon nuclear plant, located about 160
miles (257 kilometers) northwest of  Los Angeles , may have
problems simultaneously pumping emergency cooling water to both
its reactors under extreme conditions, according to the report
on its inspection.  Firefighting Systems  Some of the plant’s firefighting systems, which could be
used to douse spent-fuel pools and reactors with water, may not
survive a powerful earthquake, according to the report. The
company also needs to study whether “high radiation fields”
during a major disaster could cut off its workers from parts of
the plant, the NRC said.  Paul Flake, a PG&E spokesman, said the problems the NRC
identified at Diablo Canyon “have all been addressed” and
“our safety performance is highly regulated.”  Inspections at  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point plant, about 24
miles north of  New York City , found “equipment was functional
to support execution of all strategies” during a major
disaster, the NRC said. Still, Entergy is weighing whether it
needs additional equipment to make sure radioactive fuel rods
are kept cool after a disaster, such as an earthquake, according
to the inspection report.  ‘Not Susceptible’  While the Indian Point plant is “not susceptible” to the
kind of disaster that struck the Fukushima plant, “we plan and
prepare as though we are,” said Jerry Nappi, a spokesman for
Entergy. The plant’s owner will “work with the NRC to make any
needed enhancements,” he said.  The agency said it will make sure problems are fixed and
plans to release a summary of the reports next week. Scott Burnell, an NRC spokesman, told reporters May 12 that the agency
discovered flaws at fewer than a third of U.S. reactors.  Japan’s nuclear crisis was triggered when the magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami destroyed  power lines  and flooded
emergency diesel generators at the Fukushima plant.  Without electricity to run cooling systems, fuel rods in
four of the plant’s six reactor buildings overheated in the
worst nuclear incident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. Rods
in the No. 1 reactor are fully exposed, the utility said May 12,
setting back plans to resolve the crisis.  The NRC wasn’t able to complete reviews of internal
flooding barriers at  Scana Corp. (SCG) ’s Summer nuclear station,
located 26 miles northwest of Columbia,  South Carolina , because
the licensee’s evaluations weren’t finished, the agency said in
the reports. The utility had documented results showing several
doors weren’t watertight. The company said some leakage is
acceptable.  High Winds  Scana also found that some equipment may not withstand an
earthquake, including a berm intended to provide shoreline
protection against events such as high winds, the NRC said.  At  Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre nuclear station, about
46 miles southeast of  Long Beach ,  California , the company found
some manholes weren’t sealed properly, which could lead to
flooding in one of the plant’s electric cable tunnels.  Edison didn’t immediately respond to a message left on a
media line. Eric Boomhower, a Scana spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message and e-mail seeking
comment after regular business hours.  U.S. rules for bringing nuclear-reactor meltdowns under
control must be tightened by giving regulators more power to
shape response plans, an official of the Union of Concerned
Scientists said at a hearing of the House Science Committee.  Voluntary Procedures  While NRC inspectors can force a power company to change
some disaster procedures, others are voluntary,  David Lochbaum ,
nuclear safety director for the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
group, said yesterday at the hearing.  The NRC’s requirements, combined with measures developed by
power companies, will protect the public from harmful radiation
if “something serious” went “awry at a plant site,” Steve Kerekes, a spokesman for the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a
Washington-based trade group, said in an e-mail yesterday. It’s
too soon say whether the NRC will require extra regulations
based on the  Japan  nuclear crisis, Kerekes said.  The NRC is still trying to identify lessons from the
Fukushima disaster, NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said May 12.
It’s likely “we’ll be changing the way we do business and the
way the industry does business in this country” because of
Japan’s nuclear crisis, Jaczko said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  