-- 
Obama Taking Steps Aimed at Boosting Domestic Oil Output

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-05-14T13:34:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/obama-taking-steps-aimed-at-increasing-domestic-oil-production.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said his
administration will begin stimulating domestic oil production to
blunt rising gasoline prices with measures including encouraging
drilling in  Alaska  and giving oil companies more time to comply
with safety regulations.  “Without a doubt, one of the biggest burdens over the last
few months has been the price of gasoline,” Obama said in his
weekly address on the radio and Internet. “And while there are
no quick fixes to the problem, there are a few steps we should
take that make good sense.”  Obama said the government will begin conducting annual
lease sales for drilling in Alaska, make faster evaluations of
oil and gas resources in the Atlantic Ocean, and create new
incentives to develop unused leases.  The administration also is extending drilling leases in the
 Gulf of Mexico  by one year and some in Alaska by at least a year
to allow more time for companies to comply with safety standards
implemented last year’s  oil spill . A new team is also being
created to accelerate Alaskan permits.  “We should increase safe and responsible oil production
here at home,” Obama said.  Oil prices  have risen more than 30 percent in the past 12
months, and the national average price for a gallon of gasoline
was $3.982 yesterday, according to the American Automobile
Association, up from $2.890 a year earlier.  Oil Industry Tax  Rising oil prices have led to billions of dollars of
profits for oil companies. Congressional Democrats have proposed
increasing oil company taxes by $2 billion a year over the next
decade.  Obama called on Republicans and Democrats in Congress to
terminate as much as $4 billion in “taxpayer subsidies”  oil
companies  receive each year.  “The American people shouldn’t be subsidizing oil
companies at a time when they’re making near-record profits,”
Obama said.  In today’s Republican address, Representative Martha Roby
of  Alabama  touted measures passed by the U.S. House to increase
domestic energy production and spur economic growth.  Roby said the federal  budget deficit  is harming economic
growth by creating uncertainty for businesses and consumers. To
balance the budget, she said everything must be considered
except tax increases.  “We cannot tax the same people we expect to create jobs,”
she said. “That is a recipe for keeping people out of work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  