-- 
Mississippi River Floodgate to Open, Inundating Cajun Area

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-14T14:39:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/morganza-spillway-expected-to-open-today-flooding-louisiana-cajun-country.html
The opening of  Louisiana ’s Morganza
floodway today may send enough water to fill a football field 10
feet deep every second across the heart of Cajun country,
eventually filling an area almost as large as  Connecticut .  Major General Michael Walsh, president of the Mississippi
River Commission, has told Col. Edward Fleming to open the
spillway when the river’s flow reaches 1.5 million cubic feet
per second at Louisiana’s  Red River Landing , the U.S.  Army Corps 
of Engineers said in a statement. The flow reached that
threshold this morning, according to the weather service.  “We have not opened it yet,” said Ken Holder, corps
spokesman.  The spillway, built in 1954, can release 600,000 cubic feet
of water per second into central Louisiana and the Atchafalaya
River at maximum capacity, taking pressure off the  Mississippi 
and the cities downstream, according to the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers. Corps inundation maps assume the spillway operating
at 50 percent of capacity.  The corps expects to release 150,000 cubic feet per second
from the Morganza, which is 310 river miles above New Orleans.
The opening of the Morganza is expected to drop crests on the
Mississippi River from 1 to 2 feet, according to the  National
Weather Service .  Wall of Water  Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal said yesterday that the
Morganza would be opened gradually and wouldn’t result in a wall
of water running the length of the state to  Morgan City , 70
miles west of New Orleans, where the Atchafalaya empties into
the  Gulf of Mexico . He stressed the need for residents to move
quickly.  “Now is the time to take action,” Jindal said at a press
conference. “We wanted to give people as much advance notice as
we can.”  About 2,500 people and 2,000 structures are within the
spillway and another 22,500 and 11,000 buildings are vulnerable
to flooding when the waters rise, according to Jindal’s office.  When the Morganza Spillway is opened, an estimated 15,000
acres of farmland will be initially underwater in the south-
central part of Louisiana along the  Mississippi River , Kyle
McCann, a spokesman at Louisiana Farm Bureau Federation.  Opening the spillway will also affect Louisiana’s energy
production. Inside the threatened area are 2,264 wells that
produce 19,278 barrels of crude oil a day, about 10 percent of
Louisiana’s onshore total.  Oil, Gas Production  About 252.6 million cubic feet a day of gas is produced in
the corps’ potential inundation area, Anna Dearmon, a
spokeswoman for the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources,
said in an e-mail. She said there is no estimate of how much of
this production would be affected.  “We are building earthen, sandbag and Hesco basket levees
in Amelia,” said Paul Naquin, St. Mary Parish president, based
in Franklin, Louisiana. “In five days we should be OK. We are
working 24 hours a day trying to beat the clock.”  A Hesco basket is a container that can be filled with dirt
to build a temporary levee.  Naquin said there is also a plan to sink a barge in a bayou
to slow down the rising water.  Exxon Dock  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  shut river dock operations at the
refinery in  Baton Rouge  today after the waters of Mississippi
River flooded the facility, Kevin Allexon, a company spokesman
said. The plant, second-largest in the U.S. after Exxon’s
refinery in Baytown,  Texas , remains in production and can
process 525,000 barrels of oil a day, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  National Guard troops and local sheriffs would start going
door-to-door in the affected areas warning residents to flee,
Jindal said. It would take the water three days to travel the
length of the floodway from Morganza to Morgan City.  A voluntary evacuation notice has been issued for Melville,
Krotz Springs and Three Mile Lake, according to the St. Landry
Parish government. Automated phone messages were being sent to
people living in the area.  For weeks, the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, swollen by
heavy rain and melted snow, have been inundating cities and
towns, flooding cropland and disrupting shipping. The Ohio rose
to a record 61.72 feet (18.8 meters) in Cairo,  Illinois , before
joining the Mississippi there.  Record Crest  Without the Morganza being opened, the Mississippi was
expected to crest at 47.5 feet in Baton Rouge on May 22 and 19.5
feet in  New Orleans  on May 23, according to the weather service.
The estimated crests with the spillway open are now 45.5 to 46.5
feet in Baton Rouge and 17 feet in New Orleans.  The record crest in Baton Rouge was 47.2 feet in 1927 and
21.27 feet in New Orleans in 1922, according to the weather
service.  The flooding in  Tennessee  has affected 650,000 acres of
cropland in the western part of the state, including 86,000
acres of wheat, said Lee Maddox, a spokesman for the Tennessee
Farm Bureau, citing numbers from the state’s farm service
agency, a unit of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Farmers
were just getting ready to harvest the wheat, and it’s probably
destroyed now, Maddox said.  The Mississippi River system was engineered to absorb a
major flood while maintaining flow rates through Baton Rouge and
New Orleans to ensure the integrity of levees, according to the
corps. The corps wants to limit flow to 1.5 million cubic feet
per second at Baton Rouge and 1.25 million at New Orleans, said
Ken Holder, a spokesman.  Spillway Use  When the river flows exceed that, the system is designed to
have water diverted elsewhere by using the Morganza or the
Bonnet Carre spillway outside New Orleans, he said.  Jindal said the corps has asked the State Police to shut
the roadway over the Morganza down at 10 a.m. The structure also
carries a  Kansas City Southern (KSU)  railroad line.  Opening the Morganza may lower the river’s crest in Baton
Rouge by as little as a foot, said Bryan Harmon, the city’s
deputy public works director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 