-- 
Pakistan Rejects Challenges to Its Sovereignty in Fight Against Terrorism

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 
2011-05-16T04:07:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/pakistan-may-withdraw-nato-s-afghan-transit-facility-citing-drone-attacks.html
Pakistan ’s Interior Minister Rehman Malik said anti-terrorist operations must respect the country’s
sovereignty as lawmakers condemned the U.S. raid that killed al-
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden and missile attacks in tribal areas.  “The U.S. should listen to the voice of the people of
Pakistan and stop drone attacks,” Malik  said  in Karachi,
according to the state-run  Associated Press  of Pakistan. “We
have to work together, even with our neighbors. Aggression in
any shape will not be tolerated.”  Malik spoke after Pakistan’s upper and lower houses of
Parliament passed a resolution May 14 asking the government to
consider ending a transit route used by the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization to supply forces in  Afghanistan , and to
review the terms of engagement with the U.S. over the fight
against terrorism.  President  Barack Obama ’s decision not to inform Pakistan
about the May 2 raid against bin Laden has strained ties between
the countries. Pakistan’s military has been criticized by
politicians, media and the public for failing to detect either
bin Laden or the U.S. commando force that killed him as he hid
in Abbottabad 48 kilometers (30 miles) from the capital,
Islamabad.  Pakistan’s army chief, Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, told visiting
U.S. Senator  John Kerry  that there were “intense feelings” in
the military over the raid that killed bin Laden in Abbottabad,
according to an army statement today.  Clinton Call  Separately, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called
President Asif Ali Zardari last night, Zardari’s office said in
a statement. While Zardari told Clinton of the concerns
expressed by members of Pakistan’s Parliament, the two agreed to
“resolve issues amicably and move forward,” the statement said.  Obama said on CBS television on May 8 that the Pakistani
government must investigate whether any of its officials helped
shelter the al-Qaeda leader.  Allegations against the military “are based on
miscommunication” and the army is doing a good job serving the
nation, Malik said, according to APP. “Pakistan is itself a
victim of terrorism, we lost over 30,000 people, including 5,000
personnel of the Army and Frontier Corps, in operations against
terrorists, miscreants and militants.”  Roadside Bomb  At least six people were killed when a roadside bomb
exploded May 14 near a passenger bus in Kharian, a garrison town
about 125 kilometers (75 miles) southeast of the capital,
Islamabad, the Dawn newspaper reported, citing police.  Pakistan’s Taliban on May 13 carried out its deadliest
bombing this year, killing 80 cadets in the northwest in an
attack it said was part of a campaign to avenge the death of bin
Laden.  A missile strike by an unmanned U.S. spy plane killed five
people in Pakistan’s tribal area of North Waziristan three days
ago, Aaj Television reported.  The U.S. unilateral action in Abbottabad and continued
drone attacks are “unacceptable” and must be stopped forthwith,
the lawmakers said in their statement. The government will be
obliged to “consider taking necessary steps, including
withdrawal of transit facility” allowed to NATO forces if such
missions don’t cease, they said.  Blocked Supplies  Pakistan in September blocked the passage of supplies for
NATO troops fighting in Afghanistan after an air strike killed
three Pakistani soldiers. Half of all war supplies to
Afghanistan pass through Pakistan, according to the U.S.
military’s Transportation Command, at a rate of 580 truckloads
per day.  The lawmakers also asked the government “to revisit and
review its terms of engagement with the U.S., with a view to
ensuring that Pakistan’s national interests are fully
respected,” according to the statement.  Pakistan is a main U.S. ally in the fight against al-Qaeda-
linked militants, and the Obama administration is pressing it to
cooperate more fully in the war against the Taliban in
neighboring Afghanistan.  Pakistan has received $14.6 billion in economic and
military assistance from the U.S. since 2005 to help revive
growth and assist allied forces fighting Taliban and al-Qaeda
militants.  Zardari’s cooperation with Obama hasn’t been popular with
Pakistanis, particularly his tolerance of U.S. drone missile
attacks on tribal areas on the Pakistani side of the border.  Pakistan’s military offensives against the Taliban and
allied guerrillas have sparked retaliatory attacks in cities
nationwide that killed  more than 2,000  civilians and security
personnel last year, according to the South Asian terrorism
database of the New Delhi-based  Institute for Conflict
Management .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  