-- 
Pound Declines as Traders Scale Back Interest-Rate Bets on Growth Concern

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-05-14T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/pound-declines-as-traders-scale-back-interest-rate-bets-on-growth-concern.html
The pound weakened against most of
its major peers this week as signs the U.K. economic recovery is
faltering heightened speculation that the  Bank of England  won’t
raise  interest rates  anytime soon.  Sterling depreciated more than 1 percent against the dollar
and also fell versus the yen. Risks to economic growth remain
“skewed to the downside,” the central bank said in its
quarterly inflation report. Price growth may quicken to 5
percent this year, it said. Statistics this week also showed
U.K. industrial and manufacturing production increased by less
than economist forecasts. Traders scaled back bets on when
policy makers will boost borrowing costs.  “We’re starting to see some of the effects of the
government spending cuts feed through to the real economy and
that’s causing rate hike expectations to be pushed back,” said
 Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG in  London . “The
pound has very much moved in tandem with rate expectations. It’s
looking a bit vulnerable now.”  The pound lost 1.2 percent in the five days to $1.6173 as
of 5:21 p.m. yesterday in London, its second consecutive weekly
decline. Sterling strengthened 0.4 percent against the euro in
the period, trading at 87.07 pence. The U.K. currency
depreciated 1.2 percent versus the yen to 130.42.  Growth is slowing as Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
coalition government is seeking to reduce a fiscal deficit of
almost 10 percent of gross domestic product by raising taxes and
cutting public spending, the deepest cuts since World War II.
The Bank of England left its key rate unchanged at 0.5 percent
on May 5, three days after Governor  Mervyn King  said the
economic effect of raising borrowing costs would be “severe.”  Rate Bets  Money markets pushed back expectations for a 25 basis-point
increase in the U.K.’s benchmark rate to January in the week,
Tullett Prebon Plc sterling overnight interbank average forwards
data show. At the start of the week the data favored a quarter-
point rise in the main rate by December, compared with March
predictions for an increase as early as this month.  The Bank of England will release the minutes from its May 5
meeting on May 18.  U.K. government bonds rose, with the yield on the 10-year
gilt falling two basis points in the week to 3.37 percent. The
two-year yield slipped three basis points to 0.99 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  