-- 
Treasuries Drop Amid Mixed Economic Data, $72 Billion Note and Bond Sales

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-05-14T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/treasuries-drop-amid-mixed-economic-data-72-billion-note-and-bond-sales.html
Treasuries fell for the first time in
five weeks as mixed economic data and a rebound in commodities
cooled demand for the safety of  U.S. debt .  U.S. 10-year note yields touched the lowest since December
yesterday on speculation that inflation may have peaked after
the Labor Department reported the  consumer price index  rose 0.4
percent in April, matching economists’ forecast. The U.S. sold
$72 billion in notes and bonds this week and will auction $11
billion in Treasury Inflation Protected Securities next week.
The  Federal Reserve  will release minutes of last month’s policy
meeting on May 18.  “Yields being low is because the economy is not generating
enough forward momentum to suggest rising commodity prices will
be passed through the underlying rate of inflation,” said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist in New York at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc. “There’s a lot of mixed data and mixed signals and it’s
creating a very choppy trading environment.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose two basis points to 3.17
percent in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices,
from 3.15 percent on May 6. The yield yesterday reached 3.13
percent, the least since Dec. 8. It touched a 2011 high of 3.77
percent in February.  Yield Data  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the break-
even rate, narrowed yesterday to 2.39 percentage points from
2.67 percentage points on April 11, which was the widest in
three years.  “As we look back at the week and forward to the next, one
begins to get the feeling that the  U.S. economy  is not about to
run away from anyone,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income
capital markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , wrote yesterday in a note to clients. “Some
of the major issues like housing and jobs are slow to get
better.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials moved
up by 1.4 percent this week after dropping 11 percent last week.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index trimmed weekly gains, dropping
by 0.8 percent yesterday. The Index dropped 1.1 percent this
month through May 12 as gauges of energy and raw-materials
producers slumped with metal and oil prices.  Jobs Trend  A report on May 12 showed the number of Americans filing
first-time claims for unemployment insurance payments fell less
than forecast last week, indicating recovery in the labor market
is taking time to accelerate. Applications for jobless benefits
decreased 44,000 in the week ended May 7 to 434,000, Labor
Department figures showed. Economists forecast 430,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  A separate report on May 12 showed sales at U.S. retailers
rose in April and the March gain was revised higher, sending
Treasury yields higher that day.  “The consumer is still in the game,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New
York. “It’s not telling you the consumer is retrenching or
buying everything off the shelf.”  Off the Shelf  Sales at U.S. retailers April reflected gains at service
stations and grocery stores as fuel and food prices climbed.  The 0.5 percent increase was the smallest since July and
followed a 0.9 percent March gain that was more than double the
previous estimate, Commerce Department figures showed in
Washington. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 0.6 percent rise. Sales excluding
automobiles and gasoline increased 0.2 percent.  The consumer price index increased 0.4 percent, matching
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
following a 0.5 percent advance in March, figures from the Labor
Department showed in  Washington . Excluding volatile food and
energy, the core gauge rose 0.2 percent, also as projected.  “The inflation data was not great, but not too bad,” said
 Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital
Markets America Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed. “Most people think the economy is
showing signs of life, but it’s also showing signs of troubles.
It’s very mixed.”  The Fed has held its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.
Policy makers affirmed at their April 27 meeting the plan to buy
Treasuries through June in an effort to foster faster economic
growth and jobs expansion.  The U.S. sold $32 billion in three-year notes, $24 billion
in 10-year debt and $16 billion in 30-year bonds this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  