-- 
Singapore Ex-Prime Ministers Lee Kuan Yew, Goh Chok Tong to Leave Cabinet

-- B y   L i n u s   C h u a   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-05-14T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/singapore-ex-prime-ministers-lee-kuan-yew-goh-chok-tong-to-leave-cabinet.html
Lee Kuan Yew  and Goh Chok Tong,
Singapore’s first two prime ministers, will leave the cabinet to
make way for new leaders after the ruling party retained power
with the smallest margin of popular votes since independence.  “The time has come for a younger generation to carry
Singapore forward in a more difficult and complex situation,”
they said in a joint e-mailed statement yesterday. “After a
watershed general election, we have decided to leave the cabinet
and have a completely younger team of ministers to connect to
and engage with this young generation in shaping the future of
our Singapore.”  The  People’s Action Party , which has ruled Singapore since
before independence, won 81 out of 87 parliamentary seats and
60.1 percent of the popular vote in the May 7 polls. The best-
ever showing by the opposition prompted Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong to pledge his party will change the way it rules. The
elder Lee, who’s the father of current premier, holds the title
of minister mentor, has been a cabinet member for more than five
decades and is 87. Goh, 69, is senior minister.  “Perhaps it’s time to turn the page and turn the
leadership over to the next generation,” said  David Cohen , an
economist at Action Economics in Singapore. “The move signals
that politics in Singapore is evolving and I think most people
would view this as a positive evolution.”  The elder Lee was Singapore’s prime minister when it gained
independence in 1965 and handed over to Goh in 1990. The younger
Lee took over from Goh in 2004, who stayed in the cabinet as the
senior minister.  Election Aftermath  Prime Minister Lee, 59, faces pressure to be more
responsive to criticism of government policies. He said his
party will engage the population more in decision-making after
the election. A reduced monopoly on political discourse may mean
increased attention to calls for reining in housing costs and
tightening immigration policies that boosted the island’s
population by about a fifth since 2005.  The PAP’s diminishing vote signaled that the success of the
party in nation-building is less of a lure to younger voters.
The elder Lee, a Cambridge University-trained lawyer, was
returned to office in last week’s election after his
constituency was the only one that went uncontested.  Foreign Minister George Yeo, a two-decade veteran of the
ruling party, was the biggest casualty in the elections as the
opposition captured its first-ever multiple-seat district. Lim
Hwee Hua, Singapore’s first woman minister who helps oversee the
finance and transport ministries, also lost last week.  Founding Father  Lee and his party built Singapore, an island with no
natural resources, into a Southeast Asian manufacturing and
financial hub with a focus on education, homeownership, business
friendliness and strict laws to boost citizens’ wealth.
Singapore has seen a 41-fold jump in gross domestic product
since independence.  The island that former economic adviser Albert Winsemius
once said was considered a “poor little market in a dark corner
of  Asia ” is now ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place
to do business, has the world’s second-busiest container port,
and boasts the highest proportion of millionaire households,
according to the  Boston Consulting Group .  Lee, who had a heart pacemaker implanted in 2008 after
suffering from an irregular heartbeat, lost his wife Kwa Geok Choo in October. Kwa, who was 89, had suffered a stroke two
years earlier.  Ministerial Salaries  Singapore’s ministers are among the world’s highest paid,
earning millions of dollars annually as the government
benchmarks their wages against salaries of chief executive
officers and other top earners in the country. The government
says such earnings prevent corruption and help attract and
retain talent.  Opposition parties in this month’s elections decried the
amount of ministerial compensation and compared their wages to
those of ordinary Singaporeans who are facing rising cost of
living and depressed wages as a result of an influx of foreign
workers.  Prime Minister Lee last announced changes to his cabinet in
October.  “The prime minister and his team of younger leaders should
have a fresh clean slate,” the elder Lee and Goh said in
yesterday’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Linus Chua in Singapore at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  