-- 
Sony Resumes PlayStation Network in U.S., Europe

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-05-15T05:52:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/sony-resumes-partial-operation-of-its-playstation-network-in-u-s-europe.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  has resumed partial
operation of its PlayStation Network and Qriocity entertainment
services in the U.S. and  Europe  after more than three weeks, the
company said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News.  Restored operations include online gaming, chat service and
music downloads. Sony plans to restart service in  Asia  soon, it
said in the statement.  The Tokyo-based maker of PlayStation game consoles
suspended the services on April 20 after an attack by hackers.
The intrusion led to a breach of data on more than 100 million
users, the second-biggest online theft of personal information.
Frustration swelled among players of online games after Sony
failed to deliver on a May 1 pledge to put the network back into
service within a week.  Sony boosted security for PlayStation Network and Qriocity
by increasing the number of firewalls between servers and adding
software to monitor intrusions and system vulnerabilities, it
said. The company also appointed Fumiaki Sakai to the newly
created post of chief information security officer, it said.  The network is being restored in phases by region, and
some U.S. states are still without services, Sony said. It will
likely take “a bit more time” to turn on services nationwide
and information on roll-out plans will be updated on the
 PlayStation blog , the company said.  Password Change  Phased recovery has also started in  South America , the
Middle East,  New Zealand  and  Australia , according to Satoshi Fukuoka, a Tokyo-based spokesman. Users need to change their
passwords and go through a mandatory system update, he said.  Sony Online Entertainment, the San Diego-based unit
offering games played on personal computers, also resumed some
services, Sony said today.  Sony said it plans to restore full operation of online
services including purchases of games and video content by the
end of May.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Web Services cloud-computing unit was
used by hackers in last month’s attack against  Sony Corp. (SNE) ’s
online entertainment systems, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Hacker Alias  Hackers using an alias signed up to rent a server through
Amazon’s EC2 service and launched the attack from there, said
the person, who requested anonymity because the information is
confidential. The account has been shut down, the person said.  Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Seattle-based Amazon,
declined to comment. Amazon didn’t respond to a request to speak
with Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos . Cloud security is
Amazon’s top priority, Bezos said at an event sponsored by
Consumer Reports magazine last week.  Sony offered customers a free year of identify-theft
protection after the attack. Thieves may have stolen credit-card,
debit records and other personal information from customers of
Sony Online Entertainment, a third service. The New York
Attorney General’s office has subpoenaed Sony, according to a
person familiar with the probe.  Invasions Cost  Network security breaches are part of a trend that saw the
costs of such invasions jump 48 percent, to an average of $318
per compromised record last year, according to a March report by
the Ponemon Institute.  Malicious attacks in the U.S. are on the rise. They climbed
7 percentage points in 2010, with data breaches costing U.S.
businesses an average of $7.2 million per incident, according to
the Ponemon Institute report. The study found that about 85
percent of all U.S. companies have experienced one or more
attacks.  The use of a hijacked or rented server to launch attacks is
typical for sophisticated hackers. The proliferation of server
farms around the globe has made such misdirection easier, said
E.J. Hilbert, president of the security company Online
Intelligence and a former FBI cyber-crime investigator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  