-- 
India’s Suzlon Energy Posts Quarterly Profit for First Time Since End 2009

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-14T15:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/suzlon-energy-returns-to-profit-for-first-time-since-end-2009.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s largest
wind-turbine maker, posted a quarterly profit for the first time
since December 2009 on strong orders and better cost controls.  Net income for the group in the three months ended March 31
was 4.3 billion rupees ($96 million) compared with a 1.9
billion-rupee loss a year earlier, the Ahmedabad-based company
said today in an e-mailed statement. The average estimate of 12
analysts polled by Bloomberg was a profit of 877 million rupees.  The company expects sales to rise as much as 45 percent to
260 billion rupees in the year ending March 31, 2012, Chief
Financial Officer  Robin Banerjee  said by phone after the
announcement. Revenue for the quarter surged 20 percent to 73
billion rupees with growth coming from  India ,  Canada  and
offshore wind projects, he said.  “It’s mostly good news,” Banerjee said. “Sales are up
and our operating expenses, or fixed costs, are down by 20
percent although volumes are higher,” as management took steps
to be more disciplined about the company’s expenses, he said.  A change in the way Suzlon accounts for revenue from its
German unit  Repower Systems AG (RPW)  boosted the group’s sales by 9.8
billion rupees and net profit after tax by 1 billion rupees in
the quarter, according to the statement.  The two companies follow different accounting methods with
Suzlon recognizing revenue only when a project is finished,
while Repower records it as a percentage of the project’s
completion, Banerjee said. Suzlon stopped adjusting Repower’s
numbers to match its own method on the advice of German and
Indian auditors, he said.  Order Book  Suzlon’s order book grew 60 percent on year to 301 billion
rupees, it said. Working capital fell by 11 billion rupees in
the last year, Banerjee said.  The world’s sixth-largest manufacturer of  wind turbines  may
be headed for a “turnaround,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch
analyst Bharat Parekh said in a note last month.  Suzlon is under pressure to generate cash by next year,
when loan repayments start and $389 million in convertible bonds
mature. Net debt has fallen by 6 billion rupees in the last year
helping the company’s debt-to-equity ratio drop to 1.36 from
1.5, Banerjee said.  Suzlon shares declined 3.5 percent this year compared with
a 9.6 percent fall in the benchmark Sensitive Index of the
Bombay Stock Exchange. The stock advanced 3.5 percent to 52.8
rupees yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 