-- 
Syrian Forces Fire On Protests as NATO Jets Strike Targets Around Tripoli

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-05-14T21:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/syrian-forces-fire-on-protests-as-nato-jets-strike-targets-around-tripoli.html
Syrian security forces attacked
protesters who had taken to the streets by the thousands,
killing at least three people and chasing hundreds of others
into neighboring Lebanon, as NATO jets struck targets in  Libya ’s
capital of Tripoli.  Yemeni forces killed at least one protester and injured
dozens more in the city of Taaz yesterday, according to a doctor
and activist, and six Yemeni security personnel were killed in
an attack by suspected al-Qaeda militants in Radaa, the Ministry
of Defense reported. In the U.S., three U.S. citizens, including
two imams in  Florida , were among six people indicted for
conspiring to aid the Pakistani Taliban in attacks against
Pakistani and U.S. interests in  South Asia .  Syrian security forces killed at least a dozen people over
the past two days as nationwide protests defied mass arrests
amid an intensifying crackdown on dissent that began about two
months ago.  At least three people were killed yesterday in the town of
Tall Kalakh, the New York Times reported. The unrest there
caused about 500 Syrians to flee across the nearby border into
Lebanon, Ammar Qurabi, the head of the National Organization for
Human Rights, said in a telephone interview.  Security forces killed four protesters in the central city
of Homs on May 13, two in the southern city of Daraa and three
in the suburbs of the capital, Damascus. The government
continued to make widespread arrests and to conduct house-to-
house searches, Qurabi and Mahmoud Merhi of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said.  Suppression Continues  The suppression of pro-democracy protests in Syria began in
mid-March after popular revolts ousted longtime leaders in Egypt
and  Tunisia . The uprising drew initial pledges of reform from
President Bashar al-Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place
since 1963 and named a new government. He hasn’t repeated the
assurances in recent weeks as security forces stepped up their
assaults.  More than 800 demonstrators have been killed since the
uprising began, according to Qurabi and Merhi, who have compiled
a list of the names of victims. As many as 10,000 people have
been detained, they said. Most foreign journalists have been
banned from Syria and the government has restricted media
access.  The army and security authorities have said they are
pursuing “terrorist elements.” They have aired footage on
state television of what they said were confiscated arms and
ammunition and confessions of alleged members of terrorist or
extremist groups.  The Interior Ministry said 5,077 people “involved in riot
acts” have surrendered under an amnesty that expires today, the
state-run Syrian Arab News Agency  reported.   Humanitarian Review  Assad has rejected United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon’s request to send a humanitarian assessment team to  Syria 
and hasn’t responded to the UN  Human Rights Council ’s call for a
fact-finding mission. Assad agreed May 4 to allow UN aid workers
into the country, and then reneged on that pledge, according to
 Martin Nesirky ,  UN spokesman.  In Libya, NATO war jets yesterday struck the Aziziya
neighborhood in Tripoli, the area of leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
compound, state TV said. There were no reports of damage or
casualties.  Before those latest attacks, Qaddafi said he survived
recent NATO bombings and is now in a place “you can’t reach and
where you can’t kill me.”  Qaddafi Interview  State television on May 13 presented what it said was a
telephone interview with Qaddafi, hours after Italian Foreign
Minister  Franco Frattini  said Qaddafi may have been wounded. The
Libyan leader thanked his followers for their concern after
Frattini’s remarks as he denounced NATO as the “cowardly
crusader.”  “Even if you kill the body, you will not be able to kill
the soul that lives in the hearts of millions,” he said.  In Washington, President  Barack Obama  met on May 13 with
NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen. Military
operations will continue “as long as the Qaddafi regime
continues to attack its own population,” they said in a
statement released by the White House.  Arrest Warrants  Frattini said Qaddafi is likely to be named in an
international arrest warrant this week. The action by the
prosecutor of the  International Criminal Court  would limit
Qaddafi’s options if he seeks refuge in another country.  Prosecutor  Luis Moreno-Ocampo  said in an e-mailed statement
that tomorrow he will request arrest warrants for three Libyan
individuals suspected of murder and persecution. He didn’t name
them.  NATO extended its bombardment of Qaddafi’s forces and said
its jets have “significantly” hindered the Libyan leader’s
ability to attack civilians in recent days.  “We have taken out a significant part of Qaddafi’s war
machine,” NATO spokeswoman Carmen Romero told reporters May 13
in Brussels. “We can see the effect across Libya.”  The Libyan government said 11 Muslim clerics were killed
during a NATO airstrike on May 13 in the eastern oil town of
Brega, the  Associated Press  reported. NATO said it hit a command
and control center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  