-- 
Wallace McCain, Billionaire Founder of Maple Leaf Foods, Dies at Age of 81

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-14T19:24:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/wallace-mccain-billionaire-founder-of-maple-leaf-foods-dies-at-age-of-81.html
Wallace McCain, the Canadian
billionaire who co-founded one of the world’s biggest frozen-
food companies, has died at 81 of pancreatic cancer.  McCain moved to  Maple Leaf Foods Inc. (MFI)  in 1995 after a feud
with his brother Harrison over McCain Foods Ltd., a company they
founded in 1956 in a rural part of  New Brunswick . Wallace McCain
was chairman of Maple Leaf Foods, which announced his death
today.  “Wallace was a local hero, a national champion and a
global leader,” former New Brunswick Premier and Toronto-
Dominion Bank Deputy Chairman Frank McKenna said in a statement
today. “Along with his brother Harrison, he transformed
Florenceville, a small town in New Brunswick, into the head
office of one of the world’s most successful food companies.”  Maple Leaf Foods is Canada’s largest bakery and prepared
meats company, and Wallace’s son Michael is the chief executive
officer. The feud between the brothers was sparked by Wallace’s
wish to allow Michael to succeed them at the head of McCain
Foods. Harrison, who died in 2004, wanted an outside manager.  McCain Foods is one of the world’s largest processors of
frozen foods, including French fries for customers such as
McDonald’s Corp., pizza and juices. The closely held company
says its sales exceed C$6 billion ($6.2 billion) a year in 160
countries.  Wallace McCain was  listed  as  Canada ’s 19th richest person
or family in 2010 by Canadian Business magazine, with an
estimated fortune of C$2.29 billion. His brother Harrison and
family were the 15th richest at C$2.59 billion.  Wallace McCain is survived by his wife Margaret, four
children and nine grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  