-- 
Three U.S. Citizens Among Six Charged With Supporting Taliban in Pakistan

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-05-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/two-imams-are-among-six-charged-by-u-s-for-supporting-taliban-in-pakistan.html
Two Americans of Pakistani descent
face a court date tomorrow for allegedly providing “material
support” to the Pakistani Taliban. A third U.S. citizen and
three other people also were indicted in the case.  Three of those indicted, including two South  Florida  imams,
were arrested yesterday in the U.S., the Justice Department said
yesterday in a  statement . The others are at large in Pakistan.
All are charged with supporting a conspiracy to murder, maim and
kidnap persons overseas as well as aiding the Pakistani Taliban,
which has vowed to retaliate against the U.S. for killing al-
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  Named in the indictment are Hafiz Muhammed Sher Ali Khan,
76, of Miami; two of his sons, Irfan Khan, 37, of Miami, and
Izhar Khan, 24, of North Lauderdale, Florida, also U.S.
citizens; and Ali Rehman, Alam Zeb, and Amina Khan. All are
originally from Pakistan, the Justice Department said.  “Despite being an imam, or spiritual leader, Hafiz Khan
was by no means a man of peace,” U.S. Attorney Wilfredo A.
Ferrer of the  Southern District of Florida  said in the
statement. “Instead, he acted with others to support terrorists
to further acts of murder, kidnapping and maiming.”  Hafiz and Izhar Khan, who is also an imam, were arrested in
South Florida while Irfan Khan was picked up in  Los Angeles ,
according to the statement. Amina Khan is Hafiz Khan’s daughter
and Zeb is her son, the government said.  Court Appearances Set  Hafiz and Izhar Khan are scheduled to appear tomorrow in
federal court in Miami. Irfan Khan is expected to make his
initial court appearance in Los Angeles.  Each of the defendants was charged with at least three
counts, and each count could lead to 15 years in prison.  The Miami Herald reported yesterday that Hafiz Khan is the
leader of the oldest mosque in that city. The  Justice Department 
identified it as the Miami Mosque, also known as the Flagler
Mosque. Izhar Khan is an imam at the Jamaat Al-Mu’mineen Mosque
in Margate, Florida, the department said, adding that the
mosques themselves aren’t accused of wrongdoing.  Ikram Khan, another son of Hafiz Khan and a Miami taxi
driver, told the newspaper that his father was too old and sick
to be involved in such events. He said the family supports the
U.S., where they have lived since 1994.  “None of my family supports the Taliban,” he said,
according to the Herald.  Financial Transactions  The FBI began the investigation based on a review of
financial transactions, according to the Justice Department.  The indictment lists repeated dealings from the U.S. to
 Pakistan  and alleges that Hafiz Khan and the others were
attempting to finance gun purchases for the Pakistani Taliban.
It also describes conversations in which Hafiz Khan allegedly
wished for the deaths of Americans and called for a violent
revolution in Pakistan.  The Pakistani Taliban has been involved in several attacks
on U.S. targets in  South Asia . The group claimed responsibility
for bombings on May 13 that killed 80 people at a paramilitary
police academy in northwestern Pakistan. It said an attack on
the U.S. is next, as part of its attempts to avenge bin Laden’s
death.  The U.S. State Department declared the group a foreign
terrorist organization on Aug. 12, 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rubin12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Enoch 
 denoch@bloomberg.net  