-- 
Wolves, Blackpool Win to Boost Premier League Survival Chances

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-14T15:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/wolves-blackpool-win-to-boost-premier-league-survival-chances.html
Wolverhampton Wanderers and Blackpool
each won to help their chances of remaining in English socer’s
Premier League.  Wolves won 3-1 at Sunderland to remain above the three
teams at the bottom of the standings that will be relegated to
the second division. Blackpool stay in the relegation zone with
a 4-3 win over Bolton, but pulled even on points with Birmingham
just above it.  Blackburn advanced its case for top-flight survival with a
1-1 draw against  Manchester United  that gave the Red Devils a
record 19th English league title. West Brom beat Everton 1-0.  Blackburn and Wolves have 40 points, with Birmingham and
Blackpool on 39 points. Wigan has 36 points and can relegate
last place West Ham, with has 33 points, by beating the Hammers
tomorrow, while Birmingham hosts Fulham.  Second-half goals from Steven Fletcher and George Elokobi
lifted Wolves to the away win. Jody Craddock also scored for
Wolves in the first half, with Stephane Sessegnon answering for
Sunderland.  Blackpool kept its hopes of avoiding the drop alive by
outscoring Bolton at home. D.J. Campbell scored two goals for
Blackpool, which ended a nine-game winless run, while Jason
Puncheon and  Charlie Adam  added one each.  Kevin Davies , Matthew Taylor and  Daniel Sturridge  had the goals for Bolton, which lost
its fourth straight game.  Blackburn failed to stop Manchester United winning the
league title, but gained a valuable point in the survival race.  Wayne Rooney ’s 73rd-minute penalty canceled out a first-
half score from Blackburn’s Brett Emerton. United has won 12
championships since the Premier League began in 1992 and moves
one title ahead of rival Liverpool all-time.  Youssouf Mulumbu scored the only goal as West Brom beat 10-
man Everton to move up to 10th place. Everton’s Diniyar
Bilyaletdinov received a red card in the second half for a
challenge on  James Morrison .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  