-- 
Canadian TMX Bid May Trumpet Nationalism to Thwart LSE’s Deal From London

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-05-15T20:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/tmx-group-gets-bid-from-canadian-pension-funds-banks-countering-lse-offer.html
A group of Canadian banks and pension
funds is offering to buy Toronto Stock Exchange owner  TMX Group
Inc. (X)  in a C$3.6 billion ($3.7 billion) bid that champions a
domestic alternative to  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s
takeover agreement.  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said in an interview
yesterday that he welcomed the proposal from Maple Group
Acquisition Corp., a consortium of four banks including Toronto-
Dominion Bank and five Canadian pension funds. Toronto-based TMX
already trades 7.2 percent higher than LSE’s Feb. 9 bid.  Nationalist concerns are increasing amid a wave of exchange
mergers worldwide, including  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s October
bid for Sydney-based  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , which was withdrawn after failing
to win Australian government support. U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from  New York , said in February that his
support for Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s deal for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  of New York was contingent on it being structured as a
merger of equals.  “I’m sure nationalism will factor into people’s
thinking,” said Shubha Khan, an analyst at National Bank
Financial in Toronto. “As far as government and regulators are
concerned -- though they may not admit it -- the takeover of a
Canadian exchange by Canadian institutions would probably be
more palatable.”  C$48 a Share  The Maple group said today in a statement that it’s
offering C$48 in cash and stock to buy TMX, outbidding LSE for
the Toronto Stock Exchange owner. TMX shares closed at C$41.75
on May 13, or 7.4 percent higher than LSE’s C$38.89-a-share all-
stock agreement from Feb. 9, Bloomberg data show.  Maple’s investors are  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec , Canada Pension
Plan Investment Board,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , Alberta
Investment Management Corp., and Fonds de Solidarite des
Travailleurs du Quebec.  The Maple offer would give TMX shareholders 40 percent of
the company, the pension funds 35 percent and the bank-owned
investment dealers 25 percent, according to the statement.  “We believe there is an opportunity to create significant
value by capitalizing on TMX’s strengths to build a stronger
integrated exchange and clearing group, and by doing so, to
secure the future growth and ongoing integrity of the Canadian
capital markets,” National Bank Vice-Chairman Luc Bertrand said
in a statement by Maple.  Board Makeup  An Ontario government committee reviewing the LSE-TMX deal
said in April that the two companies should have an equal number
of board seats in the combined entity. The current arrangement
would give eight of 15 directorships to LSE, with LSE owning 55
percent of the corporation. The committee said it had no power
to impose its view on the sale, which requires approval from the
federal government and the Ontario Securities Commission.  The proposal from banks and pension funds “responds to a
number of the concerns that I’ve raised about Canadian
control,” Duncan said yesterday. “It just shows that the
Canadian financial-services sector can play on the world stage
and can continue to take a leadership role.”  The Maple Group proposal would offer TMX shareholders
C$33.52 a share in cash plus 0.3016 of a Maple share on a fully
pro-rated basis, the group said. Maple said it intends to
preserve TMX’s current corporate governance, maintain management
and staffing levels while investing in growth of derivatives
trading and clearing.  ‘Includes Canadians’  The bank-pension group plans to combine TMX with Alpha
Group, an alternative trading system whose owners include
 Canada ’s six-biggest banks, and CDS to create an integrated
trading and clearing exchange.  “I look forward to Canadians having a chance to look at an
alternative bid that includes Canadians,” Duncan said.  LSE said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that it remains
committed to its takeover of TMX. Carolyn Quick, a TMX
spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the company’s statement.  Canada’s bank-owned brokerages were among the owners of the
Toronto Stock Exchange before it was demutualized and taken
public in an initial stock sale in 2002. The market, which once
handled all trading of Canadian equities, has lost business to
firms such as Alpha Group, which is owned by Canada’a six
biggest banks as well as the Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board. Alpha, founded in 2007, executes about 20 percent of the
nation’s stock volume.  Looking for Growth  Alison Crosthwait, director of global trading research at
Instinet LLC, said she doesn’t understand the investment case
behind the bid from the Canadian banks and pension funds.  “I don’t see where the growth is going to come from,”
Toronto-based Crosthwait said in an interview. “They would
really just be owning a profitable company, which for the banks
may make sense, but for the pension funds, they do need to show
investment returns. I don’t know if they can compete with what
the LSE is offering in that regard.”  LSE is trying to buy TMX as Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  attempts to catch up with bigger rivals and diversify
revenue. Without the TMX deal, the exchange that traces its
roots back to the coffee houses of 17th century  London  risks
being left out of the industry’s biggest round of consolidation.
Valued at 2.24 billion pounds ($3.63 billion), LSE is dwarfed by
bourses from  Hong Kong  to  Sao Paulo .  The London bourse owner will have to sweeten its offer to
win over TMX shareholders, Crosthwait said.  “The offer is so much lower that the shareholders, who are
financially focused, are not going to be able to accept the
other being so much lower,” she said. “But if they’re able to
come close and provide some case that there’s going to be growth
going forward, they may be able to beat it out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Doug Alexander} in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  