-- 
Yemeni Opposition Says Gulf Arab Plan for Saleh to Step Down Has Collapsed

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-15T09:46:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-14/yemeni-forces-injure-15-protesters-at-rally-in-taiz-doctor-says.html
Yemen’s Joint Meetings Party, a
coalition of six opposition groups, says a plan to end the
country’s political crisis is dead following a visit by the
chief envoy of Arab Gulf states seeking to broker a deal.  While the coalition is willing to meet Abdel Latif al- Zayyani, the secretary-general of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
again to explore new options, the current proposal was
considered “dead,” Mohammed Qahtan, spokesman for the
opposition, said in a telephone interview today.  Thousands of protesters returned to the streets in Sana’a,
the capital, today calling for an end to the 32-year rule of
President Ali Abdullah Saleh. Several people marched through the
streets carrying a makeshift coffin with the words “GCC
Initiative” written on the side.  Protests have persisted since the government and the Joint
Meetings Parties failed to sign a GCC-brokered plan last month.
Under the terms of the plan, Saleh would have ceded power within
a month of signing the deal and would be granted immunity from
prosecution. Al-Zayyani visited Sana’a yesterday to revive the
group’s stalled peace initiative, the official Saba news service
said.  Protests in Yemen calling for an end to Saleh’s rule are in
their third month. At least 100 people have died as security
forces have repeatedly fired on demonstrations that began on
Feb. 11, according to the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human Rights
in Sana’a.  Saleh U-Turn  In March, Saleh, 69, agreed to an opposition proposal to
hand over power by the end of the year, then backtracked by
saying he’d stand down only after a newly elected government was
formed and power was transferred to safer hands. The agreement
was brokered by ministers from the GCC, which includes the
 United Arab Emirates ,  Bahrain ,  Saudi Arabia , Oman, Qatar and
 Kuwait .  “There’s still hope that the crisis will be resolved,”
Osama al-Nuggali, director of the information department at the
Saudi Foreign Ministry, said in a telephone interview from
 Riyadh  today. “A diplomatic solution, no matter how long it
takes, will be less costly on Yemeni lives and on their security
and stability. The alternative is scary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 