-- ABC’s Lee Says ‘Modern Family’ Expected to Return on Time
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-07-27T17:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/abc-s-lee-says-modern-family-expected-to-return-on-time.html
“Modern Family,” the ABC comedy
whose cast filed a lawsuit this week seeking to void their
contracts, is expected to return to the air on schedule,
according to network entertainment President Paul Lee.  The Walt Disney Co.-owned TV network is negotiating with
the cast, Lee said today at a television critics conference in
 Beverly Hills ,  California . The actors showed up this week for
work after an earlier session was canceled, he said.  “We’re hopeful we will be able to resolve this soon,” Lee
said, without offering specifics on the talks.  The lawsuit threatens the coming fourth season of “Modern
Family,” the most-watched comedy among the 18-to-49-year-old
viewers sought by advertisers. The show is produced by  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox Television and airs on ABC.  Sofia Vergara, Julie Bowen, Ty Burrell and other cast
members asked a California judge to void contracts that cap
their pay and bar outside work, according to a complaint filed
July 24 in  Los Angeles .  The actors say the contracts violate state labor law
prohibiting some agreements for services lasting more than seven
years, according to the filing.  The suit pits the actors against a producer they claim bars
them from working elsewhere while locking them into single-digit
pay raises. The success of “Modern Family,” which is central
to ABC’s effort to draw viewers to new shows in September, “has
been built upon a collection of illegal contracts,” the actors
said.  Disney, based in  Burbank , California, gained 1.3 percent
percent to $50.34 at 1:35 p.m. in  New York . The stock had
climbed 33 percent this year as of yesterday. News Corp. rose
3.7 percent to $23.44.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  