-- ABP Suit Against Ace Securities Can Proceed, Judge Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-27T19:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/abp-suit-against-ace-securities-can-proceed-judge-says-1-.html
A lawsuit brought by Stichting
Pensioenfonds ABP, Europe’s second-biggest pension fund, against
a  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  affiliate over residential mortgage-backed
securities can proceed, a New York judge ruled.  Ace Securities Corp. must face two claims in the suit, for
common-law fraud and fraudulent inducement, New York State
 Supreme Court  Justice Jeffrey Oing in Manhattan said today. The
judge dismissed claims of aiding and abetting fraud and
negligent misrepresentation. The plaintiffs could refile the
aiding-and-abetting claim, he said.  “There’s enough salt and pepper on the steak,” Oing said
at a hearing.  ABP, based in Heerlen, Netherlands, sued Ace Securities,
Deutsche Bank and four other bank affiliates in state court in
Manhattan in September, saying it bought residential mortgage-
backed securities while relying on allegedly false and
misleading statements.  The defendants had asked Oing to dismiss the lawsuit,
saying that ABP’s claims are barred by a statute of limitations
and that the pension fund was told that a “substantial number”
of the underlying loans were defective and wouldn’t comply with
underwriting guidelines, according to court documents.  ‘Highly Sophisticated’  The defendants also argued that ABP is a “highly
sophisticated financial institution” that failed to conduct its
own due diligence on the loans and that the pension fund hasn’t
shown that it hasn’t received the payments it was promised, the
court documents said.  ABP has sued other banks in the same court over similar
allegations, including Credit Suisse Group AG,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Ace Securities, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , was
formed by Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. to facilitate the sale
of residential  mortgage loans  through securitizations, ABP said
in the complaint.  Oing dismissed Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank Home Lending
LLC and DB Structured Products Inc. from the case, leaving Ace
Securities, Deutsche Bank Securities and another Deutsche Bank
affiliate as defendants.  ‘Key Claim’  Oing ruled from the bench and a written decision wasn’t
immediately available.  “We are encouraged that the judge dismissed several claims
and defendants and is still considering whether to dismiss the
entire case on statute of limitations grounds,”  Duncan King , a
New York-based spokesman for Deutsche Bank, said in a statement.  The ruling “shows that investors will be able to get to
discovery on these claims,” Geoffrey C. Jarvis, an attorney
with Grant & Eisenhofer who is representing ABP, said after
today’s hearing. The fraud allegation is the “key claim” in
the suit, he said.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  The case is Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. Ace Securities
Corp., 652460/2011,  New York  state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  