-- Absa Identifies Suspended Executive as Head of Collections
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-07-27T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/absa-suspends-head-of-collections-tanzanian-md-ramos-says-1-.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the South African
bank controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , identified the employee it
suspended amid an investigation into why the lender had to set
aside more money to cover rising bad debts.  Chief Executive Officer  Maria Ramos  said on a conference
call today the bank put its head of collections on leave in
relation to the probe. She declined to identify the employee by
name. The Johannesburg-based lender doesn’t identify a head of
collections on its website. There are no allegations of
wrongdoing by the individual, and the bank is changing the way
the unit is run, Finance Director David Hodnett said. Both
declined to comment further.  South Africa’s Business Times reported on July 22 the bank
had placed an unidentified executive on leave pending a probe
into circumstances that have led it to bolster provisions for
bad loans.  Absa today posted a 39 percent increase in bad debts in the
first half and increased the amount it sets aside to cover
souring mortgages to 52 billion rand ($6.4 billion). Last year,
the lender had the lowest provisions for bad debts out of  South
Africa ’s four largest banks. The jump in bad loans caused first-
half profit to fall 9 percent and led the bank to overhaul the
unit that collects loan repayments.  Tanzanian Unit  In an unrelated action, Absa also suspended the managing
director of its Tanzanian unit, Lawrence Mafuru, following
allegations by a whistle-blower, Hodnett said. No criminal
charges have been filed against Mafuru, he said.  “We are investigating what the whistle-blower said, and we
are taking it very seriously,” Hodnett said.  Mafuru said in an interview on July 23 he had been asked to
leave on July 20.  “The board and the group asked me to leave to allow
investigations, which I find appropriate because it’s in our
policy to do this,” he said in the interview on July 23. Mafuru
said he had no details of the “irregularities” the informant
reported.  The Tanzanian bank head has not been accused of wrongdoing
by regulators and law enforcers, Mafuru said today by telephone
from  Dar es Salaam , Tanzania’s commercial capital. He declined
to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  