-- Thai Baht Rises on Speculation of Exporters’ Demand
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-07-27T02:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/thai-baht-rises-on-speculation-of-exporters-demand-correct-.html
Thailand ’s baht gained, halting a
three-day loss, on speculation exporters increased demand for
the currency as the month-end approaches. Government bonds rose
as  Europe ’s debt crisis boosted appetite for safer assets.  The Bank of Thailand held its benchmark  interest rate  at 3
percent today, as forecast by all 14 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The central bank also lowered its 2012 economic
growth prediction to 5.7 percent from 6 percent. The MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of regional  shares  dropped as a German report
showed business confidence fell in July to the lowest level in
more than two years.  “It’s close to the end of the month and the current level
is quite good, so we can expect to see some exporter demand for
the baht,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan
Center for  Economic Research  in  Tokyo . “Concern about Europe’s
situation discourages investors to take risks, dragging stocks
and Asian currencies down.”  The baht rose 0.2 percent to 31.72 per dollar as of 3:27
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
one-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, was unchanged at 5.02 percent.  Foreign funds sold $75 million more Thai equities than they
bought in the first two days of this week, exchange data show.  Exports unexpectedly dropped in June, falling 4.2 percent
from a year earlier after an increase of 7.7 percent the
previous month, a government report showed today. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for a gain of 4.5 percent.  The yield on the 3.25 percent  government bonds  due June
2017 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.14
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 