-- AIG Said to Mull Leaving Maiden Lane Headquarters
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-27T19:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/aig-said-to-mull-leaving-maiden-lane-headquarters-in-new-york.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer rescued by U.S. taxpayers, is weighing a move from
its headquarters at 180 Maiden Lane in lower  Manhattan , said two
people with knowledge of the company’s planning.  The approximately 2,000 employees there may be transferred
to other locations as part of a cost-saving consolidation, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are private. An AIG-owned property at 175 Water
St., within walking distance from Maiden Lane, is among the
buildings that may absorb the workers, the person said.  AIG’s departure would add to  vacancies in lower Manhattan ,
including space in the World Trade Center and World Financial
Center. The Maiden Lane property is co-owned by  SL Green Realty
Corp. (SLG)  and Moinian Group, which have listed about 850,000 square
feet (79,000 square meters) in the building as available in May
2014, according to  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP)   “The downtown market is facing an absolute glut of
space,” said Aaron Jodka, manager of U.S. market research at
CoStar, a Washington-based real estate data service. “Tenants
are going to have their choice of space, and it’s going to be
very challenging in that environment for landlords to be
aggressively pushing  rents .”  AIG has less need for space as Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Benmosche  shrinks the company and sells units to pay back
a U.S. bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. The  New York- 
based insurer had 57,000  employees  worldwide as of Dec. 31, down
from 116,000 three years earlier.  AIG’s Commitment  “No final decisions have been made regarding the 180
Maiden Lane lease,” Jim Ankner, a spokesman for AIG, said in a
phone interview today. “We are committed to preserving AIG’s
presence in  New York City .”  Lower Manhattan’s class A office vacancy rate may climb to
17.4 percent by the end of next year from 8.8 percent at the end
of June, according to data from Cassidy Turley, a commercial
property brokerage with offices in New York.  One World Trade Center, which the Durst Organization is
leasing on behalf of owner  Port Authority  of New York and  New
Jersey , has about 45 percent of its 3 million square feet still
unrented, according to its developers.  Larry Silverstein ’s 4
World Trade Center has 1.2 million square feet available, and
Brookfield Office Properties’s World Financial Center has about
3 million square feet up for lease after former Merrill Lynch &
Co. leases expire next year, according to CoStar.  ‘Actively Exploring’  AIG leased more than 800,000 square feet at 180 Maiden Lane
as of Dec. 31, SL Green, New York’s largest office landlord,
said in its annual report. When SL Green bought its 49.9 percent
stake in 180 Maiden last year, it underwrote the deal as if AIG
wasn’t going to stay, Andrew Mathias, president of New York-
based SL Green, said yesterday on a conference call discussing
second-quarter results.  “We’re actively exploring the possibilities of both a
redevelopment of the asset and bringing it to the market for new
tenants,” Mathias said.  “If there’s any management team out there that will lease
up their space, I have more confidence in SL Green,” said
Mitchell Germain, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in  New York .
“They recognize the market on a positive and on a negative.
They see the deficiencies in the market, and they clearly will
make sure their product is priced accordingly.”  Tokyo Property  The Maiden Lane property became AIG’s principal office
after the company struck a deal in 2009 to sell its previous
headquarters at 70 Pine St. to Kumho Investment Bank, a South
Korean firm, and Youngwoo & Associates, a Manhattan-based
developer. AIG also sold a Tokyo office property to Nippon Life
Insurance Co. for about $1.2 billion.  Eric Gerard, a spokesman for Moinian, referred questions
regarding the AIG lease to SL Green. Heidi Gillette, an SL Green
spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a voice mail.  AIG has said it’s working to cut general and administrative
expenses by about $1 billion from 2010 levels by the end of
2015. That’s part of aspirational goals AIG laid out in a 2011
filing, which include increasing its return on equity to at
least 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net 
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  