-- Talon’s Flower-Powered Cancer Drug Driving Talks, CEO Says
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-07-27T20:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/talon-s-flower-powered-cancer-drug-driving-deal-talks-ceo-says.html
Talon Therapeutics Inc. (TLON) ’s
experimental blood-cancer treatment, based on a compound from
the rosy periwinkle flower, is attracting potential partners and
buyers, Chief Executive Officer Steven Deitcher said.  The  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  is set to decide by
Aug. 12 whether to approve the medicine, a treatment called
Marqibo for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, for patients who have
failed at least two other therapies, giving the South San
Francisco-based company its first marketable product.  Talon is considering selling rights to Marqibo outside the
U.S., among other deals, Deitcher said. He declined to identify
any of the potential buyers or partners. The company has access
to $57 million in capital to market Marqibo.  “We’re in discussions with several companies that are
interested in adding Marqibo to their oncology portfolio,”
Deitcher said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The range of
outcomes of these discussion includes launching Marqibo on our
own in the U.S., to entering into a transaction designed to
maximize the value of Marqibo and our other assets to our
shareholders.”  The FDA rejected Marqibo as a treatment for non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma in 2005 when it was being developed by Inex
Pharmaceuticals Corp. and  Enzon Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ENZN)   Talon, formerly Hana Biosciences Inc., licensed Marqibo in
2006 from Inex. On March 21, Talon won the backing of a U.S.
advisory panel for accelerated approval of its product. The
advisers voted 7-4 that the benefits of the anti-leukemia
therapy outweigh its risks. Talon’s  shares  have quadrupled this
year. The stock was unchanged at $1.71 today at the close of
trading.  Lilly Developed  Marqibo is a liposomal formulation of vincristine sulfate,
a drug first developed by  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  in the 1960s.
Vincristine, known commercially as Oncovin, is used in
combination with other drugs to treat non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and
acute lymphoblastic leukemia, though side effects limit the
amount that can be given to patients.  Talon’s product is a nanoparticle encapsulated form of
vincristine and is designed to provide prolonged circulation of
the chemotherapy in the blood and accumulation at the tumor
site, the company said.  About 6,050 new cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia will
be diagnosed this year, and mostly in children, according to the
 National Cancer Institute . Marqibo would treat adult patients
with the type of acute lymphoblastic leukemia that is negative
for an abnormality known as the Philadelphia chromosome and who
have had multiple relapses or a disease that has progressed
after taking two or more therapies.  Rare Disease  This rare version of the disease affects about 1,400 adults
in the U.S. a year, with less than 500 people failing two prior
therapies, the FDA advisory panel said in its March  report  on
Marqibo. The median survival time for patients who don’t respond
to prior treatments is about three months.  The FDA is considering approving Marqibo, Talon’s lead
product candidate, based on the second of three phases of
clinical trials typically required. Talon has no annual revenue.
Deitcher said pharmaceutical companies seem eager to make deals
for cancer therapies.  “Companies are getting hungrier -- and therefore we will,
and are, entertaining inquiries that we believe will become that
much more voracious once our approval arrives, but it’s all
going to be on bringing the most value to shareholders,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  