-- Amazon’s Bezos Joins Singer, Asness in Gay-Marriage Donation
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-07-27T19:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/amazon-s-bezos-joins-billionaire-singer-in-gay-marriage-donation.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jeff Bezos  is contributing $2.5 million to an effort to
keep same-sex marriage legal in Washington, joining hedge-fund
managers including  Paul Singer  and Cliff Asness in backing the
issue in U.S. states.  The gift from the Seattle-based Internet retailer’s founder
and his wife, MacKenzie, is the largest from an individual in
support of gay vows, according to a statement today from
Washington United for Marriage. The coalition is working to get
voters to support same-sex nuptials in November, when similar
referendums will also be held in Maine, Maryland and Minnesota.  Singer, founder of the $20 billion hedge fund Elliott
Management Corp. in  New York , and Asness, co-founder of AQR
Capital Management in Greenwich, Connecticut, are among five
pro-Republican financiers who have donated $1.5 million to the
“Win More States Fund” of New York-based  Freedom to Marry ,
according to the national advocacy group. Singer and Asness back
Republican  Mitt Romney , who opposes same-sex marriage, in the
race against President  Barack Obama .  “We’re seeing more people willing to say that this is not
a partisan issue,” said Matt McTighe, campaign manager for
Mainers United for Marriage, a gay-rights group that received
$150,000 from Singer. “This isn’t about politics; it’s about
families.”  ‘No-Brainer’  Singer, whose son is gay, has given $1 million to Restore
Our Future, a super-political action committee supporting
Romney. He also backed the successful effort to legalize same-
sex marriage in New York last year. Asness  gave  Romney $2,500 on
March 13, according to opensecrets.org, a Washington-based
campaign-finance watchdog group.  “This issue is a no-brainer for me,” Asness said in a
telephone interview today. “While you won’t change people with
radical views, you can help give courage and cover to the
moderate Republicans out there who want to back gay marriage. I
disagree with Romney firmly on this issue. But I agree with him
way more on issues across the board than I do with Obama, making
Romney an easy choice for me.”  The other Freedom to Marry donors include Dan Loeb, founder
of $8.7 billion  Third Point  LLC in New York, Seth Klarman, who
runs Baupost Group LLC in Boston, and KKR & Co. Managing
Director Ken Mehlman. Loeb and Klarman have also given to
Romney, according to opensecrets.org. Mehlman was former
president  George W. Bush ’s 2004 campaign manager and former
chairman of the  Republican National Committee .  Lincoln’s Party  “The party of Lincoln and Reagan should stand first and
foremost for freedom,” Mehlman, who is gay, wrote in January in
New Hampshire’s Union Leader newspaper as his fellow party
members pushed -- ultimately unsuccessfully -- to strip the
state’s recognition of gay vows. “Aren’t politicians already
too involved in too much of our lives? Why would we want to
expand government to such a personal space?”  Maine voters will revisit the issue three years after they
overturned a law that would have made same-sex weddings legal.
Washington and Maryland will weigh laws passed this year
granting gay couples the right. In Minnesota, voters will decide
whether to  amend  the state constitution to recognize only unions
between one man and one woman.  Ballot Box  While polls indicate growing support for legalization among
the  U.S. population , voters have rejected granting it in the
more than 30 referendums on the issue.  “Donors know how crucial it is to end our opponent’s last,
best talking point: That our side doesn’t win at the ballot,”
Marc Solomon, national director at Freedom to Marry, said in an
e-mailed statement.  New York,  Massachusetts , Connecticut,  Iowa ,  New Hampshire ,
Vermont and the  District of Columbia  permit the practice.  Brian Maddox, a spokesman for AQR, didn't immediately return
a call seeking comment. Loeb didn’t immediately return telephone
calls seeking comment, nor did Elissa Doyle, a spokeswoman for 
Third Point. Elaine Mann, a spokeswoman for Klarman’s hedge fund
Baupost, didn’t return e-mails and telephone messages seeking comment.  The contributions by the hedge-fund managers were reported
earlier this week by the Financial Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  