-- Anglo Presses Rousseff to Solve Brazil Mining Project Delays
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-07-27T16:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/anglo-american-profit-falls-46-misses-estimates-as-prices-drop.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , proposing to
spend as much as $100 billion on doubling mine output, met
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  to seek an end to obstacles
facing the industry as delays at its largest project worsened.  “These are blockages that we didn’t anticipate,” Chief
Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll , who held talks with Rousseff
yesterday, told reporters from  London . Anglo posted a 46 percent
drop in first-half profit and now expects its Minas-Rio  iron-ore 
project to start shipments in the second half of 2014 or later,
after targeting the last six months of 2013.  Carroll’s bet on long-term demand for increased production
of iron ore, copper, nickel and coal is topped by the Minas-Rio
project, which may cost at least $5.8 billion. Brazilian
regulatory hurdles are holding back some 40 mining and
infrastructure projects valued at more than $200 billion by an
average of two years, according to the Anglo CEO.  “We’re not alone in Brazil,” Carroll said today. London-
based Anglo had a license it was awarded for a power
transmission line suspended in April, she said, citing an
example of the barriers to construction.  Vale SA, based in  Rio de Janeiro , delayed its $8 billion
Serra Sul expansion in the country and at least three other
projects in Brazil last year amid permitting issues, higher
costs and labor shortages.  Share Slump  Anglo fell 3.6 percent to 1,894 pence by the close in
London, the lowest since October 2009, after news of the delay
and as earnings missed estimates. The benchmark FTSE 350 Mining
Index rose 0.9 percent.  “The market likely expected some disappointment on Minas
Rio, but an additional 12-month delay is likely more than what
the market was expecting,” Nomura International said.  First-half earnings excluding one-time items dropped to
$1.69 billion, or $1.38 a share, Anglo said today in a
statement. That compares with the $1.57-a-share median estimate
of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Anglo will pay a dividend
of 32 cents a share, matching the median estimate.  “This is a negative set of results that reflects the
difficulty of the macro environment due to the low cyclical
growth,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts said in a note. The
dividend is “small comfort for investors,” SBG Securities
(Pty) Ltd. said.  The  London Metals Exchange Index (LMEX)  of six primary metals lost
12 percent in the past three months as Europe’s debt crisis dims
the outlook for global growth. There is a risk of new projects
being delayed, BMO Capital Markets said July 11.  Spending Cut  Anglo cut its 2012 capital investment target 21 percent to
$5.5 billion as it pulled back spending on platinum.  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest producer of the
metal, slumped to a loss after prices fell. Anglo is reviewing
the platinum business, whose CEO Neville Nicolau quit last week.
Carroll said Anglo intends to retain the platinum operation.  While short-term platinum demand looks subdued, the market
should re-balance, Carroll said.  “Long term prices for Anglo American’s products are
expected to be supported by widespread supply constraints and
the challenges producers face in bringing new supply into
production,” Carroll said.  The Anglo CEO agreed earlier this week to buy a controlling
stake in the Revuboe coking-coal project in  Mozambique  from the
estate of deceased Australian mining entrepreneur  Ken Talbot  for
A$540 million ($564 million), and boosted its stake in  Kumba
Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  to 69.7 percent for $948 million a week ago. She
is also increasing Anglo’s 45 percent stake in diamond producer
 De Beers  to as much as 85 percent for $5.1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  