-- Anti-Putin Leader Navalny Risks Jail as Russian Charges Loom
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-27T15:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/anti-putin-leader-navalny-risks-jail-as-russian-charges-loom-1-.html
Russian opposition leader and anti-
corruption blogger Alexey Navalny will be indicted next week on
charges that carry a maximum sentence of five years in prison,
his lawyer said.  Navalny, 36, has been summoned to the Investigative
Committee in Moscow on July 30 to be formally charged over
claims that he caused damage to a state timber company in 2009,
lawyer Vadim Kobzyov said by telephone today. Navalny denies any
wrongdoing.  President  Vladimir Putin , 59, who extended his 12-year rule
in March elections that handed him another six years at the
Kremlin, is cracking down on the opposition after facing the
biggest unrest since he came to power in 2000. Navalny said on
his Twitter Inc. account today that he may be detained when the
charges are filed.  The activist yesterday published documents on his  blog 
which he says prove that  Alexander Bastrykin , the head of the
Investigative Committee, held Czech residency from 2007 to 2009,
and bought property and managed a company in the European Union
member state. The  Czech Republic ’s  Interior Ministry  confirmed
that Bastrykin had held residency in the country when contacted
by Bloomberg.  Speaking in an  interview  with Izvestia, Bastrykin denied
having engaged in any business activities in the Czech Republic,
saying he set up a company to buy an apartment in  Prague  in
2000.  Government Crackdown  The authorities have made it more difficult for opposition
groups to operate by tightening controls over Internet use and
imposing new restrictions on foreign-funded non-governmental
organizations. Lawmakers approved raising fines on unsanctioned
protesters 150-fold and making libel a criminal offense.  Russian billionaire newspaper owner  Alexander Lebedev , who
backs the opposition movement, said in a July 24 interview that
he expects to be charged in a criminal case relating to his
brawl with a rival businessman last September.  Lebedev has been investigated under charges of hooliganism,
which carry a maximum prison term of five years. He’s financing
the anti-graft drive of Navalny, who was elected last month to
the board of state carrier OAO Aeroflot after Lebedev proposed
him as an independent director.  The Investigative Committee in May overturned a decision by
its branch in the Kirov region northeast of Moscow to drop the
criminal investigation into Navalny for allegedly costing state
timber company Kirovles more than 1 million rubles ($31,000) by
organizing a money-losing contract.  Navalny’s Threats  The law-enforcement agency said in February 2011 on its
 website  that Navalny had threatened with dismissal the manager
of the timber company to pressure him to sign a contract with
another firm. The lawyer was working at the time as an unpaid
adviser on corporate governance to Kirov Governor Nikita Belykh,
who came to his defense.  Police have questioned Navalny and another opposition
leader, Sergei Udaltsov, on separate charges of inciting mass
disturbances and violence against officials during a protest on
the eve of Putin’s May inauguration that ended in clashes with
police, a crime punishable by as much as 10 years in jail.  Navalny, who has campaigned against corruption at state
companies and by government officials, is the most popular
leader among opposition protesters, according to a poll
published on June 27 by the state-run All-Russian Center for the
Study of  Public Opinion . Navalny was preferred by 46 percent of
those who joined the protests, with Udaltsov second with a 26
percent popularity rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  