-- Apple, Samsung Take Smartphone War to First U.S. Jury
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-28T04:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/apple-samsung-take-smartphone-war-to-first-u-s-jury.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , having waged their patent battle on four continents, are
now on a collision course in  California  with little prospect of
a settlement before a  jury trial  set to begin this week.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , who practiced as
an intellectual-property litigator in Silicon Valley for eight
years, is scheduled to start jury selection July 30. Jurors will
decide each company’s claims that its rival infringed patents
covering designs and technology for mobile devices, with
potential damage awards reaching billions of dollars.  The companies have sued each other in the U.K.,  Australia ,
and  South Korea , among other countries, in a bid for dominance
of a mobile-device market that Bloomberg Industries said was
$312 billion last year. In San Jose, Apple seeks damages of $2.5
billion based on claims Samsung copied the iPhone and iPad. The
Cupertino, California-based company also wants to make permanent
a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung tablet
computer, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  “Eventually all the parties to the smartphone wars will
have to settle,”  Mark Lemley , a Stanford Law School professor,
said in an e-mail. “But the parties have fought this one long
and hard, and I don’t see why they would settle now, with an
injunction already in place. I expect them to take their chances
at trial.”  Claiming Apple is infringing two patents covering mobile-
technology standards and three utility patents, Samsung is
demanding royalties of as much as 2.4 percent for each device
sold.  Samsung’s Evidence  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, said in a court
filing it plans to show jurors evidence that in 2006, before
Apple’s January 2007 introduction of the iPhone, Samsung was
developing the next generation of mobile phones, envisioning “a
simple, rounded rectangular body dominated by a display screen
with a single physical button on the face.”  Apple is trying to deflect Samsung’s infringement claims in
part by arguing that Samsung deceived the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute, according to a court
filing. Samsung was pushing the organization to adopt certain
standards without disclosing that it had applied for patents
covering the same technology, Apple claims.  Apple’s request for $2.53 billion in damages is based on
its compensation claims for unjust enrichment amounting to $2
billion, lost profit of $500 million and royalties of $25
million, according to the filing. Apple claims Samsung products
infringe four design patents and three software patents,
according to a court filing.  ‘Cutthroat and Nasty’  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the trial or the possibility of a settlement.  “We will take all available measures to stop Apple’s
unacceptable free-riding of our intellectual property,” Nam Ki
Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, said in an e-mail.  Will Stofega , a technology industry analyst with IDC in
Framingham,  Massachusetts , said this case is “much more
cutthroat and nasty” than most lawsuits between technology
companies, which usually settle.  Stofega said he expects the dispute to drag on in
courtrooms around the world even as it strains an important
relationship between the two companies -- Samsung being one of
Apple’s biggest component  suppliers .  ‘How Interlocked’  “It shows you how interlocked these companies are,” he
said.  In the second quarter of this year, consumers worldwide
bought 406 million mobile phones compared with 401.8 million in
the same period last year, with Samsung and Apple shipping
almost half of those phones, according to IDC.  Samsung extended its lead over Apple during the second
quarter, shipping 50.2 million mobile phones, representing 32.6
percent of the market, compared with 26 million units, or 16.9
percent of the market, for Apple, according to IDC.  Samsung Chief Executive Officer Choi Gee Sung and Apple CEO
 Tim Cook  tried and failed to settle the San Jose case at a
court-ordered May 21 meeting in San Francisco. Previously,
company officials met in September and December and on May 4 to
discuss resolving a related dispute before the U.S.
International Trade Commission.  A settlement remains unlikely because Apple may be
confident it can prove patent infringement and persuade the
judge to permanently bar Samsung products that are “no more
than colorably different” from any single banned tablet or
smartphone, said Doug Lichtman, a law professor at the
 University of California  in  Los Angeles .  Such a ruling would prevent Samsung from evading an
injunction by manufacturing new products that are only
“trivially different” from a smartphone or tablet found to be
infringing Apple patents, Lichtman said in an e-mail.  Eventual Resolution  Samsung may be unwilling to negotiate due to its ability to
profit from selling devices at a wide range of prices. During
the first quarter, Samsung sold more than 40 percent of all
mobile phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system, according to  Stamford , Connecticut-based research
company  Gartner Inc. (IT)  Android was installed on 56 percent of new
smartphones, more than twice Apple’s share.  Moreover, Lemley said, Koh’s order last month barring sales
of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet would be lifted at the end of
trial if Samsung wins. Samsung may be willing to take whatever
risks a trial presents rather than pay what Apple requires to
lift the injunction, he said.  With so much at stake for both companies globally, Apple
and Samsung eventually will have to resolve their differences
out of court, Lemley said, citing pending patent litigation over
mobile devices also involving  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Google Inc.’s
Motorola Mobility unit.  “Smartphone patents are like nuclear weapons in the  Cold
War  -- there are just so darn many of them,” Lemley said.
“Apple is riding high right now, but a year from now it may be
Apple’s products being enjoined on the basis of a Motorola or
HTC or Samsung patent. Taken to their logical conclusion,
everyone in this market could shut down everyone else.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  