-- Apple, Samsung, Kodak, Imation: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-27T11:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/apple-samsung-kodak-lady-gaga-imation-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won’t have to publish a
notice telling customers that Samsung Electronics Co. didn’t
copy its tablet designs until after an appeal in the
 intellectual property  dispute is heard in October, a U.K. court
ruled.  Apple had been ordered on July 18 to put a message on its
U.K. website and take out advertisements in British newspapers
describing a London court ruling that Samsung’s Galaxy devices
didn’t imitate the iPad.  That would have caused Apple “irreparable and
disproportionate harm,” said the company’s lawyer Anthony Grabiner yesterday, arguing the order should be delayed pending
an appeal. “If you were on the other side you would be jumping
around with joy.”  Judge David Kitchin agreed in a ruling yesterday that the
company would suffer lasting damage to its image. “It would not
be right to condemn Apple to such a fate before it has had a
chance to argue its case.”  Apple is fighting patent lawsuits around the globe against
competitors including Google Inc.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Samsung as it
competes for dominance of the smartphone and tablet computer
markets. The companies have accused each other of copying
designs and technology in their mobile devices. Legal battles
about the similarity of Samsung and Apple tablets are being
fought in Germany, the Netherlands and the U.S.  The argument that Apple “will suffer some mortal hurt is
frankly a nonsense” and the order should stand, Samsung’s
lawyer, Robert Howe, said yesterday.  Judge Colin Birss said in a July 9 ruling that Samsung’s
tablets were unlikely to be confused with the iPad because they
are “not as cool.” They were distinctive enough not to
infringe Apple’s registered designs, he said.  Patent  Apple Seeks to Move Kodak Patent Case Out of Bankruptcy Court  A U.S. district judge denied Apple Inc.’s request to
transfer out of  bankruptcy court   Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) ’s patent
lawsuit against the iPhone-maker.  Apple told U.S. District Judge George Daniels at a court
hearing yesterday in  Manhattan  that Kodak’s complaint over
patent ownership should be considered in federal district court.  Kodak and Apple are grappling over 10 patents that are
included in a portfolio of patents Kodak is planning to sell as
part of its bankruptcy restructuring. Kodak sued Apple in June
in bankruptcy court, seeking an order that Apple doesn’t own the
assets.  Apple argued in court papers that the bankruptcy court
doesn’t have the authority or “necessary expertise” to decide
the dispute. Kodak opposes withdrawal of the case.  Daniels said that Apple can renew its request at a later
date.  The Apple lawsuit is Eastman Kodak Co. v. Apple Inc.,
12-01720,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Entertainment  Lady Gaga Sued by Bratz Maker MGA Entertainment Over Dolls  Pop star Lady Gaga and her management company were sued by
MGA Entertainment Inc., the maker of Bratz toys, over allegedly
failing to approve a line of dolls in the singer’s image.  The  Van Nuys , California-based company, alleging breach of
contract in New York state court, is seeking more than $10
million in damages from the pop star, her management company,
 Culver City , California-based  Atom Factory , and Los Angeles-
based  Bravado International Group , a merchandising company that
works with musicians.  MGA Entertainment says in the complaint that it agreed to
produce dolls in Lady Gaga’s image in December 2011 at Bravado’s
“request and insistence” and paid the company a $1 million fee
in anticipation of shipping the products to retailers this
summer in time for the holiday selling season.  In April, Bravado Chief Executive Officer Tom Bennett, told
MGA’s chief executive officer, Issac Larian, that Lady Gaga, the
stage name of Stefani Germanotta, wanted to delay production and
shipping of the dolls until her new album is released in 2013,
according to the complaint. MGA says the defendants have
continued to withhold final approval in order to delay marketing
the dolls until next year and instead sell a licensed Lady Gaga
perfume called “Fame.”  “Defendants’ conduct is egregious, in bad faith and is
pretextual, especially in light of the fact that MGA has, among
other things, paid Bravado a $1,000,000 advance, agreed to an
excessively generous royalty rate, invested millions in the
preproduction of the Lady Gaga dolls and put its reputation and
goodwill on the line in order to secure distributors and retail
shelf space,” MGA Entertainment said in the complaint.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey K. Oing on
Wednesday declined MGA Entertainment’s request for an order
requiring Bravado, Atom Factory and Lady Gaga to immediately
approve the samples that were submitted to them for review, said
Amanda Silverman, a spokeswoman for Lady Gaga.  The two sides are scheduled to return to court Aug. 29,
when Lady Gaga will ask the judge to dismiss the lawsuit,
Silverman said.  Peter Lofrumento , a spokesman for Vivendi SA’s  Universal
Music Group , the parent company of Bravado, said in an e-mail
that the claims in the suit are meritless and the company will
defend itself in court.  A telephone message left at the headquarters of Atom
Factory wasn’t returned.  MGA Entertainment last year won $310 million in damages and
fees from  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  in a trial over ownership of the rights of
the Bratz line of dolls. Mattel in February asked a federal
appeals court to reverse the judgment.  The case is MGA Entertainment Inc. v. Bravado
International Group Merchandising Services Inc., 652547/2012,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more entertainment news, click here.  Advertising  Dean Switch on Organic Milk Cartons Hailed by Scientist It Cited  The scientist at the center of a dispute over the content
of advertising of  Dean Foods Co. (DF) ’s Horizon fortified organic
milk said she’s satisfied by the company’s confirmation that it
expects to stop referring to her work on the product’s cartons.  “I’m pleased that they’re not going to be citing our
reference,” Penny Kris-Etherton, a professor of nutrition at
Penn State University, said on July 25.  Cartons of Horizon organic milk fortified with the Omega-3
fatty acid DHA feature a picture of a young girl to illustrate
the heart, eye and brain benefits of the additive and include a
footnote to a paper by Kris-Etherton about sources of DHA in the
American diet.  The use of the reference was “inaccurate. It’s really a
marketing strategy to sell more of their milk,” said Kris-
Etherton, who demanded the removal of the citation through the
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, which published the
paper.  The reference to the paper “will likely be removed”  when
packaging is changed in 2013, Sara Loveday, a Dallas-based
spokeswoman for WhiteWave Foods Co., a unit of Dean that
controls the Horizon brand, said in a July 24 e-mail.  It’s not the first time Dean, the largest U.S. dairy
processor, has drawn criticism for its advertising and health
claims. The company last year toned down its advertising about
claims made about the brain-supporting attributes of DHA,
normally found in oily fish, in response to a complaint to the
Federal Trade Commission. Dean also is the target of at least
five class-action lawsuits filed by consumers alleging that the
statement that DHA “supports brain health” is false.  “It’s appropriate to use published, scientific studies as
references for support of a statement,” Loveday said.
“However, per the author’s request, we are considering removal
of the reference within our next round of packaging changes in
2013.  The Horizon brand accounts for about 40 percent of the
organic milk market, according to Amit Sharma, an analyst who
covers Dean for BMO Capital Markets in New York.  Organic milk and cream sales in the U.S. totaled $2.41
billion in 2011, up 12.9 percent from the previous year,
according to the Brattleboro, Vermont-based Organic Trade
Association, the main organic producers’ trade group.  Mary Engle, associate director of the FTC’s division of
advertising practices, declined to comment on Dean’s use of
Kris-Etherton’s work.  For more, click here.  Trademark  Interactive Media Sues Imation Over Name for Data Storage  Interactive Media Corporation is suing  Imation Corp. (IMN)  over
the use of the name ‘‘Defender” for data storage.  Kanguru, a division of IMC, has been producing secure USB
devices with the Defender name since June 2007, according to the
complaint filed July 25 in federal court in Boston. The company,
based in Millis, Massachusetts, is privately held.  According to the suit, in 2010 Imation entered into
negotiations to acquire IMC and the two companies signed
confidentiality agreements as part of the process.  IMC says that nonetheless, during those negotiations
Imation filed applications to register “Defender” as a
trademark. The suit doesn’t claim that IMC had already
registered the mark.  The negotiations fell apart in June 2010 the complaint
says, and Imation subsequently began selling  storage devices 
“similar to those that it had attempted to acquire from IMC and
branded these products using the DEFENDER mark.”  According to Nate Cote, the vice president for  product
management  for Kanguru Solutions, the company “formally noticed
Imation two years ago and it was pretty much ignored.” The suit
was filed on Wednesday because “It took awhile to gather the
supporting documentation” to file the lawsuit.  The suit claims unfair competition under federal and
Massachusetts state law. It does not allege that IMC has a
federal trademark in the name Defender.  Mary Rawlings-Taylor, a spokeswoman for Imation, said in an
e-mail that “Imation is aware of the filing but we do not
comment on pending litigation.”  The case is Interactive Media Corp. v Imation Corp., 1:12-
cv-11364, U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  For more trademark news, click here.  Internet  China Hackers Hit EU Point Man and D.C. With Byzantine Candor  The hackers clocked in at precisely 9:23 a.m. Brussels time
on July 18 last year, and set to their task. In just 14 minutes
of quick keyboard work, they scooped up the e-mails of the
president of the  European Union Council ,  Herman Van Rompuy ,
Europe’s point man for shepherding the delicate politics of the
bailout for Greece, according to a computer record of the
hackers’ activity.  Over 10 days last July, the hackers returned to the
council’s computers four times, accessing the internal
communications of 11 of the EU’s economic, security and foreign
affairs officials. The breach, unreported until now, potentially
gave the intruders an unvarnished view of the financial crisis
gripping Europe.  As Bloomberg News reports, the spies were themselves being
watched. Working together in secret, some 30 North American
private security researchers were tracking one of the biggest
and busiest hacking groups in China.  Observed for years by U.S. intelligence, which dubbed it
Byzantine Candor, the team of hackers also is known in security
circles as the Comment group for its trademark of infiltrating
computers using hidden webpage computer code known as
“comments.”  During almost two months of monitoring last year, the
researchers say they were struck by the sheer scale of the
hackers’ work as data bled from one victim after the next: from
oilfield services leader  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  to a Washington law
firm to Kolkata-based tobacco and technology conglomerate  ITC
Ltd. (ITC)   The researchers identified 20 victims in all -- many of
them organizations with secrets that could give China an edge as
it strives to become the world’s largest economy.  “What the general public hears about -- stolen credit card
numbers, somebody hacked  LinkedIn (LNKD)  -- that’s the tip of the
iceberg, the unclassified stuff,” said Shawn Henry, former
executive assistant director of the  FBI  in charge of the
agency’s cyber division until leaving earlier this year. “This
is the biggest vacuuming up of U.S. proprietary data that we’ve
ever seen.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  