-- Harvard Radicals Play Spy Games in Sharp Andersen Tale: Review
-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 2012-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/harvard-radicals-play-spy-games-in-sharp-andersen-tale-review.html
James Bond  is the unlikely role
model for the baby-boomer protagonists of “ True Believers ,”
 Kurt Andersen ’s brisk and zeitgeisty novel about 1960s radicals
and the lives they invented once the counterculture became the
culture.  Bond leapt from the imagination of  Ian Fleming  in the 1950s
as narrator Karen Hollander and her friends came of age in the
Chicago suburb of Wilmette. His love of luxury brands, fancy
gadgets and globe-trotting intrigue seems both quaint and
prophetic in light of the 21st century’s online social networks,
e-commerce and iEverything.  “The world must be crawling with make-believe secret
agents,” Hollander muses. “Every day and night in every city
on earth, aging children of both sexes fleetingly and half-
consciously enact some version of the fantasy.”  Looking back from 2014, Hollander -- a 60-ish grandmother
near the end of a career as a law-school dean, corporate
litigator, U.S. Justice Department official and TV talking head
for lukewarm Clintonian liberalism -- sees how her youthful
ideals were in many ways as simplistic, and persistent, as the
typical Bond intrigue. “The fictional template always lurked,”
she says.  Hollander is planning a memoir that will expose a shameful
incident from her college days, much to the alarm of her former
fellow travelers: Alex, an international arts entrepreneur, and
Buzzy, a more-conservative-than-thou recovering leftist. Her
reminiscences build toward a Big Reveal of the secret they have
carried since 1968 and its terrible consequences for a fellow
Harvard student.  Smothers Brothers  Within that framework, Andersen takes us on a tour of
affluent mid-century America, the land of Fresca and the
Smothers Brothers and burgeoning passenger air travel. The
inventory of Touch-Tone phones and SweeTarts can grow tiresome,
but it exposes a sad truth about Hollander and her crowd: No
matter how committed they thought they were to the Movement in
the 1960s, they were mostly just a vast consumer market.  “Those years we turned 15 and 16, the universe did start
revolving around us, affirming our adolescent monomania, making
our fantasy of self-importance real,” Hollander recalls.
“Everything we did and thought -- our new music, the new ways
we dressed and talked, our libertine sensibilities, our real and
fake idealisms -- became Topic A among the grown-ups.”  Spy Magazine  Andersen, co-founder of the 1980s  satirical magazine Spy ,
has a keen eye for irony. Our post-9/11 skittishness about
terrorism is contrasted with the frequent, almost casual
bombings carried out by the  Weather Underground  in the 1960s
and ’70s.  “Bill Ayers and Bernardine Dohrn badly wanted to be
revolutionary celebrities, household names, but they never were,
not really, in their prime. Even after their nth bombing, the
nightly news still had to identify them as ‘a radical group
calling itself the Weather Underground,”’ Andersen writes.  Civil-rights gains were for the most part the work of an
earlier generation, as were many of the technological advances
that paved the way for boomer tycoons like  Bill Gates  and  Steve
Jobs  (one character’s father helps invent the Internet). The
campus peace movement may have brought down  Lyndon Johnson , but
it didn’t stop  Richard Nixon ’s rise or halt the war in  Vietnam .  Like a Cold War spy novelist, Andersen creates a world of
shifting identities. His adolescent protagonists pretend to
track unsuspecting arch-villains through the country clubs and
shopping malls of Wilmette. In college, their outrageous plot
bears the marks of the same childish play-acting. In later life,
Hollander learns that her closest confidants were never what
they seemed -- they were double, even triple agents. Andersen’s
true believers are neither.  “True Believers” is published by  Random House  (431 pages,
$27). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Andrew Dunn is an editor at Bloomberg news. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include interviews by  Lewis Lapham  and  Mike
Di Paola  on preservation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Dunn  in  New York  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  