-- Dow Climbs Past 13,000 as Treasuries Retreat; Metals Rise
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-07-27T20:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/asian-stocks-rise-for-second-day-on-draghi-comments-won-gains.html
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) 
surpassed 13,000 for the first time since May, while Treasuries
fell and commodities gained on speculation the  European Central
Bank  will purchase bonds to help lower borrowing costs and ease
the debt crisis.  The Dow average rallied 1.5 percent to 13,075.66 at 4 p.m.
in New York and posted the biggest two-day jump since December.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.9 percent to 1,385.97.
Ten-year Treasury note yields added nine basis points, the most
in almost four months, to 1.53 percent. S&P’s GSCI gauge of 24
raw materials increased 1 percent. The euro appreciated 0.2
percent to $1.2301. A measure of U.S. corporate debt risk
dropped for a third day.  Stocks extended gains after two central bank officials
said European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will hold
talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann in an effort to
overcome the biggest stumbling block to a new raft of measures
including bond purchases. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Francois Hollande  said their countries are
“bound by the deepest duty” to keep the euro area intact and
that they will do “everything” necessary to protect the single
currency.  “Any ECB actions to buy bonds extend the lifeline to the
region as the political leaders grapple for other solutions,”
John Augustine, who helps manage $25 billion as chief market
strategist at Cincinnati-based Fifth Third Bancorp, said in a
phone interview. “This is what the market is focused on.”  Buying Bonds  Having secured the backing of governments in Spain, France
and Germany, Draghi is now seeking to win over ECB policy makers
for a multi-pronged approach to reduce bond yields in countries
such as Spain and Italy, the officials said on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. The proposal involves
Europe’s rescue funds buying  government bonds  on the primary
market, flanked by ECB purchases on the secondary market to
ensure transmission of its record-low  interest rates , the
officials said.  The euro gained as much as 0.9 percent to $1.2390, before
trimming its advance amid speculation that the cost of further
moves to protect the currency will weaken it.  “The realization became for the market that if we are
going this route of another round of massive bond buying, that
is going to have some pretty severe implications for the ECB’s
balance sheet,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit, said in a telephone
interview.  The 17-nation currency has strengthened 1.2 percent this
week, the most since February. Canada’s dollar rallied to a 10-
week high against its U.S. counterpart, climbing 0.5 percent to
C$1.0050 per U.S. dollar.  Weekly Gain  The  S&P 500  has risen 1.7 percent this week and closed
today at the highest level since May. The Dow average is up 2
percent for the week.  In the U.S., data showed that the economy expanded at a
slower pace in the second quarter as a softening job market
prompted Americans to curb spending. Consumer confidence in July
dropped to the lowest this year, according to a separate report.
Cooling growth makes it harder to reduce unemployment, helping
explain why Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said
policy makers stand ready with more stimulus if needed.  Earnings Season  Merck & Co. and Amgen Inc. added at least 4 percent after
earnings beat estimates.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , an online-travel company,
surged 20 percent after boosting its dividend.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  tumbled 12 percent after reporting slower
sales growth and narrower profit margins. Operating margin,
excluding certain costs, was 43 percent in the second quarter, a
drop from 53 percent a year earlier, amid a fourfold surge in
sales and marketing expenses, the company said yesterday.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-shop chain,
plunged 9.4 percent after forecasting fourth-quarter profit that
missed estimates. Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA, Europe’s biggest
supplier of building materials, tumbled 11 percent after cutting
its full-year outlook, citing Europe’s economic crisis.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 1.3 percent today and
posted an eighth weekly advance. Total SA, France’s largest oil
producer, climbed 3.4 percent as second-quarter profit rose.
 Barclays (BARC)  Plc surged 8.7 percent after reporting earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates on growth in retail and investment
banking.  More Optimism  Spanish and Italian bonds surged for a third day as Italy’s
10-year yields fell below 6 percent for the first time in a
week. Spain’s 10-year yields fell 18 basis points to 6.74
percent.  “There is a little bit more optimism about a plan coming
together from European policy makers,” said  Michael Cloherty ,
head of U.S. interest-rate strategy in New York at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 3.3
basis points to a mid-price of 108 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil rose for a fourth day, climbing 74 cents to settle at
$90.13 a barrel in New York. Gold advanced 0.2 percent to settle
at $1,622.70 an ounce. Earlier, the price reached $1,633.30, the
highest for a most-active contract since June 19.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 2.8 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi index led gains among emerging-market gauges,
climbing 2.6 percent, the most since January. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in Hong
Kong advanced 2 percent. Benchmark indexes added 0.4 percent in
Russia and  South Africa .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  