-- Astra Gains Most in Seven Weeks on Profit Growth: Jakarta Mover
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-07-27T05:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/astra-gains-most-in-seven-weeks-on-profit-growth-jakarta-mover.html
PT Astra International (ASII) , Indonesia’s
biggest automotive retailer, rose the most in seven weeks after
reporting a 13 percent increase in first-half net income.  Astra gained 3.1 percent, the most since June 6, to 6,650
rupiah as of the mid-day break in Jakarta. The  Jakarta Composite
index (JCI)  climbed 1.6 percent. Astra said yesterday first-half net
income increased to 9.7 trillion rupiah ($1 billion) as higher
vehicle sales outweighed declining sales at palm oil unit  PT
Astra Agro Lestari. (AALI)  That’s 51 percent of the 19.1 trillion
rupiah full-year estimate among 24 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Astra sells  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Daihatsu Motor Co.
vehicles and Honda Motor Co. motorcycles.  “First-half core earnings were slightly ahead of our
forecast,” Erwan Teguh and Cindy Effendi, Jakarta-based
analysts at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., wrote in a report today.
“Better Astra Agro production and the launch of low-cost cars
by Toyota or Daihatsu are expected to revive growth in the
fourth quarter.”  Rising vehicle sales help Jakarta-based Astra cushion the
impact that declining commodity prices may have on heavy-
equipment unit  PT United Tractors (UNTR)  and palm-oil producer Astra
Agro. The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
dropped 7 percent in the first half as  Europe ’s debt crisis and
slowing growth in  China  cut raw-materials demand.  Low borrowing costs are helping to spur vehicle sales as
the central bank has kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low 5.75 percent for five straight months. Indonesia’s
domestic vehicle sales gained 28 percent to 535,263 units in the
six months to June from a year ago, Astra said on July 12. The
company’s own vehicle sales increased 32 percent to 301,636
units over the period, while motorcycle sales were little
changed from last year at 2.1 million units, it said.  Estimate Raised  CIMB today raised Astra’s share-price estimate to 7,700
rupiah from 7,600 rupiah. The stock is rated outperform, meaning
its total return is expected to exceed a relevant benchmark’s
total return by 5 percent or more over the next 12 months.  Still, vehicle sales may be impacted after  Bank Indonesia 
required banks to ask for down payments, according to CIMB’s
Teguh and Effendi. As of June 15, the central bank set the
minimum down payment for four-wheeled vehicle loans at 30
percent, motorcycles at 25 percent and commercial vehicles at 20
percent.  The CIMB analysts also expect a “sharp drop” in United
Tractors’ heavy equipment sales in the third quarter.  United Tractors reduced its 2012 sales target by 10 percent
to 8,800 units, the same amount it sold last year, as lower coal
prices cut demand for its heavy equipment, Corporate Secretary
Sara K. Loebis said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at  gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  