-- Latham, Wachtell, Covington, Edwards Wildman: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-27T04:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/latham-wachtell-covington-edwards-wildman-business-of-law.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  agreed to
sell its Hamilton Sundstrand industrial unit to  Carlyle Group LP (CG) 
and  BC Partners  for $3.46 billion as the company raises cash to
pay for aerospace supplier  Goodrich Corp. (GR)   Latham & Watkins LLP is advising BC Partners and The
 Carlyle Group  in the transaction. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
is advising  United Technologies .  Latham’s corporate deal team led by Washington partners
Daniel Lennon and Paul Sheridan. The firm also advised on bank
finance, capital markets and bonds, tax, antitrust, employee
benefits, intellectual property and technology, real estate, and
environmental matters.  Trevor S. Norwitz is the lead corporate partner for
Wachtell. Additional lawyers on the deal include: corporate
partner Igor Kirman; antitrust partner David A. Schwartz;
executive compensation and benefits partner Jeremy L. Goldstein;
and tax partners T. Eiko Stange and Joshua M. Holmes.  The transaction will be financed with equity from the firms
and third-party debt from a group of banks, London-based BC
Partners and Carlyle Group said July 25 in a statement. The deal
with Hartford, Connecticut-based United Technologies is expected
to close in the fourth quarter, the companies said.  Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  is now a step
closer to completing his fundraising for the $16.5 billion
Goodrich purchase announced last year.  United Technologies raised $9.8 billion in May in the
largest U.S. corporate bond offering in more than three years to
help pay for Goodrich, an acquisition that will let Chenevert
add the biggest maker of aircraft landing gear to brands that
include Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Sikorsky helicopters.  Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial consists of three
businesses: Sundyne, a maker of high-speed pumps and compressors
used in oil and gas applications and chemical/industrial
infrastructure; pump-maker Milton Roy; and Sullair, which
produces compressors used to power air-driven industrial
equipment and tools.  “While these are strong, profitable companies with solid
customers and continued promising outlooks, they are not part of
UTC’s core of aerospace and building systems,” Chenevert said
in a statement. Raymond Svider, co-chairman of BC Partners,
called Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial “a world-class
platform.”  Carlyle, the Washington-based firm that oversees more than
$159 billion, will make the Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial
investment from its fifth flagship buyout fund, Carlyle Partners
V. The fund began investing in 2007 with $13.7 billion and had a
net internal rate of return of 10 percent as of March 31,
according to Carlyle. Its other investments include BankUnited
Inc., HD Supply Inc. and Syniverse Technologies Ltd.  BC Partners, which owns companies including gym operator
Fitness First Ltd. and casino operator Regency Entertainment SA,
said it has 12.6 billion euros ($15.3 billion) of advised funds.  Latham was also involved in a second deal announced
yesterday. The firm advised Odyssey Investment Partners, LLC,
which announced that it acquired L-com, Inc., a provider of
wired and wireless connectivity products to original equipment
manufacturers, system integrators and network installers across
diverse end markets. Financial terms of the transaction were not
disclosed.  Latham’s New York corporate deal team was led by partners
John Giouroukakis and Howard Sobel. Advice was also provided by
New York partners Kirk Davenport and Dennis Lamont on finance
matters; New York partner Bradd Williamson on benefits &
compensation matters; New York partner David Raab on tax
matters; New York partner Steven Betensky on intellectual
property matters; New York counsel David Langer on environmental
matters and Hong Kong partner Allen Wang on matters related to
Chinese law.  For more, click here.  Litigation/Arbitration  Human Genome Investors Denied Extra Time to Weigh Glaxo Deal  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  investors lost a bid to extend
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s deadline today to decide whether to tender
their shares for a $3 billion buyout.  U.S. District Judge Sue L. Robinson ruled yesterday in
Wilmington, Delaware, that the shareholders aren’t entitled to
more time to consider the offer, saying they won’t be harmed and
haven’t demonstrated a likelihood of success in their suit.  Glaxo and  Human Genome  “followed the tender offer rules
‘just like a cookbook,”’ Robinson wrote in her nine-page
decision.  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP represented Human
Genome and the individual directors defendants in this matter.  The investors yesterday also lost a parallel action in
state court in Rockville,  Maryland , where Human Genome is based,
according to  David Clarke , a DLA Piper LLP lawyer who represents
the company in that case.  “The judge found that the disclosures were adequate,” and
rejected the shareholders’ request for more information and
time, Clarke said in a phone interview.  The ruling couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court
records.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, agreed to acquire
Human Genome for $14.25 a share, according to a statement on
July 16. London-based Glaxo sought to acquire its Benlysta lupus
treatment partner for months, offering $13 a share in April. The
deal accepted by Human Genome’s executives is valued at $3.6
billion including debt and cash.  The shareholders argued they needed more time “to digest”
Glaxo’s new offer because of a $1.25-a-share increase in the
offer on July 16, according to Robinson’s ruling.  Blake A. Bennett, a lawyer representing the shareholders,
said in a phone interview he couldn’t immediately comment on the
ruling.  Skadden attorneys Edward Welch and Edward Micheletti, who
represented Human Genome and its directors in the Delaware case,
declined to comment on the decision.  The cases are David v. Human Genome Sciences Inc., 12-CV-
965, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington); and
Howell v. Watkins, 3625331, Circuit Court for Montgomery County,
Maryland (Rockville).  Yukos Investors Win Tribunal Award From Russia, Lawyers Say  Spanish investors in jailed former billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky ’s Yukos Oil Co. won an arbitration award from
 Russia , which nationalized the company, the plaintiff’s lawyers
said.  Covington & Burling LLP, which represented the Spanish
investors, said in a statement July 25 that the Stockholm
Chamber of Commerce’s arbitration arm ruled that Russia used
“illegitimate” tax bills to bankrupt and nationalize Yukos,
which it valued at $60 billion.  “This ruling vindicates the rights of Spanish investors,
and indeed, all investors in Yukos,” said Marney Cheek, a
partner at Covington & Burling, in the statement. The law firm
last year  estimated  that claims against Russia related to Yukos
by minority investors were about $10 billion.  Yukos was dismantled and sold at auction, mostly to state-
run  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , to cover billions of dollars in back taxes
after Khodorkovsky was arrested in 2003. Khodorkovsky, once the
richest man in the country, is serving 13 years in prison for
two separate convictions for fraud and  tax evasion . He says he
was targeted by President  Vladimir Putin  for financing
opposition parties, an accusation the Kremlin denies.  Suvi Lappalainen, a spokeswoman for the Swedish tribunal,
said confidentiality rules prevent the body from commenting on
individual cases. All rulings are “enforceable,” she said by
phone yesterday. The case was filed under a bilateral investment
treaty between Russia and Spain.  “There is nothing to comment on here,” Sergei Storchak,
the Russian deputy finance minister who oversees foreign debt,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “The press release is empty and
doesn’t even give the compensation amount. Most of the text is
dated.”  The U.S. and European Union criticized Khodorkovsky’s
latest conviction in December 2010, saying it showed a failure
to respect the rule of law that was harmful to the investment
climate.  The Dutch remnant of Yukos, run by former management of the
company, received $425 million from Rosneft in August 2010 after
a Dutch court ordered it to repay loans granted before
nationalization.  Firm News  Edwards Wildman Appoints Debt Finance, Capital Markets Co-Chair  Matthew V.P. McTygue has been appointed co-chair of the
debt finance and capital markets group at Edwards Wildman Palmer
LLP. He joins James I. Ruben, who is resident in the firm’s
 Boston  office, in leading the practice.  Based in Boston, McTygue’s practice focuses on debt
finance. He represents private equity and venture capital firms,
investors, commercial lenders and private companies in a range
of business and financing transactions, including senior,
mezzanine, subordinated and venture debt financings,
restructurings and recapitalizations, leveraged buyouts, mergers
and acquisitions, private equity financings and corporate
matters, the firm said.  In addition, he serves on the firmwide advisory board, co-
chairs the firm’s technology committee and chairs the Boston
office diversity committee.  Edwards Wildman has a large and sophisticated Debt Finance
and Capital Markets Practice that represents global financial
institutions, banks, finance companies, insurance companies,
 hedge funds  and other institutional lenders, including Bank of
America, CIT, JPMorgan Chase Bank, TD Bank, RBS Citizens, and
Wells Fargo, and represent most of the 10 largest banks in the
U.S.  The firm has 14 offices in the U.S., Europe and  Asia .  Moves  SNR Denton Hires Real Estate Lawyer in Chicago  Scott Toban has joined SNR Denton LLP in the Chicago office
as a partner in its real estate practice. Toban was most
recently principal and general counsel of the Real Estate
Institute, an education provider for the real estate brokerage
and mortgage brokerage industry, the firm said.  Prior to that, Toban was a partner at Mayer Brown LLP,
after first practicing as an associate in the real estate
practice of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP, one of SNR
Denton’s founding firms.  “Scott is an extremely talented lawyer with a rare
combination of law firm, business and government experience that
adds a new dimension to our broad-based real estate practice,”
Robert Fernandez, practice leader for SNR Denton’s U.S. Real
Estate team said in a statement.  Toban has more than 17 years of combined experience as a
commercial real estate and finance lawyer. He has advised
companies and individuals on transactions, regulatory issues and
compliance matters, mergers and acquisitions, policies and
operations. He has experience representing institutional
investors, secured lenders, developers, property managers and
real estate brokers in a multitude of real estate and finance
matters.  SNR Denton has 16 U.S. offices, and a total of 60 locations
including associate firms and special alliances world-wide.  News  TARP Report Questions Fees to Firms; Says Simpson Overbilled  A government report to Congress questions some of the fees
paid to big law firms in relation to the Treasury’s Troubled
Asset Relief Program and claims Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
overbilled the federal government $96,500, The American Lawyer
Magazine  reports .  The special inspector general’s report, or SIGTARP report,
says that in over charging the government, Simpson billed
$69,000 at rates higher than permissible and that $22,500 in
costs were charged that weren’t allowed according to the
contract.  The report also asked the Treasury to look at whether
almost $8 paid to four firms was permissible, an issue first
raised in a similar report last fall, the magazine said. They
included: almost $5.8 million to Simpson Thacher; almost
$2 million to Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP; $147,000 to
Locke Lord LLP and $58,000 paid to McKee Nelson LLP, which
Bingham McCutchen LLP acquired in 2009, AmLaw reported.  John Rapisardi, co-chair of Cadwalader’s restructuring
practice said in an e-mail, “Cadwalader’s efforts and success
on behalf of our country and the nation’s treasury related to
the auto industry crisis and were provided under extraordinary
time pressure. The fees charged by Cadwalader with regard to
that effort were accurate in all respects and eminently
reasonable given the discounts provided and the staffing
required.”  Simpson Thacher and Lock Lord did not respond to an e-mail
or phone call requesting comment. Bingham declined to comment.  TARP expired in October 2010, though the Treasury continued
to pay 13 firms to help run related programs, AmLaw reported.
Cadwalader topped the list of firms with $21.9 million paid for
auto restructuring and bankruptcy advice, the magazine said. Six
more were paid more than a million. They are: Simpson Thacher,
$6 million; SNR Denton LLP, $4,6 million; Hughes Hubbard & Reed
LLP, $4.5 million; Squire Sanders LLP, $3.6;  Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, $2.9; and Venable LLP, $1.4
million, according to the magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 