-- Baht Rises This Week on Exporter Demand, ECB Pledge; Bonds Gain
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-07-27T08:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/baht-rises-this-week-on-exporter-demand-ecb-pledge-bonds-gain.html
Thailand ’s baht had a weekly advance
amid speculation exporters stepped up purchases of the currency
after it sank to the weakest level in almost two years.
Government bonds rose.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index and the  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia-
Pacific Index of shares climbed today after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday policy makers will do
whatever is needed to preserve the euro. The baht reached 32 on
July 23, the weakest level since August 2010, as Europe’s
worsening debt crisis bolstered demand for the greenback. Global
funds sold $197 million more Thai equities than they bought this
week through yesterday, exchange data show.  “The fact that the dollar was at such a high level versus
the baht, it was an opportune time to convert,” said  Sacha
Tihanyi , a strategist at Scotiabank in Hong Kong, a unit of  Bank
of Nova Scotia. (BNS)  “Draghi’s comments yesterday were certainly a
big help for the baht against the dollar.”  The baht strengthened 0.4 percent this week and 0.2 percent
today to 31.55 per dollar as of 3:18 p.m. in Bangkok, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its one-month implied volatility,
a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, has
held at 5.02 percent for the past two weeks.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.14 percent this
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate slid one
basis point today.  The Bank of Thailand kept its benchmark interest  rate 
unchanged at 3 percent on July 25 and said it is prepared to
help support the economy if needed. The industrial production
index dropped 9.6 percent in June from a year earlier after a
revised 6 percent expansion in May, the Office of Industrial
Economics said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  