-- Barclays Sorry for Libor-Rigging as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-07-27T09:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/barclays-pretax-profit-rises-on-retail-investment-banking.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the British lender
fined for rigging Libor, apologized for its role in the scandal
as it posted first-half profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Pretax profit excluding one-time items rose 13 percent to
4.23 billion pounds ($6.6 billion), the London-based bank said
in a statement today. That beat the 3.9 billion-pound median
prediction of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We are sorry for what has happened,” Chairman Marcus Agius said in the statement. “However, our leadership continues
to focus on the delivery of our financial performance targets.”  Barclays’s attempts to put its regulatory troubles behind
it were complicated today as it said four employees, including
Finance Director Chris Lucas, are being probed over the
disclosure of fees related to the bank’s fundraising in 2008.
The lender, whose three top executives stepped down after the
bank fined a record 290 million pounds last month for Libor-
rigging, also disclosed it was the target of more lawsuits in
the U.S. related to the scandal.  The shares rose 4.9 percent to 161.10 pence as of 10:35
a.m. in London trading for a market value of about 19.7 billion
pounds. The stock has dropped 16 percent since the June 27 fine.  The Financial Services Authority is investigating four
current and former senior employees, including, Lucas, Barclays
said. The bank raised 7 billion pounds of capital from investors
including  Abu Dhabi  and Qatar sovereign wealth funds in 2008,
helping the bank to avoid a government bailout. Agius told
reporters on a call today that Lucas has the “full confidence”
of the board and declined to comment further on the probe.  Class Actions  The bank also said it was the target of class action suits
linked to its alleged manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate. Barclays didn’t give an estimate of how much the
suits may cost.  Total revenue at the investment bank increased by 4 percent
in the first half from the year-earlier period to 5 billion
pounds, as revenue from fixed income, currency and commodities
jumped 11 percent. The division’s adjusted pretax profit rose to
2.6 billion pounds in the half from 2.4 billion pounds.  By contrast Wall Street’s five biggest banks, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., posted the
lowest first-half revenue since 2008 in the first half of 2012
as trading and deal-making dried up.  ‘Nobody’ Better  While FICC revenue was down 18 percent in the second
quarter compared with the previous three months, the decline was
still less than the 39 percent drop at firms such as Credit
Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG, said  Christopher Wheeler ,
a Mediobanca SpA banking analyst.  “In FICC, nobody has done better,” Wheeler said in a
telephone interview today. “The Lehman footprint is very
powerful,” he said, referring to the London-based lender’s
purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s U.S. operations out
of bankruptcy in 2008.  The FICC unit is gaining market share, the investment
banking unit’s chief executive officer  Rich Ricci  said on a call
with analysts today. Revenue gains are “sustainable,” he said.  Total staff costs, including pay and bonuses, fell 8.4
percent to 5.15 billion pounds. The bank isn’t preparing any
reductions in headcount, Ricci said.  Profit at the retail and business banking unit, overseen by
Anthony Jenkins, climbed to 1.7 billion pounds from 1.5 billion
pounds in the year-earlier period as provisions for bad loans
and costs fell.  ROE Rises  Return on equity adjusted for credit gains and losses and
one-time items rose to 9.9 percent from 9.3 percent. After
taking over as CEO in 2011,  Robert Diamond  vowed to boost the
measure of profitability to 13 percent, about double last year’s
6.6 percent ratio. He scrapped a timeline for reaching that
target by 2013 in February.  The bank posted a net loss for the first half of 410
million pounds compared with a net income of 1.17 billion pounds
in the year-earlier period after setting aside 450 million
pounds to compensate customers wrongly sold interest-rate
hedging products. The bank also recorded a 2.95 billion-pound
charge linked to the value of its own credit.  Diamond, Agius and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier all said they would step down following the Libor fine.
The bank is searching for a replacement chairman first before
seeking a new CEO, Agius told reporters on a call today.  He also defended Barclays against pressure for it to
separate its investment and consumer banking operations, saying
the global universal banking model is “right” for Barclays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  