-- Barclays Said to Be Probed in U.K. on Fees to Qatar Fund
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-07-27T16:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/barclays-s-lucas-probed-in-u-k-on-capital-raise-fee-disclosure.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  is being investigated
over whether it adequately disclosed fees it agreed to pay to
the Qatar Investment Authority as it sought to raise money from
investors including the sovereign wealth fund, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation.  “The bank entered into an agreement for the provision of
advisory services by Qatar Investment Authority to Barclays in
the  Middle East ,” the lender said in a June 2008 statement
detailing the fundraising. Britain’s Financial Services
Authority is probing whether that disclosure was adequate, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the terms of
the investigation are private.  Barclays’s attempts to put its  regulatory troubles  behind
it in the wake of last month’s record fine for manipulating
Libor were complicated today by its disclosure that four current
and former senior employees, including Finance Director Chris Lucas, were being probed by the FSA. The bank made the
disclosure today as it reported first-half  profit  that beat
 analyst  estimates.  “We are sorry for what has happened,” Chairman Marcus
Agius said in a statement. “However, our leadership continues
to focus on the delivery of our financial performance targets.”  Barclays  stock  jumped 8.7 percent to 167 pence today in
London trading, the steepest increase since January. Pretax
profit excluding one-time items rose 13 percent to 4.23 billion
pounds ($6.6 billion), helped by fewer bad loans at the consumer
unit and market-share gains at the investment bank. The result
beat the 3.9 billion-pound median prediction of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Libor Lawsuits  The shares are still about 13 percent below their June 26
close, the day before the record Libor fines were disclosed.
Criticism from lawmakers and the  Bank of England  forced the
resignation of the bank’s top three executives, including former
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond . Barclays also said today
it was the target of more lawsuits linked to claims it rigged
the London interbank offered rate. The bank didn’t give an
estimate of how much the suits may cost.  Barclays raised 7 billion pounds of capital from investors
including the Abu Dhabi and Qatar sovereign wealth funds as the
financial crisis worsened in 2008. The move allowed the bank to
avoid a government bailout, unlike Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  Deliberately Disclosed  “The FSA is investigating the sufficiency of disclosure in
relation to fees payable under certain commercial agreements and
whether these may have related to Barclays capital raisings in
June and November 2008,” the lender said in today’s statement.  Stephen Benzikie, an external spokesman for Qatar Holding,
part of the Qatar Investment Authority, and Liam Parker, an FSA
spokesman, declined to comment.  Barclays Chairman Marcus Agius said on a call with
journalists today that Lucas’s name was deliberately disclosed
by the bank as the information was potentially market-moving,
and said investigations such as this occur “routinely.” He
said the board retained “full confidence” in Lucas.  Roger Jenkins, former head of Barclays’s structured capital
markets unit, received a bonus of more than 30 million pounds
for helping to broker the investments, while Amanda Staveley of
PCP Capital Partners was paid a 40 million-pound commission for
her advice, the  New York  Times reported in November 2008.  “Barclays considers that it satisfied its disclosure
obligations and confirms that it will cooperate fully with the
FSA’s investigation,” the bank said today.  Investment Banking  Spokesmen for Staveley and Jenkins weren’t immediately
available to comment today.  Profit at the retail and business banking unit, overseen by
Anthony Jenkins, climbed to 1.7 billion pounds from 1.5 billion
pounds in the year-earlier period as provisions for bad loans
and costs fell.  Total revenue at the investment bank increased 4 percent in
the first half from the year-earlier period to 5 billion pounds,
as revenue from fixed income, currency and commodities, known as
FICC, jumped 11 percent. The division’s adjusted pretax profit
rose to 2.6 billion pounds in the half from 2.4 billion pounds.  Rich Ricci , who runs the investment bank Diamond had built
from the 1990s, said the business was gaining market share from
rivals.  “In FICC, nobody has done better,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “The Lehman
footprint is very powerful,” he said, referring to the London-
based lender’s purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s U.S.
operations out of bankruptcy in 2008.  Wall Street  By contrast,  Wall Street ’s five biggest banks, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., posted the
lowest first-half revenue since 2008 in the first half of 2012
as trading and deal-making dried up.  Total staff costs, including pay and bonuses, fell 8.4
percent to 5.15 billion pounds. The bank isn’t preparing any
reductions in headcount, Ricci said.  Ricci is the most prominent Diamond lieutenant left at the
bank after Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier and Agius
said they would step down after the 290 million-pound Libor
fine. The bank has also faced criticism from lawmakers and has
been forced to make provisions after regulators ordered it to
compensate clients mis-sold payment-protection insurance as well
as interest-rate hedging products.  Barclays today said it set aside an extra 450 million
pounds during the half to compensate customers who were mis-sold
derivatives. The lender has opened an internal review into its
business practices, led by Anthony Salz, an executive vice
chairman at Rothschild and former corporate lawyer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  