-- Barrick Gold Chases Returns Instead of Ounces
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-07-27T20:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/barrick-gold-chases-returns-instead-of-ounces-corporate-canada.html
After years of takeovers and mine
expansions buoyed by soaring gold prices,  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ’s
former chief financial officer is bringing the company back down
to earth.  Barrick, the world’s biggest gold producer, said yesterday
it began a review of all its assets. Chief Executive Officer
Jamie Sokalsky, who’s been in the job seven weeks, said some
development projects don’t meet new requirements and output
targets will be lower. Production growth will be driven by rates
of return, “not the other way around,” he said.  Sokalsky, 55, is bowing to pressure from investors to be
stricter on capital allocation and cash flow after the cost of
Barrick’s Pascua-Lama mine blew out by as much as 60 percent to
$8 billion. After 11 straight years of gains which have seen
gold rise more than fivefold, the price of the precious metal is
up just 3.9 percent this year, giving producers less room for
maneuver and pushing them to focus on returns instead of output.
Barrick said July 6 it fired Sokalsky’s predecessor Aaron Regent
after being disappointed by its share price performance.  “I think it’s the company adopting what shareholders were
looking for,” said  David Christensen , CEO of ASA Ltd. in  San
Mateo ,  California , which manages $600 million and invests in
precious metals companies. “He was preaching to the choir.”  Barrick dropped 4.2 percent to C$33.04 in Toronto yesterday
after reporting the higher cost of Pascua-Lama and posting
second-quarter profit that was lower than expected. The shares
have declined 29 percent this year. The shares declined 1.7
percent today to close at C$32.49.  Dissatisfied Investors  The  NYSE Arca Gold BUGS (HUI)  Index of 16 gold-mining companies
has fallen 17 percent in 2012. The index is trading at about 13
times earnings, compared with a five-year average multiple of
35, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold-mining valuations show that investors have been
“dissatisfied” with capital allocations in the gold industry,
Sokalsky said yesterday in a conference call.  “They are looking for higher rates of return and free  cash
flow , not just production growth for the sake of production
growth,” he said.  Mining investors are becoming more interested in short-term
results and returns, said Caesar Bryan, portfolio manager at
Gabelli & Co. Inc. in Rye,  New York , who owns Barrick stock.
Bryan says he doesn’t agree with that shift.  “Gold investors in the olden days looked more at reserve
growth, growth in reserves and production growth over the long
haul,” Bryan said. “Now it’s about what are the earnings this
quarter, last quarter, next quarter.”  Cost Revisions  Sokalsky is a chartered accountant who spent a decade at
Canadian food processor and distributor  George Weston Ltd. (WN) 
before joining Barrick as treasurer in 1993. He became CFO in
1999. He’s the third CEO at Barrick in less than four years.  Returns will be a “core element” of Barrick’s investment
decisions going forward and will be measured based on free cash
flow and risk-adjusted returns, he said on the call.  Pascua-Lama, located 3,800 to 5,200 meters (12,468 to
17,061 feet) up in the Andes on the border between  Chile  and
 Argentina , was forecast to cost no more than $3 billion when
Barrick, then led by Regent, approved its go-ahead in 2009.  That estimate was revised to $4.7 billion to $5 billion in
July last year. Barrick said yesterday the price tag will be
about 50 percent to 60 percent more than the top end of that
range. Initial production will now be in mid-2014, not mid-2013.
Among the explanations given by the company are the project’s
unanticipated complexity, delays to a tunnel and processing
plant, and local cost inflation.  ‘Very Disappointing’  “Ultimately the project management structure was
inefficient and created productivity issues so we didn’t get
things done as well and as quickly as we could have,” Sokalsky
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “The delay in the
schedule did surprise me and it’s very disappointing.”  While Barrick still plans to proceed with Pascua-Lama, it
said yesterday that the Donlin Gold project in  Alaska  and the
Cerro Casale project in Chile don’t currently meet its
investment criteria.  Some of Barrick’s competitors have had to make similarly
tough decisions this year. Canada’s  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  said in
February it would delay development of mines in Ecuador and
Chile and concentrate on the expansion of its Tasiast project in
Mauritania, where labor and raw-material costs have climbed.
Kinross CEO Tye Burt said May 9 that his company is using
stricter criteria for spending.  Gold-mining costs are rising as wages soar because of a
shortage of skilled workers. Operational setbacks and companies
producing lower-grade ore from aging mines are also contributing
to inflation. Barrick said yesterday that its so-called total
cash production cost was $613 per ounce of gold in the second
quarter, 38 percent higher than a year earlier.  Barrick M&A  “I’ve been telling our mine managers for the last three
years to focus on cash flow, not ounces,” Chuck Jeannes, the
CEO of  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , Barrick’s biggest Canadian competitor,
said yesterday in an interview. “From the new projects side,
we’ve been pretty deliberate in trying to acquire and then build
projects that have very strong returns.”  Barrick, founded by Chairman  Peter Munk , has paid about
$19.4 billion over the past 10 years to acquire other mining
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It paid
about $10.2 billion in 2006 for rival Canadian gold producer
Placer Dome Inc., a record sum for a gold takeover.  In July last year, Barrick bought Equinox Minerals Ltd
C$7.46 billion ($7.43 billion), giving it control of the Lumwana
copper mine in  Zambia . Barrick said yesterday that Lumwana’s
production this year will be less than expected as the company
changes the way the mine is operated.  Sokalsky didn’t rule out future acquisitions.  “We’ll look at everything under the auspices of this
disciplined capital allocation program,” he said in the
interview. “Every dollar of capital is going to compete in the
company and I couldn’t say that we are going to try to move in
one direction versus another in terms of buy versus build.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  