-- Beijing Updates Rainstorm Death Toll to 77 After Skepticism
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-27T07:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/beijing-updates-rainstorm-death-toll-to-77-after-skepticism-1-.html
Beijing’s municipal government
increased its death tally from record rainstorms last weekend to
77, after  China ’s microbloggers expressed skepticism about an
earlier official total of 37.  More bodies were found as rescue workers combed through
rain-triggered mudslide debris, Xinhua News Agency said
yesterday, citing Pan Anjun, a spokesman for Beijing’s flood
control headquarters. There probably won’t be a further sharp
increase in the toll because the search for the missing is
almost over, the official news service said.  Local authorities hadn’t updated the tally since their
initial estimate on July 22, and the slowness “left the general
public enraged and perplexed,” Xinhua said earlier yesterday in
a commentary questioning the city’s information transparency.
The July 21 storm dumped as much as 16 inches of rain on
Beijing, the most in six decades, prompting more than 500
million  yuan  ($78 million) of insurance claims for vehicle and
property damage, according to Xinhua.  Chinese cities including  Shanghai , Wuhan and Guangzhou are
improving their drainage systems to handle rain as officials
seek to allay concerns prompted by the Beijing flooding, the
English-language  China Daily  reported today.  Underground Tunnel  Shanghai plans to spend 10.4 billion yuan ($1.6 billion)
improving drainage systems before 2015, the newspaper reported,
citing Ma Yuandong, an official with the Shanghai Drainage
Administration. The southern city of Guangzhou plans to spend as
much as 8 billion yuan building an underground tunnel stretching
more than 100 kilometers (62 miles) to improve water drainage,
the newspaper said.  Beijing announced in July of last year that it would invest
2.1 billion yuan to update the city’s drainage system by 2015,
according to the 21st Century Business Herald.  Of the 77 victims in Beijing, 66 have been identified,
including five people who died while carrying out rescue work,
Xinhua said, citing Pan. The remaining 61 identified bodies
include 46 drownings, five electrocutions and deaths by housing
collapse, falling objects, mudslides, “traumatic shock” and
lightning strike, the  news agency  said.  Sales of emergency hammers surged on China’s e-commerce
sites after reports that a man among the rainstorm victims
drowned when he was trapped in his car and couldn’t escape the
floodwaters.  The top 10 sellers of the hammers on Taobao.com, China’s
biggest e-commerce website, were all out of stock yesterday,
they said. Buyers were told they would be able to receive their
orders in about two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  