-- BMW Tests Electric-Scooter Prototype at London Olympics
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-07-27T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/bmw-tests-electric-scooter-prototype-at-london-olympics.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, will let selected  London 
Olympics visitors drive prototype electric scooters during the
games as it accelerates expansion of its two-wheeler lineup.  The C Evolution model is being introduced in the U.K.
capital today at the start of a Europewide promotional tour
planned for the rechargeable scooters that BMW is targeting for
sale in two years, the Munich-based manufacturer said.  “We plan to bring the scooter in a very similar form to
market in 2014,” Rudolf-Andreas Probst, a spokesman for BMW’s
motorcycle division, said in an e-mail. “Beforehand, we need to
clarify some technical and marketing aspects.”  The company, which owns the  BMW and Husqvarna  motorcycle
brands, is adding to a line that it revived earlier this month
with the market introduction of two gasoline-powered scooters.
The C Evolution will be equipped with the same lithium-ion
electricity-storage modules that BMW plans to use in the i3
four-seat compact car going on sale in late 2013.  BMW will offer C Evolutions for use as shuttle vehicles by
journalists covering the  Summer Olympics  as well as by
unspecified “VIPs” and the carmaker’s employees, Probst said
today in an interview. BMW will have its own charging stations
for the scooters in London, though the version that goes on sale
will be equipped to use regular household sockets, he said.  The company is looking at cooperating with car-sharing and
vehicle-rental companies to add the C Evolution to their fleets
during the model’s test phase, BMW said.  Current Models  Motorcycle dealers in  Europe  began offering BMW’s C600
sport and C650 GT maxiscooters this month, and the models will
go on sale elsewhere later this year, the carmaker said June 18.
The company is targeting 10,000 deliveries a year of the two
scooters combined as of 2013, Heiner Faust, head of sales at
BMW’s motorcycle unit, said in an interview earlier this month.
BMW ended production of its enclosed C1 scooter nine years ago.  The C Evolution, with a range of 100 kilometers (60 miles)
and a top speed of 120 km per hour, is part of BMW’s effort to
develop low-emission models both for urban use and enjoyable
driving. The carmaker is positioning the battery-powered i3 as a
city car, and is developing a plug-in hybrid supercar, the i8,
scheduled to go on sale in two years.  The electric scooter will compete with a model that  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Smart city-car brand also plans to put on sale in 2014.
Smart already offers an electric-powered bicycle for 2,849 euros
($3,500) in  Germany  that will come to the U.S. next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  