-- BOE Seen Maintaining QE as It Monitors Stimulus, Lending Program
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-07-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/boe-seen-maintaining-qe-as-it-monitors-stimulus-lending-program.html
The  Bank of England  will maintain
the bond-purchase program it began this month as policy makers
monitor the impact on the economy of the additional stimulus and
their credit-easing program, economists said.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by  Mervyn King  will keep its target for  asset purchases  at 375 billion
pounds ($589 billion), said all 40 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. It will also hold its benchmark interest rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent, a separate poll showed.  Britain’s economy shrank the most in more than three years
in the second quarter, pushing it deeper into a recession.
Citing the impact of the euro-area debt crisis, the MPC
announced a four-month, 50 billion-pound round of quantitative
easing earlier this month and a new program to boost lending and
pull the U.K. out of the slump. Policy makers also said they may
review the merits of interest-rate cuts.  “Data point to more monetary easing in due course but
nothing at next week’s meeting,” Brian Hilliard  and other
analysts at  Societe Generale  SA in London said in a note
yesterday. “The committee has no need to rush on QE as it has
an existing program to complete and, on rates, it has said it
will not revisit the idea of a cut for several months.”  The Bank of England will announce the decisions at noon on
Aug. 2, while the  European Central Bank , which cut its  benchmark
rate  to a record low this month, will unveil its latest move 45
minutes later. The  Federal Reserve  concludes its policy meeting
the previous evening.  Euro Crisis  Minutes of the MPC’s July 4-5 meeting showed officials
voted 7-2 to increase QE. They also said they may reconsider the
case for an  interest-rate  cut after assessing their new lending
and liquidity measures. Societe Generale changed its interest-
rate prediction this week and now forecasts a 25 basis-point cut
in November. It also said the economy will probably shrink 0.1
percent this year, revising a previous projection for 0.1
percent growth.  In addition to QE, the Bank of England started its Funding
for Lending Scheme, designed to boost credit to companies and
households. It will allow banks to borrow treasury bills from
the central bank which they can use as collateral to fund
lending.  The U.K. central bank cited concerns about the euro crisis
for the new measures. Since the decisions, the turmoil in the
region has continued to worsen, with yields on Spanish debt
surging and concern mounting the nation may need a full bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  