-- BofA Cools on Junk Priciest to Stocks Since ’93: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-07-27T16:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/bofa-cools-on-junk-priciest-to-stocks-since-93-credit-markets.html
Junk bonds  are losing their sheen
after becoming about the most expensive  relative  to stocks in at
least two decades, prompting firms from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to
Loomis Sayles & Co. to warn that gains on the debt may wane.  Speculative-grade bonds in the U.S. have underperformed
investment-grade notes for the longest stretch since November.
The securities yield 0.14 percentage point less than a similar
measure for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index of stocks, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. As recently as last month the bonds
yielded about half a percentage point more than equities.  Bond-fund managers that in May preferred putting their
money in junk debt have shifted back to favoring the safest
corporate notes, Bank of America strategists said in a July 23
report. With  prices  8 percent higher than the historical
average, the bonds are losing value this week as  Europe ’s debt
crisis deepens and U.S.  consumer confidence  reaches the lowest
level in two months.  “If you invest in it at these levels, you have to go in
with eyes wide open,” said Matthew Eagan, a Boston-based
manager of the  Loomis Sayles  Absolute Strategies  fund , which has
outperformed 94 percent of its peers this year. “Your maximum
upside is limited to basically earning your coupon. Your
downside is, what if there’s a major risk-off trade?”  Junk Gains  Speculative-grade bonds gained 105 percent since the end of
2008 through July 20, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. That compares with a 58 percent return for the  S&P 500 .
With an International Association of Credit Portfolio Managers
survey showing investors the most pessimistic about the outlook
for junk bonds since 2008, the debt is poised to underperform
investment-grade debentures this year, Bank of America
strategists are forecasting.  “In the next month or so, with what’s happening in Europe,
we’ll see some volatility,” said Adam Richmond, a high-yield
bond strategist at  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  “If I were an investor, I’d
be looking to add on weakness, but maybe not today.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. declined for a third
day, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 3.1 basis points to a mid-price of
108.2 basis points as of 12:02 p.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Rate Swaps  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate  swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, decreased 0.07 basis point to 21.18 basis
points as of 11:58 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 124 trades of $1 million or more as of 12:03 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The biopharmaceutical
producer sold $2 billion of bonds yesterday.  Junk Inflows  Investors have put $41.6 billion into junk-bond funds in
2012 as the Fed holds its benchmark interest rate near zero for
a fourth year and  yields  on 10-year U.S. Treasuries plummeted to
a record low 1.38 percent on July 25. Fund inflows are up from
$13.94 billion in the same period last year and a net $8.3
billion for all of 2011, according to EPFR Global data.  Helping to lure investors, the global speculative-grade
corporate default rate of 2.7 percent at the end of the second
quarter was almost half the historical average of 4.8 percent
since 1983, according to Moody’s.  Demand for the debt has pushed yields on dollar-denominated
speculative-grade notes to 7.7 percent, within half a percentage
point of the record-low level reached in May 2011, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “There’s a lot of risk out there that’s not reflected in
current pricing” of high-yield bonds, said Bonnie Baha, head of
global developed credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital
LP, which oversees $40 billion. “How much juice can you squeeze
out of a lemon? It’s pretty toppy here.”  Negative Outlook  The credit portfolio managers group’s gauge of investor
sentiment in the junk-bond market dropped to negative 26.8 at
the end of the second quarter, the lowest since September 2008,
the association said this week. The survey of 84 financial
institutions from Deutsche Bank AG to Barclays Plc, gauges
sentiment about corporate credit, with negative levels
indicating the expectation of deterioration of conditions.  The yield-to-worst on the debt, a measure that takes into
account the risk that bonds will be redeemed early, was 7.1
percent on July 24, Barclays  data  show. That compares with a
7.37 percent so-called earnings yield for the  S&P 500 (SPX) , which
represents company earnings divided by the price of the index.  The ratio between the two measures, which is higher when
the debt is viewed as more expensive, turned positive for the
first time in February, according to the data.  ‘Lurking’ Risks  “Most people like myself would look at the high-yield
market and not give it a resounding endorsement for people to
invest in right now,” Loomis Sayles’s Eagan said in a telephone
interview. “I do think it could play a strategic role in a
portfolio to build yield in a low-yield world. Just recognize
there are exogenous risk factors lurking out there right now
that could result in a bumpy ride from time to time.”  Consumer confidence in the U.S. fell last week to the
lowest level in two months as Americans became more concerned
employment growth will remain sluggish. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index fell to minus 38.5 in the week ended July 22 from
minus 37.9 in the previous period.  The IMF projects the euro-area economy will expand 0.7
percent in 2013, with economies in  Italy  and Spain contracting
for a second consecutive year. That compares with an expected
growth rate of 2.3 percent in the U.S. next year.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve the
euro, suggesting they may intervene in bond markets as surging
yields in Spain and Italy threaten the existence of the 17-
nation currency bloc.  ‘Better Entry’  “The macro data has deteriorated, we do think the second
half will be volatile,” said Morgan Stanley’s Richmond, who
thinks speculative-grade debt is attractive as a medium-term
investment. “You’ll probably find better entry points than
today,” he said.  Junk bonds are returning less than the highest-rated
corporate notes for the fourth straight week, the longest
stretch since the period ended Nov. 27, Bloomberg data show.
Investment-grade bonds in the U.S., which are lagging half a
percentage point behind junk bonds for the year, will post
superior returns in 2012, according to a July 9 Bank of America
forecast.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm is still
overweight credit, including speculative-grade notes.  “You can think about investing in the stock market, but as
the economy has slowed down so much it’s hard to see how the
stock market can generate the returns that investors are looking
for,” said Hans Mikkelsen, a credit strategist at Bank of
America in New York, in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 