-- BofA, Wells Fargo Used Firms That Led to CFPB Accord
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-07-27T20:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/bofa-wells-fargo-used-vendors-that-led-to-capone-fine.html
Bank of America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were among the largest clients of firms
whose products led to a $210 million settlement between  Capital
One Financial Corp. (COF)  and federal regulators.  Intersections Inc. (INTX)  and Affinion Group Holdings Inc. both
provided credit-monitoring programs that were marketed and sold
by third-party vendors to Capital One cardholders, according to
settlement  documents  dated July 17. Bank of America, Wells Fargo
and Citigroup were listed in securities filings as major
customers by one or both of the providers, with Bank of America
accounting for more than half of annual revenue at
Intersections. The vendors weren’t named, and regulators didn’t
accuse Intersections or Affinion of misconduct.  Capital One settled accusations July 18 that vendors used
deceptive, high-pressure practices to sell optional products
such as credit monitoring and payment protection. It was the
first public enforcement case brought by the year-old Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, and Director  Richard Cordray  said
more firms that marketed similar products will face sanctions.  “We know these deceptive marketing tactics for credit-card
add-on products are not unique to a single institution,”
Cordray said last week. “We expect announcements about other
institutions as our ongoing work continues to unfold.” He
didn’t name any of the firms, and Jen Howard, a CFPB
spokeswoman, declined to comment on enforcement plans.  Payment Protection  The dispute concerns so-called payment protection, which
pays credit-card bills in case of job loss or disability, and
monitoring services that alert customers to changes in their
credit profiles.  From August 2010 through last December, vendor call agents
used “high-pressure sales tactics and made materially false,
deceptive, or otherwise misleading oral statements relating to
the cost, coverage terms, benefits, and other features” to sell
products to Capital One customers, documents filed by the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency show.  The bank also billed cardholders for monitoring services as
far back as 2002 even though they didn’t receive full benefits,
said the OCC, which participated in the probe. Customers were
wrongly led to believe they needed to buy the extra services to
activate cards or that debt protection or credit monitoring was
free, and others were left believing that the purchase would
improve their credit scores, Cordray said.  Peer Impact  Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Citigroup spokesmen
declined to comment on whether they received complaints or faced
enforcement actions similar to those at McLean, Virginia-based
Capital One, and the CFPB hasn’t accused them of wrongdoing.  Intersections is a publicly traded firm based in Chantilly,
 Virginia , while Affinion, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , is
owned by private-equity firms  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
 General Atlantic LLC .  James Hart, an Affinion spokesman, declined to comment on
the company’s relationship with current clients. Affinion hasn’t
worked with Capital One since 2001, when Intersections took over
management of credit-protection products, Hart said. Leslie
Garrett, a spokeswoman for Intersections, declined to comment on
specific clients.  Billions at Stake  While Capital One agreed to $150 million in restitution and
$60 million in fines, the lender isn’t listed among the top
clients of either vendor. Bank of America, by contrast,
accounted for 52 percent of Intersections’s revenue in 2011 and
Citigroup comprised 8 percent, according to the vendor’s year-
end filing. Bank of America and Citigroup also are listed among
the top six Affinion clients in that company’s documents.  “That was a pretty large fine and I don’t think it’s
isolated,” said Mark T. Williams, a former Federal Reserve bank
examiner who now teaches risk-management at  Boston University .
“I call it third-party vendor risk and it could be in the
billions of dollars. When we look at all these large banks,
what’s happening is all their unethical practices are coming
back to haunt them.”  The consumer bureau has informed the banks it supervises --
those with assets of at least $10 billion -- that they must
“oversee their business relationships with service providers in
a manner that ensures compliance with federal consumer financial
law,” according to an April 13 statement.  Bank Obligation  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender by assets, uses
Intersections for credit-monitoring products, according to Emily
Collins, a spokeswoman for the New York-based bank. In a
regulatory filing, Affinion called Wells Fargo a “leading
marketing partner” in 2011.  “We engage a number of providers who assist in the
marketing, fulfillment and administration of some of our
protection products for our customers, including Affinion,”
said Erin Downs, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender.  Bank of America, the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
had stopped marketing some of the products by the end of 2011,
Intersections said in a March 15 regulatory filing. The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank has set aside more than
$500 million in reserves for U.K. customers who bought credit-
card payment-insurance products, according to filings.  Eroding Enthusiasm  The filings didn’t show which outside firms were involved,
and  Tony Allen , a Bank of America spokesman, said he couldn’t
comment on the role of vendors.  Regulatory examination of the products is eroding
enthusiasm among bankers for Affinion products, according to
Nathaniel Lipman, the firm’s chief executive officer.  “Because of some of the new regulators on the block, most
notably the CFPB, but secondarily the OCC, those sources of fee
income are under scrutiny,” Lipman said on an April 26
conference call.  Affinion lost money for the past three years, including
$156.9 million in 2011 on revenue of $1.54 billion,  filings 
show. Intersections earned $18.6 million last year on revenue of
$373 million.  Optional card products including credit monitoring have
been the targets of criticism from consumer groups who say they
offer little value. Americans are entitled to a free annual
credit report, said Chi Chi Wu, a lawyer with the Boston-based
National Consumer Law Center.  Getting Out  “By providing services directly to the end-customers of
our marketing partners, we become an important part of our
marketing partners’ businesses,” Affinion said in a filing for
the year ended Dec. 31. “Many of our marketing partners have
been working with us for over 10 years.”  Capital One now plans to abandon this market, saying
earlier this month it can find other ways to grow, and that
marketing calls by its vendors violated “explicit
instructions” on how to sell the products. The company, ranked
sixth by deposits among U.S. commercial banks, apologized and
promised restitution to 2 million customers.  “We have no intention to sell these card add-on products
in the future,” CEO Richard Fairbank, 61, said last week.  Bank of America stopped marketing Intersections products
including identity-theft protection to prospective customers as
of Dec. 31 and said it wouldn’t renew the agreement, according
to a securities filing.  Intersections added more than 573,000 Bank of America
customers in 2011, according to company filings. It lost more
than $320,000 in revenue in the three months ended in March,
compared with a year earlier, largely as a result of the bank’s
decision, according to a May 10 filing.  “We are not obtaining a material number of new subscribers
or new subscriber revenue through Bank of America, and expect a
reduction in marketing and commissions expenses through at least
December 31, 2012,” the vendor said. Shares of Intersections
dropped 1.9 percent to $14.49 at 4 p.m. in  New York , leaving
them more than 30 percent above where they began this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds43@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  