-- BOJ Should Buy Euro Bonds to Stem Yen’s Gain, Ex-MOF’s Ito Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-07-27T00:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/boj-should-buy-euro-bonds-to-stem-yen-s-gain-ex-mof-s-ito-says.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  should consider
buying euro bonds to help stem an advance in the yen against the
common currency that is threatening the nation’s exporters, said
Takatoshi Ito, a former Ministry of Finance official.  “We must realize that a much bigger plunge in the euro may
occur,” Ito, who was deputy vice finance minister from 1999 to
2001, said in an interview in  Tokyo  on July 25. BOJ purchases
would be “surprising” and show investors that  Japan  is
supporting Europe while also taking measures to combat the yen’s
strength, he said.  Ito joins former BOJ Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata and
Takehiro Sato, who was appointed to the central bank’s policy
board this week, in suggesting that the BOJ should weigh buying
foreign-currency bonds.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis has
bosltered the yen’s appeal as a haven, driving it to an 11-year
high against the euro.  Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi on July 25 signaled the
central bank isn’t considering such purchases, saying that doing
so to weaken the yen would be against the BOJ law, which
stipulates that the government dictates currency intervention
policy. That hurdle could be cleared if the Finance Ministry
approves the transactions, said Ito, 61, who’s now an economics
professor at Tokyo University.  Japan needs measures to counter the euro’s swings because
companies haven’t sufficiently hedged against the currency and
have been slower to relocate production facilities, measures
they have taken to cope with the yen’s climb against the dollar,
Ito said. Stocks of  Canon Inc. (7751)  and  Ricoh Co. (7752)  fell this week on
investor concern about their dependence on Europe’s markets.  Yen Surge  Ito said the yen could climb as high as 70 yen per euro
should the concern about the collapse of the single currency
prompt investors to take money out of the region. The yen traded
at 96:09 against the euro and 78.27 per dollar at 9:04 a.m. in
Tokyo.  The BOJ should buy debt issued by the European Financial
Stability Facility, and it may also need to consider purchasing
sovereign bonds of Italy and  Spain  should the  European Central
Bank  buy them, Ito said. Japan’s Finance Ministry has been
purchasing debt from the fund, though the portion of its debt
buys is falling, according to data provided by the  Finance
Ministry .  Unlike government purchases of the debt, which are paid for
with euro holdings in the nation’s foreign-currency reserves,
the BOJ could help weaken the yen by printing currency and
selling it to buy euro bonds, Ito said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  