-- BP Ordered to Pay TNK-BP $3.1 Bln on Failed Rosneft Deal
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-07-27T16:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/bp-ordered-to-pay-tnk-bp-3-1-billion-over-failed-rosneft-deal.html
BP Plc (BP/)  was ordered to pay TNK-BP,
its joint Russian venture with a group of billionaires, 100.4
billion rubles ($3.1 billion) in damages over a failed deal with
oil producer OAO Rosneft.  A court in the Siberian city of Tyumen upheld a suit by
Andrey Prokhorov, a minority investor in listed unit TNK-BP
Holding, court spokeswoman Anastasia Nigmatulina said today by
telephone. Prokhorov claimed TNK-BP could have lost earnings if
a proposed BP-Rosneft share swap and Arctic alliance, from which
it was excluded, had come to fruition.  The judgment, while less than the 409 billion rubles
originally sought by Prokhorov, is “satisfactory,” said Dmitry
Chepurenko, a partner at the Liniya Prava law firm that
represented Prokhorov. BP will challenge the ruling,  Toby Odone ,
a spokesman for the London-based oil producer, said by e-mail.  The ruling piles pressure on BP as it renegotiates its 50
percent holding in TNK-BP with AAR, which represents the
billionaires. BP said June 1 it will pursue a sale of its stake
after years of disagreements with AAR, which in 2011 blocked the
alliance with Rosneft, saying it violated their shareholder
agreement and prevented its access to such an opportunity.  “TNK-BP did not suffer and could not have suffered any
damages; any arguments on the issue are pure speculation,” BP’s
Odone said. “TNK-BP initially was not considered as a possible
participant in the Arctic projects by Rosneft.”  Renewed Hearings  The case brought by Prokhorov, who owns about 0.00001
percent of  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP)  according to BP, was thrown out in
November and returned for hearings in June as Prokhorov called
for additional evidence, BP’s lawyer Konstantin Lukoyanov said
at the time.  BP began talks this month with AAR and state-run Rosneft to
sell shares in its half of TNK-BP,  Russia ’s third-largest oil
producer. TNK-BP has paid BP $19 billion in dividends since 2003
and accounts for a quarter of the company’s global output.  AAR last year blocked the planned $7.8 billion share swap
between Rosneft and BP, as well as their deal to explore
Russia’s Arctic, citing the TNK-BP shareholder accord. The
billionaires subsequently rejected an offer from Rosneft and BP
to buy out their half of TNK-BP for $32 billion.  Rosneft had wanted BP, not TNK-BP, for the Kara Sea
project, Eduard Khudainatov, Rosneft’s first deputy chief
executive officer, said last year when he headed the company.
TNK-BP doesn’t have Arctic offshore experience.  TNK-BP declined 0.6 percent to 76.98 rubles in Moscow
trading. BP rose 1.4 percent in  London .  Dmitry Sergeev, a TNK-BP spokesman, and Chief Financial
Officer  Jonathan Muir  declined to comment on the ruling today in
Moscow as the company reported second-quarter earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 