-- Brazil Said to Probably Not Roll Over Maturing Currency Swap
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-07-27T18:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/brazil-said-to-probably-not-roll-over-currency-swaps-next-week.html
Brazil ’s central bank doesn’t plan
to roll over $4.5 billion in currency swaps that mature on Aug.
1, a government official said, a move that may further weaken
the world’s worst-performing major currency this year.  The level of stress in financial markets has eased in
recent days, allowing the government to settle swap positions
next week, said the official, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions are not public.  Brazil’s central bank this year had been auctioning swaps,
the equivalent to selling dollars in the futures market, as
spillover from  Europe ’s debt crisis caused the real to weaken
faster than policy makers wished. The real is the worst
performing currency this year among the 16 most-traded, falling
7.8 percent against the  U.S. dollar .  The real pared earlier gains and was little changed at
2.0232 per U.S. dollar at 3:11 p.m. local time. The currency has
strengthened the past two days amid speculation Euro area policy
makers may take steps to ease the region’s debt crisis.  The central bank’s decision to refrain from renewing the
contracts would be tantamount to removing $4.5 billion from the
foreign exchange market, Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at
Liquidez Dtvm Ltda., said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .  “If it’s true the central bank won’t roll over the swaps,
the currency will weaken quite a bit,”  Diego Donadio , a
strategist at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil SA, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “It could move towards 2.10” per
dollar on the day the swaps mature, he said.  Brazil’s government is counting on a weaker real, along
with tax breaks and record low interest rates, to revive
economic growth this year. Gross domestic product expanded an
annualized 0.8 percent in the first quarter, half the pace of
the U.S.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on July 4 that the
government would continue to take measures to maintain a weaker
real in a bid to support the domestic industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  