-- Brazil’s Robusta Coffee Premium Seen Higher on Domestic Prices
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-27T09:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/brazil-s-robusta-coffee-premium-seen-higher-on-domestic-prices.html
Buyers of robusta coffee from
 Brazil , the world’s second-biggest producer of the variety, are
paying a higher premium for their beans and prices in the
domestic market are “firm,” according to Flavour Coffee.  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known, are at a
premium of 13 cents a pound ($287 a metric ton) to prices on the
NYSE Liffe exchange in London, the Rio de Janeiro-based broker
said in a report e-mailed yesterday. That compares with 10 cents
a week earlier, its data showed.  Vietnam  is the largest producer
of robusta, used in instant coffee and espresso and harvested
mainly in  Asia  and parts of  Africa .  “Differentials remain at high premiums over Liffe, even
considering new Liffe level this week,” the broker said.
“Local market does keep them firm.” A differential is a
discount or premium buyers must pay to obtain physical coffee in
relation to futures prices.  Robusta is up 3 percent this week. The beans climbed 24
percent this year as global demand increased by about 5.5
million tons, Holland Capital LLP, a London-based agricultural
fund, estimates. Consumption in Brazil may have risen by 1.5
million tons, Euan Mann, a partner at the fund, said at a
conference in Geneva last month.  Buyers of arabica coffee from Brazil are getting a smaller
discount this week after futures traded in  New York  slid,
Flavour Coffee said. Arabica fell as much as 6.2 percent on July
24 on concern slowing economies would dent demand.  Fine Cup  Fine-cup coffee for shipment in September to December is at
a discount of 10 cents a pound to prices on the ICE Futures U.S.
exchange, according to the report. That compares with 12 cents a
week earlier.  Good cup-quality beans for August and September are trading
at a discount of 18 cents a pound, against 20 cents a week
earlier, Flavour Coffee data showed. Fine cups are usually more
expensive because of their taste profile.  “Differentials are in general tighter, especially after”
the decline earlier this week, Flavour Coffee said.  Dry weather is helping farmers accelerate harvesting and
drying of the 2012-13 crop under way in Brazil after rains
disrupted picking and reduced bean quality, according to the
broker.  “This ideal weather pattern may help producers to prepare
a better cup quality but overall quality profile seems to be
irreversibly damaged,” Flavour Coffee said.  More than half of the arabica crop remains to be harvested,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 