-- Spanish, Italian Bonds Rise on Speculation ECB to Purchase Debt
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-07-27T15:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/bunds-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-march-on-ecb-speculation.html
Spanish and Italian bonds advanced
for a third day on speculation euro-area policy makers will
sanction purchases of government debt to ease the debt crisis.  Italy’s 10-year yields fell below 6 percent for the first
time in a week after Le Monde reported the  European Central Bank 
was preparing to buy securities. German bunds fell after Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he welcomed comments from ECB
President  Mario Draghi  yesterday that officials would do what is
needed to rein in borrowing costs. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  said today they
would do everything necessary to protect the euro.  “Draghi will have to follow up on his statement from
yesterday and the market thinks that will be with bond buying,”
said Anders Moeller Lumholtz, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Copenhagen. “The market is still expecting a response from the
ECB,” and this is pushing down Spanish and Italian bond yields,
he said.  The Spanish  10-year yield  fell 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 6.74 percent at 4:39 p.m.  London  time,
after surging to a euro-era record 7.751 percent on July 25. The
5.85 percent bond due January 2022 rose 1.2, or 12 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,236) face amount, to 93.825.  Italy’s 10-year yield fell nine basis points to 5.96
percent, declining below the level of 6 percent for the first
time since July 20.  ‘Quick’ Implementation  Europe ’s two largest nations are “bound by the deepest
duty” to keep the euro-area intact, Merkel and Hollande said in
a joint statement after a telephone conference today. The two
sought “quick” implementation of resolutions made at a June 28-
29 European Union summit, they said.  “We are at a point now where the market needs to see some
hard resources put to the countries that need them,” said
 Harvinder Sian , a fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “There will be disappointment if
we don’t get some progress or some further color over the
weekend.”  The ECB is under pressure to help bring down borrowing
costs for  Spain  and Italy after yields on Spain’s two-, five-,
10- and 30-year  government securities  surged to euro-era highs
this week. Policy makers next meet on Aug. 2.  “To the extent that the size of these sovereign premia
hamper the functioning of the monetary policy transmission
channel, they come within our mandate,” Draghi said in a speech
in London yesterday. “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to
do whatever it takes to preserve the euro.”  German Yields  Schaeuble said in an e-mailed statement he welcomed the
comments and “in the first place” euro-area states must make
“necessary” national reform steps to win help.  Germany ’s 10-year yield rose seven basis points to 1.39
percent, after climbing to 1.41 percent, the most since July 5.
The yield has increased 23 basis points this week. The two-year
note yield increased two basis points to minus 0.029 percent.  “So far Draghi’s comments have been supportive for the
market,” said Elaine Lin, a strategist at Morgan Stanley in
London. “He is hinting toward a restarting of the bond-buying
program, which will give some kind of temporary relief, but it
isn’t a long-term solution.”  The ECB supported the  bond market  in previous periods of
turmoil by buying securities in the secondary market and by
offering unlimited three-year loans under its longer-term
refinancing operations, some of which banks reinvested in
sovereign debt.  Record Low  At its previous policy meeting on July 5, policy makers cut
the benchmark rate to a record low of 0.75 percent and reduced
the rate on overnight deposits to zero.  Irish bonds rose for a second day after the nation returned
to long-term debt markets for the first time in almost two years
yesterday, selling 4.19 billion euros of new securities and
exchanging some short-maturity notes for longer-term debt.  The yield on the nation’s 5 percent bond maturing in
October 2020 fell 16 basis points to 6.18 percent, after
declining six basis points yesterday.  Volatility on Irish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Spain and Germany, according to
measures of 10-year or similar-maturity debt, the spread between
two-year and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  German debt returned 3.7 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities lost 6.2 percent, while  Italy ’s earned 7.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  