-- Canadian Dollar Reaches a 10-Week High as Stocks, Oil Advance
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-07-27T21:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/canadian-dollar-reaches-almost-10-week-high-before-u-s-data.html
Canada ’s dollar rallied to a 10-week
high against its U.S. counterpart as stocks and crude oil gained
amid demand for riskier assets.  The currency moved closer to parity with the greenback
after a report showed the economy in U.S., Canada’s largest
trading partner, expanded at a slower pace in the second
quarter, while exceeding forecasts. Demand for risker currencies
was supported as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
will hold talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann in the
coming days in an effort to overcome the biggest stumbling block
to a new raft of measures including bond purchases, two central
bank officials said.  Government bonds  fell for a third day.  “The market got back to what it’s been doing over the last
few days, which is just buying risk,” said Darcy Browne,
managing director of  capital markets  trading at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto. “I think people were
hoping that they would inevitably give them a number that would
justify quanitative easing, and it didn’t really come today.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, gained 0.7 percent
to C$1.0033 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, touching the
strongest since May 15. The currency is up 1.3 percent versus
the greenback this month. One Canadian dollar buys 99.68 cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.9 percent, while
futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, added 0.9 percent
to $90.21 a barrel in  New York .  Technical Levels  The Canadian dollar faces an “critical hurdle,” before
gaining to as much as 99 cents against the greenback,  Niall O’Connor , a New York-based technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., wrote in a note to clients today.  The U.S. dollar slid this week against its Canadian peer,
and is approaching the key support level of $1.0065, which is
the 61.8 percent retracement from the April low, he wrote.
Support refers to an area on a chart where traders believe
orders to buy an asset may be clustered.  The benchmark government 10-year yield rose 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 1.74 percent, as the price
of the 2.75 percent security due in June 2022 declined 94 cents
to C$109.06.  The Fed will open a two-day meeting July 31. While policy
makers refrained from introducing a third round of asset
purchases at their session last month, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated that it’s a possibility. The central bank
purchased $2.3 trillion of securities from 2008 to 2011 in two
rounds of a stimulus strategy called quantitative easing.  Central Bank  Bank of Canada policy makers held the country’s main
interest rate at 1 percent July 17 and said an increase remains
possible. The Ottawa-based central bank meets Sept. 5 to
reconsider rates.  The loonie has breached its 50-, 100- and 200-day moving
averages yesterday as it approaches parity with the U.S. dollar.
The last time the two traded on a one-to-one basis was May 15,
when the loonie touched 99.90 cents to the greenback. Canada’s
dollar has traded in 2012 as strong as 98.04 cents on April 27
and as weak as C$1.0447 on June 4.  “The Canadian dollar is getting expensive at parity, just
because there’s no growth in the world and Canada’s a growth
currency,” Browne said.  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate after a
revised 2 percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted a 1.4 percent
increase.  “The better risk tone has continued,” Blake Jespersen,
managing director of foreign exchange in Toronto at  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) , said in a telephone interview. “Positive growth for
the U.S. is good for Canada, so we would expect a surprise to
the high side to benefit the Canadian dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 Lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  