-- Canada Natural Gas Climbs on Below-Normal U.S. Inventory Gain
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-07-27T20:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/canada-natural-gas-climbs-on-below-normal-u-s-inventory-gain.html
Canadian natural gas dropped on
forecasts for less hot weather on the U.S. East Coast that might
reduce demand for imports of the power-plant fuel to run air
conditioners.  August gas in Alberta  fell 3.9 percent as Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , predicted normal temperatures
for the Eastern U.S. from Aug. 1 through Aug. 10. The Bethesda,
Maryland-based forecaster’s models yesterday showed warmer-than-
normal weather in the mid-Atlantic toward the end of the period.  “You are starting to see some of this extreme weather
possibly easing,” said Carl Neill, a consultant with Risk
Management Inc. in Atlanta. “This market is going to see a
seasonal decline and it typically declines in the August-
September timeframe. It did in nine out of 11 years and I don’t
see why this year would be any different.”  Alberta  gas for August delivery declined 9.25 cents to
C$2.285 per gigajoule ($2.16 per million British thermal units)
as of 4:20 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada 
and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 9.5 cents, or 3.1 percent, to settle at $3.01 per
million Btu. The futures are up 0.7 percent this year.  The high temperature in Chicago on Aug. 3 may be 78 degrees
Fahrenheit (26 Celsius), 5 below normal, said AccuWeather Inc.
in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . Washington’s high will be 2
below normal at 86 degrees.  Milder Weather  Cooling demand in the north-central states will drop from
50 percent above normal on July 31 to 10 below normal on Aug. 2
through Aug. 6, according to Weather Derivatives in Belton,
 Missouri . Nationwide air-conditioning needs will drop from 17
percent above the norm to 6 above during the same periods.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.8 billion cubic
feet at 3 p.m.  New York  time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.96 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.93 billion cubic feet.  The available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia
system at Kingsgate was 110 million cubic feet today. The system
was forecast to carry 1.91 billion, 95 percent of the estimated
capacity of 2.018 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy ’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.73
billion cubic feet at 3:05 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  