-- Chevron Beats Expectations as Refining Profits Climb 80%
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-07-27T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/chevron-beats-expectations-as-refining-profits-climb-80-.html
(Corrects oil-production mix percentages in last paragraph
in story published July 27.)  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy company by market value, topped the highest profit
estimate from analysts after an 80 percent increase in refining
returns helped make up for falling oil prices.  Second-quarter net income fell to $7.21 billion, or $3.66 a
share, from $7.73 billion, or $3.85, a year earlier, the San
Ramon, California-based company said in a statement today. The
result was 35 cents more than the average of four analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, which ranged from $3.10 to
$3.47.  Chevron’s oil refineries and filling stations earned $1.88
billion as U.S.  refining margins  climbed to a second-quarter
record average of $28.98 a barrel when crude costs fell faster
than gasoline prices. Brent crude, the benchmark for two-thirds
of the world’s oil, fell 7 percent from a year earlier to
average $108.76 a barrel amid concern that slowing growth in
 China  and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crises will stifle energy
demand.  “Strong refining margins helped them a lot,” Allen Good,
an analyst at Morningstar Investment Service in  Chicago , said in
a telephone interview today. “In contrast to some of their
competitors, Chevron’s heavier exposure to oil and minimal
exposure to low natural-gas prices helped keep the upstream
afloat.”  ‘Core’ Holding  Sales fell 9.2 percent to $62.6 billion. Chevron rose 0.9
percent to $109.26 at the close in New York.  Chevron’s refining profit included about $200 million in
proceeds from the sale of a power business in South Korea and
other assets, according to the statement. Income from oil and
gas wells fell 18 percent to $5.62 billion.  “I view them as the core energy holding investors should
have,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones in St.
Louis, said in an interview after the results were announced.
“They’re more profitable per barrel, they have way more cash
than debt and they pay a good dividend.”  Production declined 2.6 percent to the equivalent of 2.62
million barrels a day. The company won’t meet its full-year goal
of producing the daily average equivalent of 2.68 million
barrels of crude, Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President
George Kirkland said during a conference call with analysts
today.  Maintenance Disruption  Contributing factors to the shortfall include the temporary
shutdown of the Frade field in  Brazil  after oil seeps on the sea
floor angered government regulators, as well as maintenance work
at the company’s Tengiz project in Kazakhstan, he said. Chevron
shares dropped more than 1 percent in the first two minutes
after Kirkland’s comments, before rebounding.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Watson expanded
the capital-projects budget 12 percent this year to $32.7
billion as part of a long-term plan to boost daily production by
one-fifth to the equivalent of 3.3 million barrels by the end of
2017.  The company’s exploration plans include a pair of wells
scheduled for next year in  Iraq ’s Kurdistan region. Chevron
agreed in a deal announced last week to buy Reliance Industries
Inc.’s stakes in two Kurdistan blocks.  Gas Effects  U.S. energy explorers were hurt by a 46 percent slide in
gas prices during the second quarter compared to a year earlier,
to an average of $2.354 per million British thermal units, the
lowest since 1999.  Chevron is the least-exposed of the major U.S. energy
producers to tumbling gas prices because its  output  is more
heavily weighted to crude than its largest domestic rivals.  Chevron’s production slate was 69 percent crude oil in
2011, with the rest comprised of gas, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. For  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. energy
company by market value, the  oil portion  of total output was 51
percent.  For the next three largest U.S.-based explorers --
ConocoPhillips,  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  -- crude accounted for 54 percent, 61 percent
and 32 percent of overall production, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  