-- Chiefs Hold Off Crusaders 20-17 to Reach Super Rugby Final
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-27T12:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/chiefs-hold-off-crusaders-20-17-to-reach-super-rugby-final.html
The Chiefs held on to beat the
Crusaders 20-17 in an all-New Zealand Super Rugby semifinal last
night to reach the championship match for the second time.  The Chiefs repelled the seven-time champion Crusaders for
22 phases at the end of the game at Waikato Stadium in Hamilton
to get the win after leading 17-11 at half time. All Blacks fly-
half  Dan Carter  missed a penalty with four minutes remaining
that would have tied it at 20-20.  The Chiefs will take on  South Africa ’s Stormers or Sharks
on Aug. 4 as they seek a first southern hemisphere provincial
rugby title. The Stormers host the other semifinal today in  Cape
Town  and also would have home advantage should they reach the
final, having earned the top seeding in the playoffs by topping
the regular-season standings ahead of the Chiefs.  “We’ll watch with interest and whatever happens, we’re up
for it,” Chiefs captain Craig Clarke said in a televised
interview. “We can’t really do too much about it.”  If the sixth-placed Sharks advance to their fourth final,
the Chiefs will host the title decider.  Chiefs fly-half Aaron Cruden, Carter’s backup in  New
Zealand ’s top-ranked national team, traded penalties with the
Crusaders playmaker in the first 15 minutes before Chiefs prop
Sona Taumalolo was awarded a try by the television match
official in the 27th minute.  The prop was ruled to have landed the ball on the line for
his ninth try of the season and Cruden converted to make it 10-
3, taking him above Bulls fly-half Morne Steyn atop the points-
scoring list this season.  Halftime Lead  Carter booted a 32nd-minute penalty to make it 10-6 before
flanker Liam Messam finished off a counterattack to put the
Chiefs 11 points ahead with a converted try. Crusaders inside
center Ryan Crotty burst over on the stroke of half time to make
it 17-11 at the break.  Carter booted two penalties either side of a Cruden kick to
make it 20-17 with 18 minutes remaining. Cruden hit the
underside of the crossbar with a 55-meter effort before Carter’s
kick fell just short.  Although Crusaders got the ball back and tried to work it
through the forwards to get closer to the posts for a drop goal
attempt or penalty, the Chiefs defense and discipline held firm.  “We were just aiming to get three points there to be
honest,” Crusaders captain Richie McCaw said in a televised
interview. “They were up for it and we didn’t really have the
answer so it’s a bit disappointing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  