-- Chilean Peso Heads for Fifth Weekly Gain as Locals Add to Bets
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-07-27T15:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/chilean-peso-heads-for-fifth-weekly-gain-as-locals-add-to-bets.html
Chile’s peso, the best-performing
currency in  Latin America  during the past 30 days, strengthened
for a fifth week as local investors added to bullish bets and
European leaders’ comments helped boost appetite for higher-
yielding securities.  The peso gained 0.6 percent to 483.11 per  U.S. dollar  at
10:54 a.m. in Santiago, extending this week’s advance to 1.2
percent.  Chile’s 5 percent benchmark  interest rate  and 2.7 percent
 inflation  make local bond yields attractive as central banks in
countries including Brazil,  Israel  and  South Africa  cut
borrowing costs. The peso’s gain came as European leaders,
including European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , vowed to protect the euro.  “It’s about fundamentals,” said Felipe Alarcon, an
economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones in Santiago. “Chile
is in a pretty good cyclical economic position compared to other
emerging-market countries, which have had more pronounced
decelerations that led to central banks lowering rates.”  Local investors in the Chilean peso forwards market, a
category that excludes banks and brokers and is dominated by
pension funds, increased their long position in the peso to the
highest since May this week. They had an $18.2 billion long
position on July 25, a $1.5 billion increase in a week.  That rise was partly offset by an increase in bets against
the peso from international investors. They had a $9.9 billion
short peso position on July 25, up $684 million from a week
earlier.  The cost of borrowing dollars locally for one year remained
close to the cheapest since 2009, as measured by basis swaps.
The cost of borrowing dollars for longer periods rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  