-- China Industrial Companies’ Profits Drop for Third Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-27T03:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/china-industrial-companies-profits-drop-for-third-month.html
Chinese industrial companies’
profits fell for a third month in June, a government report
showed today, as decelerating growth in the world’s second-
biggest economy hurt corporate earnings.  Income fell 1.7 percent last month from a year earlier,
while earnings in the first six months declined 2.2 percent to
2.31 trillion yuan ($362 billion), the  National Bureau of
Statistics  said on its website today.  Today’s data underscore the impact on company profits of an
economic slowdown that may extend into a seventh quarter,
increasing pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to roll out additional
stimulus. The government will “appropriately” intensify policy
fine-tuning as the momentum for rebound isn’t yet in place, Wen
said this month.  “Slower activity and tighter margins are clearly
impacting” profit growth, said  Patrick Bennett , a strategist at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  Hong Kong . “This trend is
likely to remain negative over the next months as growth
continues to moderate and margins are squeezed.”  The drop in June profit compares with a 5.3 percent decline
in May and 2.2 percent drop in April. The first-half decrease
was after a 2.4 percent slide in the first five months and 28.7
percent gain in the same period in 2011.  Increase Pressure  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was little changed
at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break. The gauge fell 0.5 percent
in each of the previous two days.  Profit declines for hundreds of Chinese companies in the
first half may increase pressure on the government to step up
efforts to stem the economy’s slowdown. Net income declined from
a year earlier for more than half of 760 companies listed in
 China  to report results so far, worse than in the first six
months of 2009, Societe Generale SA said in a note last week.  “Corporates seem to be bearing most of the burden of the
cyclical and structural slowdown,” Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based
economist with the bank wrote. “We see Beijing under great
pressure to make the decision whether to use more investment and
credit to save the short-term cycle or concentrate more on
reforms to win back corporates’ confidence” she said.  Falling Orders  Shenji Group Kunming Machine Tool Co. (600806) , a producer of
 machine tools , warned yesterday its first-half profit may drop
more than 90 percent from a year earlier. The company, based in
the southwestern city of Kunming, cited falling orders,
intensified competition, higher labor and raw material costs and
provisions for bad debts, according to a statement filed to the
Shanghai stock exchange.  Angang Steel Co., China’s largest Hong Kong-traded producer
of the metal, said July 6 that it probably swung to a first-half
loss after prices plunged. Yunnan Copper Industry Co. said July
13 its first-half profit may have fallen 53 percent from a year
earlier due to declining prices.  Sales by industrial companies in the first six months
increased 11.3 percent to 42.6 trillion  yuan , according to
today’s statement, down from an 11.9 percent gain in the first
five months.  Among 41 industries covered in the report, 27 reported
profit growth while 13 saw a decline and one sector -- oil
refining, coking and nuclear fuel processing -- fell into a loss,
the statistics bureau said.  Property Crackdown  Profits at overseas-funded companies fell 13.4 percent in
the first half to 522 billion yuan while earnings at state-owned
and state-controlled businesses dropped 10.9 percent to 690.5
billion, the report showed. Income at private industrial
companies rose 16.5 percent to 694.7 billion yuan.  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the least in three years, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis crimped exports and a campaign to cool
property speculation curbed domestic demand. Nomura Holdings Inc.
estimates a rebound to 8.1 percent in the third quarter, while
Song Guoqing, a central bank adviser, said on July 21 growth may
slow to 7.4 percent because of “problems on the export side.”  The  People’s Bank of China  has cut  interest rates  twice
since early June and lowered lenders’ reserve requirement ratio
three times starting in November as part of the government’s
efforts to boost credit and support economic expansion.  Investment Approvals  The government has accelerated approvals for investment
projects, encouraged the development of so-called strategic
industries and boosted spending on social housing.  Local governments have also started announcing investment
programs. The central Chinese city of Changsha this week
unveiled a plan to spend 829.2 billion yuan on projects
including an airport expansion and subway lines, joining the
cities of Xian, Nanjing and Ningbo in outlining measures to spur
growth.  The State Council said this week it will expand a value-
added tax trial to 10 additional provinces and cities, as part
of a pledge to implement “structural” tax cuts to boost the
economy. The overhaul is expected to reduce corporate taxes by
90 billion yuan this year, Citic Securities said in a July 26
report.  The profits report covers companies in 41 industries,
according to the statistics bureau. Starting last year, the
bureau raised the minimum annual sales for businesses included
in the survey to 20 million yuan from 5 million yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  