-- China Job Market for Graduates Shows Stress on Slowdown
-- B y   C r y s t a l   C h u i
-- 2012-07-27T02:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/china-job-market-for-graduates-shows-stress-on-slowdown.html
China ’s job market for university
graduates is showing signs of stress as the nation’s deepest
economic slowdown since the global financial crisis coincides
with a record 6.8 million students completing their studies.  “The job market for graduates is the worst since 2009,”
said Jennifer Feng, chief human resources expert at  51job Inc. (JOBS) ,
a Shanghai-based online recruiter. In Beijing, Tang Wen, a
spokesman at ChinaHR.com, a Chinese subsidiary of  Monster
Worldwide Inc. (MWW) , said conditions “may be slightly worse compared
with 2011, but not too much.”  The ruling Communist Party may be concerned that any lack
of jobs risks fueling discontent in the run-up to a once-in-a-
decade leadership change, where President  Hu Jintao  and Premier
Wen Jiabao hand power to their successors. Wen last week warned
of a severe outlook for the labor market and urged local
governments to do more to create work for groups such as
graduates and migrant workers.  “Graduate unemployment matters to the government because
of the concern about the risk of social unrest,” said Willy Wo- Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese
University of Hong Kong . “Graduates are the ones who are well
educated and know how to mobilize the public to protest.”  China will have 6.8 million new graduates in 2012, compared
with 6.6 million in 2011 and 6.3 million in 2010, Ministry of
Human Resources and Social Security data show. Students finish
their studies each summer. The state-run Xinhua News Agency said
June 25 that this year’s total is a record.  Recruitment Events  Multinational corporations may be hiring 15 percent less
graduates than last year and 30 percent fewer than in 2010,
estimated Feng, of 51job Inc., which she says hires for
companies including Apple Inc.,  Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. (005930)  and
 Standard Chartered Plc. (2888)   Companies have reduced recruiting events, with online and
engineering companies and businesses making electronic products
cutting hiring, she said, estimating that 20 percent to 30
percent of graduates may not have jobs. In March, Wen told the
National People’s Congress that about 78 percent of graduates
were employed in 2011.  At  Randstad Holding NV (RAND) , the world’s second-largest staffing
provider, a marketing director in China said that unemployment
may partly reflect the attitudes of students born in the 1990s
of wealthy families.  “Instead of accepting whatever offers they receive, some
graduates are jobless because they tend to reject offers from
companies which are not their top priority,” said Shanghai-
based Sun Haining. “They would rather be jobless.”  Manufacturing Jobs  While preliminary manufacturing industry data for July
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed
employment contracting, the labor market is proving more
resilient than during the financial crisis, when millions of
migrant workers lost their jobs as exporters closed.  The Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security this
week described employment as “stable and normal” with a record
6.94 million urban jobs created in the first half. While some
businesses made “temporary job cuts,” there were no large
layoffs of migrant workers, spokesman Yin Chengji said at a
briefing, a transcript shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crystal Chui in  Hong Kong  at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  