-- Most Chinese Stocks Fall as Profit Drop Overshadows ECB Pledge
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-27T07:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/china-s-stock-futures-advance-as-draghi-pledges-to-preserve-euro.html
Most Chinese stocks fell as a report
showing Chinese industrial companies’ profits declined
overshadowed a pledge by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to preserve the euro.  Dam builder  Sinohydro Group Ltd. (601669)  and Xinjiang Ba Yi Iron &
Steel Co. paced declines among industrial companies. Huadong
Medicine Co. led a measure of health-care stocks to the biggest
drop among industry groups after the  China  Securities Journal
said the government will cut some drug prices. Chongqing Changan
Automobile Co. gained 1.5 percent after an industry official
said vehicle sales will probably accelerate.  About four stocks dropped for every three that rose on the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which added 0.1 percent to 2,128.77 at
the close. The measure lost 1.8 percent this week, capping a
sixth weekly decline. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.1 percent to
2,349.11. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, gained 1.9 percent
yesterday in  New York .  “We had expected company earnings to be bad but it seems
that they are going to be even worse than expected, so that
could possibly drag on the market,” said Larry Wan, Beijing-
based head of investment at Union Life Asset Management Co.,
which manages the equivalent of $2.2 billion. “Draghi’s pledge
will definitely boost sentiment, but deep inside, Chinese
investors have accepted the fact that the  Europe  crisis will not
be resolved overnight,”  Thirty-day  volatility  in the  Shanghai  index was at 14.1
today, the lowest since June 1. About 5.3 billion shares changed
hands in the gauge yesterday, 30 percent lower than the average
this year.  Falling Industrial Profit  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 13 percent from this
year’s high on March 2 amid concern the economic slowdown and
Europe’s debt crisis are curbing earnings growth. The gauge is
 valued  at 9.5 times estimated profit, compared with the three-
year average of 14.7.  Sinohydro, the nation’s biggest builder of dams, fell 1.5
percent to 3.96  yuan . Xinjiang Ba Yi Steel lost 1.5 percent to
5.92 yuan.  Citic Heavy Industries Co. (601608) , the heavy machinery unit
of China’s largest conglomerate, slipped 0.6 percent to 4.63
yuan.  Profits for industrial companies fell 1.7 percent from a
year earlier in June, declining for a third straight month, the
National Bureau of Statistics said on its website today.
Earnings in the first six months slid 2.2 percent, it said.  Today’s data underscore the impact on company profits of an
economic slowdown that may extend into a seventh quarter,
increasing pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to roll out additional
stimulus.  Drug Price Cuts  The People’s Bank of China has cut  interest rates  twice
since early June and lowered lenders’ reserve requirement ratio
three times starting in November as part of the government’s
efforts to boost credit and support economic expansion.  A measure of 23  health-care stocks  in the CSI 300 fell 2.3
percent, the biggest drop among 10 industry groups. It trimmed
its gains to 5.3 percent this year.  Huadong Medicine lost 2.5 percent to 31.85 yuan.  Yunnan
Baiyao Group Co. (000538) , a manufacturer of traditional Chinese
medicine, slid 2.9 percent to 58.80 yuan. Beijing Tongrentang
Co. tumbled 4 percent to 17.15 yuan.  The National Development and Reform Commission may announce
a new round of price cuts of more than 20 percent on some
medicine soon, including drugs for cancer and blood diseases,
the China Securities Journal reported today, citing an
unidentified person.  The ECB’s Draghi said policy makers will do whatever is
needed to preserve the euro, suggesting they may intervene in
bond markets as surging yields in Spain and  Italy  threaten the
existence of the 17-nation currency bloc. The ECB mothballed its
bond-buying program in March as it pushed governments to do more
to control their deficits.  Automakers Gain  Europe is China’s largest export market, making up 18
percent of the nation’s overseas sales, according to Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co.  Changan Automobile (000625) , the Chinese partner of Ford Motor Co.
and Mazda Motor Corp., climbed 1.5 percent to 5.26 yuan. Great
Wall Motor Co., China’s biggest pickup truck maker, gained 0.9
percent to 16.23 yuan.  Wholesale vehicle deliveries may rise 11 percent to 16.09
million units this year, Shi Jianhua, deputy secretary general
of the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, said at a
forum in Beijing yesterday.  “There’s definitely expectations for a reserve-ratio
requirement cut after industrial companies’ profit declined
again,” said Zhang Yanbin, an analyst with Zheshang Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “It’s difficult to turn the market around as
the economy remains weak and there’s a lack of confidence by
investors. Banks are strong today and yet the market is only up
a little, this shows how weak confidence is.”  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the nation’s
biggest lender, rose 1.4 percent to 3.72 yuan. Industrial Bank
Co., part-owned by a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, jumped 2.4
percent to 12.18 yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  