-- China May Delay Corn Buying After Prices Advance to Record
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-07-27T09:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/china-may-delay-corn-buying-after-prices-advance-to-record-1-.html
China, the world’s second-largest
corn user, will probably delay purchases after the worst U.S.
drought in half a century drove prices to a record, said UBS AG.  The country canceled orders for U.S. corn,  paring  shipments
for delivery in the year beginning Sept. 1 to 861,321 metric
tons as of July 19 from 1.1 million tons a week earlier, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data showed.  “Some of the corn exports that China has taken are
actually being diverted to  South Korea  and  Japan ,”  Wayne Gordon , a strategist at UBS, said in a phone interview today,
citing information from U.S. shippers. “They’ll wait for the
price to fall,” he said.  Corn surged to a record $8 a bushel on July 23 as drought
scorched crops in the U.S., the largest grower, increasing
concerns about a shortage. World demand will total 878 million
tons, topping a harvest cut to 864 million tons from an earlier
forecast of 917 million tons because of the crop losses, the
International Grains Council estimates. Futures rose 0.3 percent
to $7.7825 on the Chicago Board of Trade at 4:55 p.m. in
Singapore, taking gains since June 15 to 54 percent.  While conditions worsened in the U.S.,  China ’s production
prospects improved, prompting UBS to trim its import forecast
for the nation to 7.5 million tons in the year beginning Oct. 1
from 11 million tons, Gordon said from New York.  China Harvest  That’s still higher than the USDA’s  outlook  of 5 million
tons and the 3 million-ton estimate from state-researcher China
National Grain & Oils Information Center.  El Nino, which can bring heavier rainfall in  South America ,
may improve supply next year as it boosts production in  Brazil ,
the third largest grower, and  Argentina , the second-biggest
exporter. That may cut prices in early 2013, allowing China to
secure supplies at a lower cost, Gordon said.  Higher domestic production may allow China to hold off most
of its imports until early next year, he said. Harvesting began
this month in the south, while the crop is at an early to middle
vegetative stage in the north, the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization said July 11,  predicting  China will
harvest a record 197.5 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  