-- Cigarette Makers Lose Bid to End Racketeer Case Monitor
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-27T20:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/cigarette-makers-lose-bid-to-end-racketeer-case-monitor.html
Cigarette makers including  Altria
Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA unit lost a bid to end court
monitoring of their marketing practices established under the
U.S. government’s 13-year-old racketeering lawsuit.  The U.S. Appeals Court in Washington today upheld a lower
court decision that the oversight is necessary and should
continue because of the industry’s record.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler ruled June 1 that a 2009
law giving the Food and Drug Administration authority to monitor
the industry and restrict the sale, promotion and distribution
of tobacco products didn’t end her oversight of the cigarette
makers.  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and
 Lorillard Inc. (LO) ’s Lorillard Tobacco Co. are also defendants in
the case.  The three-judge panel, in a decision by Circuit Judge
 Janice Rogers Brown , said the district court “did not clearly
err” when it found the companies were reasonably likely to
commit future violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act.  Kessler rejected claims by the companies that the 2009 law
and subsequent regulation by the FDA meant there was no longer a
likelihood of future violations.  ‘Non-Compliance’  The appeals court said that “in light of the defendants’
history of non-compliance with various legal requirements”
Kessler had no reason to assume they would comply with the
Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act  “If the defendants were not deterred by the possibility of
RICO liability, the district court reasonably found the
defendants were not likely to be deterred by the Tobacco Control
Act either,” the appeals court said.  Bryan Hatchell, a spokesman for R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, said
the company was reviewing the decision and another, narrower
appeal the court rejected. Brian May, a spokesman for  Philip
Morris USA , said the company was disappointed with today’s
decisions.  “We are studying the decisions to determine the most
appropriate next steps, but today’s ruling will not have an
immediate impact on our business,” he said.  A spokesman for Lorillard didn’t return a phone message
seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., 11-5145, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
(Washington).  Editors: Fred Strasser, Andrew Dunn  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  