-- CNN’s Walton to Resign, Saying Network Needs ‘New Thinking’
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-27T22:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/cnn-president-jim-walton-stepping-down-from-cable-news-channel.html
CNN President Jim Walton, who
presided over the once-dominant cable-news business as it lost
viewers to  Fox News , will resign after almost a decade in the
job, saying the network needs “new thinking.”  Phil Kent, chief executive officer of CNN parent Turner
Broadcasting, will lead the search for a replacement, according
to a statement from the company, which is owned by  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  Walton, who has spent his entire 30-year career at CNN,
plans to step down at the end of the year.  “CNN needs new thinking,” Walton said in a memo to staff.
“That starts with a new leader who brings a different
perspective, different experiences and a new plan, one who will
build on our great foundation and will commit to seeing it
through.”  CNN is suffering through a ratings slump, with prime-time
viewership dropping 8 percent to 627,000 on average this season
through mid-May, compared with a year earlier, according to
Nielsen. CNN ranks behind  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox News, which drew an
average prime-time viewership of 1.85 million in the same
period.  Still, CNN has increased profit at a rate of 12 percent to
15 percent every year since 2004, Walton said in a December
interview. Even with a decline in ratings, CNN has pulled in
additional revenue through affiliate fees as it’s become more
widely available on pay-TV systems.  Gulf War  Walton, 54, started at CNN in December 1981, one year after
it was founded by billionaire  Ted Turner . Walton helped build
the nascent network into a dominant news organization, and CNN
soon became a staple in many households. It was the only news
company that broadcast live video feeds of the first  Gulf War 
from inside Iraq.  In recent years, the network struggled to find a formula
that connected with viewers. It also made a major gaffe last
month, reporting incorrectly that the U.S. Supreme Court found a
central piece of President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act to
be unconstitutional.  Walton, a native of Bowie, Maryland, graduated from the
 University of Maryland  and started his first job at CNN as a
video producer.  “It’s the only place I’ve ever worked,” Walton said in
December. “I feel really lucky to have started my career with
 CNN .”  Shares of New York-based Time Warner, which acquired Turner
Broadcasting in 1996, rose 1.6 percent to $38.98 at the close in
New York. The stock has climbed 7.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  