-- Cnooc Hired U.S. Lobbyists Prior to Nexen Announcement
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-07-27T16:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/cnooc-hired-u-s-lobbyists-prior-to-nexen-announcement.html
Chinese energy giant  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,
whose efforts to buy a U.S. oil company in 2005 sparked an
outcry over foreign ownership, hired two Washington lobbying
firms just before announcing its plan to buy  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   Cnooc, owned by the Chinese government and based in
Beijing, agreed July 23 to pay $15.1 billion for Nexen, a
Calgary-based company that operates in the U.S. portion of the
Gulf of  Mexico . It is Cnooc’s biggest North American deal since
it walked away from Unocal Corp. under congressional pressure
and the largest overseas acquisition by a Chinese company.  If approved, the Nexen takeover would mark the first time a
Chinese company would be the operator of leases in the U.S.  Gulf
of Mexico , instead of a minority stakeholder. Nexen now operates
90 leases in the Gulf, where it’s the 29th-largest oil producer
and 42nd-largest gas producer, according to the most recent
operator ranking by the Interior Department from July 16.  The purchase of U.S. assets by foreign companies can be
blocked on national security grounds.  Cnooc’s takeover of Nexen will probably be reviewed more
closely than other international deals, Iain McPhie, a lawyer at
Squire Sanders LLP in Washington, said in an interview. “The
Chinese just raise strategic issues that an acquirer from the
United Kingdom and France don’t raise,” said McPhie, who’s not
involved in this transaction.  U.S. Review  Cnooc and Nexen said in a July 24 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that they intend to put the
deal to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the  United States 
for review.  The committee, a division of the Treasury Department, has
the power to impose conditions on foreign acquisitions,
including the “extreme” step of forcing a divestiture of the
U.S. assets, said McPhie, who has represented clients before the
committee.  “We bought energy assets in the U.S. before and we have
experience on how to get regulatory clearance,” Cnooc Chief
Executive Officer Li Fanrong said on a conference call with
reporters on July 23. Spokesmen for Cnooc and Nexen didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment on their efforts to
get the deal approved in the U.S.  Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates registered to
lobby on behalf of Cnooc July 12. Its lobbyists include Bud Cramer, a former Democratic representative from Alabama, public
records show.  Lobbyist Hired  In May, Cnooc hired Hill & Knowlton Strategies to lobby
Congress on issues relating to the environment and natural gas,
according to public records filed with the Senate.  Both firms are part of  WPP Plc (WPP)  in Dublin.  Allison Cohen, a spokeswoman for Hill & Knowlton, said the
firm didn’t comment “on our clients or prospects.” A call to
Wexler and Walker wasn’t immediately returned.  Hill & Knowlton employees have been lobbying Canadian
government departments, ministers and officials for Cnooc,
according to a website registry run by the Office of the
Commissioner of Lobbying of Canada.  Cnooc, China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer,
hadn’t paid a firm to lobby Congress since its 2005 attempt to
buy Unocal, according to public records. Unocal was eventually
bought by  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   When it withdrew its Unocal bid, Cnooc said in an
announcement that “unprecedented political opposition” to its
proposed purchase was “regrettable and unjustified.”  Schumer Letter  Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, urged  Timothy Geithner , who as Treasury secretary is the chairman of the
committee on foreign investment, to withhold approval of the
purchase until China agreed to provide U.S. goods with more
access to Chinese markets, according to a  letter  sent today.  “It is rare that we have so much leverage to exert upon
China,” Schumer said in a statement. “We should not let this
window of opportunity pass us by.”  Schumer expressed overall support for the deal, saying it
“will benefit the United States and help ensure the continued
resurgence of our domestic energy sector.”  Nancy McLernon , chief executive officer of the Organization
for International Investment, said the purchase by foreign
companies of U.S.-based assets has become less politically
charged since then.  “There is a widespread recognition of the value of foreign
investment in the U.S.,” McLernon whose Washington-based group
includes U.S. subsidiaries of  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  in Bilbao, Spain, and
Tokyo-based  Sony Corp. (6758) , said in an interview.  Nexen’s other oil and gas assets include production in
Nigeria and the  North Sea , as well as oil-sands reserves at Long
Lake, Alberta, where it already produces crude in a joint
venture with Cnooc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  