-- Colombia Peso Heads for Weekly Drop Before Central Bank Meeting
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-07-27T15:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/colombia-peso-heads-for-weekly-drop-before-central-bank-meeting.html
Colombia ’s peso headed for its
biggest weekly drop since May on speculation the central bank
will cut borrowing costs as soon as today and announce increased
dollar purchases to ease gains in the local currency.  The peso has slumped 0.6 percent this week to 1,790.6 per
dollar at 10:25 a.m. in Bogota. That’s its biggest weekly drop
since the period ended May 18. The peso is little changed today
and has jumped 8.3 percent this year, the best performance among
all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The market is focused on what will come out of today’s
central bank meeting,” Camila Estrada, the chief analyst at
Bogota-based  Helm Bank SA (PFBHELMB) , said in a phone interview.  The central bank will lower the  overnight lending rate  in
today’s meeting by a quarter percentage point to 5 percent,
according to 11 of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Twenty-
four expect policy makers to keep the key rate unchanged for a
fifth straight month, ignoring calls from Colombian President
 Juan Manuel Santos , who has urged policy makers to cut rates
after recent data showed the economy losing speed.  In a July 20 speech to mark Colombian  Independence Day ,
Santos also reiterated that the central bank should step up
daily dollar purchases to ease gains in the peso. Banco de la
Republica has said it will buy a minimum of $20 million daily in
the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2.  Estrada forecasts policy makers will increase the daily
dollar purchases to as much as $40 million as the peso gains
toward 1,750 per dollar.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 6.77 percent, according to the central bank. Yesterday
the yield fell to 6.75 percent, the lowest level on a closing
basis since the securities were first sold in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  