-- Colombia’s Split Central Bank to Weigh First Rate Cut Since 2010
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-07-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/colombia-s-split-central-bank-to-weigh-first-rate-cut-since-2010.html
Colombia ’s central bank will decide
whether to keep borrowing costs unchanged for a fifth month
today or join an international trend and begin cutting rates as
slowing global growth curbs demand for the country’s oil, coal
and farm exports.  Last month, at least two of the central bank’s seven board
members voted to cut interest rates for the first time since
2010. Since then, the annual inflation rate has fallen to a one-
year low, while central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said the
weakness of industry and exports had surprised policy makers.  Banco de la Republica last year bucked a global trend for
lower interest rates as it moved to prevent the economy from
overheating because of “excessive” consumer credit growth.
Twenty-four analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast that the
central bank will ignore calls from President  Juan Manuel Santos 
for cheaper money and hold its  policy rate  at 5.25 percent,
while 11 analysts forecast a quarter-point rate cut.  “The economy is decelerating, and given the international
scenario, this is going to continue for the rest of 2012,”
Andres Langebaek, senior economist at Banco Davivienda SA, said
in a telephone interview from Bogota. “There’s no price
pressure that needs to be controlled at the moment.”  Langebaek, the economist with the best track record of
predicting Colombian rate decisions in Bloomberg surveys over
the past two years, forecasts a quarter-point rate cut today.  The  European Central Bank ,  People’s Bank of China  and  South
Africa ’s central bank have all cut borrowing costs this month,
while policy makers in  Brazil  on July 11 reduced their  key rate 
for an eighth straight meeting to a record 8 percent.  Output, Oil  Industrial output fell for a third straight month in May
from a year earlier, while year-on-year export growth slowed to
1.2 percent, from 4 percent in April and 16.1 percent in March.  In addition to slowing overseas demand, Colombian exporters
have also had to contend with the world’s biggest currency
rally. The peso has strengthened 8.1 percent this year, the most
of 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The fall in industry shows that we are in a worldwide
slowdown and that we also have a competitive problem with the
 exchange rate  in the medium to long term,” Langebaek said.  Oil exports rose 70 percent to $28 billion dollars last
year, while exports of coal gained 40 percent to $8.4 billion.
Oil accounted for 49 percent of the country’s sales abroad in
2011. The price of crude has slumped 9.7 percent this year.  The emergence of oil as a major export and significant
source of government revenue leaves the Andean nation vulnerable
to swings in global crude prices and national production
projections,  Francisco Rodriguez , an economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  New York , wrote in a research note e-
mailed to investors yesterday.  Credit, Presidents  Credit expanded 18.3 percent in May from a year earlier,
down from year-on-year growth of  22.4 percent  in December.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 10 percent peso-
denominated bond due in July 2024 fell two basis points to 6.75
percent yesterday, according to the central bank.  Santos last week urged policy makers to consider lower
borrowing costs and to step up daily dollar purchases.  “I have asked the central bank to study a cut in interest
rates, and evaluate a more aggressive purchase of dollars to
increase our international reserves,” Santos said in a July 20
speech to mark Colombian  Independence Day . “This will also help
us confront the phenomenon of revaluation.”  Colombia’s central bank has often ignored advice from
Santos and his predecessor,  Alvaro Uribe . In June, policy makers
kept their daily dollar purchases unchanged at $20 million, even
after Santos urged them to increase the amount.  In January, the central bank raised its benchmark  interest
rate  a quarter point, after Santos said such a move wouldn’t be
“appropriate.”  ‘Remaining Concerns’  Annual inflation slowed to 3.20 percent in June, the lowest
rate after Chile of 10 Latin American economies tracked by
Bloomberg, from 3.73 percent at the start of the year.  Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Even as consumer-price increases ease, the central bank
will likely wait until August to lower lending rates, said
 Camilo Perez , the head analyst at Banco de Bogota, the nation’s
second-biggest bank.  The central bank board “is fairly conservative, and they
are not sufficiently convinced yet that the information
available shows that the best path is a rate cut,” Perez said
in a telephone interview. “They will wait, for example, for a
moderation in credit growth, which is one of their last
remaining concerns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.com . 