-- Colorado Shooting Suspect Saw Psychiatrist, Defense Says
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-27T20:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/colorado-shooting-suspect-had-seen-psychiatrist-defense-says.html
The man suspected of killing 12
people during a shooting rampage in an Aurora,  Colorado , movie
theater had seen a psychiatrist, his lawyers said in a court
filing.  It wasn’t clear from the filing today in state court in
Centennial, Colorado, when James Holmes saw the doctor,
identified as Lynne Fenton. The disclosure was made in
connection with a request by Holmes’s lawyers for a hearing on
alleged law enforcement leaks to the media about a package that
he had sent Fenton.  “Holmes was a psychiatric patient of Dr. Fenton, and his
communications with her are protected,” his lawyers said in the
filing. Judge William Sylvester set a hearing on the request for
July 30, according to court records.  Prosecutors, in a separate court filing, cautioned against
believing news reports about the shooting and said there may be
“fake law enforcement sources.” Prosecutors said reports that
the FBI took possession of the package were incorrect. Aurora
police took the package, they said.  Holmes, 24, will probably face a dozen first-degree murder
charges, prosecutors have said in court papers. Twelve people
died and at least 58 were injured when the suspected gunman
attacked theater-goers during a midnight showing of the Batman
movie “The Dark Knight Rises” on July 20. First degree murder
can be punishable by death in Colorado. Holmes is scheduled to
be formally charged July 30.  Fenton is described as medical director of the student
mental health service at the University of Colorado Denver on
the Anschutz Medical Campus, according to the university’s
website. Fenton didn’t immediately respond to a phone call
seeking comment on Holmes.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kass in Colorado District Court in Centennial at
 kassj@msn.com ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  