-- Colombian Peso Posts Weekly Drop as Central Bank Cuts Rates
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-07-27T21:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/colombian-peso-posts-weekly-drop-as-central-bank-cuts-rates.html
Colombia ’s peso posted its biggest
weekly drop since May on speculation that the central bank would
cut  interest rates  for the first time since 2010. Policy makers
reduced borrowing costs today after trading ended.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
voted to cut the  overnight lending rate  by a quarter percentage
point to 5 percent, matching the forecast of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg and heeding calls from Colombian President
 Juan Manuel Santos , who urged officials to cut rates after
recent data showed the economy losing speed. Twenty-four
analysts had expected policy makers to keep the rate unchanged.  Banco de la Republica also reduced its 2012 growth forecast
to a range of 3 percent to 5 percent from a previous 4 percent
to 6 percent forecast.  “What stands out the most to me is the drastic cut they
made in the growth forecast,” said Daniel Velandia, the head
analyst at the Correval SA brokerage in Bogota. “The market was
already pricing rate cuts to 4.75 percent by the end of the
year, but depending on growth the rate can even end at 4.5
percent.”  The peso slumped 0.7 percent this week to 1,791.56 per
dollar. That’s its biggest weekly drop since the period ended
May 18. It was little changed today and has jumped 8.2 percent
this year, the best performance among all currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  While the central bank reiterated it will buy a minimum of
$20 million daily in the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2,
Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry told reporters in Bogota
that several board members voted to increase the daily dollar
purchases.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 6.77 percent, according to the central bank. Yesterday
the yield fell to 6.75 percent, the lowest level on a closing
basis since the securities were first sold in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  