-- Colombia Surprises Analysts With First Rate Cut Since 2010
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-07-27T22:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/colombia-surprises-analysts-with-first-rate-cut-since-2010.html
Colombia  cut  interest rates  for the
first time since 2010 after policy makers were surprised by the
economy’s loss of momentum amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
voted to cut the  overnight lending rate  by a quarter point to 5
percent, matching the forecast of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Twenty-four analysts had expected policy makers to
hold the rate at 5.25 percent. Uribe said all directors had
voted for a rate reduction though some board members wanted a
bigger cut.  “The economy is decelerating, and all the leading
indicators show signs of cooling down, while the inflation risk
is really benevolent,” Camila Estrada, the chief analyst at
Bogota-based Helm Bank SA, said in a telephone interview.
“Meanwhile, external risks still pose a threat.”  Banco de la Republica last year flouted a global trend for
lower interest rates in order to prevent “excessive”  consumer
credit  growth from overheating the economy. Now, with industry
contracting, and a slowing world economy curbing demand for the
Andean nation’s oil, coal and agricultural goods, policy makers
are reversing course.  The  European Central Bank ,  People’s Bank of China  and  South
Africa ’s central bank have all cut borrowing costs this month,
while policy makers in  Brazil  on July 11 reduced their  key rate 
for an eighth straight meeting to a record 8 percent.  More Cuts  “The weakening of the global economy is restricting the
growth of the Colombian economy through lower external demand
and lower international prices of major export products,”
policy makers said in their statement posted on the bank’s
website. “These factors are likely to continue operating in
that direction the next few quarters.”  The bank today lowered its 2012 economic growth forecast to
a range of 3 percent to 5 percent, down from a previous forecast
of 4 percent to 6 percent, and said that growth in 2013 should
be similar.  “This is a clear and strong signal of the change in
posture of monetary policy,” Uribe said today.  Andres Langebaek, senior economist at Banco Davivienda SA,
who correctly predicted today’s cut, forecasts that the bank
will cut rates a further 0.75 percentage point by year-end.  Industrial output  fell for a third straight month in May
from a year earlier, while year-on-year export growth slowed to
1.2 percent, from 4 percent in April and 16.1 percent in March.  Surprise Weakness  In addition to slowing overseas demand, Colombian exporters
also have to contend with the world’s biggest currency rally.
The peso has strengthened 8.2 percent to 1791.56 per  U.S. dollar 
this year, the most of 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Uribe today said that while consumer credit remains high,
its overall pace has slowed.  Credit expanded 18.3 percent in May from a year earlier,
down from year-on-year growth of  22.4 percent  in December.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 10 percent peso-
denominated bond due in July 2024 rose two basis points to 6.77
percent, according to the central bank.  The central bank was surprised by the weakness of exports
and industrial output, Uribe said in a July 12 radio interview.  More than $950 billion has been wiped off world stock
markets since July 19 as yields on Spanish  government securities 
climbed to euro-era highs amid speculation the nation will need
a bailout to backstop its regions and banks.  Inflation  Colombia’s annual  inflation  slowed to 3.20 percent in June,
lower than the 3.32 percent median forecast of 24 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg and down from 3.73 percent at the start of
the year.  The rate is the lowest after Chile of 10 Latin American
economies tracked by Bloomberg. Colombia targets inflation of 3
percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
bond traders’ inflation expectations known as the breakeven
rate, fell to 2.16 percentage points today from 3.8 percent at
the start of the year.  Oil exports rose 70 percent to $28 billion dollars last
year, while exports of coal rose 40 percent to $8.4 billion. Oil
accounted for 49 percent of the country’s sales abroad last
year. The price of crude has slumped 9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.com . 