-- Corporate Bond Sales Fall in U.S. as High-Yield Issuance Tumbles
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-07-27T14:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/corporate-bond-sales-fall-in-u-s-as-high-yield-issuance-tumbles.html
Corporate  bond sales  fell in the
U.S. this week as high-yield offerings tumbled 47 percent and
relative yields climbed for the first time in almost two months
with  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis roiling markets globally.  Offerings of at least $21 billion compare with $24.3
billion in the five days ended July 20 and a weekly 2012 average
of $26.3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest
computer-services provider, obtained a record-low coupon for 10-
year dollar-denominated bonds.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  got
record-low  interest rates  on its five- and 30-year debt.  “There is a lot of pure money looking to be put to work in
good high-quality names for buy-and-hold accounts,” Timothy Cox, executive director of debt capital markets at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Yields fell on investment grade while rising on  junk bonds 
as buyers sought safety. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned that Europe’s financial woes are creating
“spillover effects” in the rest of the world. As surging
yields in  Spain  and  Italy  threatened the existence of the euro,
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do
whatever it takes to preserve the 17-nation common currency.  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
rather than government debt increased 2 basis points this week
to 284 basis points, or 2.84 percentage points, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master
index. Spreads had  tightened  for seven straight weeks since
expanding by 13 basis points in the five days ended June 1.  ‘Significant Stress’  Yields on investment-grade bonds fell to a record low 3.049
percent on July 24, before climbing to 3.053 percent yesterday,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate
Master index. Relative yields increased 1 basis point to 200
basis points.  “Overall, spreads have held in remarkably well and speaks
to the desire for yield,” said Anthony Valeri, a market
strategist in  San Diego  at  LPL Financial . “It’s a reflection of
the still strong  credit quality  metrics domestically. The market
is not convinced that European troubles are going to have that
big of an impact” on credit quality.  Europe’s financial markets and economy “remain under
significant stress,” posing risks globally, Bernanke said July
17 in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington .
“The possibility that the situation in Europe will worsen
further remains a significant risk to the outlook.”  Spain, Italy  Spain’s  two- , five-, 10- and 30-year yields all surged
above 7 percent this week, the level that spurred  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts. Italy’s 30-year bond rate
climbed above 7 percent for the first time since January.  “To the extent that the size of these sovereign premia
hamper the functioning of the monetary policy transmission
channel, they come within our mandate,” Draghi said in a speech
at the Global Investment Conference in  London  yesterday.
“Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it takes
to preserve the euro,” he said, adding: “believe me, it will
be enough.”  Treasuries fell to 1.39 percent on July 24 before reaching
1.44 percent yesterday, Bloomberg data show.  Investment-grade sales of $16.8 billion compared with $16.3
billion last week and a 2012 weekly average of $20.7 billion,
Bloomberg data show.  Bristol-Myers, IBM  Bristol-Myers sold debt for the first time in more than
four years to help fund its acquisition of Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. The company sold $750 million of 0.875
percent, five-year debt and $500 million of 3.25 percent, 30-
year bonds, obtaining the lowest coupons on record for dollar-
denominated debentures with similar maturities, Bloomberg data
show.  The offering from the New York-based maker of the blood
thinner Plavix also included $750 million of 2 percent, 10-year
securities.  IBM, based in Armonk,  New York , sold $1 billion of bonds at
1.875 percent, beating a previous record of 2 percent held by 3M
Co. for bonds sold on June 21, Bloomberg data show. The bonds
priced to yield 2.05 percent, for a spread of 65 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  The company last sold 10-year bonds in October 2011,
issuing $500 million of 2.9 percent debt to yield 62.5 basis
points more than benchmarks, Bloomberg data show.  “We have record-low coupons and yields, which is still
attracting a substantial amount of cash even with tight spreads
and minimal new issue concessions,” Cox said.  Biomet Offering  Sales from high-yield borrowers fell to $4.3 billion
compared with $8.1 billion in the period ended July 20 and a
2012 weekly average of $5.6 billion, Bloomberg data show.  The only offering to exceed $500 million came from Biomet
Inc., the Warsaw, Indiana-based maker of medical devices, which
sold $1 billion of 6.5 percent, eight-year bonds.  Biomet was taken private by Blackstone Group LP, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., KKR & Co. and TPG Capital in 2007, according
to a  news release  at the time.  Yields on junk debt rose to 7.648 percent yesterday from
7.615 percent on July 20, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index. Spreads increased
7 basis points to 635 basis points.  Issuers planning to sell debt include Crescent Resources
LLC with a $325 million offering, and FTS International Inc.
with a $400 million transaction, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  