-- Coventry Surges After Second-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-07-27T17:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/coventry-surges-after-second-quarter-profit-beats-estimates.html
Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  rose the
most in nine months after beating analysts’ second-quarter
earnings estimates because of increased membership in its U.S.
government insurance programs and lower costs for its Medicaid
business in  Kentucky .  Coventry  climbed  9 percent to $33.48 at 1:53 p.m. in  New
York , after reaching $33.99 for its biggest intraday increase
since Oct. 24. The shares fell 15 percent in the 12 months
through yesterday.  Profit excluding a charge from the loss of a Kansas
Medicaid contract fell to 68 cents a share, exceeding the 64
cent average of 17 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Operating revenue rose to $3.52 billion, from $3.03 billion a
year earlier, Bethesda, Maryland-based Coventry said in a
statement today. Coventry reiterated its 2012 earnings forecast
of $3.10 to $3.30 a share.  Earnings were “ahead of expectations on improved
performance in Kentucky’s Medicaid program and sequential growth
in Medicare membership,”  Jason Gurda , an analyst at Leerink
Swann & Co. in New York, said in a note to clients today. The
company “repurchased 9.3 million shares for $300 million during
the second quarter, which was the largest quarter of share
repurchase activity in Coventry’s history.”  The results offer comfort to managed care investors who
have been “spooked” by rivals, including  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ,
cutting profit forecasts, Ana Gupte, a Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. analyst in New York, said in a note to investors.  Medicare is the U.S. health insurance program for the
elderly and disabled, while Medicaid is the government’s health
system for the poor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  