-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline on Prospect of ECB Bond Purchases
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-27T21:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-on-prospect-of-ecb-bond-purchases.html
A gauge of U.S. company debt risk
fell the most since November after two European Central Bank
officials said ECB President  Mario Draghi  will meet with
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann on plans to reduce soaring
borrowing costs in countries such as Spain and  Italy .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 6.2
basis points to a mid-price of 105.1 basis points at 5:09 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  fell to the lowest since
September and those on  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  dropped the most since 2009.  Investors are looking to euro-area leaders to stem the
region’s fiscal crisis and avert a contamination of global
balance sheets. French President  Francois Hollande  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today their nations are “bound by
the deepest duty” to keep the currency bloc intact, echoing a
commitment made yesterday by Draghi.  “For  Europe , it will take a while for all their austerity
measures to be put in place and take hold and help their debt
balances,” Greg Tornga, head of fixed income at Edge Asset
Management in  Seattle , which manages about $20 billion, said in
a telephone interview. “The union being more of a union and
Hollande and Merkel announcing their intention and plans of how
they want to get in place with buying Spanish and Italian debt
is a positive.”  Bond Purchases  Spanish yields soared to a record this week, reaching
levels that prompted bailouts for  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland
and raising concern the nation might need a rescue of its own.
The  yield  on  Spain ’s 10-year notes fell 18 basis points to 6.74
percent at 12:04 p.m. in New York.  “There was a serious danger that confidence keeps
eroding” in Spain’s ability to repay debt, Nick Swenson, chief
executive officer and portfolio manager at Minneapolis-based
Groveland Capital LLC, which oversees $15 million, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re reaching a tipping point.”  Draghi’s proposal involves Europe’s rescue funds buying
 government bonds  on the primary market, flanked by ECB purchases
on the secondary market to ensure transmission of its record-low
 interest rates , the officials said on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private. Further ECB rate cuts and long-
term loans to banks are also up for discussion, one of the
officials said.  Draghi said yesterday policy makers will do whatever is
needed to preserve the euro.  Insufficient Confidence  The credit-swaps index fell even as data today from the
Commerce Department showed the  U.S. economy  expanded at a slower
pace in the second quarter. Gross domestic product, the value of
all goods and services produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual
pace in the period after a revised 2 percent first-quarter gain.  “We would definitely like it to be higher,” Tornga said
of the U.S. GDP. “Given just the general sense of volatility
and uncertainty, I don’t believe there is enough overall
confidence in the market for consumers to spend more than what
they really need to.”  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, fell 29.3 basis points to a mid-price of 565.4 basis
points, the lowest since March 28, Bloomberg prices show.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings declined 7.2 basis points to 162.8.  Expedia CDS  Credit-default swaps tied to Expedia, the online-travel
company with $1.25 billion in  outstanding bonds , fell 18.7 basis
points, the most since September 2009, to 191.4 basis points at
4:03 p.m. in  New York , Bloomberg prices show. Second-quarter
sales rose 14 percent to $1.04 billion, the Bellevue,
Washington-based company said in a filing released after the
close of equity markets yesterday.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of Sprint has
fallen 5.4 percentage points since July 25, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps tied to the  Overland Park , Kansas-based
company fell 1.6 percentage points today to 3.3 percent upfront,
according to CMA. The contracts traded at 8.7 percent upfront on
July 25.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, said
yesterday second-quarter revenue jumped 6.4 percent to $8.84
billion, compared with an average estimate of $8.73 billion
called for by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The price of the swaps, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, means
investors would have to pay $330,000 initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of Sprint’s debt.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  