-- D.R. Horton Earnings Climb on Tax Benefit, Higher Sales
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-07-27T20:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/d-r-horton-earnings-increase-on-tax-benefit-and-higher-sales.html
D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , the largest U.S.
homebuilder by volume, said its fiscal third-quarter earnings
rose as a tax benefit was realized and sales improved.  Net income was $787.8 million, or $2.22 a share, in the
three months ended June 30, up from $28.7 million, or 9 cents, a
year earlier, the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company said today in
a statement. The results included $716.7 million from the
partial reversal of deferred tax assets tied to losses during
the housing crash.  “Although order growth underperformed peers somewhat, they
beat ours and consensus expectations,” Adam Rudiger, a Wells
Fargo & Co. analyst, wrote in a note today. He rates D.R. Horton
outperform, the equivalent of a buy recommendation.
“Negatively, revenues were lower than expected.”  D.R. Horton , which has reported six straight quarters of
profit, is among publicly traded builders reporting increases in
orders even as deals are restrained in the broader U.S. housing
market, where sales have been hampered by an 8.2 percent
 unemployment  rate, tight lending standards and limited
inventory. D.R. Horton’s orders climbed 25 percent from a year
earlier to 6,079.  The builder dropped 2.2 percent to $18.39 at the close in
 New York . The 11-member Standard & Poor’s 1500 Homebuilding
 index  was little changed.  ‘Be Buyers’  “If the market wants to push it down, we want to be
buyers,” Stephen East, an analyst with International Strategy &
Investment Group LLC in Saint Charles,  Missouri , wrote in a
research note today after the D.R. Horton shares initially
dropped 6.3 percent. He has a buy rating on the builder. “At
the end of the analysis, the positives very easily outweigh the
negatives.”  Earnings excluding the tax reversal were about 22 cents a
share, according to Megan McGrath, an analyst with MKM Partners
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The average estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for earnings of 19 cents.  Builders broke ground on  new single-family houses  at an
annual pace of 539,000 last month, up 4.7 percent from May and
the fastest rate in two years, the Commerce Department said last
week. Confidence among U.S. homebuilders increased in July by
the most in almost a decade, according to a National Association
of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index .  Choppy Recovery  A national recovery has been choppy. U.S.  new-home sales 
fell unexpectedly in June to an annual pace of 350,000, an 8.4
percent decline from May, the Commerce Department reported July
25. Contracts to buy existing homes dropped 1.4 percent last
month, the National Association of Realtors said yesterday.  Pretax profit at D.R. Horton, which has broadened its
market to move-up homeowners in addition to first-time buyers,
climbed to $72.2 million from $28.9 million. Homebuilding
revenue was $1.1 billion, up from $975.4 million a year earlier.
The number of completed home sales rose 9 percent to 4,957. The
backlog of properties under contract, an indicator of future
revenue, increased 31 percent to 7,311.  “We transitioned from defense to offense, raising new
capital, investing our cash in the business, improving our
operating margin and growing our profits,” Chief Executive
Officer Donald Tomnitz said on a conference call today. “We
believe these are the initial stages of long-term growth for
D.R. Horton.”  The shares of  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S. homebuilder
by revenue, rose the most since 2008 yesterday after the company
reported earnings that were higher than estimated and a 32
percent jump in orders in the quarter ended June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  