-- Dairy Crest and Arla Withdraw Plans to Reduce Milk Prices
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-07-27T14:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/dairy-crest-first-milk-withdraw-plans-for-u-k-dairy-price-cuts.html
U.K. milk producers including
industry leader  Dairy Crest Group Plc (DCG)  and Arla Foods amba
dropped plans to reduce prices paid for milk next month after
protests by farmers.  Cuts scheduled for Aug. 1 will be delayed for two months,
Esher, England-based Dairy Crest, the U.K.’s largest milk
producer, said in an e-mailed statement dated yesterday. First
Milk Ltd., located in Paisley,  Scotland , will “immediately
withdraw” plans for reductions, Chief Executive Officer Kate Allum said in a  statement  on the cooperative’s website.  U.K. dairy farmers staged dozens of protests across the
country since mid-July after leading processors announced plans
to cut milk prices below production costs, according to the
Stoneleigh, England-based National Farmers Union. Retailers
including The Co-operative Group, William Morrison Supermarkets
Plc and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda unit have agreed to increase
prices they pay for milk.  “In genuinely difficult times for the dairy-farming and
milk-processing sectors in Britain, Dairy Crest has shown
tremendous commercial statesmanship,” Clive Black and Darren Shirley, analysts at Shore Capital Group Ltd., said in an e-
mailed report. The investment bank and stockbroker advises
buying Dairy Crest shares.  Robert Wiseman  Arla canceled plans for cuts after it “recovered money
from its customers,” according to an e-mailed statement from
the Viby, Denmark-based company. Robert Wiseman Dairies, which
was bought this year by closely held German dairy company
Unternehmensgruppe Theo Mueller GmbH & Co. KG, said prices will
remain unchanged as of Aug. 1 rather than dropping.  Dairy Crest sells  Country Life  milk and Frijj flavored milk
beverages, while Arla is known for its Cravendale brand. Robert
Wiseman makes Black and White milk.  “Dairy farmers have spoken with one voice over the last
few weeks, and they’ve made it clear that they reject the
existing model where they are price takers and favor working
together to gain an equal seat at the negotiating table,” First
Milk’s Allum said.  Farm groups will continue to pressure other leading
retailers and processors that have left milk prices at
unprofitable levels for dairy producers, NFU President Peter Kendall said in an e-mailed statement.  Arla said it will pay farmers who are not aligned with
retailers 27 pence (42 U.S. cents) a liter of milk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  