-- Damaged Wild Birds Find Rescue, Rehab Clinic in New York
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-07-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/damaged-wild-birds-find-rescue-rehab-clinic-in-new-york.html
The second time I met Rita McMahon,
she was in her new rescue center for injured wildlife on
 Manhattan ’s Upper West Side.  “It’s raining birds today. We’ve had about a dozen brought
in,” McMahon said, bringing the clinic’s total to “at least 70
at the moment.”  She was feeding a tiny, mite-ridden starling with a plastic
syringe. Volunteers learning how to handle injured birds looked
over her shoulder.  When the  Wild Bird Fund  opened last month, it was the
city’s first wildlife rehabilitation center. This was good news
for McMahon, because when we initially met, she had been running
the operation for 10 years out of her brownstone apartment, a
space shared with husband, son and a few dozen injured or sick
birds.  McMahon teamed up with Karen Heidgerd, administrator of the
nearby  Animal General,  to start their own facility. McMahon
herself is a retired television consultant, but she also is
licensed to rehabilitate wild birds.  “We want to be the central facility for New York City for
the care of injured wildlife,” Heidgerd said. “That includes
animals that come into our space that don’t belong here, like
foxes and deer.”  Injured and ill animals, especially birds, are brought in
by people who find them on city sidewalks or upstate highways.  The animal rehabilitators have treated possums, snakes,
turtles, flying squirrels, bats and an injured beaver, fished
out of the  East River .  “The police brought her in,” McMahon recalled, “but she
didn’t make it.”  City Threats  The main patients are birds.  New York City  is home to more
than 350 bird species, both permanent residents and temporaries
on the migration trail. Avians are up against particular threats
in the city -- skyscrapers that block flight paths, speeding
cars, wet cement. They also face more typical threats, like
cats.  Treating an injured bird isn’t easy. I watched a seagull
with a damaged wing undergo physical therapy. The sole paid
staff member at the center taped the bird’s beak shut, then took
the creature on her lap and administered flexing exercises.
Later I noticed that the caregivers keep a fencing helmet on
hand to protect their eyes from feistier patients.  Sick birds are tested for lead poisoning.  “We’re trying to figure out how they are getting
poisoned,” McMahon said. “From the soil or peeling paint on a
ledge or even the air or water, the environment.”  Chukar ‘Sport’  The rehabbers think lead poisonings are clustered in
specific neighborhoods, and they have enlisted the Cornell Lab
of Ornithology to study the issue. When they have a large enough
sample, say 300 cases, the city’s Department of Health will look
into it.  The clinic will be both a rescue facility for wildlife and
an educational center for humans. I learned that chukars, small
plump birds, are raised in the outer boroughs for sport.  “Game birds,” McMahon said. “Released to be shot.”  There were three at the clinic the day I visited, one from
Queens and two from  Brooklyn . They arrived separately but now
were clustered together, moving about on the clinic floor,
mingling with the injured gull, cooing pigeons and a resplendent
pheasant. A baby squirrel watched from a cage.  A female red-tail hawk was treated for injuries after being
hit by a car on Interstate 84, but she wouldn’t stay long.
Certain birds -- owls, hawks, falcons -- are too much for the
clinic to handle.  “We’re not equipped to truly rehabilitate and release
raptors,” Heidgerd said.  Seeking Release  The center has an arrangement with the Raptor Trust in
Millington,  New Jersey , where large birds go for full recovery
and, one hopes, a successful release back into the wild.  That is the goal for all the patients here. “We want all
of them to go free,” McMahon said.  The Wild Bird Fund is a nonprofit, funded by individual
donors and occasional grants. It has benefited from its
proximity to Animal General across Columbus Avenue, where the
rehabbers can use the X-ray equipment, gratis.  The fund’s clinic cost $330,000 to construct, and McMahon
reckons annual operating costs will run at least $250,000. A
single, anonymous donor contributed roughly that amount, so
fundraising and grant-writing are continual efforts. Rent alone
in the 1,300-square-foot space is $8,500 a month.  “We’ve got to make that every month,” says McMahon.  To help them do that, donate via the Wild Bird Fund
website:  http://wildbirdfund.com/about/ .  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  and  Greg Evans  on
film.  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 