-- Danone Profit Beats Estimates on Chinese Baby Food Sales
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-07-27T10:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/danone-first-half-profit-rises-on-baby-food-revenue-from-china.html
Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, reported first-half earnings growth that beat analyst
estimates, providing some relief for investors after the company
cut its full-year forecast for profit margins last month.  Adjusted net income rose to 911 million euros ($1.1
billion) from 874 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
 company  said today in a statement. The average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 901 million euros.  Expansion in  emerging markets  such as Morocco and  India 
helped offset reduced sales in Europe, which was affected by a
“rapid deterioration” in consumer demand, particularly in
 Spain , Danone said. The maker of Actimel yogurt and Evian
bottled-water reiterated its sales guidance for 2012, saying it
expects like-for-like revenue growth of 5 percent to 7 percent.
Danone also repeated reduced targets for profitability.  “They have a higher exposure to southern  Europe  than
competitors, but the good news is that their emerging-market
business is pretty much going gangbusters,” said Julian Lakin,
head of research at Mirabaud Securities in  London .  Danone rose as much as 2.2 percent to 48.48 euros in Paris
trading and was up 1.6 percent as of 11:50 a.m.  Revenue excluding currency shifts and divestments rose 5.9
percent in the first half, led by growth in the baby-nutrition
and bottled-water businesses. Analysts had expected 5.8 percent
growth, according to the median of five estimates.  Baby Food  Sales of  baby food  rose about 14 percent during the first
half, led by a “very strong” performance in  Asia , particularly
 China , Danone said. The maker of Bledina baby food is tapping
growth in the infant-nutrition market, which Euromonitor
International expects to expand 6 percent a year through 2016.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the world’s largest standalone
baby formula maker, yesterday cut its revenue forecast for the
year to 8 percent to 9 percent, citing slower growth in China.  Revenue from bottled water increased 4.6 percent, Danone
said. The owner of the Volvic brand gets about two-thirds of the
unit’s revenue from  emerging markets , where consumption is
rising more quickly than in developed markets. Revenue from the
smaller medical nutrition unit rose 6.7 percent.  “In emerging markets, we are continuing to grow at a very
brisk pace,” Chief Executive Officer Franck Riboud said.  Spanish Slowdown  In contrast, the company said it faced a steeper than
anticipated slowdown in southern Europe, particularly Spain.
Spanish unemployment rose to a record 24.6 percent in the second
quarter, weighing on  consumer confidence , a report showed today.
The consumer environment in Spain will probably deteriorate
further, Danone said.  The company said today it raised its stake in its Spanish
unit to 65.6 percent from 57.1 percent after two minority
shareholders exercised a right to sell. The consideration was
91.5 million euros in cash plus 6.1 million treasury shares.  The purchase will boost earnings per share in the first
year, according to the company, which will also buy back 6.1
million shares to offset dilution from the transaction. The two
shareholders who sold their stakes agreed to hold the Danone
shares they’re receiving for at least three years.  The company said it’s in talks with other shareholders of
the unit, though it doesn’t expect to buy out a “significant
amount” of other minority investors this year.  Margin Forecast  Danone cut its profitability forecast June 19 as Spanish
consumers switched to cheaper products and raw-material costs
increased. The company said at the time it expects the operating
margin to narrow by 0.5 percentage point in 2012 on a like-for-
like basis, having previously forecast a “stable” margin.  Raw-material costs this year will increase 5 percent to 7
percent, Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said.  Sales of dairy products, which account for more than half
of Danone’s revenue, increased 2.1 percent in the first half.
The CIS region “confirmed its return to a growth model” and
second-quarter sales were higher in terms of both volume and
value, the company said.  Danone said June 27 it’s raising its stake in  Centrale
Laitiere (CLT)  du Maroc to 67 percent for 550 million euros to expand
in the Moroccan dairy industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  