-- Delta to Shut Comair Regional Unit to Cut Operating Costs
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-07-27T20:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/delta-to-shut-comair-regional-unit-to-cut-operating-costs.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  will close the
Comair commuter unit on Sept. 29 as fuel costs force it to cut
flying by 50-seat jets, ending an era in which it relied on
wholly owned subsidiaries for some regional service.  Comair accounts for about 1 percent of its parent’s seating
capacity, and there will be no disruption for travelers and “no
significant adjustments” to the larger airline’s schedule or
destinations, Atlanta-based Delta said today in a statement.  The shutdown is part of Delta’s strategy to use more cost-
effective planes for 75 percent of the flying done by 50-seaters
and help pare spending by $1 billion over the next several
years. That means shifting flights to larger aircraft at
commuter partners or its own main jet fleet.  “Fifty-seat flying is terribly inefficient and likely
unprofitable at current fuel prices,” Fred Lowrance, an analyst
at Avondale Partners LLC in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in an
interview. “It’s a good idea.”  Delta bought Comair for $1.8 billion in 1999, when owning
regional carriers was common for the major U.S. airlines. The
former Northwest Airlines Corp. and Continental Airlines Inc.
both unloaded commuter operations in the first half of the last
decade, and Delta agreed to sell its Mesaba and Compass units in
2010 to  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ)  and Trans States Holdings Inc.  Shrinking Fleet  Delta plans to reduce its 50-seat jets to 125 or fewer from
350 over the next two years. The carrier operated more than 500
such planes as recently as 2008. Earlier cutbacks already
reduced Comair’s fleet to 44 planes.  “The 50-seat RJ fleet was purchased with a fuel-price
assumption of $20 a barrel,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  told Delta employees in a recorded message. “Today
that number is over $100 and the economics simply do not work.
It’s an unfortunate set of circumstances because the Comair
operations were not sustainable.”  Delta rose 0.1 percent to $9.42 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 16 percent this year.  Comair’s 1,700 employees will be considered for open
positions at Delta and regional partners, a Delta spokesman,
Trebor Banstetter, said in an e-mail. Anderson said the shutdown
won’t affect pilots, flight attendants or maintenance and
reservations workers in Cincinnati, Comair’s base.  The closing follows steps that started in 2010 to reduce
Comair’s fleet by 53 aircraft and trim a workforce that numbered
2,600 at the time.  Most of Delta’s regional flying is done under contracts
with units of  SkyWest Inc. (SKYW) ,  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) ,
Pinnacle, Trans States and  American Airlines . Pinnacle and AMR
Corp.’s American are both in  bankruptcy protection .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  