-- Detroit’s Dylan; Ai Weiwei; ‘Ruby Sparks’; ‘Watch’: Films
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-07-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/detroit-s-dylan-ai-weiwei-ruby-sparks-watch-films.html
Sixto Rodriguez was supposed to be
the next  Bob Dylan . In one corner of the world, unknown to him
for decades, he was.  The bizarre story of an eccentric Mexican-American musician
from  Detroit  who achieved superstardom in  Cape Town ,  South
Africa , is told in “ Searching for Sugar Man ,” first-time
director Malik Bendjelloul’s captivating documentary.  Structured somewhat disingenuously as a whatever-happened-
to? story, “Sugar Man” is the tale of a guitar-strumming
singer-songwriter known by his surname.  In the late 1960s, he played the grittier bars of Detroit,
performing soulful, folksy protest songs with his back to the
audience.  Rodriguez recorded two fine albums, both commercial flops,
and vanished, a no-hit wonder whose potential and talent still
haunt the producers and music execs interviewed in “Sugar
Man.”  If they only knew...  In the early ’70s a Rodriguez album made its way to a party
in Cape Town. With its anti-establishment fervor, sexy lyrics,
drug references (the song “Sugar Man” is about a dealer) and
ear-worm melodies, the LP caught fire among teenagers seething
under a censorious government.  Rodriguez’s albums sold hundreds of thousands there. Rumors
swirled of his tragic onstage suicide. Two decades later, a
couple of devotees began an Internet search to find the singer
who had become a household name.  Detroit/Newport  With neither a clue nor a penny earned from his far-flung
success, Rodriguez had raised a family on the meager wages of a
manual laborer in Detroit. A series of comeback concerts in
South Africa are triumphant, and he has a spot on the bill of
this summer’s  Newport Folk Festival .  Enigmatic, bemused and rail-thin in black, the singer
arrives onscreen midway through “Sugar Man.” He’s worth the
wait. His music, heard throughout the film and now available on
iTunes, is earnest, trippy and often lovely.  “Searching for Sugar Man,” from  Sony Pictures Classics ,
is playing in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: **** (Evans)  Ai Weiwei  Odds are that a troublemaker ornery enough to make himself
a thorn in the side of the Chinese government is no dream to get
along with, but in “ Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry ” the dissident
artist comes off as likable and funny.  Professionally speaking, he has to. Publicity is essential
to what he does. Ai’s artistic and his political work, which are
intertwined, depend on his genius for branding, molding his
image in the media. So he grasped the value of the access he
gave first-time filmmaker Alison Klayman -- to them both.  Klayman has put together a lucid, entertaining documentary
that lays out Ai’s biography while offering tastes of his
artistic production and messy personal life.  His father was a celebrated poet who fell out of favor with
Chairman Mao. Ai himself spent a dozen years in New York, from
1981 to 1993. (We see a picture of him with  Allen Ginsberg .) He
has a young son whose mother isn’t his wife.  My main complaint: too much politics, too little art. We
see many of Ai’s projects, but they’re barely discussed (though
to be fair, most of them aren’t difficult to grasp).  He’s fond of broad gestures. A series of  photos  records his
hand -- on  Tiananmen Square , for example -- with a raised middle
finger.  For the  exhibition  “So Sorry,” he hung 9,000 kids’
backpacks on Munich’s  Haus der Kunst  to commemorate the more
than 5,000 schoolchildren who died in the 2008 Sichuan
earthquake as a result of shoddy school construction.  Chinese characters on a blue background spell out the words
of a bereaved parent: “She lived happily on this earth for
seven years.” The cheerful primary colors butt up against the
sorrow, creating a monumental image that’s hard to shake.  It would have been good to hear more discussion of this and
other work. But I can think of worse things to say about a
documentary than that it leaves you wanting more.  “Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry,” from Sundance Selects, is
playing in New York, Los Angeles,  San Francisco  and  Washington .
Rating: **** (Seligman)  ‘Ruby Sparks’  Does she have a long-form birth certificate?  Don’t ask such earthbound questions of “ Ruby Sparks ,” the
whimsical and satisfying romantic fantasy starring  Paul Dano  and
 Zoe Kazan .  Written by Kazan and directed by Jonathan Dayton and
Valerie Faris (“ Little Miss Sunshine ”), “Ruby Sparks” is the
smart girl’s take on the Pygmalion/Galatea myth.  Dano plays Calvin Weir-Fields, a shy, cardigan-wearing
writer who’s been coasting for a decade on his sole novel, a
“Catcher in the Rye”-type opus penned in his youth.  As an unblocking exercise suggested by his therapist (a
welcome  Elliott Gould ), the lonely Cal begins writing about his
ideal woman. Suddenly random, un-male items begin showing up in
the bachelor’s apartment -- a high-heel here, a bra there.  Enter Ruby, the flesh and blood soulmate Cal has imagined
into existence. She’s real -- everyone can see her, including
Cal’s stunned sounding-board brother ( Chris Messina ), his hippie
mom ( Annette Bening ) and mom’s sculptor boyfriend ( Antonio
Banderas , the only false note in the cast).  Like Woody Allen’s “ The Purple Rose of Cairo ,” “Ruby
Sparks” is about romance and disappointment, not the butterfly-
effect ramifications of remaking the universe’s rules. Ponder
any one detail --- the film’s more languorous, self-conscious
stretches provide the time -- and “Ruby” comes undone.  As a quirky (and ultimately chilling) meditation on male
desire and demands, “Ruby Sparks” is riveting.  Despite his pledge to let Ruby be Ruby, Cal can’t resist
tinkering, and everything he writes about her (and her cloying
moods) comes true. “Ruby Sparks” shows evidence of a similar
heavy hand, but it’s hard not to feel smitten.  “Ruby Sparks,” from Fox Searchlight, is playing in
 Chicago , Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington.
Rating: ***1/2 (Evans)  ‘The Watch’  “ The Watch ” can’t blame everything on atrocious timing.  Renamed from its working title “Neighborhood Watch” after
the Trayvon Martin shooting, this alien-invasion/bromantic
comedy mash-up would be a slapdash drag even without scenes of
bedroom gun arsenals and bullets pumped point-blank into wounded
creatures.  Director  Akiva Schaffer  (a “Saturday Night Live” writer),
with a patched-together script by  Seth Rogen , Evan Goldberg and
Jared Stern, updates the “ Ghostbusters ” theme with penis
jokes, carnage, sentiment and product placement.  Slimy Lurker  Ben Stiller  phones it in as Evan, the manager of a suburban
Ohio  Costco (COST)  who organizes a neighborhood watch after his store’s
security guard is slaughtered by something slimy.  In on the hunt for invaders are a fast-talking loudmouth
(Vince Vaughn doing his usual), a chunky, maladjusted cop-
wannabe (Jonah Hill, ditto) and a quirky, Brit-accented hipster
(Richard Ayoade, destined for better) whose race delights the
diversity-minded Evan (“I’m in the market for a black
friend”).  Nearly an hour of fratty jibber-jabber passes before we get
a look at the uninvited guest. Ineptly staged fight scenes are
more spaghetti Western than “Prometheus.”  The us-versus-them humor occasionally drops its warm-
hearted facade. Is that creepy neighbor an alien -- or gay? And
wouldn’t it be a hoot to have our drunken heroes pose for
obscene snapshots with an alien corpse?  “The Watch,” from Twentieth Century Fox, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: * (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on books and  Jorg von
Uthmann  on art.  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 