-- Deutsche Bank Head Debt Trader Cornut Leaves for Hedge Fund
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z ,   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-07-27T17:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/deutsche-bank-head-debt-trader-cornut-leaves-for-hedge-fund.html
Antoine Cornut,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s
head of flow-credit trading in the Americas and Europe, has left
the bank for a hedge fund as regulations designed to curb risk-
taking transform the corporate-bond market.  Cornut departed this week, according to two people familiar
with the move. Tom Hartnett was named to oversee investment-
grade credit in  North America  in addition to interest-rate
products. Tom Higbie, a credit analyst, departed this week for
hedge fund Solus Alternative Asset Management LP, where he’ll be
a managing director, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the changes haven’t been made public.  Lenders responding to the Dodd-Frank and Basel III
financial-regulation overhauls are reducing their holdings of
corporate debt, with primary-dealer inventories dropping 83
percent from a 2007 peak to $39.9 billion as of July 18, Federal
Reserve  data  show. At least 10 credit traders have left Deutsche
Bank’s New York trading desk since the beginning of 2011 as the
lender limited cash bonuses.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, the third most-active
underwriter of corporate bonds worldwide this year, and Hartnett
declined to comment, said  Duncan King , a spokesman in New York.
Cornut didn’t respond to messages left today on his mobile
phone. Higbie also declined to comment.  Bonus Limits  Cash bonuses were capped last year at 100,000 euros
($123,780) at Deutsche Bank, 65,000 pounds ($102,323) at U.K.
lender Barclays Plc, and $125,000 at Morgan Stanley in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For some at Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp., cash bonuses were
limited to $150,000.  At Solus, Higbie will reunite with  Scott Martin  and C.J.
Lanktree, who joined the firm after departing as co-heads of
Deutsche Bank’s the distressed products group, the New York-
based fund said Feb. 15 in a  statement .  Credit traders Prakash Narayanan, John Silvetz and  Thomas Curran , who together made more than $1 billion for Germany’s
biggest bank in 2009 and 2010, left last year for  hedge funds ,
people familiar with the matter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  