-- Dollar Up Versus Yen as Growth Slows Less Than Forecast
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-27T21:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/dollar-lower-as-u-s-economy-expands-less-than-forecast.html
The euro strengthened against the
dollar for the first week this month as German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  said they’ll do
“everything” necessary to protect the single currency.  The  greenback  gained today versus the yen after U.S.
economic growth slowed less in the second quarter than forecast,
damping bets the  Federal Reserve  will take more stimulus action
next week. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will
hold talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann on ECB bond
purchases, two central-bank officials said. The euro pared gains
as investors speculated the cost of preserving it may weigh it
down. The Mexican peso and  New Zealand dollar  climbed today.  “Anything that appears to provide some form of a near-term
solution to the market’s fears around  Europe  should boost the
euro,” Shahab Jalinoos, a Stamford, Connecticut-based senior
currency strategist at UBS AG, said in a telephone interview.  The euro strengthened 1.4 percent this week, the most since
February, to $1.2322. It rose as much as 0.9 percent today to
$1.2390, the highest level since July 6, before trimming its
gain to 0.3 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time. The euro was poised
for a loss of 2.7 percent for July.  The dollar was little changed against the yen on the week
at 78.46. It rose 0.3 percent today. Europe’s shared currency
climbed 1.3 percent against the yen on the week and appreciated
0.6 percent on the day to 96.67.  Biggest Winner  The  Mexican peso  was the biggest winner among major
currencies, rising on optimism for exports to the U.S., its
biggest trade partner, after GDP growth exceeded the forecast.
The currency strengthened 1.3 percent to 13.2393 per dollar.  New Zealand ’s dollar advanced as risk appetite improved and
U.S. stocks and commodities rose on speculation the ECB will
take steps to ease Europe’s debt crisis. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  rallied 1.9 percent, and the S&P GSCI Index of raw
materials increased 1 percent.  The kiwi, as New Zealand’s currency is nicknamed, gained
1.1 percent to 81.06 U.S. cents, the highest level since May 3,
before trading at 80.97 cents, up 1 percent.  The euro pared gains today against the dollar amid
speculation that the cost of further moves to protect the
currency will weaken it.  ‘Severe Implications’  “The realization became for the market that if we are
going this route of another round of massive bond buying, that
is going to have some pretty severe implications for the ECB’s
balance sheet,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit, said in a telephone
interview. “The initial movement perhaps reflected a more risk-
on and dollar-negative bias, but ultimately we may get back to
this weighing on the euro from a longer-term point of view.”  The 17-nation currency initially climbed after Merkel and
Hollande said their countries are “bound by the deepest duty”
to keep the euro area intact.  Draghi and Weidmann will meet in coming days in an effort
to overcome the biggest stumbling block to a new raft of
measures to stem the region’s debt crisis, including bond
purchases, two central-bank officials said. They requested
anonymity because the talks are private.  The ECB chief’s proposal involves Europe’s rescue funds
buying  government bonds  on the primary market, flanked by ECB
purchases on the secondary market to ensure transmission of its
record low interest rates, the officials said. Further central-
bank rate cuts and long-term loans to banks are also up for
discussion, one of the officials said. Draghi said yesterday
policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve the euro.  People Wondering  “This is a lot to promise in a short amount of time, and
people are wondering if Draghi is overreaching,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in New York. “The market had come up a lot
with short covering, and when people started to think about the
news reports the air was let out of the balloon.” Short
covering is buying a security to square earlier bets that it
would fall.  The ECB is scheduled to meet next week. The euro has slid
this year versus 14 of its 16 most-traded counterparts on
concern the region’s debt crisis was worsening.  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate after a
revised 2 percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed in  Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey was an increase of 1.4 percent.  Treasury Yields  Japan ’s currency weakened versus the dollar as U.S.
Treasuries fell after the GDP data, pushing  two-year note  yields
up as much as three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
0.26 percent. The  extra yield  investors get for investing in
U.S. two-year debt versus comparable Japanese government bonds
increased to the most in two weeks, enhancing dollar-denominated
assets’ appeal. The yield gap was 14 basis points. It was 10
basis points on July 20, the least since February.  “It’s a yield-spread story,” Dan Dorrow, head of research
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Faros Trading LLC, said in a phone
interview. “Dollar-yen is one of the most sensitive currencies
to yield differentials. That’s what pushing up the dollar.”  Credit Suisse AG cut forecasts for the euro, citing
deterioration in the Spanish sovereign market and weak economic
data. It said in a note the currency will trade at $1.17 in
three months and $1.19 in 12 months, versus a prior estimate of
$1.19 and $1.21. The euro will trade at 76 U.K. pence in three
months, versus an earlier projection of 79 pence, the firm said.  Spanish Yields  Spanish government bond  yields  rose to 7.75 percent on July
25, a euro-era record, before dropping to 6.74 percent today. A
composite index of euro-area  purchasing managers  in services and
manufacturing was unchanged at 46.4 in July, London-based Markit
Economics reported on July 24. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  The Fed opens a two-day meeting on July 31. While policy
makers refrained from introducing a third round of asset
purchases at their session last month, Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  indicated that it’s an option.  The U.S. central bank purchased $2.3 trillion in securities
in two rounds of a strategy called quantitative easing from 2008
to 2011 to spur the economic recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  