-- Draghi Said to Hold Talks With Weidmann on ECB Bond Buying
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2012-07-28T13:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/draghi-said-to-hold-talks-with-weidmann-on-ecb-bond-purchases.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  will hold talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann in the coming days in an effort to overcome the biggest
stumbling block to a new raft of measures including bond
purchases, two central bank officials said.  Having secured the backing of governments in Spain, France
and Germany, Draghi is now seeking to win over ECB policy makers
for a multi-pronged approach to reduce bond yields in countries
such as Spain and Italy, the officials said late yesterday on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private.  Draghi’s proposal involves  Europe ’s rescue funds buying
 government bonds  on the primary market, flanked by ECB purchases
on the secondary market to ensure transmission of its record-low
 interest rates , the officials said. Further ECB rate cuts and
long-term loans to banks are also up for discussion, one of the
officials said.  The euro strengthened and U.S. stocks rallied, with the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  climbing above 13,000 for the first
time since May.  Draghi is trying to put together a game changer in the
battle against the sovereign debt crisis, and winning Weidmann’s
support would enable him to present a  united front  to financial
markets. Draghi flagged the intervention on July 26, saying the
ECB will do whatever it takes to preserve the euro. The
Bundesbank responded yesterday by reiterating its opposition to
ECB bond purchases.  Building Consensus  Draghi will speak with Weidmann before the ECB’s Governing
Council convenes in  Frankfurt  on Aug. 2, the officials said. He
has also reached out to other ECB policy makers in an effort to
build consensus, they said. A Bundesbank spokesman declined to
comment.  An ECB spokeswoman said in an e-mailed statement it is
usual practice and nothing special for Draghi to meet or talk
with members of the Governing Council. She declined to comment
on the content of any talks.  They will take place against a backdrop of international
financial diplomacy, with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
scheduled to meet July 30 on the North Sea island of Sylt.  Geithner is also scheduled to meet Draghi later that day in
Frankfurt, the U.S. Treasury Department said in a statement
yesterday.  Closed Meeting  The Treasury said the meetings will be closed to the press,
with a photo opportunity before the Schaeuble meeting. A
Treasury official with knowledge of the matter said Geithner and
Schaeuble won’t hold a news conference after the meeting.  Draghi has already secured the endorsements of Germany and
France for a plan to reduce bond yields in Spain and Italy,
which are threatening the existence of the euro.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  echoed Draghi’s language after a telephone
conversation yesterday, pledging to do everything to protect the
single currency. The two largest euro-area economies are “bound
by the deepest duty” to keep the 17-nation currency bloc
intact, Merkel and Hollande said in a joint statement.  “German support increases the credibility of an ECB
intervention immensely, as otherwise markets would have to fear
a subsequent down-scaling of the policy action,” said  Christian Schulz , senior economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “If the
ECB is credible enough, bond yields would stabilize without the
ECB buying many bonds at all.”  Lower Yield  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond dropped to 6.74 percent
yesterday from 7.62 percent on July 24 as markets rallied on
Draghi’s signal of ECB intervention.  While granting a banking license to Europe’s permanent
rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism, is a long-term
aim of Draghi’s, it is not part of the immediate crisis plan,
one of the central bank officials said.  ECB government bond purchases have seen two German policy
makers quit the central bank.  Vocal opponent  Axel Weber  resigned as Bundesbank president
last year and  Juergen Stark , a former Bundesbank vice president,
stepped down from his role as ECB chief economist at the end of
2011. Both complained that the bond program carried risks and
relieved pressure on governments to enact reforms.  A spokesman for the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said in a
statement read over the phone yesterday morning that there
haven’t been any changes in its position on bond purchases. The
bank has repeatedly said in the past it views such buying
critically because it blurs the line between monetary and fiscal
policy, he said.  Price Stability  German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler said the ECB’s
central task is  price stability , not financing government debt,
Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung reported. Supporting the euro by
having the ECB buying bonds cannot be “a long-term solution,”
the minister said, according to NOZ.  Greece  shouldn’t get additional financial aid, according to
Michael Meister, the deputy leader in parliament of Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , Frankfurter Allgemeine
Sonntagszeitung reported.  Greece’s problem is its government’s inability to carry out
domestic changes, the newspaper cited Meister as saying in an
interview. While advising against Greece being forced to exit
the euro region, Meister called it “very difficult” to rebuild
the country’s ability to pay its bills, FAS reported in a
preview of an article for tomorrow’s edition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  