-- Dutch Regulators Probe Libor, Euribor Submission Process
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-07-27T17:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/dutch-regulators-probe-libor-euribor-submission-process-1-.html
Dutch regulators are conducting a
probe into potential rigging of interbank lending rates, as a
global scandal triggered by the manipulation of Libor widens.  “The Dutch central bank is conducting an investigation in
the broadest sense into possible manipulation of the Libor and
Euribor submission process,” said Kees Verhagen, a spokesman
for the Amsterdam-based central bank. The probe is being carried
out jointly with financial markets regulator AFM and in
cooperation with international supervisors, he said by telephone
today.  The central bank declined to say which firms are under
investigation. Dutch newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad reported
earlier today that Rabobank Groep, the only Dutch bank on the
Libor panel, fired four traders in 2008 and 2011 for possible
involvement in manipulation of the rate. The bankers, based in
 London , were suspected of rigging rates to help colleagues boost
profit, the paper said.  Rabobank spokesman Hendrik Jan Eijpe declined to comment on
the employees. The bank is cooperating with the investigations
by regulators, he said.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest
publicly traded bank, earlier this month said it suspended two
London-based traders as investigators probe the suspected
manipulation of benchmark  interest rates . The two traders
formerly worked at Rabobank, one of at least 12 banks being
probed by regulators over allegations they rigged the London and
euro interbank offered rates, a person with knowledge of the
situation said on July 9.  Rigging Rates  Libor is determined by a daily poll that asks banks to
estimate how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for different timeframes and in different currencies. Rabobank
last month withdrew from the panels that set Libor in yen, the
Canadian dollar, the Swiss franc, the Danish krone and the
Swedish krona. It continues to contribute toward Libor in U.S.
dollars, euros and pounds.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the largest Dutch financial-services company,
is on the panel for setting  Euribor , as is Rabobank. Officials
at ING didn’t immediately respond to messages left on their
mobile phones.  The Dutch central bank started the probe “some time ago,”
Verhagen said.  The U.K. and the U.S. are criminally investigating how
derivatives traders and rate submitters colluded to rig Libor,
and other interest rates. Barclays was fined 290 million pounds
($456 million) in June by U.S. and U.K. regulators for
submitting false rates. The lender today apologized for its role
in the scandal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  