-- The Justice Department’s MF Global Scandal Dates to 1932
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-07-27T19:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/the-justice-department-s-mf-global-scandal-dates-to-1932.html
There's an old saying in journalism that there are no new stories, only new
reporters. The revelation that U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder's old law firm
used to represent the bankrupt brokerage firm MF Global Holdings is a great
example. Here's the lead paragraph from  an article yesterday  on the right-leaning news
website Breitbart.com, which was following up on  an op-ed  in the  Washington 
Times: "Those wondering why the Department of Justice has
refused to go after  Jon Corzine  for the vaporization of $1.6 billion in MF
Global client funds need look no further than the documents uncovered by the
 Government Accountability Institute  that reveal that the now-defunct MF Global
was a client of Attorney General Eric Holder and Assistant Attorney General
 Lanny Breuer ’s former law firm, Covington & Burling." It's great fodder for the scandal mill. It's also not a surprise. Covington &
Burling, a powerhouse Washington law firm that was founded in 1919 by former
Representative James Harry Covington, in recent years  has represented  JPMorgan
Chase, Wells Fargo, Citigroup, Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs
and UBS, to name a few. It would have been more surprising if the firm had never
represented MF Global. Corzine, for anyone who hasn't been paying attention, is
the former New Jersey governor who was MF's chief executive when it
collapsed. When it comes to financial debacles and Washington, some players never
change. Covington & Burling represented the disgraced Charles Mitchell of
National City Bank (now Citigroup) at the Pecora Commission hearings held by the
Senate Banking Committee during the 1930s. (The name came from the committee's
chief counsel,  Ferdinand Pecora , who investigated  Wall Street  corruption and
fraud after the 1929 stock market crash. You can read more about Mitchell and
the hearings in  this excerpt  from  Michael Perino 's superb book about Pecora,
"The Hellhound of Wall Street.") This isn't to say it's a good thing for the  Justice Department 's leaders to
have such close Wall Street ties.  It's not , especially when the government has
brought  so few  fraud prosecutions related to the financial crisis. Whoever wins
the presidential election this fall, here's a suggestion: Find an attorney
general who doesn't have these kinds of  connections . It would go a long way
toward restoring Americans' faith in the justice system. ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and editors at
 the Ticker .  