-- Health Insurers’ Anti-Fraud Bid Seeks to Ease Profit-Limit Rule
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-07-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/health-insurers-anti-fraud-bid-seeks-to-ease-profit-limit-rule.html
Health insurance executives who met
at the White House yesterday to mark their contributions to
fighting fraud told the Obama administration that the cost of
those efforts shouldn’t be counted toward profit limits that
were imposed under the 2010 U.S. health-care overhaul.  Under the Affordable Care Act, insurers can keep 20 percent
of revenue from customer premiums for profit and administrative
costs. The rest must be spent on medical care or rebated. The
government should change the rules so the companies’ anti-fraud
efforts can be classed as medical costs, said Richard Migliori,
executive vice president of  health services  at  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest publicly traded U.S. health insurer.  Changing the rule “would make it easier for the industry
to do the most that they can,” Migliori said in a telephone
interview after leaving the meeting in Washington. “Anything we
do to prevent fraud counts as administrative costs.”  Activities to fight fraud, such as investigating suspicious
billing claims or checking doctors’ address changes to make sure
they are legitimate, have become a greater focus of regulators
seeking to rein in unnecessary costs. The Obama administration
yesterday announced a partnership with the industry in which
UnitedHealth,  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and other insurers may try to share
more billing data with the government to root out fraud.  A White House spokesman, Nick Papas, declined to comment on
the industry’s request for a change to the profit limit.  Previous Request  The government shouldn’t change the profit rule, said Ethan
Rome, executive director of Health Care for America Now!, an
activist group critical of insurers.  Raising the issue at the White House meeting was “classic
bad-faith,” he said by phone. “There’s lots of things that
insurance companies can do to improve the delivery of care and
to reduce the cost of care. But those things should not be
counted as medical care.”  Insurers, including UnitedHealth, have previously asked the
administration to change the way their anti-fraud efforts are
accounted for under the profit rule. Money that insurers recover
from fraud that is discovered can be deducted from
administrative costs when calculating whether they exceeded the
profit limit. The companies can only deduct as much as they
spend on their anti-fraud activities.  The rule discourages investment in anti-fraud efforts or
attempting innovative fraud programs that risk failing, said
Alissa Fox, who oversees lobbying and policy at the Blue Cross
Blue Shield Association in  Washington . The president and chief
executive officer of the association, Scott Serota, attended the
White House meeting.  Resource Disincentive  “You don’t want to have a disincentive for people to
allocate appropriate resources on fraud,” Fox said in a
telephone interview. “You don’t know how much you’re going to
recover until you recover it.”  The  Justice Department  estimates that Medicare, the health
program for the elderly and disabled, and Medicaid, the program
for the poor, are plagued by at least $60 billion in fraud a
year.  “We know that fraud’s taking place across the health care
system with many private insurance companies facing the same
challenges that we do,” Health and Human Services Secretary
 Kathleen Sebelius  said at the meeting with insurers.  The government recovered about $4.1 billion in 2011 from
fraud against federal health programs that was discovered,
Attorney General Eric Holder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  