-- East Coast Storms Ground Planes, Cut Power to Thousands
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-27T11:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/east-coast-storms-ground-planes-cut-power-to-thousands.html
Nearly 1,000 flights were canceled,
trees were snapped, and hundreds of thousands were left without
power after a line of powerful storms swept across the U.S. from
 Texas  to  Connecticut .  New York  Governor Andrew M. Cuomo declared a state of
emergency in Chemung County after a tornado reportedly touched
down in Elmira, where author  Mark Twain  is buried. A woman was
killed by a falling tree in Pennsylvania, AccuWeather said.  Most of the damage from yesterday’s event occurred in New
York and Pennsylvania. where the weather front may have created
a rare wind storm known as a derecho.  A  derecho  is defined as an event that has wind gusts of at
least 58 miles (93 kilometer) per hour and leaves a swath of
damage for a minimum of 240 miles, according to the U.S.  Storm
Prediction Center .  “At this point it is fair to say it is going to probably
be a derecho,” said Corey Mead, a meteorologist at the center
in Norman,  Oklahoma . “There is definitely going to be a
continuous pattern of wind damage across New York, Pennsylvania
and southern  New England .”  Power Out  Almost 386,000 customers were without power, including
4,000 in New York City, as of 8:30 p.m. New York time yesterday
after the storms passed through, utilities reported. About
188,000 customers across more than a dozen states were still
blacked out as of about 7:30 a.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from utility websites.  At least 974 flights were canceled around the U.S.
yesterday, with New York’s LaGuardia Airport the hardest hit
having 177 departures scrubbed, said  FlightAware , a tracking
company based in Houston.  According to storm reports, winds of 75 mph, strong enough
to match a Category 1 hurricane, were recorded in Ohio and
Kentucky. A gust of 74 mph was recorded in Pennsylvania. Hail
was reported from  Arkansas  to Pennsylvania, with the largest
report so far being 2.5 inches (6.4 centimeters) in Montgomery,
according to the storm center.  Severe storms with lightning, hail and tornadoes accounted
for about $8.8 billion in insured losses in the U.S. in the
first six months of 2012, more than any other type of natural
disaster, according to the  Insurance Information Institute  in
New York.  Derecho Strike  The mid-Atlantic was struck by a derecho last month,
leaving 4.3 million people without power from  New Jersey  to
 North Carolina  as it unleashed winds of as much as 91 mph.
Twenty-four deaths were linked to the gale and its aftermath,
according to the  Associated Press .  Yesterday’s storms were caused when a cold front swept
across the U.S., Mead said. The most intense turbulence was in
the Northeast, he said.  In New York’s Chemung County, thousands of trees were
shredded, businesses and homes were damaged and widespread power
outages were reported, according to Cuomo. The state of
emergency allows New York to waive rules that might hinder
getting people there immediate help, a statement from the
governor said.  Nearly 100,000 people in New York and about 145,000 in
Pennsylvania were without electricity service, according to
utility websites. New York City had about 4,000 people without
power as storms rolled through, according to Consolidated Edison
Inc.  Utilities Report  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) , based in Akron, Ohio, said about 119,000
customers in Pennsylvania and 13,200 customers in Ohio had lost
electricity by 8:30 p.m.  American Electric Power Co., (AEP)  based in
Columbus, Ohio, said more than 51,000 customers were blacked
out, while NYSEG, a unit of Iberdrola SA, had about 52,000
without service in New York, according to the utility’s website.  In West Virginia, 6,829 customers had lost their power as
of 11 p.m., according to Appalachian Power’s website. The
company is owned by American Electric Power. An additional 603
customers were without electricity in Indiana, according to  Duke
Energy (DUK)  Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  