-- Economy in U.S. Probably Expanded at Slowest Pace in Year
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/economy-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-slowest-pace-in-a-year.html
The  U.S. economy  probably expanded
in the second quarter at the slowest pace in a year as a
softening labor market caused Americans to cut back on spending,
economists said before a report today.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 1.4 percent annual rate after a 1.9 percent
gain in the prior quarter, according to the median forecast of
81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Consumer purchases,
which account for about 70 percent of the world’s largest
economy, may have grown at the weakest pace in a year.  Households are restraining spending just as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and looming U.S. tax-policy changes curb corporate
investment, hurting sales at companies from  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  to  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Cooling growth makes it
harder to reduce unemployment, helping explain why Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week that
policy makers stand ready with more stimulus if needed.  “We have an economy that is still very weak,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in
 New York  and the best forecaster of U.S. economic data in the
two years through May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“Job growth is not enough to make a big dent in the
 unemployment rate . Households are trying to repair their
finances. I don’t see any significant drivers for the economy in
the second half.”  The Commerce Department will release the GDP report at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates for growth ranged from
0.7 percent to 1.9 percent. The agency will also issue annual
revisions to GDP going back three years.  Consumer Sentiment  A separate report at 9:55 a.m. may show the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of consumer sentiment
fell to 72 in July, the lowest level this year, from 73.2 a
month earlier, economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted.  Stocks are reflecting concerns about the global economy.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 3.3 percent from April
through June, the first drop in three quarters. The gauge is
little changed so far this month, closing yesterday at 1,360.02,
compared with 1,362.16 on June 29.  The projected 1.3 percent gain in second-quarter household
spending would be about half the 2.5 percent rise from January
through March, according to the  median  estimate before the GDP
figures.  Recent data signal consumers are reluctant to step up
purchases. Retail sales fell in June for a third consecutive
month, the longest period of declines since 2008. Same-store
sales rose less than analysts’ estimates at retailers including
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)   Slowing Sales  Slowing sales and currency fluctuations led Procter &
Gamble, the world’s largest consumer products company, to cut
 profit forecasts  three times this year.  Among frugal consumers is Roger Szemraj, a lobbyist for the
 food industry  with OFW Law in Washington, who drives a hybrid
car and said his routine has always been to find the grocery
store with the best deals.  “We are always looking to see what are the sales items and
try to buy in that instance,” said Szemraj who was shopping at
Safeway Inc. store in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington
because of a sale on lamb. “It’s a matter of looking to see
what the sales price is.”  Consumers may remain cautious until hiring accelerates.
Payroll gains averaged 75,000 in the second quarter, down from
226,000 in the prior three months and the weakest in almost two
years. The unemployment rate, which held at 8.2 percent in June,
has exceeded 8 percent for 41 straight months.  Bernanke told lawmakers last week that progress in reducing
the jobless rate will probably be “frustratingly slow.”  ‘Further Action’  “Economic activity appears to have decelerated somewhat
during the first half of this year,” Bernanke said in testimony
to Congress. The Fed is “prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery.”  Jobs and the economy are central themes in the presidential
campaign, with President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  sparring over who can best revitalize the recovery.  UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, cut its
full-year profit forecast after a drop in second-quarter
international package sales. The Atlanta-based company,
considered an economic bellwether because it moves goods ranging
from financial documents to pharmaceuticals, projects the U.S.
will grow 1 percent in the remainder of 2012.  Nervous Customers  “Economies around the world are showing signs of weakening
and our customers are increasingly nervous,” Chief Executive
Officer Scott Davis said on a July 24 call with analysts. “In
the U.S., uncertainty stemming from this year’s elections and
the looming fiscal cliff constrains the ability of businesses to
make important decisions such as hiring new employees, making
capital investments, and restocking inventories.”  A pickup in homebuilding has helped some manufacturers to
fare better. Caterpillar Inc., the largest maker of construction
and mining equipment, this week raised its full-year profit
forecast on increased demand from North American builders.  “We are planning for a world that is growing anemically in
the next 24 months,” Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman 
said on a July 25 conference call to discuss his company’s
earnings. “We are not planning for an implosion.”  Business investment, a driver of the expansion, may slow as
weaker overseas markets limit exports. Orders for non-defense
capital goods excluding aircraft, a proxy for future corporate
spending on equipment, decreased in June, signaling production
may cool.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  