-- Megaupload Prosecutors Seek to Keep Company as Defendant
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-27T19:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/megaupload-prosecutors-seek-to-keep-company-as-defendant.html
Megaupload Ltd. should remain a
defendant in the federal criminal case accusing the  Internet
company  and its founder, Kim Dotcom, of running a massive
illegal file-sharing service, U.S. prosecutors said.  Prosecutors, seeking to defeat the company’s request for
dismissal, said today the U.S. has authority to bring copyright
infringement charges against Megaupload even though it has no
offices in the country.  “The heart of the issue is whether foreign companies like
Megaupload can commit crimes in the U.S. and in this district
and then never be brought to justice,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Ryan Dickey told U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady during a
hearing in Alexandria,  Virginia . “That just can’t be the case,
your honor.”  The dismissal of charges against Megaupload would add to
the challenges prosecutors have faced since shutting down the
company’s file-sharing website and charging Dotcom and six other
individuals in January. A judge in  New Zealand  last month threw
out warrants used to seize the Internet entrepreneur’s property,
delaying Dotcom’s possible extradition by at least seven months.  Search Warrants  Investigators executed more than 20 search warrants in the
U.S. and eight other countries and seized about $50 million in
assets in connection with what they said was among the largest
criminal copyright cases ever brought by the U.S.  Megaupload operated in the U.S. for more than six years,
earning more than $175 million in illegal profit since 2005 from
the exchange of pirated films, music, books and software,
according to an indictment. More than 500 servers leased by
Megaupload were located in Virginia, giving the U.S.
jurisdiction to prosecute the company, the government argued in
court papers.  “Over the years, millions of dollars poured into this
district,” Dickey said.  At today’s hearing, lawyers argued over whether federal
rules governing criminal cases bar indictment of foreign
companies that don’t have offices or agents in the U.S. The
rules require prosecutors to issue a summons to an agent or
officer of the company, and mail a copy to the company’s last
known address in the U.S., when bringing criminal charges
against an enterprise.  Hong Kong  Megaupload contends prosecutors haven’t tried to serve the
company, which is registered in  Hong Kong , and can’t meet the
requirements.  By indicting Megaupload, officials were able to shut down
its operations through criminal forfeiture, seizing domain names
and freezing assets without any review by a judge, William
Burck, a lawyer for the company, told O’Grady.  “The process chosen here illustrates the threat the rule
was designed to prevent,” Burck, a partner at Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, said. “They wiped out a foreign
corporation with no office in the U.S. by bringing a criminal
indictment.”  The judge asked whether so-called mutual legal assistance
treaties -- agreements the U.S. has with other countries to
exchange information to enforce laws -- could trump the
criminal-rules requirement. He said he would on the motion
later.  Extradition Hearing  An extradition hearing for Dotcom, 38, was pushed back
from next month until March 25 after a New Zealand judge ruled
on June 28 that warrants police used to search his rented
mansion on the outskirts of Aukland were overly broad and
invalid. The warrants also enabled authorities to seize Dotcom’s
property, including a pink Cadillac. Prosecutors are appealing
the decision.  Another New Zealand judge in March granted Dotcom access to
some of his seized funds and property, ordering that he be
provided with $48,500 a month and use of a Mercedes Benz four-
wheel drive vehicle.  A revised indictment on Feb. 17 includes charges of
racketeering,  money laundering , copyright infringement and  wire
fraud .  The racketeering and money laundering counts carry maximum
penalties of 20 years in prison while the copyright infringement
charges have maximum five-year penalties.  Megaupload reproduced copyrighted works directly from
websites including Google Inc.’s YouTube for illegal sharing and
to give the false impression that a related video-sharing
website hosted user-generated, rather than copyrighted, content,
prosecutors allege.  More than $150 million in profit came from premium
subscriptions and $25 million from online advertising, according
to the indictment. A lifetime subscription cost about $260, the
indictment said.  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-00003, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  