-- Legg Mason Posts First Loss Since 2009 on Debt Restructuring
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-07-27T20:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/legg-mason-posts-first-loss-since-2009-on-debt-restructuring.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the money manager
with 19 straight quarters of redemptions, had its first
quarterly loss since the start of 2009 because of costs to
restructure debt.  Legg Mason posted a net loss of $9.5 million, or 7 cents
per share, in the three months ended June 30, compared with a
profit of $60 million, or 40 cents, a year earlier, the
Baltimore-based firm said today. Results missed the average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for a profit of 3
cents a share.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Fetting  has eliminated jobs
and restructured debt to cut costs and boost profit as slumping
markets and client withdrawals have cut fee-earning assets.
While long-term redemptions slowed to the weakest pace in five
years amid deposits into bond funds, clients continued to pull
money from higher-fee stock funds, pushing investment advisory
fees down 11 percent.  “The main disappointment was the lower fee rate,” Macrae
Sykes, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York, said in an
interview. “Since they earn the most on equity assets, to the
extent that their mix moves away from a higher percentage of
equity, the average fee rate realized on assets will decline.”  Legg Mason fell 1.1 percent to close at $24.86 in  New York .
The  stock  has increased 3.4 percent this year, compared with a
gain of 7.6 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 20-member index of
custody banks and asset managers.  Assets Fall  Legg Mason’s revenue dropped 12 percent to $630.7 million,
as advisory fees and performance fees for beating benchmarks
fell from a year earlier. Performance fees declined 54 percent
to $8.6 million compared with a year earlier. Assets fell 4.6
percent from a year earlier to $631.8 billion.  Stock assets, which generally earn higher fees than bond
funds, decreased 17 percent to $151.1 billion in the past 12
months. Bond assets, managed mostly by Western Asset, declined
1.3 percent to $360.6 billion and money funds increased 3.9
percent to $120.1 billion.  Earnings in the quarter were reduced by 43 cents per share
on costs to refinance debt and expenses tied to opening two new
investment vehicles. The firm last reported a net loss, of $325
million, in the three months ended March 31, 2009, because of
costs to eliminate mortgage-linked debt investments from money
funds.  ‘Real Progress’  “It’s a quarter of real progress,” Fetting said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”
“The accounting charges are really a function of success on
restructuring our debt, which was largely a non-cash charge, and
two, we had two very successful closed-end fund raises.”  Legg Mason’s long-term withdrawals fell to the lowest level
in five years as the firm added new products and performance at
certain funds improved, Fetting said today on a conference call
with analysts and investors.  Client withdrawals declined 47 percent from the previous
quarter, when investors pulled $4.9 billion. Stock funds had
withdrawals of $3.9 billion, while bond funds had deposits of
$100 million during the quarter. Investors deposited $1.2
billion into Legg Mason’s money funds.  Peltz Stake  Legg Mason’s board members include activist investor  Nelson
Peltz , who took a stake in the firm in 2009. Peltz said last
year that he expected Western Asset to lead the firm’s
turnaround. The $9.7 billion Western Asset Core Plus Bond Fund
has returned 6.4 percent this year, beating 91 percent of
competing fixed-income funds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Investors deposited $117.5 billion into taxable bond funds
while pulling  $42.6 billion  from U.S.-registered domestic equity
funds industrywide in the first half of this year, according to
data compiled by  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago .  Fetting completed a plan in the quarter ended March 31
designed to save $130 million to $150 million a year through a
combination of job cuts and moving certain technology functions
to investment units. Legg Mason said last month that earnings
would be affected by $23 million in expenses tied to two new
investment vehicles and by about $69 million from repurchasing
convertible senior notes from private-equity firm KKR & Co.  Money managers such as Legg Mason, which earn fees based on
the assets that they manage for clients, traditionally benefit
from rising stock markets and investor deposits into higher-fee
active stock and bond funds. The  MSCI ACWI Index (MXWD)  of global
stocks fell 6.4 percent in the second quarter and the U.S.
benchmark S&P 500 Index declined 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  