-- Telefonica Debt May Get Downgraded Even After Payout Move
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-07-27T10:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/telefonica-debt-may-get-downgraded-even-after-payout-move.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish phone
company that this week suspended its dividend, still faces a
potential downgrade of its credit ratings by Moody’s Investors
Service as the move isn’t enough to offset liquidity risks.  The rating on Telefonica’s long-term debt remains on review
for downgrade depending on the Spanish sovereign debt situation
and its effect on the Madrid-based company, Moody’s said today
in a statement. Moody’s lowered the company’s rating to Baa2,
the second-lowest investment grade, last month.  “A rating downgrade could arise if the sovereign rating
were to be downgraded, subject to Moody’s pending assessment of
whether a two notch differential between the sovereign rating
and Telefonica could be considered,” Carlos Winzer, a Moody’s
analyst in  Madrid , said in the statement. The downgrade could
also happen “if Telefonica were to deviate from its financial-
ratio strengthening plan.”  Telefonica,  Spain ’s biggest phone company, suspended its
dividend, cut a revenue forecast and slashed compensation for
top executives including Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta
in its most drastic response to Spain’s debt crisis. Moody’s
said Telefonica’s move “is credit positive as it will reduce
its refunding needs alleviate part of the negative pressure on
credit metrics and thus on its ratings.”  Alierta is reversing the company’s expansion strategy by
selling assets including shares in its German and Latin American
businesses as well as non-core assets, such as call-center unit
Atento. The phone operator, whose net debt climbed to 58.3
billion euros ($71.5 billion) euros at the end of June, plans to
reach a net debt of less than 2.35 times operating profit before
depreciation and amortization in 2012, from 2.46 last year.  Telefonica shares  fell  fell 0.1 percent to 8.94 euros at
12:36 p.m. Madrid time, valuing the company at 40.6 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  