-- Elliott’s Global Trading Chief Miller to Leave Hedge Fund
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-07-27T14:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/elliott-s-global-trading-chief-miller-to-leave-hedge-fund.html
Brian Miller , who runs global
trading at hedge fund Elliott Management Corp., is leaving after
21 years at one of the industry’s top performers and may
eventually start his own fund, according to a letter to clients.  Miller, 46, will initially manage his own money by forming
a family office, Elliott said yesterday in the letter, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News. Jon Pollock, 48, who is
co-chief investment officer, will become chief trading officer,
said the firm, which oversees $20 billion.  Peter Truell , a
spokesman for New York-based Elliott, declined to comment.  Billionaire Paul Singer started Elliott in 1977 and has
returned an annual average of 14 percent, with just nine losing
quarters in its 35-year history, according to the firm. The
firm’s Elliott International Ltd. fund returned 3.1 percent in
the first five months of the year, according to the latest
update sent to investors. Hedge funds overall gained 0.64
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Miller, who became an equity partner in Elliott in January
last year, will relinquish that interest while remaining an
investor in the fund, according to the letter.  Elliott also said it will be promoting Rich Ritholz, 49,
who runs the fund’s commodities and energy team, and Steve Kasoff, responsible for structured products and global real
estate, to the firm’s risk committee. Ritholz, who joined
Elliott in 2005, and Kasoff, 41, who has been with the hedge
fund for almost a decade, will report to Pollock and remain
members of Elliott’s management committee, according to the
letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  