-- Elong Jumps as Stimulus Spurs Growth Outlook: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-27T21:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/elong-jumps-as-stimulus-spurs-growth-outlook-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rose the most in a
month in  New York  trading, on speculation the government’s
investment and tax incentive plans will help stem a slowdown in
Asia’s fastest growing economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. jumped 2.5 percent to 88.13 yesterday
in New York. It climbed 2.3 percent this week, snapping a three-
week decline.  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , the most popular video sharing website
operator, surged the most in two months while  Ambow Education
Holding Ltd. (AMBO)  extended its rally to a third day. Computer
security software developer Qihoo 360 Technology Co. led gains
in Internet companies after announcing a partnership with an
online games operator.  The Bloomberg gauge posted the first weekly gain this month
after China’s cabinet said this week it will expand a value-
added tax trial to 10 additional provinces and cities, as part
of a pledge to implement “structural” tax cuts to boost the
economy. Local governments have also started announcing
investment plans, with the central Chinese city of Changsha
unveiling an 829.2 billion  yuan  ($130 billion) investment plan
this week.  “China’s central and local authorities will do whatever
they can to ensure stable economic growth before the transition
to a new government later this year,” Qinwei Wang, an analyst
at Capital Economics Ltd., said in a telephone interview
yesterday from London. “It typically takes two quarters to see
the effects of previous stimulus measures on the economy, and a
likely rebound starting from the third quarter will be reflected
in Chinese stocks.”  ETF Gains  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., increased 2.6 percent
yesterday to $34.12, the biggest gain in four weeks. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.9 percent to 1,385.97 in
its second day of a rally, the highest level since May 3, amid
expectations the  European Central Bank  will buy bonds to help
lower borrowing costs and preserve the euro.  Barclays Capital  forecast another 25 basis-point cut in
China’s interest rate, from its previous prediction of no more
rate reductions this year, economists headed by  Jian Chang  said
in a July 27 report, citing a worsening external outlook. China
has reduced benchmark  interest rates  three times since July last
year to spur lending. The economy will pick up in the third
quarter with policy easing and stimulus from local governments,
according to the report.  Youku gained 7.7 percent, the most since May 21, to $18
yesterday in New York. Its smaller competitor  Tudou Holdings
Ltd. (TUDO)  climbed 7.6 percent to a two-week high of $28.09. The two
companies will hold shareholders’ meetings in August to approve
their merger.  Ambow, Qihoo  Ambow Education, a private tutoring service provider based
in Beijing, surged 8.8 percent to $2.61, the steepest rally
since September.  Qihoo advanced 5.5 percent to $15.43. The company, which
also develops computer desktop software, said in a statement
yesterday it will cooperate with Giant Interactive Group Inc. to
provide online games to its users.  Perfect World Co. (PWRD) , an online games developer, rallied 5.9
percent to $9.66.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  