-- Emerging Stocks Rise Most This Month on Stimulus Hopes
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-27T22:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/emerging-stocks-rise-most-in-3-weeks-on-hopes-of-global-stimulus.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
this month as speculation increased that central banks will step
up efforts to bolster economic growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  jumped 2.8 percent to
941.76, its biggest gain since June 29. Brazil’s benchmark stock
index rose to a five-week high led by oil companies Petroleo
Brasileiro SA and OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA.  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s largest maker of televisions and
mobile phones, surged the most in eight months in Seoul after
forecasting higher demand for panels and handsets.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will hold
talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, according to two
central bank officials, as he builds consensus for new stimulus
measures. Gross domestic product in the world’s largest economy
rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate after a revised 2 percent gain
in the prior quarter, Commerce Department figures showed today
in  Washington . A drop in Chinese industrial companies’ profits
for a third month spurred speculation Premier  Wen Jiabao  will
add stimulus.  “Everybody is thinking bond purchases and it’s just a
pretty good signal that would favor risky assets,”  Benoit Anne ,
 Societe Generale ’s London-based head of emerging-market
strategy, said by phone. “As a result emerging market equities
would benefit overall and it’s a boost for risk sentiment.”  The IShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, rose for the
third day, gaining 2.8 percent to a three-week high of $39.53.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, declined 2.8 percent to 25.27.  Bovespa Surges  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index  gained 4.7 percent, the most in
nearly a year. OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA surged 13
percent and Petrobras advanced by 4.7 percent.  Draghi’s proposal involves Europe’s rescue funds buying
 government bonds  on the primary market, flanked by ECB purchases
on the secondary market to ensure transmission of its record-low
 interest rates , said the bank officials on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  led gains among emerging-market
gauges, climbing 2.6 percent, the most since January and the won
appreciated 0.8 percent against the dollar. Bank of Korea data
showed South Korea’s current-account surplus widened to a record
$5.8 billion last month as imports declined.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  advanced 2 percent and the BSE India
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 1.2 percent. The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share
Index (JALSH)  added 1 percent.  The Micex Index rose 1.6 percent in Russia. OAO Gazprom,
the world’s largest natural gas producer, gained 2.6 percent.  Samsung, LG Display  A gauge of technology companies climbed 4 percent, the
steepest advance since Dec. 21 and  the most  among all 10
industry groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Samsung shares jumped 5.2 percent. Emerging markets may
spur demand for digital appliances, Asia’s biggest electronics
maker said today. The company also retained its position as the
world’s biggest phone seller. Second-quarter profit climbed 48
percent to a record 5.19 trillion won ($4.5 billion), trailing
some analysts’ estimates.  LG Display Co., the No. 2 maker of liquid-crystal displays,
surged 6.9 percent in  Seoul . The company, which posted a second-
quarter loss yesterday, may turn to an operating profit of about
290 billion won in the third quarter ending Sept. 30 before
earning 430 billion won in the final quarter of 2012, Woori
Investment & Securities Co. said.  “This month will be the bottom for panel shipments, and
earnings are likely to improve significantly starting from
August,” Jeff Kim, an analyst at Hyundai Securities Co., wrote
in a report today. Kim raised his share price estimate by 25
percent to 35,000 won.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 344, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporterw on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 