-- Tennis Racket Maker Prince Turnaround Plan Approved
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-07-31T18:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/tennis-racket-maker-prince-sports-reorganization-plan-approved.html
(Corrects estimated recovery for unsecured creditors in
third paragraph of story published July 27.)  Prince Sports Inc. , a pioneer of the
modern oversized tennis rackets, won court approval of its
restructuring plan giving ownership of the company to lenders.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware , gave the racket-maker approval of the
plan, allowing it to exit court protection in less than three
months, according to court documents.  Under Prince’s reorganization plan, lender ABG-Prince LLC
will get all the reorganized company’s equity in exchange for
its $67.2 million secured debt. Unsecured creditors, owed about
$13.8 million if all claims are allowed, will get proceeds from
lawsuits and $4 million cash in two installments for an
estimated recovery of at least 29 percent.  James E. O’Neill, a lawyer representing the company, didn’t
immediately return a phone call or e-mail seeking comment on the
plan’s approval.  Prince, whose rackets were used by champions including
 Maria Sharapova ,  Jimmy Connors  and  Martina Navratilova , was
founded in 1970 when Bob McClure invented the “Little Prince,”
the first ball machine for home court use, in his garage in
Princeton, New Jersey.  ‘Sweet Spot’  In December 2010, Sharapova ended her 10-year sponsorship
agreement with Prince. The Russian player, who won three of her
four major titles with the company’s rackets, switched to Head
NV a year later.  In 1976, the company revolutionized the sport by inventing
the first oversize racket. The “Prince Classic” measured 110
square inches, had a much bigger “sweet spot” than traditional
wooden rackets and became one of the best-selling rackets of all
time.  In 1977, Prince produced the first graphite racket, which
is still being used by professionals including doubles major
champions  Mike Bryan  and  Bob Bryan  of the U.S. and former world
No. 1 Jelena Jankovic of Serbia.  Declining demand “combined with increased competition over
the past five years” and a drop in “consumer discretionary
spending” caused the Bordentown, New Jersey-based company to
seek  bankruptcy protection , said Gordon Boggis, chief executive
officer, in court papers.  For the fiscal year 2011 the tennis segment of the
business, which includes racquets, balls, bags and footwear,
generated 83 percent of Prince’s revenue, according to court
documents. The company’s squash, racquetball and platform tennis
divisions made up the remaining 17 percent of sales.  Prince sought bankruptcy protection May 1 listing about
$54.2 million in assets as of Dec. 31, court filings show. The
company owed creditors more than $75 million.  The case is In re Prince Sports Inc., 12-11439,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 