-- Merck Profit Tops Estimates as Sales of Diabetes Drugs Grow
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-27T20:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/merck-second-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-diabetes-drugs.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) , facing generic
competition in August to its top-selling asthma drug Singulair,
reported second-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates on
higher sales of the diabetes medicines Januvia and Janumet.  Earnings excluding one-time items of $1.05 a share beat by
4 cents the average of 18 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Net income  fell 11 percent to $1.79 billion, or 58
cents a share, from $2.02 billion, or 65 cents, a year earlier,
the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based company said today in a
statement. Revenue climbed 1.3 percent to $12.3 billion.  Merck has been cutting thousands of jobs and trying to
boost demand of existing products to prepare for when Singulair
loses patent protection. Led by its diabetes franchise, sales of
Merck’s  top drugs  rose almost across the board, and Merck said
18 percent of revenue came from  emerging markets .  The result “looks solid and we’d expect stock to
outperform a bit today,” wrote  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst
with ISI Group in  New York , in a note to clients today. He
called the company his “top pick” among pharmaceutical stocks.  Merck reiterated its earnings forecast for the year, of
$3.75 to $3.85 a share. Its  shares  gained 4.1 percent to $45.10
at 4 p.m. New York time, their highest closing price since 2008.  The focus now turns to the company’s medicines in
development after research setbacks in recent years, said  Tony Butler , an analyst with Barclays Plc in New York. Merck stepped
up research and development efforts after Chief Executive
Officer  Kenneth Frazier  took over at the start of 2011.  ‘Undervalued’ Pipeline  “We have long held the view that Merck’s pharmaceutical
R&D pipeline is among the most undervalued in the pharmaceutical
sector,” said Butler said in a note to clients before the
earnings were released.  The  stock had gained  15 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with an 8 percent climb by the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. Most of Merck’s increase has taken place since
June, when the company announced positive trial results for
osteoporosis drug odanacatib and sleep treatment suvorexant.  “The company remains focused on translating cutting-edge
science into medically important products,” Frazier said in a
statement today. “We’re seeing significant progress in the
pipeline this year, and we expect six major filings over the
next 18 months.”  Currency Exchange  Worldwide sales rose 5 percent when the currency exchange
impact was excluded, the company said. Those pressures will
continue this year, said Chief Financial Officer Peter Kellogg,
as will budget cuts by European governments.  “The euro has deteriorated significantly since we last
spoke,” Kellogg said on a conference call today discussing the
results. He predicted that foreign exchange rates would cut
Merck’s full-year sales by about 3 percent.  Among the six biggest U.S.-based drugmakers, only Pfizer
Inc. and Abbott Laboratories get more of their total  revenue
outside the U.S.  than Merck.  Maintaining the full-year forecast and beating analyst
estimates this quarter is a boost for the company, given the
currency trends, said  Catherine Arnold , an analyst with Credit
Suisse Group AG in New York.  “There was some concern among investors on this front
given f/x headwinds, EU austerity measures and Singulair,” she
said in a note to clients today. “It is hard to find anything
wrong with the quarter.”  Rights End  Singulair’s exclusive sales rights expire in the U.S. in
August, and Merck has been trying to develop new medications to
replace it. Second-quarter sales of the drug rose 5.7 percent to
$1.43 billion, about 12 percent of Merck’s revenue.  Januvia, a diabetes medication that lowers blood sugar
levels, saw sales rise 36 percent to $1.06 billion. Sales of
Janumet, a combination pill that also uses the active ingredient
in Januvia, rose 28 percent to $411 million.  To help replace Singulair, the company is counting on at
least two experimental products. Odanacatib is Merck’s
osteoporosis drug that may be worth $2.5 billion a year,
according to Barclays’ Butler. Merck ended a trial of the drug
early after the drug was found to be more effective than
expected. The company plans to submit it to U.S. regulators for
approval next year.  Insomnia Treatment  Suvorexant is the company’s insomnia drug that could
compete with generic versions of the pills Ambien and Lunesta,
and may be worth as much as $1 billion a year, according to
Butler. The drug, which blocks the brain’s systems to stay
awake, may have fewer side effects than current medicines, which
turn up the body’s sleep system.  Merck’s two other businesses,  animal health  and consumer
products, grew as well. Sales of animal health drugs for pets
and livestock grew 8 percent from a year before to $865 million.
Consumer care sales grew 2 percent to $552 million, the company
said. The consumer line makes products including Coppertone sun
lotion and Dr. Scholl’s shoe insoles.  CEO Frazier said he has no plans to sell or spin off those
units, as Pfizer Inc. is doing with its animal health and
nutrition businesses. “We’ll continue to look at them, but
we’re pleased to have them in our portfolio right now,” Frazier
said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  