-- EU Opens In-Depth Probes Into Greek Banks’ Recapitalizations
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-07-27T11:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/eu-opens-in-depth-probes-into-greek-lenders-recapitalizations.html
Alpha Bank SA,  EFG Eurobank Ergasias
SA (EUROB) ,  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) ,  National Bank of Greece SA , Greece’s four
biggest banks, and Nea  Proton Bank (PRO)  won temporary European Union
approval for recapitalizations from Greece’s banking bailout
funds pending in-depth reviews.  The EU’s executive arm approved for six months the 18
billion-euro ($22 billion) bridge recapitalization for Greece’s
four biggest banks carried out in May, or until its conversion
into a final recapitalization, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Brussels-based European Commission.  EU regulators opened in-depth investigations into the
banks, which need recapitalizing after sustaining losses on
their holdings of Greek  government bonds  in the country’s debt
swap, the biggest sovereign restructuring in history. The
country obtained a 130 billion-euro bailout from the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund  in March, which earmarked
50 billion euros for the recapitalizations.  “Greek banks are currently operating under extreme
conditions,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said
in the statement. “The bridge recapitalization by the HFSF
ensures the stability of the Greek banking system,” he said,
referring to the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund.  The  European Central Bank  temporarily suspended Greek banks
from its funding operations on May 16 until they received the
bridge funds later that month. The banks have to raise their
core tier one capital ratios to 9 percent by the end of
September and 10 percent by the end of June 2013.  The Commission also temporarily approved a separate 1.7
billion-euro capital package for Nea Proton, formed with assets
from Proton Bank SA’s liquidation last year, while saying it had
doubts over the restructuring plan. The plan may not restore the
long-term viability of the new lender without state support and
may not be the least costly solution, it said.  The EU’s antitrust agency must scrutinize large payments to
banks and may set limits on the aid or order some of the money
to be repaid to the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  