-- European Stocks Advance After Merkel, Hollande Statement
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-27T16:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/european-stock-futures-climb-on-earnings-stimulus-bets.html
European stocks  advanced for a
second day after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Francois Hollande  said they would do anything to
protect the euro, the  U.S. economy  grew more than forecast, and
companies posted earnings that topped estimates.  Total, France’s biggest oil producer, and  Barclays, (BARC)  the
U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, climbed more than 3
percent each.  PPR SA (PP) , the French owner of the Gucci luxury
brand, added 6.6 percent as recurring operating income increased
20 percent. European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. rose 5.7
percent as first-half profit jumped 89 percent and it lifted its
full-year earnings forecast.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 1.3 percent to 259.81 at
the close of trade, after earlier dropping as much as 0.3
percent. The measure advanced for an eighth week, adding 0.6
percent, the longest winning streak since January 2006.  “We are optimistic that corporate earnings in  Europe  could
slowly bottom after the weak previous quarters,” said Joachim Klement, chief financial officer at Wellershoff & Partners Ltd.
in Zurich. “Besides earnings, the markets have hopes for
further central bank stimulus. We see a tendency for decreasing
uncertainty in the short-term and rising prices in the coming
weeks.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in all of the 18
western-European markets except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index added 1 percent, while Germany’s DAX Index gained 1.6
percent. France’s CAC 40 Index rallied 2.3 percent and Italy’s
FTSE MIB advanced 2.9 percent.  Draghi Boost  The Stoxx 600 yesterday posted the biggest advance in
almost a month after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said policy
makers will do whatever it takes to preserve the euro.  Merkel and Hollande said their countries are “bound by the
deepest duty” to keep the euro area intact and that they will
do “everything” necessary to protect the single currency.  In a joint statement made after a telephone conference
today, they also said that the 17 members of the euro as well as
institutions must fulfil their commitments “within their own
areas of competence.”  France and Germany both seek “quick” implementation of
resolutions made at a June 28-29 European Union summit, the
statement said.  U.S. Growth  The U.S. economy expanded at a slower pace in the second
quarter as a softening job market prompted Americans to curb
spending. Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate after a
revised 2 percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.4 percent
increase.  In  Japan ,  consumer prices excluding fresh food  fell 0.2
percent in June from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
in  Tokyo  today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
was for no change in prices.  Retail sales  rose 0.2 percent, a
separate report showed, the smallest gain since November and
less than a median forecast for a 1.1 percent increase.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has said the
central bank will pursue “powerful monetary easing” until its
1 percent inflation goal set in February is in sight.  “With Japan struggling to come anywhere near the mandated
inflation level, the pressure is also gathering on the BoJ for
more quantitative easing,” Jonathan Sudaria, a dealer at
Capital Spreads in  London , wrote in a note.  Total Gains  Total (FP)  advanced 3.4 percent to 37.35 euros. Profit excluding
changes in inventories and the value of a stake in Sanofi-
Aventis SA climbed to 2.9 billion euros ($3.57 billion) in the
second quarter from 2.8 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-
based company said. That compared with the 2.85 billion-euro
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Barclays, the British bank searching for a new management
team in the wake of the Libor scandal, jumped 8.7 percent to 167
pence. Pretax profit excluding debt-valuation adjustments and
other one-time items for the six months ended June 30 rose 13
percent to 4.2 billion pounds ($6.6 billion). That beat the 3.9
billion-pound median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  PPR added 6.6 percent to 120.75 euros, the largest gain
since May 2010, as it reported first-half recurring operating
income of 815.3 million euros, exceeding the  median  estimates of
seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg for 785 million euros. PPR
said that it’s confident full-year growth will exceed that of
2011 as it steps up emerging-markets expansion.  EADS Profit  EADS (EAD)  soared 5.7 percent to 29.81 euros. Earnings before
interest and taxes rose to 1.4 billion euros from 720 million
euros a year earlier, excluding non-recurring charges and
currency movements. That was more than the average projection of
881 million euros.  Michelin & Cie. (ML)  gained 7.7 percent to 55.16 euros as the
world’s second-largest tiremaker said first-half profit jumped
36 percent. Operating income, excluding one-time gains and
losses, advanced to 1.32 billion euros from 971 million euros a
year earlier. Analysts had expected operating profit of 1.28
billion euros.  Renault SA (RNO) , France’s second-biggest carmaker, climbed 6.4
percent to 35.94 euros as it reported earnings before interest,
taxes and one-time items of 482 million euros, beating the 363
million-euro average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA , Europe’s biggest supplier of
building materials, plunged 11 percent to 24.55 euros, its
biggest drop since February 2009, as it reduced its full-year
outlook because of Europe’s economic crisis.  Vallourec SA (VK)  slumped 7.5 percent to 32.96 euros as the
producer of steel pipes for the oil and gas industry reported a
50 percent decline in second-quarter profit.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the operator of mines from Chile to
 Zimbabwe , dropped 3.6 percent to 1,894 pence, the lowest price
since October 2009. The company said first-half earnings slid 46
percent, more than analysts expected, as commodity prices
declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  