-- European Stocks Climb for an Eighth Week; Santander Jumps
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-07-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/european-stocks-climb-for-an-eighth-week-santander-jumps.html
European stocks  rose for an eighth
week as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  joined European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  in promising to do everything to protect the euro.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  jumped 14 percent as Spanish lenders led
gains on the benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Barclays Plc (BARC) , the
British lender fined for rigging Libor, climbed 4.9 percent as
it posted first-half profit that beat analysts’ estimates. MAN
SE slumped 7.4 percent as the  German truckmaker controlled by
Volkswagen AG  cut its earnings forecast for 2012.  The Stoxx 600 added 0.6 percent to 259.81 this past week,
its eighth consecutive advance for the longest stretch of weekly
gains since January 2006. The gauge has  rebounded 11 percent
from this year’s low  on June 4 as central banks from  Europe  to
 China  eased monetary policy to help spur economic growth. The
Stoxx 600 has risen 3.4 percent so far this month.  “The real focus for everyone is Europe and the comments
made by Draghi and Merkel,” said Chris Beauchamp, a market
analyst at IG Index in  London . “They make a strong defense of
the euro. But if you do not see these words backed up with real
action, disappointment could quickly set in.”  The ECB may begin a new round of joint-bond purchases to
ease borrowing costs in  Spain  and Italy, as Merkel and Hollande
pledged to do everything to protect the euro.  “France and  Germany  are fundamentally attached to the
integrity of the  euro zone ,” the two leaders said in a joint
statement on July 27. “They are determined to do everything to
protect it.”  Draghi’s Speech  The leaders of the euro area’s two biggest economies issued
their statement a day after ECB President Draghi said that the
central bank will act to preserve the euro.  “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro,” Draghi said in a speech in London.
“And believe me, it will be enough.”  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report on July 27 showed
that the world’s largest economy expanded at a faster pace in
the second quarter than economists had predicted. Gross domestic
product, the value of all goods and services produced, rose at a
1.5 percent annual rate after a revised 2 percent gain in the
first quarter. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News had called for a 1.4 percent increase.  U.K. Growth  In Europe, a report showed that the  U.K. economy  shrank the
most since 2009 in the second quarter, pushing the country into
a deeper recession than economists had predicted.  Gross domestic
product  fell 0.7 percent from the first quarter, the  Office for
National Statistics  said on July 25. Economists had forecast a
0.2 percent decline, according to the  median of 36 estimates  in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Banco Santander  surged 14 percent even as  Spain’s biggest
bank  reported second-quarter profit on July 26 that dropped 93
percent because of costs for purging bad loans.  Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA soared 12 percent, while
UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest lender, rallied 11 percent.  Barclays climbed 4.9 percent. The lender, which is looking
for a new management team following the Libor scandal, posted
 pretax profit excluding one-off items  for the six months to the
end of June that rose 13 percent to 4.23 billion pounds ($6.7
billion). That beat the 3.9 billion-pound  median prediction  of
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Carmakers Rally  Daimler advanced 4.8 percent after saying  second-quarter
sales  increased 10 percent to 28.9 billion euros ($36 billion).
The world’s third-largest maker of luxury cars also posted
earnings before interest and taxes of 2.24 billion euros, in
line with the 2.2 billion-euro average of analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. An index of auto shares in the Stoxx 600
gained 2 percent this past week.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  added 1.9 percent after reporting
first-half profit that beat projections. Underlying pretax
profit increased to 637 million pounds. That exceeded the
average analyst prediction of 617 million pounds.  MAN plunged 7.4 percent after lowering its projected return
on sales to about 6 percent. The Munich-based truckmaker also
posted second-quarter operating profit that slumped 50 percent
to 218 million euros. That fell short of the average analyst
estimate for earnings of 311 million euros.  BT Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company,
slid 2.8 percent, its biggest retreat since November, after
reporting fiscal first-quarter sales of 4.48 billion pounds.
That missed the  average analyst estimate  of 4.58 billion pounds
in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  