-- Europe May Buy Bonds as Merkel, Hollande Set to Defend Euro
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-07-27T16:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/europe-may-turn-to-bond-buying-to-ease-strain-on-debtor-states.html
Europe may move toward a new round
of joint bond buying to ease borrowing costs in Spain and Italy
as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  pledged to do everything to protect the euro.  Germany  and France are “bound by the deepest duty” to
keep the 17-nation currency bloc intact, Merkel and Hollande
said in a joint statement after they spoke by phone today. The
two sought “quick” implementation of resolutions made at a
June 28-29 European Union summit, they said.  Merkel and Hollande, up against speculation the euro area
is headed for a breakup, helped extend a two-day advance in the
common currency, Spanish debt and stocks worldwide. They echoed
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s vow yesterday to
defend the euro as he urged investors not to bet against him.  The ECB is preparing a plan to buy bonds in the secondary
market in the coming weeks to be followed by purchases in the
primary market by government-financed bailout funds, newspaper
Le Monde  reported  today.  “I would expect the ECB will go in with big purchases,
showing the market that it’s wrong,” said  Julian Callow , chief
European economist at Barclays Plc in  London . Purchases won’t be
so large that the central bank is “becoming the market,”
Callow said.  Draghi’s Pledge  Markets gained on speculation the ECB will act to lower
Spanish borrowing costs after yields on the nation’s bonds rose
to levels that prompted bailouts for  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland. In Draghi’s remarks in London, he said the ECB “is
ready to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro,” adding:
“believe me, it will be enough.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 1.3 percent to
1,377.15 at 12:35 p.m. in  New York . The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
rose 1.3 percent, and the euro appreciated 0.7 percent to
$1.2369. Italy’s 10-year bond yield declined 10 basis points to
5.94 percent and Spain’s retreated 18 basis points to 6.70
percent.  Underscoring Europe’s stuttering crisis management,
Germany’s central bank qualified Draghi’s defense of the euro.
Bond purchases by the ECB blur the line between monetary and
fiscal policy and may not be the most efficient way to tame the
debt crisis, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank
said.  Bundesbank Pushback  “We did not have to wait long for the pushback,”  Ken Wattret , chief market economist for the euro region at BNP
Paribas SA, said today in an e-mailed report. “This is clearly
not helpful from the perspective of euro-region central bankers
presenting a  united front  and sustaining the improvement in
sovereign markets in recent days. Still, the pushback, in our
judgment, does not look so vociferous.”  The ECB holds about  211 billion euros  ($261 billion) of
bonds through its secondary market program, which it suspended
earlier this year.  Policy makers have been struggling amid concerns that a 100
billion-euro aid package for Spanish banks won’t be enough to
contain market turmoil as speculation of a Greek exit from the
euro zone mounts. Plans to enable bond buying by a bailout fund,
announced after the June summit in Brussels, have been held up
by a legal challenge in Germany.  Hollande and Merkel have among their options the European
Financial Stability Facility, a program that has helped prop up
Greece, Portugal, and Ireland. The EFSF, which has about 240
billion euros to commit, has the capacity to buy bonds, German
Finance Ministry spokeswoman Marianne Kothe said at a press
conference in Berlin.  “The problem is that the EFSF’s resources are limited,
unlike the ECB’s balance sheet,” said Thomas Costerg, an
economist at  Standard Chartered  in London. “The best would have
to have combined action by the ECB and EFSF, but I think we’re
still not there yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 