-- Expedia Soars Most in Three Months on Quarterly Sales
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-27T18:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/expedia-soars-most-in-three-years-after-sales-top-estimates-1-.html
(Corrects time frame of stock’s gain in headline, second
paragraph.)  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , an online-travel
company, rose the most in three months after reporting quarterly
revenue that topped analysts’ estimates and boosting its
dividend.  Expedia, based in Bellevue,  Washington , advanced 20 percent
to $54.92 at 2:31 p.m. in  New York , after earlier climbing as
much as 28 percent for the biggest percentage jump since April
27. They had gained 58 percent this year through yesterday.  The company saw stronger second-quarter demand for hotel
rooms, Chief Executive Officer Dara Khosrowshahi said on a
conference call yesterday. A 22 percent increase in room nights
offset a 1 percent decline in the average daily rate. Expedia’s
acquisition of VIA Travel in April has also boosted bookings
revenue, Khosrowshahi said.  “We continue to believe the best is yet to come,” said
 Herman Leung , an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group, in a
note to investors today. He set a target price of as much as
$60. “There is still room for further profit expansion,
especially as we look out to 2013.”  Second-quarter  sales  rose 14 percent to $1.04 billion. That
topped the average analyst estimate of $988.7 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit, excluding some items, increased 24 percent to $125
million, or 89 cents a share. The average analyst estimate was
72 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ebitda Forecast  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for 2012, or Ebitda, may increase in the “high-
single digits with the possibility of low double-digit growth,”
Mark Okerstrom, Expedia’s chief financial officer, said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday. The company, which
reported adjusted Ebitda of $710.8 million in 2011, had
previously forecast growth this year in the “mid-single digit”
range.  Expedia said it will increase its quarterly  dividend  44
percent to 13 cents a share, payable to stockholders of record
on Aug. 28, with a payment date of Sept. 18.  “This is the second quarter in a row that management has
delivered on improvements in global platform migration,” said
Daniel Kurnos, an analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Delray Beach ,
 Florida , who has a “hold” rating on the stock. “Hotel room
booking growth at this level should probably be sustainable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  