-- Facebook Stock Plunge Slashes $34 Billion of Market Value
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/facebook-stock-plunge-slashes-34-billion-of-market-value.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  has lost about $34
billion in market value since its May initial public offering,
as the operator of the world’s largest social-networking service
fails to assuage concerns about how it can make more money from
almost a billion users.  Facebook’s stock dropped 12 percent yesterday, its  biggest
one-day loss  on record, after its first quarterly earnings
report as a public company. That brought the plunge to 38
percent since the May 17 debut, which at $16 billion was the
largest ever for a technology company. Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Zuckerberg ’s fortune plunged to $12.1 billion yesterday
from $13.7 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  “Investors were always paying for potential for
Facebook,” said  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates in  San Francisco , who has a market perform rating on
the stock. “Clearly, today people are willing to pay less for
that potential, which may be a few years out still.”  Of the largest IPOs on record, no other company has lost so
much value so quickly, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  General
Motors Co. (GM)  raised $18.1 billion after expanding its November
2010 offering and gained value in the comparable period, as did
 Visa Inc. (V) , which generated $19.7 billion when it listed in 2008.  The decline of $34 billion is more than many companies’
total market value, including Whole Foods Market Inc. and Time
Warner Cable Inc. That’s based on a share count of 2.4 billion.  Expensive Valuation  While the stock decline has been steep, Facebook is still
more than  twice as expensive  as rival  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and most of
the Nasdaq Internet Index, as measured by price-to-earnings
ratio. It’s grappling with shareholder concerns about slowing
sales and user growth, and whether new revenue sources,
including mobile, can boost results quickly.  Even with that drop in the stock price, the company remains
 more expensive  than Web portal  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , video-rental
services provider  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and online travel company
Priceline.com Inc. It’s also more expensive than about 10
percent of the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  Facebook’s debut as a public company was marred by
technical glitches, and the stock managed to close above $38
only on the first day of trading. The company had first proposed
a price range of $28 to $35 before raising it to $34 to $38 just
days before the IPO.  In the second quarter, year-on-year advertising growth
slowed to 28 percent, compared with 37 in the first quarter. The
number of daily active users grew 4.9 percent from the first
quarter, down from growth of 8.9 percent in the previous period,
Facebook said in its earnings report.  Spending Surge  Sales in the second quarter increased 32 percent to $1.18
billion, topping the average  estimate  of $1.16 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Monthly active users
rose to 955 million, exceeding the 950.1 million prediction by
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The revenue increase was dwarfed by a surge in spending on
marketing and sales, which ballooned to $392 million. The
company reported a net loss of $157 million, or 8 cents a share,
and profit excluding certain costs of 12 cents a share.  The second-quarter operating margin, excluding certain
costs, was 43 percent, a drop from 53 percent a year earlier. In
addition, Facebook’s operating expenses are expected to rise
“significantly” in the second half of the year, Chief
Financial Officer  David Ebersman  said on the conference call.  The earnings report and call -- the most highly anticipated
earnings release since Google’s inaugural figures in 2004 --
gave management its first chance since May to make a case to
 Wall Street  about its growth prospects.  Twitter, Google  “A little bit of earnings guidance, a little bit of
optimism about future performance would have been nice,” said
 Jordan Rohan , analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  New York , who
has a hold  rating  on Facebook. “Facebook trades at a premium to
many companies, including Google, and is only growing at a
slightly faster pace than companies like Google.”  Shareholders sought assurances that the company can keep
users engaged amid rising competition from Twitter Inc. and
Google and that it can overcome challenges making money from
advertising on mobile devices.  Facebook said in May that sales growth wasn’t keeping pace
with user expansion as more people access the service with
mobile phones. The number of ads delivered in the U.S. decreased
2 percent last quarter even as the number of daily users
increased 10 percent, Ebersman said on the call.  Mobile Challenges  “Ad impressions continued the recent trend of growing more
slowly than users as more of our usage is on mobile devices,”
Ebersman said. “This trend is particularly true in markets such
as the U.S., where smartphone use is expanding rapidly.”  Facebook has had little time to gain traction in mobile
advertising, having just announced its inaugural mobile-
advertising platform in February.  Zuckerberg, who gave opening remarks on the call, said
mobile is a key area of focus for the company. Mobile users, who
make up more than half of the membership, are more active than
counterparts who use only the desktop version, he said.  “Mobile is a huge opportunity for Facebook,” Zuckerberg
said. “Our goal is to connect everyone in the world. And over
the next five years, we expect 4 or 5 billion people to have
smartphones. That’s more than twice as many people as have
computers today.”  Early Promise  Early results on mobile ads show some promise, according to
AdParlor, which provides services for marketers. Click-through
rates are 15 times higher on mobile than on desktops, while the
pricing is 30 percent less, according to  AdParlor .  Owing to the success of new services, Facebook should boost
both mobile and desktop advertising revenue in the future, Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  said on the call. Still, the
company must educate companies about how to best advertise on a
social service, still a relatively new avenue for marketers, she
said.  “It took a long time for the TV market and advertising to
be truly understood, it took a long time for search, and I think
we’re still in that learning curve with a lot of our clients,”
Sandberg said. “If our ads work -- and we continue to make our
ads work and they work for advertisers and our users -- we’ll be
able to educate the market over time.”  Facebook derives most of its revenue from ads that reach
users as they post comments, embed videos or check photos
uploaded to the site by friends. The company also makes money
when users pay for digital items, including on games made by
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)   Facebook’s price-to-earnings ratio is 51.5, while Google’s
is 18.7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Online
retailer  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and vacation rentals provider  HomeAway
Inc. (AWAY)  are among the Nasdaq Internet index members more expensive
than Facebook.  “We believe Facebook is a good company, under good
management, with solid growth prospects as it continues to gain
share of online and offline advertising,” Rory Maher, an
analyst at Capstone, wrote in a note. “However, we believe the
current valuation assumes the Company will grow several new,
large businesses over the long-term and we have no indication
that this is feasible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  