-- Facebook Falls After Report Fails to Quell Growth Concern
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-27T21:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/facebook-falls-after-report-fails-to-quell-concerns-over-growth.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  plunged to a record
low after its first earnings report as a public company showed a
slower sales gain and narrower profit margins, failing to allay
concerns over growth that have dragged down the shares.  The stock fell 12 percent after Facebook reported its
second-quarter operating margin dropped from a year earlier and
sales grew at the slowest pace on record. Payments-related sales
were $192 million, below the $199.3 million average analyst
prediction in a Bloomberg survey.  Facebook executives led by Chief Executive Officer  Mark
Zuckerberg , addressing analysts for the first time since the
company’s May 17 initial public offering, issued no growth
forecasts and said little else to reassure investors who fret
that the company is overvalued. The largest social network is
adding users faster than it can generate ad sales, the company
said, reiterating remarks it made in the run-up to the IPO.  “It has become a show-me story,” said Nabil Elsheshai, a
senior equity research analyst at Thrivent Financial for
Lutherans. “The problem is deceleration, and there wasn’t
anything from an outlook perspective that would indicate that is
going to stop.”  The shares dropped to $23.71 at the close in  New York . The
 Menlo Park , California-based company is  down  38 percent from its
$38 IPO price.  Marred Debut  Facebook raised $16 billion in its IPO, the largest ever
for a technology company. Yet its debut was marred by technical
glitches, and the stock only managed to close above $38 on the
first day of trading. The company had first proposed a price
range of $28 to $35 before raising it to $34 to $38 just days
before the IPO.  The value of Zuckerberg’s stake plunged to $12.1 billion
today from $13.7 billion yesterday, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Sales increased 32 percent to $1.18 billion, topping the
average  estimate  of $1.16 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Monthly active users rose to 955 million, exceeding
the 950.1 million prediction by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The revenue increase was dwarfed by a surge in spending on
marketing and sales, which ballooned to $392 million. The
company reported a net loss of $157 million, or 8 cents a share,
and profit excluding certain costs of 12 cents a share.  The second-quarter operating margin, excluding certain
costs, was 43 percent, a drop from 53 percent a year earlier,
amid a fourfold surge in sales and marketing expenses.  Yesterday’s report and conference call -- the most highly
anticipated earnings release since Google Inc.’s inaugural
figures in 2004 -- gave management its first chance since May to
make a case that Facebook deserves a higher price relative to
earnings than 98 percent of the  Standard & Poor’s 500 .  Twitter, Google  “A little bit of earnings guidance, a little bit of
optimism about future performance would have been nice,” said
 Jordan Rohan , analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York, who
has a hold  rating  on Facebook. “Facebook trades at a premium to
many companies, including Google, and is only growing at a
slightly faster pace than companies like Google.”  Shareholders sought assurances that the company can keep
users engaged amid rising competition from Twitter Inc. and
Google and that it can overcome challenges making money from
advertising on mobile devices.  Facebook said in May that sales growth wasn’t keeping pace
with user expansion as more people access the service with
mobile phones. The number of ads delivered in the U.S. decreased
2 percent last quarter even as the number of daily users
increased 10 percent, Chief Financial Officer  David Ebersman 
said on the conference call.  Mobile Challenges  “Ad impressions continued the recent trend of growing more
slowly than users as more of our usage is on mobile devices,”
Ebersman said. “This trend is particularly true in markets such
as the U.S., where smartphone use is expanding rapidly.”  Facebook has had little time to gain traction in mobile
advertising, having just announced its inaugural mobile-
advertising platform in February.  Zuckerberg, who gave opening remarks on the call, said
mobile is a key area of focus for the company. Mobile users, who
make up more than half of the membership, are more active than
counterparts who use only the desktop version, he said.  “Mobile is a huge opportunity for Facebook,” Zuckerberg
said. “Our goal is to connect everyone in the world. And over
the next five years, we expect 4 or 5 billion people to have
smartphones. That’s more than twice as many people as have
computers today.”  Early Promise  Early results on mobile ads show some promise, according to
AdParlor, which provides services for marketers. Click-through
rates are 15 times higher on mobile than on desktops, while the
pricing is 30 percent less, according to  AdParlor .  Owing to the success of new services, Facebook should boost
both mobile and desktop advertising revenue in the future, Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  said on the call. Still, the
company must educate companies about how to best advertise on a
social service, still a relatively new avenue for marketers, she
said.  “It took a long time for the TV market and advertising to
be truly understood, it took a long time for search, and I think
we’re still in that learning curve with a lot of our clients,”
Sandberg said. “If our ads work -- and we continue to make our
ads work and they work for advertisers and our users -- we’ll be
able to educate the market over time.”  Facebook derives most of its revenue from ads that reach
users as they post comments, embed videos or check photos
uploaded to the site by friends. The company also makes money
when users pay for digital items, including on games made by
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  Facebook shares were weighed down in regular trading
yesterday after Zynga announced earnings that missed estimates.  Progress Made  Facebook is making progress in certain areas, including
online display advertising, which includes photos and other
graphical elements. Facebook will have 16.8 percent of the U.S.
market this year, after grabbing the top spot from Yahoo! Inc.
last year,  according  to EMarketer Inc. in New York. Google will
have 16.5 percent, up from 13.8 percent last year and Yahoo’s
share will be 9.1 percent, down from 10.8 percent.  Users are also spending more time on the service. Average
time spent online increased 5.1 percent in June to 400.2
minutes, or more than six-and-a-half hours, after a gain of less
than 1 percent the previous month in the U.S., according to
researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  