-- Fading Account Surplus to End Japan Deflation, Mikuni Says
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-27T01:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/fading-account-surplus-to-end-japan-deflation-mikuni-says.html
Japan ’s economy is poised to rebound
as the country’s shrinking  current-account surplus  will cap
capital outflows and stimulate growth, according to Akio Mikuni,
who ran credit rating company Mikuni & Co. for 26 years.  The root cause of Japan’s deflation is that the net revenue
earned from exports was not spent efficiently in the domestic
market, Mikuni, who also served as the vice chairman of the
Japan Association of Corporate Executives, or Keizai Doyukai,
said in a July 23 interview.  “Japan’s trade balance is falling into a deficit and its
current-account balance is deteriorating as the yen appreciates
amid global turmoil,” said Mikuni. “If the current-account
surplus disappears in the future as I expect it will, money will
start circulating in the domestic market.”  Government data this month showed Japan’s current-account
surplus was the smallest for the month of May since at least
1985. The excess in the widest measure of trade shrank 63
percent from a year earlier to 215.1 billion yen ($2.75
billion), the Ministry of Finance said on July 9. The country
posted a 4.4 trillion yen trade deficit in the fiscal year that
ended March 31 as energy imports rose and exports fell due to
the yen’s gains and weak demand in Europe and  Asia .  The yen traded at 78.27 per dollar as of 10:26 a.m. in
 Tokyo  from yesterday, up 3.5 percent in the past three months
and nearing the postwar high of 75.35 reached on Oct. 31.  Domestic Demand  The yen’s strength will boost consumer’s purchasing power
and lift domestic demand, Mikuni said. “The outlook for the
Japanese economy is the brightest in 20 years.”  Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.2
percent in June from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
in Tokyo today. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for no change. The country’s gross domestic
product will probably grow 2.5 percent this year, economists in
a separate Bloomberg poll predict.  “As spending rises,  tax revenue  will also increase and
Japan’s fiscal health will improve in no time,” Mikuni said.
“If the savings and spending become fairly balanced, we will
see higher  interest rates , but I don’t expect a collapse in the
JGB market as some people argue, because economic growth and tax
revenue will also be boosted.”  The  yield  on Japan’s benchmark 10-year gained 1 basis point
to 0.74 percent today. It was as low as 0.72 percent this week,
the least since June 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net 
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  