-- FIFA Head Investigator Garcia May Probe World Cups, Sepp Blatter
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-07-27T13:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/fifa-head-investigator-garcia-may-probe-world-cups-sepp-blatter.html
The new investigators at soccer
ruling body FIFA said they may start probes into President Sepp Blatter and the World Cups awarded to Russia and Qatar.  “There are no limitations at all on what we will be
looking at, it will be determined solely by what we perceive as
evidence or suggestions or reasons to look further and that will
be our guiding principle,” Michael J. Garcia, head investigator
for FIFA’s ethics committee, said today at a press conference in
Zurich. An investigation can be started into anything or anyone,
“whether that is a particular World Cup or a particular
person,” he added.  Blatter’s ruling board agreed to create a two-chamber
ethics court to prosecute cases more effectively after a panel
of anti-corruption experts advising FIFA said previous cases
were “insufficiently investigated.”  Former U.S. attorney Garcia was named by FIFA on July 17 as
lead investigator of the restructured committee to investigate
allegations of corruption in the sport, while German judge Hans- Joachim Eckert was chosen to lead the adjudicatory branch.  “The scope of any investigation depends on facts and
circumstances,” said Garcia. “There is no bright line in terms
of past and future. If there is conduct in the past that
warrants an investigations, I will do that.”  Garcia has started a preliminary investigation after asking
Eckert to provisionally suspend former Asian soccer chief
Mohamed Bin Hammam and will also examine bribery allegations
linked to collapsed marketing agency ISL. He declined to say if
there would be further probes.  “We did not accept any exercise of influence,” said
Eckert today. “We will do our jobs, he as investigator and me
as judge.”  Eckert said he was confident FIFA would provide the money
required for investigations.  “FIFA cannot afford to not give enough money,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  