-- Financial Times’ Digital Subscribers Surpass Its Print Readers
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-27T16:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/financial-times-digital-subscribers-surpass-its-print-readers.html
The Financial Times’ digital
subscribers surpassed its print customers for the first time,
marking a milestone that the New York Times and other newspapers
with so-called paywalls are aiming to reach.  The newspaper’s digital subscribers grew 31 percent to
300,000 paying readers, compared with a year ago, Financial
Times owner  Pearson Plc (PSON)  said today. Total circulation, including
print, increased to almost 600,000.  “Our growth in this tough climate reflects the measures we
took early on, especially to build our content revenues and to
drive digital and mobile delivery,” Chief Executive Officer
John Ridding said in a  statement .  Newspapers are increasingly charging online users for
content by putting up paywalls around some or all of their
stories, a bid to offset the loss of advertising dollars to
Internet companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  The Financial Times was
one of the first major newspapers to offer a metered payment
plan: While some articles are available for free, readers need a
subscription for unlimited access.  New York Times Co. (NYT) ’s paywall system, introduced last year,
relies on a similar metered model. The company reported an 81
percent year-over-year increase in digital subscribers
yesterday, reaching a total of 509,000 paying readers. That
compares with the paper’s average weekday print circulation of
779,731, according to the most recent data from the  Audit Bureau
of Circulations .  The Wall Street Journal also charges online readers, though
its print circulation is three times as large. The paper had
print circulation of 1.57 million in the six-month period
through March 31, compared with 552,288 digital subscribers,
according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations.  Financial Times parent Pearson said its first-half profit
shrank 9.6 percent as income from its professional training
business declined. Adjusted operating profit fell to 188 million
pounds ($296 million) from 208 million pounds a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  