-- First Year of U.S. Economic Recovery Was Weaker Than Estimated
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-07-27T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/first-year-of-u-s-economic-recovery-was-weaker-than-estimated.html
The first year of the recovery from
the worst U.S. recession in the post-World War II era was even
weaker than previously estimated, evidence of the extent of the
damage wreaked by the economic slump, revised figures show.  Gross domestic product grew 2.5 percent in the 12 months
after the contraction ended in June 2009, compared with the 3.3
percent gain previously reported, the Commerce Department said
today in  Washington . The government also revised down corporate
profits and personal income for each of the past three years.  The update did little to change the contour of the recession
or the rebound that followed even as the magnitude of movements
shifted. The report also showed the world’s largest economy
expanded at a 1.5 percent annual rate in the second quarter, down
from a 2 percent rate in the first three months of the year.  The revisions “are not going to shape the story about the
recession or subsequent expansion,” Brent Moulton, associate
director for national economic accounts at the Commerce
Department’s  Bureau of Economic Analysis , told reporters this
week.  The figures showed the economy grew 5.8 percent from the
second quarter of 2009 through last year’s fourth quarter, 0.4
percentage point less than the 6.2 percent gain previously
reported. The reduction was paced by lowered estimates for the
strength of the rebound in business investment in things like
equipment and computer software.  Okun’s Law  The shallower recovery deepens the mystery of the breakdown
of Okun’s Law, named for late Yale University professor  Arthur Okun , which describes a statistical relationship between GDP
growth and changes in the jobless rate.  The rule of thumb holds that for every percentage point that
year-over-year growth exceeds the trend rate -- which Federal
Reserve policy makers peg at between 2.3 percent and 2.6 percent
-- unemployment drops by 0.5 percentage point.  The  jobless rate  fell 1 percentage point, going from 9.5
percent in June 2009 to 8.5 percent in December 2011, even as GDP
grew at an average 2.3 percent annual rate.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among those who have taken
note of the disparity, saying in a March 26 speech that improving
jobs numbers “seem somewhat out of sync with the overall pace of
the economic expansion.”  The revisions also pushed back the period when the economy
moved from recovery to expansion, which is the point at which the
volume of all goods and services produced exceeded the pre-
recession peak. It now began in the fourth quarter of last year,
rather than in the prior three months.  Smaller Bite  The recession took a slightly smaller bite out of the
economy, the report also showed. GDP shrank 4.7 percent from
December 2007 to June 2009, 0.4 percentage point less than the
5.1 percent previously estimated. Even with the change, the slump
remained the deepest and longest in the post-war era.  In 2009, the GDP contracted 3.1 percent rather than
shrinking 3.5 percent. It grew 2.4 percent in 2010, rather than 3
percent, and expanded 1.8 percent last year, 0.1 percentage point
more than previously estimated.  On a quarterly basis, the first six months of 2010 showed
the biggest cuts to growth. The economy teetered even closer to
the brink of another slump in the first quarter of 2011, growing
at a 0.1 percent rate, down from the 0.4 percent previously
estimated.  More recent data turned more positive, with the second and
fourth quarters of last year showing the biggest boosts to the
previously released numbers. The economy grew at a 4.1 percent
rate from October through December of 2011, the best performance
in almost six years.  Profits, Earnings  Companies and workers fared worse over the past three years
than previously estimated. Before-tax corporate profits adjusted
for the value of inventories and capital depreciation were
revised down over the period by a combined $233.2 billion, mainly
reflecting lower earnings at financial institutions.  After-tax personal income was revised down by $66.4 billion,
or 0.6 percent, in 2009; by $52.6 billion, or 0.5 percent, in
2010; and by $44.2 billion, or 0.4 percent, last year. The
primary reason was smaller dividend receipts.  The diminished gains in earnings contributed to lowering the
saving rate, which stood at 4.2 percent in 2011, down from a
prior estimate of 4.6 percent.  Price measures were little changed from 2009 through 2011,
the new figures showed. The so-called PCE price index, which
tracks  consumer spending , rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate over
the period, the same as previously estimated.  The revisions are part of the government’s annual updates
derived from broader, more complete, surveys. Data back to the
first quarter of 2009 were subject to revisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  