-- Former Nomura Trader Plans Hedge Fund With Backing From ISAM
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-07-27T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/former-nomura-trader-plans-hedge-fund-with-backing-from-isam.html
Patrick Boyle, a former trader at
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , is
starting a hedge fund with backing from Stanley Fink’s
International Standard Asset Management Ltd.  Boyle plans to begin trading at London-based Palomar
Capital LLP in August with $50 million, he said in an interview
this month. Fink’s ISAM, which manages about $1 billion, has
agreed to be an initial investor, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the situation who declined to be identified
because the matter is private.  Palomar uses computer algorithms to try to spot profitable
investments in futures tied to stock indexes such as the
 Standard and Poor’s 500 Index  and the FTSE 100. Boyle, 36, joins
a growing group of traders who have left firms including
Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. as banks reduced risk
taking after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
intensified the 2008 financial crisis.  “For a system like mine, the direction of the market
doesn’t really matter that much,” Boyle said. “I don’t need it
to be an up year or a down year to make money, but I do need the
market to move in a somewhat predictable way. During the credit
crunch, you had moves that were somewhat predictable if
massive.”  Worst Year  Boyle’s trading system produced a 12 percent gain in 2008
when he was running it as a proprietary trader at Edinburgh,
based RBS, Palomar marketing documents show.  Hedge funds  on
average fell 19 percent in 2008, making it the industry’s worst
year ever, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Michael Strachan, a spokesman for RBS, declined to comment.  Palomar will use past financial research to try to predict
how other traders will respond to changes in  market sentiment .
Palomar’s computer-driven trades are directional, meaning it
either bets market values will rise or fall. The firm will hold
positions for as briefly as 30 minutes or as long as three days,
according to the marketing documents. Other  quantitative 
directional hedge funds have gained 3.8 percent on average in
the first six months of the year after falling 7.2 percent in
2011, according to Hedge Fund Research.  Boyle said his trading program has never made an annual
loss since he started running it in 2001. Palomar could manage
as much as $1 billion before Boyle would become concerned that
the amount of assets overseen might hurt returns, he said. He
left Tokyo-based Nomura in 2011 and previously worked at Israel Englander’s New York-based hedge fund, Millennium Management
LLC. Boyle traded at RBS from 2006 through 2009.  Fink, 54, started London-based ISAM in 2008 to manage so-
called systematic hedge funds that use computers to trade
futures on currencies, commodities and other assets. Fink was
previously chief executive officer of  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s
biggest publicly traded hedge fund. He is also a former co-
treasurer of the U.K.’s conservative political party.  Boyle’s current registration with the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority is through ISAM. He wouldn’t comment on ISAM
and officials at the company declined to comment.  Other traders who have left banks for hedge funds include
Sutesh Sharma, who resigned from Citigroup in 2011 to found
Portman Square Capital LLP, and  Mike Stewart , who departed
JPMorgan to start Whard Stewart Asset Management Ltd. this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  