-- Gamma Says No Spyware Sold to Bahrain; May Be Stolen Copy
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2012-07-27T13:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/gamma-says-no-spyware-sold-to-bahrain-may-be-stolen-copy.html
Gamma International GmbH’s managing
director said his company didn’t sell its FinFisher spyware to
 Bahrain , responding to research that showed activists from the
Persian Gulf kingdom were targeted by what looked like the
software, which can secretly monitor computers.  The Munich-based executive, Martin J. Muench, said he’s
investigating whether the malicious software sent to activists
was a demonstration copy of the product stolen from Gamma and
used without permission.  “As you know we don’t normally discuss our clients but
given this unique situation it’s only fair to say that Gamma has
never sold their products to Bahrain,” Muench said in an e-mail
today.  He was responding for the first time to a July 25 report by
Bloomberg News that said researchers believe they’ve identified
copies of  FinFisher , based on an examination of the malware e-
mailed to Bahraini activists. Their research, published the same
day by the University of Toronto Munk School of Global Affairs’
Citizen Lab, was based on e-mails obtained by Bloomberg News.  Muench said his company can’t yet confirm whether the
software analyzed by Citizen Lab is Gamma’s product.  FinFisher Portfolio  Gamma International GmbH in  Germany  is part of U.K.-based
Gamma Group. The group also markets FinFisher through Andover,
England-based  Gamma International  UK Ltd. Muench, 30,  leads  the
FinFisher product portfolio.  The Citizen Lab research linked the malware sent to pro-
democracy activists to FinSpy, part of the FinFisher spyware
tool kit. It can secretly take remote control of a computer,
copying files, intercepting Skype calls and logging every
keystroke.  Based on details published by Citizen Lab, “it is unlikely
that it was an installed system used by one of our clients but
rather that a copy of an old FinSpy demo version was made during
a presentation and that this copy was modified and then used
elsewhere,” Muench wrote in his e-mail.  “The modification meant that there was no message sent to
our server when the demo product was used against a real
target,” he said. An unaltered demo would have sent a message
to Gamma, and the company would have been able to deactivate
that copy of the software, he said.  “I can speculate that probably the demonstration version
may have been stolen using a flash drive but I have no evidence
to support this,” Muench said. He added that Gamma will tighten
its security during presentations.  The Citizen Lab  research  showed the malware took screen
shots, intercepted voice-over-Internet calls and transmitted a
record of every keystroke to a computer in Manama, the capital
of Bahrain, which has been gripped by tension since a government
crackdown on protests last year.  Muench said the transmissions to Bahrain don’t mean the
computer ultimately receiving the data is in that country.  “It could simply be a proxy server, which most of our
clients setup around the world to anonymize the created network
traffic,” he said.  He said in the e-mail that Gamma complies with the export
regulations of the U.K., U.S. and Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  