-- Gasoline Gains on Stimulus Bets, U.S. Economic Growth
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-07-27T20:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/gasoline-gains-on-stimulus-bets-u-s-economic-growth.html
Gasoline rose the most in three
weeks on speculation that central banks will boost economic
stimulus measures to spur growth and as the  U.S. economy  grew
more than forecast in the second quarter.  Futures gained 2.6 percent on the prospect for stronger
demand as policy makers from the  Federal Reserve , the  European
Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  meet next week amid
speculation they will ease monetary policy. U.S. gross domestic
product rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate after a revised 2
percent gain the prior quarter. Unplanned refinery shutdowns and
stronger Brent crude also boosted prices.  “The GDP is right in line with expectations,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “The chatter that the Fed will do
something next week is also lending support.”  Gasoline for August delivery rose 7.4 cents, or 2.6
percent, to settle at $2.8878 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , paring the weekly loss to 1.9 percent. The
more actively traded September contract gained 5.97 cents, or
2.2 percent, to $2.7967.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will hold
talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann in the coming days
about a raft of measures including bond purchases, two central
bank officials said today.  Futures rose from a two-week low yesterday after Draghi
said the bank “is ready to do whatever it takes” to preserve
the euro. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he
welcomed Draghi’s comments.  ‘Market Buoyed’  “The market has been buoyed by the talk from Draghi and
from the German finance minister, leading to speculation there
will be a united front from Europe over the weekend,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Francois Hollande today pledged to do everything necessary to
protect the euro.  “We got favorable comments from Merkel and Hollande
today,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in New York. “Europe brought us down
strongly the first three days of the week and Europe is bringing
us up strongly the last two days.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s Federal Open Market
Committee meets July 31 and Aug. 1, a day before Draghi’s
Governing Council and Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King ’s
Monetary Policy Committee.  Bernanke told Congress this month that the Fed is
considering further options to ease policy if the faltering
recovery fails to reduce unemployment. The 1.5 percent gain in
the GDP, the value of all goods and services, is higher than the
1.4 percent forecast in a survey by Bloomberg.  Brent Gains  Brent oil for September settlement advanced $1.21 to
$106.47 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Brent’s premium over U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate oil widened 47 cents to $16.34 a barrel, the
largest difference since May 22.  A stronger Brent can boost gasoline because it raises the
cost of shipments of fuel from abroad and imported oil used at
U.S. refineries.  “Refinery shutdowns and the continuation of the front end
of the Brent market is helping add bullish sentiment into New
York Harbor,” said  Andrew Lebow , a senior vice president at
Jefferies Bache LLC in New York.  Futures touched an intraday high of $2.8905 at 2:16 p.m.
after a 2:11 p.m. report that  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 420,000-barrel-a-day
Whiting  refinery  in Indiana may have to keep a coker shut at
least two weeks and as long as four weeks to repair damage from
a fire on July 23.  Heating oil for August delivery rose 2.1 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $2.8895 a gallon. Prices fell 1.2 percent this week.
The September contract advanced 2.11 cents to $2.8905.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.488 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. It was
the first decline since July 9. Prices have fallen 11 percent
from a year-to-date high of $3.936 on April 4, according to AAA,
the nation’s largest motoring organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  