-- German Stocks Advance as Merkel, Hollande to Protect Euro
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-07-27T16:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/german-stocks-decline-rhoen-klinikum-retreats.html
German stocks  climbed for a third
day after French President  Francois Hollande  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said they will do everything to protect
the euro and the U.S. economy grew more than predicted.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. jumped 5.3 percent
after increasing its full-year earnings projection.    Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  led carmakers higher, rising 2.9 percent.  Linde
AG (LIN)  gained 3 percent after the world’s second-biggest maker of
industrial gases said it will reach a profit goal earlier than
planned.  Rhoen Klinikum AG (RHK)  declined 2 percent after cutting its
net-income forecast for this year.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 1.6 percent to 6,689.4 at the close in
 Frankfurt , rebounding from an earlier decline of as much as 1.1
percent. The gauge has advanced 0.9 percent this week. The
benchmark measure yesterday rallied the most this month after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers
will do whatever it takes to preserve the euro. The broader HDAX
Index also rose 1.6 percent today.  “Draghi’s statement was a new factor and positive for the
market,” said Yves Marcais, an equity sales trader at Global
Equities in Paris. “Investors were waiting six months for that.
Declines in stocks earlier this week were exaggerated.”  The ECB may begin a new round of joint-bond purchases to
ease borrowing costs in Spain and Italy, as Merkel and Hollande
pledged to do everything to protect the euro.  “France and Germany are fundamentally attached to the
integrity of the euro zone,” the two leaders said in a joint
statement today. “They are determined to do everything to
protect it.”  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that the
U.S. economy expanded in the second quarter more than economists
had estimated. Gross domestic product, the value of all goods
and services the nation produces, rose at a 1.5 percent annual
rate, beating the 1.4 percent median forecast of 81 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. Consumer purchases grew at the
weakest pace in a year.  EADS jumped 5.3 percent to 29.81 euros. Europe’s biggest
aerospace and defense company almost doubled first-half  profit 
and increased its estimate for full-year earnings to 2.7 billion
euros ($3.3 billion) from at least 2.5 billion euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG advanced 2.9 percent to 59.15
euros.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , gained 2.8 percent to 39.33 euros. A gauge of auto
stocks was the best performer of the 19 industry groups on the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , jumping 2.9 percent.  Porsche, Linde  Porsche SE added 1.8 percent to 40.50 euros. The sports-car
maker being purchased by Volkswagen AG, said first-half profit
jumped 21 percent on demand for a new generation of the 911.  Linde gained 3 percent to 121.50 euros. The company
reported second-quarter profit in line with analysts’ estimates
and said it will reach its 2014 profit goal in 2013.  Rhoen Klinikum slipped 2 percent to 17.50 euros after
lowering its net-income  forecast  because of a slowdown in the
restructuring of a German hospital unit and costs from Fresenius
SE’s failed takeover bid for the company.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  slid 2 percent to 40.25 euros. The
German exchange blocked from buying NYSE Euronext by the
European Commission in February said net revenue for 2012 will
probably fall short of its forecast range.  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ) , a German generic-drug manufacturer,
lost 3.2 percent to 25.30 euros. Citigroup Inc. cut its
recommendation on the shares to  neutral  from buy, citing
continued economic concern in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  