-- Gilead’s Single Pill Hepatitis C Study Targets 2014 Approval
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-07-27T20:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/gilead-begins-single-pill-hepatitis-c-study-for-2014-approval.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  said it plans
to start a combination study of two drugs in a single pill to
treat hepatitis C by the end of the year, putting it on track to
request U.S. regulatory approval for the medicine in 2014.  Gilead, which spent $10.8 billion to acquire one of the
medicines, GS-7977, plans to combine it with another, GS-5855,
in a trial of 800 patients starting in the fourth-quarter, said
Norbert Bischofberger, chief medical officer of the  Foster City ,
California-based company, in a conference call yesterday. If the
combination is effective, the company could apply for regulatory
 approval  in the middle of 2014, Bischofberger said.  Gilead is among several drugmakers racing to develop new
hepatitis C treatments that act more quickly with fewer side
effects than the current standard of care. The goal is to
provide doctors and patients with simpler, more effective
treatments, Bischofberger said.  The company aims for a therapy that “will clearly be a one
pill, once daily, maybe a 12 week course,” for patients with
all different types of hepatitis C, Bischofberger said. “That’s
our goal. We are very close.”  Gilead  rose  7.4 percent to $55.50 at the close in  New York ,
its biggest one-day increase since April. The shares have
climbed 29 percent in the past 12 months.  Conventional Treatment  Conventional therapy combines ribavirin with interferon, an
injected immune-boosting protein that can cause flu-like side
effects, for as long as 48 weeks.  Gilead is competing with Abbott Laboratories, Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co. and  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  to develop a new generation of hepatitis C
treatments. Rising deaths among  baby boomers  from hepatitis C
prompted U.S. health officials to declare in May that the entire
age group is at risk and should be tested for the disease.  Another study of GS-7977, given with ribavirin, found nine
of nine patients who were previously untreated had a sustained
response to the drug, with no signs of virus in their bodies
after finishing the therapy. A second study, however, found just
53 percent of patients had a similar benefit, a difference the
company is still trying to figure out, Bischofberger said.  Gilead, the world’s biggest maker of AIDS drugs, yesterday
reported net income  fell  4.6 percent in the second quarter to
$711.6 million, or 91 cents a share, from $746 million, or 93
cents, a year earlier. Earnings, excluding one-time items, of 99
cents a share beat the 95 cents a share average of 25 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue jumped 13 percent to
$2.41 billion, the company said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  