-- Google Failure Over Street View Data May Breach U.K. Accord
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-07-27T15:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/google-failure-to-delete-street-view-data-may-breach-u-k-accord.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  may have breached an
agreement with the U.K. privacy regulator by failing to delete
personal data gathered through its Street View service.  Google contacted the U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office
today  to say  it still had some data that should have been
deleted in December 2010, the agency said in a statement e-
mailed today. The watchdog said it’s in touch with other data
protection regulators in  Europe  “to coordinate the response to
this development.”  “The fact that some of this information still exists
appears to breach the undertaking to the ICO signed by Google in
November 2010,” the agency said in the statement. “Our
response, which has already been issued, makes clear that Google
must supply the data to the ICO immediately, so that we can
subject it to forensic analysis before deciding on the necessary
course of action.”  Google was fined $25,000 by the  U.S. Federal Communications
Commission  earlier this year for impeding its investigation into
improper data gathering. In an agreement ending the U.K. inquiry
into Street View in November 2010,  Mountain View , California-
based Google agreed to further ICO audits of its privacy
practices. One was published in August 2011 and will be reviewed
this year to ensure ICO recommendations were followed.  Location Service  In June, the U.K. regulator re-opened a probe into the data
collected through Google’s location service. While Street View
cars photograph buildings and homes to provide street-level
mapping to Google users, they went beyond that by using wireless
connections to gather people’s personal communications.  Google still has in its possession “a small portion of
payload data collected” by its Street View cars in the U.K.,
 Peter Fleischer , the company’s global privacy counsel, said in
the letter. “Google apologizes for this error.”  Google told the ICO in the letter that it “would now like
to delete the remaining U.K. data, but would like your
instructions on how to proceed.” The company said it’s
prepared for the agency “to review this data, or to destroy
it.”  Tom Price , a spokesman for Google in the U.K. declined to
comment further.  In a letter in response to Google, Steve Eckersley, the
ICO’s head of enforcement, asked that the company allow them to
examine the data and “that the data is stored securely until
such time that we can complete our examination.”  For three years starting in May 2007, Google collected
content from wireless networks that it didn’t need for its
location-based services, according to the FCC. The company
gathered so-called payload data, including e-mail and text
messages, passwords, Internet-usage history and “other highly
sensitive personal information,” the FCC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  