-- Google Seeks Dismissal of E-Books Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-07-27T17:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/google-seeks-dismissal-of-e-books-case.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked a U.S. court to
dismiss a lawsuit by authors over the digitizing of books,
saying that the company’s book-scanning program is a fair use of
copyrighted material and a benefit to the public and authors.  U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin , sitting as a trial judge in
the case, in May rejected Google’s argument that lawsuits by the
Authors Guild and the American Society of Media Photographers
should be dismissed because the groups lacked standing to sue
for copyright infringement. The suits stem from Google’s plan,
announced in 2004, to scan millions of books from public and
university libraries to provide snippets of text to people who
use its Internet search engine.  In a motion filed today in federal court in  New York , the
company seeks dismissal of the Authors Guild’s case, arguing
that authors benefit from the project because their books can be
more readily found, bought and read, while the public gains
“increased knowledge.” Google also argued that the display of
snippets of text is fair use under copyright law and that the
authors haven’t been harmed by the display.  “ Google Books  furthers the objectives of the copyright
laws because of the public benefits (including benefits to
authors),” the company said in its motion. “Plaintiffs have
adduced no evidence that Google Books has displaced the sale of
even a single book.”  Confidential Documents  The Authors Guild, individual authors and publishing
companies sued in 2005, claiming  Mountain View , California-based
Google hadn’t sought authorization from the owners of the
digitized works.  Michael Boni, a lawyer for the authors, said he will file
today a sealed motion for a judicial ruling in their favor, by
hand rather than electronically, because “it uses a lot of
documents Google marked ‘confidential.’” A redacted version
will be filed at another time, he said in a telephone interview.
Oral arguments on both parties’ motions for summary judgment are
set for Oct. 9.  Last year, Chin declined to approve a proposed
$125 million settlement between the plaintiffs and Google,
saying it was “an attempt to use the class action mechanism to
implement forward-looking business arrangements that go far
beyond the dispute before the court.” Further negotiations
between the authors and Google were unsuccessful. The publishers
remain in talks, Google has said.  ‘Ball Four’  Besides the guild, the plaintiffs include authors Joseph
Goulden, Betty Miles and Jim Bouton, the former New York Yankee
who wrote “Ball Four.”  Google said in a February filing that it has scanned more
than 20 million books, and that Web users can see excerpts in
English from more than 4 million of them. The project began with
the digitizing of books from the libraries of the  University of
Michigan ,  Harvard University ,  Stanford University , Oxford
University and the  New York Public Library .  The authors’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-08136, and
the visual artists’ case is American Society of Media
Photographers v. Google, 10-cv-02977, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  