-- Green Pool Raises Brazil Area’s Cane Output and Cuts Sugar
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-27T08:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/green-pool-raises-brazil-area-s-cane-output-and-cuts-sugar-1-.html
Sugar cane output in  Brazil ’s center
south, the main growing region of the world’s biggest producer,
will be bigger than estimated due to higher agricultural yields,
according to Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty.  Cane production in the area will total 505 million metric
tons in the 2012-13 season under way there, the Brisbane,
Australia-based researcher estimates. That’s 2.4 percent higher
than the 493 million tons projected last month. Production in
Brazil’s center south fell for the first time in a decade in
2011-12 to 493.3 million tons, said industry group Unica.  “Agricultural yields are increasing,” Tom McNeill, a
director at the company, said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. The sugar content in the cane this season
“looks poor.”  Millers in the area will produce 30.7 million tons of
sugar, down from a previous estimate of about 31 million tons
because of lower sugar content in the cane, he said. Sucrose
levels for the season through July 15 are 3.4 percent lower than
in the same period last year, industry association Unica’s data
showed.  Sugar cane production in the first half of July alone
climbed 3.9 percent to 42.2 million tons after dry weather
helped accelerate harvesting, Unica said on July 25. For the
season, production is still lagging 22 percent, as above average
rains in May and June delayed the crop, the data showed.  “This six-week period, from 1 July to mid-August, if it
remains mostly fine weather, will give the Brazilian industry a
much needed shot in the arm both from getting the harvest
moving, and getting revenue in,” McNeill said. “Both are very
positive for the sector, which has been struggling in recent
years.”  Sugar cane growing areas will get dry weather through the
beginning of August, Celso Oliveira, a meteorologist at weather
forecaster Somar Meteorologia, said by phone from  Sao Paulo 
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  