-- Woman Charged in Guggenheim Name Scam Won’t Serve Jail Time
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-07-27T19:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/guggenheim-fraud-defendant-toumei-gets-two-years-probation.html
Lady Catarina Pietra Toumei, one of
three charged in a scheme to use the Guggenheim family name to
swindle investors through phony billion-dollar deals, pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor and was given two years of probation.  Toumei, 46, admitted today to helping her two codefendants
violate a judge’s order, issued in a civil trademark lawsuit,
that barred them from using the Guggenheim name. Toumei was
sentenced by U.S. Magistrate Judge James Cott in  Manhattan .  Prosecutors from the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan charged Toumei, Vladimir Zuravel and David Birnbaum
in January 2011 with a scheme to use the Guggenheim name to lure
investors into fake investments in oil, bank guarantees,
diamonds and gold. Charges against Birnbaum, who allegedly used
the name “David B. Guggenheim,” were dropped in September and
Zuravel was sentenced to a year of probation in April after
pleading guilty.  “I always was surprised that the case was filed,”
Toumei’s lawyer, Jan Ronis, said after today’s hearing. “At all
times, she truly thought they were Guggenheims.”  Met on Internet  Ronis said Toumei, who lives in the San Diego area, met
Zuravel and Birnbaum on the Internet and had never seen them in
person.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office, declined
to comment on the case.  Zuravel, whom prosecutors said used the name “Vladimir Z.
Guggenheim,” pleaded guilty to contempt for using the
Guggenheim name in violation of the judge’s order in the
trademark case.  When prosecutors filed the original charges, they claimed
the three defendants tried to use the Guggenheim name to enter
business relationships with former presidents  George H.W. Bush 
and  George W. Bush , the Iraqi Ministry of Oil and Coca-Cola Co.  Zuravel, who said he was Birnbaum’s adopted son, told the
court at the time that the criminal charges were the result of
“just a simple mix-up.”  The Guggenheim family is descended from  Meyer Guggenheim , a
Swiss immigrant who made a fortune in mining and smelting in the
19th century. They are known for charitable giving, including
the establishment of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in  New
York .  The case is U.S. v. Toumei, 11-Mag.-207, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 