-- Libor Charges, Online Poker, Par Pharmaceutical: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-27T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/libor-charges-s-p-online-poker-par-pharmaceutical-compliance.html
U.S. prosecutors are preparing to
file charges this fall against traders from several banks
involved in a bid-rigging scheme to manipulate Libor rates, not
just  Barclays Plc (BARC) , according to a person familiar with the case.  The charges against individuals, which would probably be
filed by October according to the person, center on alleged
rate-fixing activity that goes beyond the conduct described in
last month’s settlement between Barclays and regulators in the
U.S. and U.K.  Barclays was fined $450 million in late June for submitting
false Libor rates. The public and political reaction to the
Barclays settlement generated requests by government agencies to
be involved in any further Libor enforcement, altering U.S.
plans to prosecute, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is confidential.  The  Justice Department  investigation of criminal activity
related to Libor is moving on a parallel course with civil
probes of the banks being conducted by the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, the Securities and Exchange
Commission and U.K. regulators, including the  Serious Fraud
Office .  Compliance Action  S&P in Talks With Regulators Over Structured-Finance Violations  Standard & Poor’s , the world’s largest credit-rating
company, said it’s in discussions with U.S. regulators over
potential violations related to structured-finance ratings.  The  Department of Justice  and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission are investigating possible civil violations
related to S&P’s ratings of structured products, Harold
“Terry” McGraw III, the chief executive officer of New York-
based McGraw-Hill Cos., S&P’s owner, said yesterday on a
conference call to discuss earnings.  S&P and other credit-rating companies were blamed for
helping inflate the housing bubble by both the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission and a Senate report last year. Investors lost
billions on top-rated bonds after the companies lowered their
standards in an effort to win more business from Wall Street
banks, according to the panels.  S&P received a so-called Wells notice last year from the
SEC indicating it could face claims over the top grade it gave
in 2007 to a $1.6 billion collateralized debt obligation called
Delphinus CDO 2007-1 that was downgraded six months later.  Illegal Hiring Found in Justice Department Management Unit  The management arm of the U.S. Justice Department conducted
illegal hiring and is plagued by a “pattern of fundamental
misconduct,” according to a report yesterday by the
department’s inspector general.  Employees in the Justice Management Division including
senior officials advocated for, and in some cases “undertook a
sustained campaign,” to secure employment for family members
inside the Justice Department, according to a report by
Inspector General Michael Horowitz.  “Most of the misconduct described in this report -- the
nepotism, the Prohibited Personnel Practices, the ethical
lapses, the false and misleading statements -- was the result of
bad behavior by individuals insufficiently impressed with the
principles of fair and open competition,” according to the
report.  The inspector general’s office began an investigation into
the division’s hiring practices as a result of information
provided by a former employee to Representative Frank Wolf, a
Virginia Republican, the report said. It marks the third
inspector general investigation into improper hiring practices
at the division.  United Technologies Wins EU Approval for Goodrich Purchase  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  won European Union approval to
buy  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  for $16.5 billion, after it agreed to sell
electrical power generation and small engine control units.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  must also be granted an option to
buy Goodrich’s share of a joint venture to develop a lean-burn
fuel nozzle for aircraft engines to eliminate regulators’
antitrust concerns over the deal, the European Commission said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The Goodrich deal is the largest aerospace acquisition on
record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and adds the
world’s largest maker of aircraft landing gear to  United
Technologies  brands that include Pratt & Whitney jet engines and
Sikorsky helicopters. The purchase has an enterprise value of
$18.4 billion, including $1.9 billion in net debt, the companies
said in a statement when they announced the deal in September.  United Technologies is required to sell Goodrich’s Electric
Power Systems business, its Connecticut-based Pumps and Engine
Controls business and its interest in Aero Engine Controls, a
joint venture with Rolls-Royce, said  John Moran , a spokesman for
the Hartford, Connecticut-based company, in an e-mailed
statement.  United Technologies said it expects to close the
acquisition this week.  For more, click here.  New Century Hedge Fund’s Onsa Sentenced for Ponzi Scheme  Former hedge-fund manager Ward Onsa was sentenced to 6 1/2
years in prison for using his firm, New Century Investment
Management LLC, to run a  Ponzi scheme .  Onsa pleaded guilty yesterday in Brooklyn, New York,
federal court to one count of  securities fraud  in December in
connection with the scheme. Investors, primarily retirees, lost
more than $3 million, according to the government.  Through New Century, Onsa made special arrangements with
institutional money managers, including  Charles Schwab & Co. (SCHW)  and
Millennium Trust Co., in order to facilitate the theft, the U.S.
alleged. As part of his penalty, Onsa was also ordered to pay
$3.1 million as restitution and to serve three years of
supervised release.  Onsa launched New Century after his previous investment
firm, Ward Onsa & Co., was bankrupted by trading losses and
default judgments, the government alleged. He funneled money
solicited from investors to himself and his defunct firm, the
government said.  The case is U.S. v. Onsa, 10-cr-00730, U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Rubin Gets Three-Year Sentence in Online-Poker Payment Case  Ira Rubin, accused of helping process billions of dollars
in payments for illegal online gambling businesses, was
sentenced to three years in prison and ordered to forfeit $5
million.  Rubin, who pleaded guilty in January, was accused by
federal prosecutors in New York of illegally processing payments
for PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and  Absolute Poker , the leading
online poker sites doing business with U.S. customers.  The government and Rubin’s defense attorney had recommended
a sentence between 18 and 24 months, as specified in federal
guidelines, which are advisory. U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan 
in Manhattan yesterday said such a sentence wouldn’t serve to
discourage future crime.  Once he is out of prison, one of the conditions of Rubin’s
release will be that he cannot participate in any business
occupation related to payment processing or financial services,
Kaplan said.  The case was U.S. v. Rubin, 10-CR-336, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New York Councilman Seabrook Convicted of Public Corruption  New York City Councilman Larry B. Seabrook was convicted of
nine public corruption counts in a retrial in federal court in
Manhattan.  Seabrook, a Democrat who represented part of the Bronx, was
accused of laundering city money through nonprofit organizations
he controlled. Jurors yesterday found him guilty of conspiracy
and fraud charges after two days of deliberations. Another jury
deadlocked on the charges in December, leading to a mistrial.  The trial began June 20. Sentencing is scheduled for
January 8.  The case is U.S. v. Seabrook, 10-cr-87, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Testimony and Interviews  Geithner Tells Senate He Was Concerned About Libor in 2008  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, responding to a
second day of questions by lawmakers, said he was concerned when
he heard about potential weaknesses in the London interbank
offered rate in 2008 and repeated that he moved quickly to alert
regulators in the U.S. and U.K.  “I absolutely thought this was a problem,” Geithner told
the Senate Banking Committee yesterday. Geithner, who was
president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  at the time,
said he discussed Libor with officials at the Treasury
Department, Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for securities worldwide,
was hurt by Barclays Plc’s admission that it submitted false
rates. A probe by U.K. and U.S. authorities cost the London-
based bank a record 290 million-pound ($449 million) fine and
led to the ouster of Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond .  Geithner said he didn’t know whether the U.S. banks
reporting Libor were involved in manipulation. Geithner also
said he doesn’t yet know how Libor manipulation affected U.S.
markets.  Geithner said he took the “necessary and appropriate”
steps in responding to Libor concerns by notifying U.K. and U.S.
regulators. His testimony follows a House Financial Services
Committee hearing where lawmakers also pressed him about his
role in the Libor investigation.  To hear Geithner’s testimony, click here.  French Market Regulator Chief Ready to Contribute to Libor Probe  France’s  market regulator  is ready to contribute to U.K.
and U.S. investigations of interbank lending rate manipulation,
said its new president Gerard Rameix.  “The prejudice is very important on the financial sector
across the world. It’s not good for the image of London, but it
goes far beyond,” Rameix, who yesterday took over as chief of
the Autorite des Marches Financiers, said in a Paris interview
with Bloomberg television. “We can contribute to investigations
and we will fully collaborate.”  Confidence in the London interbank offered rate, a
benchmark for $500 trillion of securities worldwide, was dented
by Barclays Plc’s admission that it submitted false rates.  UBS AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Credit
Suisse Group AG are among at least a dozen banks to disclose
inquiries.  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said that while it’s cooperating
with authorities investigating interbank rates, “there has been
no allegation of wrongdoing against the bank from regulators.”  “Confidence, which is the basis of the well-functioning of
the markets, no longer really exists on the markets because of
the crisis and of the numerous frauds,” Rameix said.  France’s  banking regulator ACP  hasn’t opened an
investigation, a Bank of France press officer, who asked not to
be identified in line with the institution’s policy, said
yesterday.  To hear the interview, click here.  In the Courts  Par Pharmaceutical Sued by Investor Over $1.9 Billion Buyout  Par Pharmaceutical Cos. (PAR) , the generic-drug maker being
bought by TPG Capital for $1.9 billion, was sued by a
shareholder who contends investors will be shortchanged in the
deal.  Directors of Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Par are duty-
bound to enhance share value in a takeover and have avoided
competitive bidding, Rena Nadoff contended in a July 24
complaint filed in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “The long-term prospects for Par are great” and the sale
price of $50 a share is too low, Nadoff said. Par “is in a
position to see increased revenues with the implementation of
the  healthcare reform  act,” as the law’s emphasis on cost
control spurs increased use of generic drugs, Nadoff said.  Nadoff asked a judge to stop the transaction and award
damages and legal fees. Par and TPG, a private-equity firm based
in Fort Worth, Texas, said July 16 they agreed to the deal at a
37 percent premium, subject to a shareholder vote and regulatory
approval.  Allison Wey, a Par spokeswoman, didn’t immediately reply to
a voice-mail message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Nadoff v. Par Pharmaceutical Cos, CA7715,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Federal Reserve Bank of N.Y. Seeks Starr AIG Lawsuit Dismissal  Starr International Co.’s lawsuit against the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York over the government bailout of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  should be dismissed, a lawyer for the
bank told a federal judge.  Starr, an AIG shareholder that is headed by AIG’s founder,
 Hank Greenberg , claims the government used its 2008 bailout of
New York-based AIG to channel money improperly to the insurer’s
trading partners.  John Kiernan, a lawyer for the New York Fed, yesterday told
U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in Manhattan that Starr
failed to make a demand on AIG’s board before filing the suit
and that the board’s decisions about terms of the bailout loans
aren’t subject to court review under state law.  Starr sued the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in
November, saying it breached its duty to AIG shareholders by
loaning $85 billion at 14.5 percent while offering better terms
to banks in a “backdoor bailout.” AIG almost collapsed in 2008
after bets tied to the housing market soured, and the bailout
was revised at least four times before reaching $182 billion.  David Boies , a lawyer for Starr, said yesterday that Starr
correctly seeks compensation for the New York Fed’s breaches of
fiduciary duties it owed both to AIG and to AIG’s shareholders,
including Starr.  Engelmayer questioned Boies on the timeliness of the filing
of the suit and whether any statute of limitations had expired.  Starr filed a related complaint in November against the
federal government in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in
Washington.  The New York case is Starr International Co. v. Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, 11-8422, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  