-- U.S. Consumer Sentiment Gauge Falls to Lowest This Year
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-27T14:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-decreased-to-72-3-in-july.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
dropped in July to the lowest level this year as the labor
market and broader economy showed few signs of improvement.  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan   final index  of
sentiment declined to 72.3 this month from 73.2 in June. The
gauge was projected to hold at the preliminary reading of 72,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  A slowdown in hiring in the second quarter, which may
reflect companies’ concerns about demand as  Europe ’s economy
falters, is damping moods of Americans whose spending accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy. Another report today showed
the expansion cooled in the second quarter.  The drop “may well be more worries about Europe and fiscal
policy and just the jitters in the equity market recently,”
said  James O’Sullivan , chief U.S. economist at High Frequency
Economics in Valhalla, New York. At the same time, “we’re not
seeing a collapse in confidence.”  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the U.S., rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after a 2 percent gain in the first three months
of the year, Commerce Department figures showed.  The report showed household purchases, which account for
about 70 percent of the economy, also grew at a 1.5 percent
annual rate, the weakest in a year.  Stocks climbed on speculation European leaders will act to
alleviate the region’s debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.7 percent to 1,369.55 at 10:36 a.m. in  New York .  Estimates for the Michigan confidence measure ranged from
69 to 75, according to the Bloomberg survey of 63 economists.
The index averaged 64.2 during the last recession and 89 in the
five years before the 18-month economic slump that ended in June
2009.  Bloomberg Measure  Michigan’s reading for July is in line with the Bloomberg
measure of sentiment, which declined last week to a two-month
low as consumers showed concern about making purchases.  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions  asks
Americans whether they’re better off than they were a year ago
and if they think it’s a good time to buy big-ticket items like
cars. In July, that measure increased to 82.7 from 81.5 at the
end of June.  The index of  consumer expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
decreased to 65.6 from June’s 67.8. The preliminary reading for
July was 64.8.  Employment growth has waned relative to its pace earlier
this year, when payrolls climbed 275,000 in January. The
unemployment rate has held above 8 percent for 41 consecutive
months -- the longest stretch in the post-World War II era. The
Labor Department is scheduled to release July figures on Aug. 3.  Jobless Claims  Claims for unemployment insurance payments decreased by
35,000 in the week ended July 21 to 353,000, according to Labor
Department figures issued yesterday in Washington. Changes in
the annual auto plant shutdowns that occur this time of year
have made it difficult to adjust the data for seasonal
variations, the Labor Department has said.  The stubborn  unemployment rate  helps explain why Americans
are hesitant to boost their spending.  Retail sales  declined 0.5
percent in June, the third straight decrease, Commerce
Department figures showed July 16. Receipts excluding
automobiles and service stations fell 0.2 percent.  “The U.S. consumer is still being pretty conservative
about how they’re spending money,” J. Patrick Doyle, president
and chief executive officer of  Domino’s Pizza, Inc. (DPZ)  said on a
July 25 earnings call. “And until we get some of the
uncertainty resolved around the economy and taxes and et cetera,
I think the consumer is going to stay pretty conservative.”  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3 percent over the next 12 months, compared
with 3.1 percent in the prior month’s survey. Over the next five
years, Americans expected a 2.7 percent rate of inflation,
compared with 2.8 percent in the June report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  