-- ICICI Bank Profit Exceeds Estimates on Wider Lending Margin
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-07-27T09:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/icici-first-quarter-profit-jumps-36-beating-analyst-estimates.html
ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s second-
largest lender by assets, posted first-quarter earnings that
beat analysts’  estimates  as lending operations became more
profitable and bad loans shrank.  Net income  climbed 36 percent to 18.2 billion rupees ($328
million), or 15.71 rupees a share, for the three months ended
June 30, from 13.3 billion rupees, or 11.51 rupees, a year
earlier, the Mumbai-based lender said in an exchange filing
today. That surpassed the 17.4 billion-rupee median of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The highest profit growth in five quarters will bolster
Chief Executive Officer  Chanda Kochhar ’s efforts to expand
credit by about 20 percent this year, exceeding the industry’s
estimated 17 percent to 18 percent growth. ICICI, which has the
highest capital buffer among India’s five largest banks, is also
the  best performer  among those stocks, with a 35 percent rally
this year.  “With good asset quality and net income growth, ICICI
remains one of the top picks for investors among Indian banks,”
said Nitin Kumar, a Mumbai-based analyst at Quant Broking Ltd.
“Bad loans at the lender seem to be under control now.”  Shares of ICICI rose 2 percent to 925.15 rupees as of 2:45
p.m. in Mumbai trading today. The stock has surpassed the 9
percent gain in the benchmark BSE  India  Sensitive Index this
year, as well as the 27 percent advance in the  Bankex index ,
which tracks 14 lenders.  Margin Forecast  Net interest income , or revenue from lending minus payments
on deposits, rose 32 percent to 31.9 billion rupees while non-
interest income climbed 14 percent to 18.8 billion rupees.
Domestic corporate loans climbed by 28 percent during the
quarter, the bank said.  The net interest margin, a measure of lending
 profitability , widened to 3.01 percent during the quarter from
2.61 percent a year earlier. The bank will aim to keep the
margin at more than 3 percent this year, Kochhar told reporters
on a conference call today.  The net bad-loan ratio shrank to 0.61 percent from 0.91
percent a year earlier, ICICI said in the statement today.  ICICI recovered 4.3 billion rupees in loans made to
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the cash-strapped Indian carrier
controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya, Jaspreet Kaur, a
spokeswoman for the bank, said on July 2, without providing
additional details. The airline has no remaining debt
outstanding with the bank, she said.  Restructured Assets  The sale of those loans reduced the total restructured
assets at ICICI, Kochhar told reporters today.  Indian corporate borrowers have sought to change the terms
on more than 2 trillion rupees in souring debt as of March 31,
doubling from 2009, according to the website of a corporate debt
restructuring program managed by local lenders. The central bank
has since recommended that banks need to more than  double
provisions  for such loans to shield against defaults.  ICICI in April was placed under review for a downgrade of
its  financial strength rating  by Moody’s Investors Service,
which cited the lower sovereign-debt rating as a reason. The
three-month review will take into account the cross-border
diversification of operations and their domestic sovereign debt
holdings, among other factors, Moody’s said at that time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  