-- IMF Latin America Head Quits to Work for Chile’s Richest Family
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/imf-latin-america-head-quits-to-work-for-chile-s-richest-family.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
leading economist for  Latin America  resigned from the
Washington-based lender to run a television channel owned by
 Chile ’s wealthiest family.  Nicolas Eyzaguirre, director of the IMF’s Western
Hemisphere department, will become chairman of Canal 13
television, which is controlled by the Luksic family, the fund
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. He started his job in
2009 and was finance minister in Chile from 2000 to 2006.  Eyzaguirre is relinquishing his responsibilities
immediately, the lender said without naming a successor. The IMF
website lists David Vegara as acting director of the Western
Hemisphere department.  “Nicolas’ vision and high-level economic policy making
experience were instrumental in the Fund’s successful engagement
in the region over the last three and half years,” IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said in yesterday’s  statement . “I
have appreciated his wise counsel.”  Eyzaguirre is joining a company controlled by a family that
holds majority stakes in activities ranging from copper mining
to brewing.  Iris Fontbona, widow of mining magnate Andronico Luksic, is
the wealthiest person in Chile and 37th richest in the world,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaire Index. Her family owns
 Quinenco SA (QUINENC) , a Santiago-based company that controls  Banco de
Chile , Chile’s largest lender by assets, and  Cia Cervecerias
Unidas SA (CCU) , the nation’s biggest beer company.  Chile’s former Energy Minister Rodrigo Alvarez and
Alejandro Jadresic, former head of the country’s energy
commission, will join the board at Canal 13, the television
channel said in a statement e-mailed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  