-- India Rupee Rises to 1-Week High on Europe Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-07-27T12:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/india-rupee-rises-to-1-week-high-on-europe-stimulus-speculation.html
India’s rupee climbed to a one-week
high on speculation European policy makers will take further
steps to contain their region’s debt crisis, spurring demand for
riskier assets.  The currency rose for a second day after Le Monde reported,
without citing anyone, that the  European Central Bank  is
preparing to buy debt in the secondary market in the coming
weeks to be followed by primary-market purchases by government-
financed bailout funds. The rupee may extend gains once Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  announces the details of a plan to
revive the economy and spur capital inflows, according to
 Federal Bank Ltd. (FB)   “The market is getting impatient as to the timing of the
government’s growth-supporting measures and the uncertain
situation in Europe is not helping,” said Ravi Ranjit, chief
manager at Federal Bank in Mumbai. “If such measures are
announced in India and at the same time we have concrete news of
beneficial developments in Europe, the rupee will strengthen
significantly.”  The rupee rose 0.3 percent to 55.3425 per dollar in Mumbai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
55.3275 at the end of last week. The currency touched 55.3075
earlier today, the strongest level since July 20. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, decreased 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage
point, to 11.50 percent.  Awaiting Stimulus  The rupee extended yesterday’s biggest gain in two weeks as
French President  Francois Hollande  told reporters at a  Valeo SA (FR) 
factory near Paris that he and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
planned to discuss help for Spain and implementing a June
agreement to protect governments against unsustainable borrowing
costs. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi yesterday
signaled officials are prepared to do whatever is needed to
preserve the euro.  Policy makers from the U.S. Federal Reserve, the ECB and
the  Bank of England  all meet next week, before the fifth
anniversary of the financial crisis in August. The  Reserve Bank 
of India, which also reviews policy on July 31, will hold its
 repurchase rate  at 8 percent, according to 27 of 28 analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey. One predicts a 25 basis point cut.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on July 16 said  inflation , which
measured 7.25 percent last month, is “way above” the monetary
authority’s threshold of around 5 percent. Gross domestic
product grew 5.3 percent in the first quarter of this year, the
slowest pace since 2003.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.41 per
dollar, compared with 56.75 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.28 from 56.74. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  