-- Insurers May Face Claims Relating to Libor Suits, JLT CEO Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-07-27T07:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/insurers-may-face-claims-relating-to-libor-suits-jlt-ceo-says.html
Insurers should expect to face
claims from lawsuits relating to the Libor scandal that cost
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  290 million pounds ($455 million) in fines,
according to  Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc. (JLT)   “It’s certainly a potential event,” Dominic Burke, chief
executive officer of London-based JLT, said in a telephone
interview today. “If suits are upheld against a bank then
claimants will seek to be compensated from its assets. Those
assets are usually insured.”  Corporations including banks typically buy directors and
officers insurance which pays out if executives are held
personally liable for negligence, accidents or market abuses.
While these policies are common, they often stipulate that they
will only pay a specified maximum to shield insurers against
spiraling costs, Burke said.  “D&O will have some exposure,” Burke said. “But an awful
lot of water has to go under the bridge before we get any
clarity on how much this will cost.”  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank, is among more
than a dozen lenders named in lawsuits relating to the alleged
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, the benchmark
for $500 trillion of securities. Regulators around the world are
investigating the potential rigging of other interbank rates
such Euribor.  JLT, the U.K.’s biggest publicly traded insurance broker,
said pretax profit climbed 11 percent to 85.1 million pounds
($133 million) in the first half of the year due to higher
growth in  Asia  and  Latin America . That beat the 81.1 million-
pound estimate of three analysts compiled by the company.  The stock climbed 0.4 percent to 726 pence at 8:19 a.m. in
London trading, valuing the company at about 1.6 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 