-- Intesa CEO Urges Europe to Move Toward Political Integration
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-07-27T08:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/intesa-ceo-urges-europe-to-move-toward-political-integration-1-.html
Europe  should move toward political
integration to end the debt crisis by taking more aggressive
action and accelerating a timetable,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  Chief
Executive Officer Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani said.  “We have to move toward fiscal integration, financial
integration and I think the final solution is political
integration,” Cucchiani, the head of  Italy ’s second-biggest
bank, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in London.
“Unfortunately, politicians are a little bit more reluctant and
have a slower time framework. The overall direction is clear,
and  Mario Draghi  gave a clear indication.”  Almost three years after the sovereign-debt crisis emerged,
Spain and Italy are shouldering borrowing costs at euro-era
highs, the common currency is near a two-year low and  Germany ’s
top credit rating was called into question by Moody’s Investors
Service. Spanish and Italian bond markets rallied yesterday
after  European Central Bank  President Draghi signalled the ECB
is prepared to intervene to reduce soaring yields.  “Draghi underlined the political capital that is behind
the euro and behind the euro zone and the commitment to protect
it and to move forward,” said Cucchiani, 62. The CEO said he
supports a proposed banking union as a step to greater
integration.  Exaggerated Concerns  “The concerns about the Eurozone and Italy are
exaggerated,” Cucchiani said. “We should not forget that we
have a government that in seven months has done major, major
progress on several fronts.” he said.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who’s facing Italy’s third
recession in a decade, passed in December a 20-billion euro
($24.5 billion) austerity plan to shield the economy from the
debt crisis. Italy is moving in the right direction according to
Cucchiani, who considers Monti a “leading figure” in Europe.  Italy’s economy will shrink 2.4 percent this year, twice
the pace predicted by the government, employers’ lobby group
Confindustria said on June 28.  Intesa was among 13 banks that had their credit ratings cut
by Moody’s Investors Service last week following the reduction
on Italy’s debt rating on July 13. The bank was cut two steps to
Baa2. It was the second time in two months that Moody’s reduced
the banks ratings. “Italian banks are directly correlated to
the fortunes of Italian sovereign debt,” the CEO said.  High Liquidity  Intesa Sanpaolo is one of the European banks with the
highest level of liquidity, according to Cucchiani. The Milan-
based bank is “well above” the latest Basel 3 requirements,
with the short-term liquidity indicator and long-term liquidity
indicator above 100. Its core Tier 1 ratio currently is 10.7
percent, compared with 10.5 percent in March, he said.  Intesa, the only Italian lender among the top five that
hasn’t needed additional capital to comply with European Banking
Authority requirements, is eliminating jobs and reducing costs
to strengthen finances as part of a five-year business plan. The
bank borrowed 36 billion euros during the European Central
Bank’s long-term refinancing operations and invested part of the
funds in  government bonds .  “I don’t think that right now there is a need for another
LTRO,” Cucchiani said. Intesa used 39 percent of funds borrowed
from the European Central bank’s long-term refinancing operation
to buy government bonds, in the first quarter. The lender
increased its Italian bond holdings to 76.9 billion euros at the
end of March from 59.7 billion euros three months earlier.  Intesa’s  first-quarter profit  rose 22 percent to 804
million euros on gains related to buying back its own debt and
higher interest income. The bank is scheduled to release second-
quarter earnings Aug. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francine Lacqua in  London  at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  