-- Iraq Reconstruction Effort Cost 719 Lives, Audit Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/iraq-reconstruction-effort-cost-719-lives-audit-finds.html
At least 719 military personnel,
civilian contractors, Iraqis and third-country nationals died in
 Iraq  over seven years performing U.S. reconstruction and
stability operations, according to the first audit of its kind.  The dead include 264 of the 4,409 U.S. troops who died in
Iraq from May 1, 2003, through August 30, 2010, according to the
audit released today by Stuart Bowen, the special inspector
general for Iraq reconstruction.  The audit represents the first time a U.S. agency has
attempted to tally the deaths associated with spending about $60
billion in congressionally appropriated reconstruction and
stabilization funds.  Nothing was safe or “soft” about reconstruction missions,
according to the report. “The human losses suffered in Iraq and
outlined in this report underscore the point that when such
operations are conducted in combat zones, they are dangerous for
everyone involved,” the report said.  The deaths occurred during U.S. efforts to rebuild Iraq’s
infrastructure, train police and security forces and restructure
Iraq’s government institutions.  “The actual number of deaths related to reconstruction or
stabilization activities is certainly higher than 719,”
according to the report. “For several reasons, an exact
calculation is not possible,” the report said, noting that no
agency managed a central database for these categories of
casualties.  ‘Very Dangerous’  Of the 719 deaths, 318 were Americans, including military
and federal civilian personnel and contractors; 271 were Iraqis;
and the remainder were from third countries or of unknown
nationality, according to the report.  Police training “proved very dangerous,” accounting for
20 percent of the deaths, according to the report.  Bowen has warned repeatedly that billions of dollars in
Iraq reconstruction projects may be wasted as the U.S. transfers
them to the Iraqi government in the aftermath of the U.S.
pullout last year.  “There remains a vulnerability that thousands of
projects” completed with billions of dollars in U.S.
reconstruction funds “will not be sustained and thus fail to
meet their intended purposes,” Bowen said June 29 in
congressional testimony.  Bowen first warned of a “sustainment gap” in 2007, saying
that the Iraqi government wasn’t capable of performing long-term
operation and maintenance of projects funded by U.S. taxpayers.
Today “it remains unclear whether” the State Department “will
engage in any further follow-up,” Bowen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  