-- Japan Stocks Advance on Draghi’s Pledge to Preserve Euro
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-27T06:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/japan-stocks-advance-on-draghi-s-pledge-to-preserve-euro.html
Japan  shares  rose for a second day,
with the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average posting its biggest gain in a
month, after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
policy makers will do whatever it takes to preserve the euro.  Makita Corp. (6586) , a maker of power tools that generates 42
percent of sales in Europe, advanced 3.2 percent.  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s largest brokerage, climbed 5 percent
after its net income topped estimates.  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  rose
6.7 percent on a Nikkei newspaper report that the company agreed
to cut material prices for Toyota Motor Corp.  The Nikkei 225 gained 1.5 percent to 8,566.64 at the close
of trading in  Tokyo , paring this  week’s decline  to 1.2 percent
as the gauge posted a third week of losses. The broader Topix
Index advanced 1.6 percent to 726.44, with more than two shares
rising for each that fell.  “There’s pressure on Draghi to act,”  Tony Crescenzi , a
strategist at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in a Bloomberg TV interview. “Draghi has
created an expectation that must be followed through on.”  The Topix fell 17 percent from this year’s high on March 27
amid concern the U.S. and Chinese economies are slowing and that
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen. The decline has left shares on
the Topix valued at 0.9 times book value, compared with 2.1 for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.4 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. A number below one means investors can buy companies for
less than the value of their assets.  Stocks linked to Europe rose after Draghi signaled central
bank officials are prepared to do whatever is needed to ensure
the euro’s survival and act on surging bond yields. His comments
came as Spanish policy makers called on the central bank to
fight a renewed bout of financial turmoil that pushed the
country’s bond yields to euro-area records this week.  Europe Shares  Makita gained 3.2 percent to 2,631 yen. Nippon Sheet Glass
Co., which gets 41 percent of its revenue in Europe, climbed 2.9
percent to 71 yen.  “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro,” Draghi said during a speech in
 London  yesterday. “And believe me, it will be enough.”  Stocks in Japan fell this week as the yen rose to an 11-
year high against the euro amid concern  Greece  may exit the
currency bloc, hurting the outlook for exporters.  Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.2
percent in June from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
reported today in Tokyo.  Bank of Japan  board member Takahide
Kiuchi this week highlighted uncertainty of whether the central
bank can achieve its 1 percent inflation goal, signaling that
more monetary stimulus may be needed.  The Nikkei 225 Volatility Index dropped 8.1 percent, paring
this week’s 11 percent surge, the biggest weekly jump since May.
Trading volume on the Nikkei 225 today was 1 percent below the
100-day average.  U.S. Growth  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.4
percent today. The gauge added 1.7 percent in  New York  yesterday,
when U.S. reports on durable goods and jobless claims reduced
concern that economic growth is slowing.  The world’s biggest economy is expected to have grown at a
slower pace in the second quarter, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg estimated ahead of a report today. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  meets next week and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
last week said policy makers are studying options for further
easing in case economic growth remains too feeble to produce a
lasting decline in unemployment.  Nomura advanced 5 percent to 272 yen, leading gains among
brokerages after its quarterly profit beat estimates. The stock
rose even as Japanese regulators said they would seek penalties
against the securities firm for  insider trading . Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. rose 4.5 percent to 280 yen.  Steelmakers Surge  Steelmakers lead gains among the Topix’s 33 industry groups.
Nippon Steel gained 6.7 percent to 160 yen after the company
agreed to give Toyota a 2 percent discount on steel sheet for
April to September, according to a Nikkei report citing people
close to the talks. JFE Holdings,  Japan ’s No. 2 steelmaker, rose
the most since February after saying it will cut costs to
counter falling prices. The stock surged 7.1 percent to 1,061
yen.  Among stocks that dropped, Advantest Corp. slumped 9.4
percent to 977 yen, its biggest decline since March 2011. The
shares fell after the world’s top maker of memory-chip testers
reported first-quarter operating that missed analysts’ estimates,
and as its equity rating was cut to sell by CLSA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  