-- Jefferson County Bondholders Prepare for New Court Fight
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-07-27T18:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/jefferson-county-bondholders-prepare-for-new-court-fight.html
Bondholders of Jefferson County,
 Alabama , in talks over ending the biggest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy, are preparing for a fight over whether a court
should force them to accept less than the $3.1 billion they’re
owed.  The trustee for bondholders is seeking details about the
value of the insolvent sewer system in order to prepare a
defense against possible cuts. By October, the county may ask
Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham, Alabama, to lower the
amount it owes bondholders because the value of the system,
which serves as collateral on the debt, has fallen.  Bondholders need to prepare for a court hearing while also
arguing that the U.S. Bankruptcy Code bars a reduction in the
sewer debt, the trustee,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , said
yesterday in court papers.  “The trustee disputes that a valuation of the system or
the net system revenues is appropriate or relevant in connection
with the county’s obligations,” it said.  Jefferson County is deciding how much to raise sewer rates
and whether the value of the system has fallen enough to justify
forcing bondholders to take less than they are owed.  The county and bondholders started fresh negotiations last
week. They will focus partly on the system’s value, Ken Klee,
the county’s bankruptcy attorney, said today in an e-mail today.  Value of Assets  Should the county decide to push for a reduction of the
sewer bond debt, the judge would consider the present value of
the bondholders’ collateral, which is made up mostly of system
assets.  The county contends that under Chapter 9 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code , Bennett has the power to reduce the amount of
the bond debt to be in line with the value of the bondholders’
collateral. Bondholders disagree.  “The county commission has not prejudged rates which will
drive the value of the collateral,” Klee said. “The rates will
determine the value of the collateral. Although preliminary
testimony suggests the value of the system is less than the
$3.1 billion remaining on the sewer debt, the commission has not
formed a value judgment.”  The commission may decide whether to pursue a cut to the
sewer debt in October, Klee said.  David Lemke and Larry Childs, attorneys for the trustee,
didn’t immediately return calls for comment on the dispute.  Bennett ruled last month that Jefferson County can’t reduce
payments to bondholders so it can spend more on its aging sewage
system, or pay legal fees. The ruling was a victory for
bondholders, shielding them from reduced payments while
Jefferson County remains in bankruptcy. The county asked the
judge to reconsider part of his ruling.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 