-- John Eckstein, Pioneer of Treasury Futures Trading, Dies at 74
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2012-07-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/john-eckstein-pioneer-of-treasury-futures-trading-dies-at-74.html
John F. Eckstein III, one of the
first traders of Treasury bill futures contracts following their
debut in 1976 and a pioneer of cash-futures arbitrage trading in
the U.S. government bond market, has died. He was 74.  Eckstein died on July 24 at a nursing home in  New Rochelle ,
 New York , having never fully recovered from a heart attack he
suffered in 2005, his son, John F. Eckstein IV, said in a
telephone interview.  He began his career as a Treasury trader at First National
City Bank -- a predecessor of  Citibank NA  -- and worked at
Discount Corp. of New York, an independent dealer of U.S.
government securities. Eckstein then founded J.F. Eckstein & Co.
around 1972, according to his son, who is director of research
at Astor Asset Management LLC, a division of  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)   Financial futures were in their infancy, and Eckstein
traveled frequently from his New York office to  Chicago  to
establish himself in the trading pits.  “From a New York perspective, he certainly was one of the
pioneers of the use of the financial futures market,” said
Sherwin Kite, the former co-head of Chicago-based futures
brokerage United Financial Trading Co. and a member of the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s board of governors from 1976 to
1985.  Eckstein was among the first traders involved in developing
computerized trading based on chart patterns, Kite said.  Favored Strategies  He favored short-maturity  Treasury securities , structuring
trades based on yield curve distortions and deductions about
Federal Reserve decisions, which until 1994 were not announced,
his son said.  Eckstein also had a role in “When Genius Failed” (2000),
 Roger Lowenstein ’s book about the collapse of the hedge fund
Long-Term Capital Management, which lost $4 billion amid
tumbling world markets in 1998.  As Lowenstein related it, “a panicked Eckstein” turned to
 Salomon Brothers  in 1979 when his firm was struggling to meet
margin calls on an arbitrage of U.S. Treasury bills and U.S.
Treasury bill futures. Eckstein knew his trade would pay off
when the prices of the bills and the futures converged; they
were just taking longer than usual to do so.  “Eckstein had made this bet many times, typically with
success,” Lowenstein wrote. “As he made more money, he
gradually raised his stake.”  Riding Losses  John Meriwether, who had recently set up a bond-arbitrage
group within Salomon, saw the wisdom in the trade and persuaded
the firm to put up “tens of millions of its capital” to take
over Eckstein’s position, according to Lowenstein. The prices
eventually converged, Salomon “made a bundle,” and Meriwether,
promoted to partner the following year, “had found his life’s
work.”  The Eckstein trade, at a time when “hardly anyone traded
financial futures,” taught Meriwether to “ride your losses
until they turned into gains,” Lowenstein wrote.  As it turned out, Long-Term Capital Management, founded by
Meriwether in 1994, collapsed in 1998 when its own leveraged
convergence trades moved the wrong way and margin calls
exhausted the fund’s capital.  Company Closes  As for Eckstein, handing over the ultimately winning hand
to Salomon led to the closing of his company, his son said. He
finished his career working at firms including A.G. Becker &
Co.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  and Yamaichi Securities Co., until 1997.  John Francis Eckstein III was born on Oct. 1, 1937, in
Jersey City and graduated from  Lehigh University , in Bethlehem,
 Pennsylvania , in 1959.  Survivors include his wife, Alison Eckstein, and three
children -- John IV, Andrew and Jacquelyn -- from two previous
marriages that ended in divorce. He also had two stepdaughters,
Schuyler Clemente and Blair Clemente.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  