-- JPMorgan Promotex Zames to Co-COO Amid Bank Restructuring
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-07-27T21:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/jpmorgan-promotes-zames-to-co-coo-assigns-staley-new-role-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , grappling with
a $5.8 billion trading loss and a securities-industry slump,
promoted Matt Zames to co-chief operating officer in a
management shuffle that replaced the head of its investment
bank.  Zames, 41, who was enlisted this year to staunch the loss
in the firm’s chief investment office, will take the co-COO role
alongside Frank Bisignano, the bank said today in a statement.
The overhaul catapults Zames, a former fixed-income trader, into
the pool of potential successors to Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon . James “Jes” Staley, 55, who ran the investment
bank, will relinquish daily operational duties as Mike Cavanagh
and Daniel Pinto oversee an expanded version of the division.  Staley, once seen as a possible CEO candidate, was moved to
a new post as chairman of a unit that combines the investment
bank, treasury and securities services and the global corporate
bank. Dimon, 56, said in an interview today he hopes to continue
leading the firm for “many, many more years,” and that the
shuffle doesn’t indicate any immediate succession plans.  “Staley’s basically becoming a diplomat,” said  David Hendler , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  New York . “He’s
working on the big picture issues, but the day-to-day activities
seems to be gravitating to Cavanagh and Pinto.”  The overhaul combines several of JPMorgan’s units into two
new divisions. In addition to the corporate and investment bank
overseen by Cavanagh and Pinto, a combined consumer and
community banking business will be led by  Gordon Smith  and Todd
Maclin.  ‘Normal Progression’  “I see this as a continued response to the embarrassment
and the gaffe that was the last quarter,” said  Michael Holland ,
chairman of New York-based Holland & Co., referring to the CIO
losses. Holland, whose firm oversees more than $4 billion
including shares of JPMorgan, said it was typical for Dimon to
remake the management team, “which after all is the key to all
of these successes and failures.”  Dimon said in the interview that the changes were part of
“a normal progression,” and “had nothing to do with anything
else,” including the CIO’s loss.  JPMorgan  rose  3 percent to close at $36.89 in New York. The
firm’s shares have climbed 11 percent this year, compared with a
17 percent gain for the 24-company KBW Bank Index.  The move comes as some finance leaders including former
Citigroup Inc. CEO Sanford “Sandy” Weill call for the breakup
of the biggest U.S. banks, which grew larger after the repeal of
the Depression-era law that required companies backed by
government insurance to be separate from investment banks.  ‘New Leaders’  “JPMorgan and some other large institutions were ports of
safety in the storm,” Dimon said, referring to the financial
crisis. Breaking them up would make have made them riskier
“because they’d be less diversified,” he said.  Staley will hand off “his current responsibilities to new
leaders in the business,” JPMorgan said in the statement.
Within the corporate and investment bank, Cavanagh, 46, will
head the banking business, which includes  investment banking ,
the global corporate bank and treasury services. Pinto, 49, will
be the main contact for markets and investor services, which
will include fixed income, equities, commodities, prime services
and securities clearing.  Dimon said Staley played a role in the decision to change
his responsibilities. “Jes himself would always say ‘When the
time comes that it’s time to promote some great new talent, then
I should move up,’” Dimon said in the interview.  Reporting Lines  Zames will still be in charge of the CIO, the firm said.
Bisignano, 52, who was appointed to run mortgage banking last
year, will hand off that responsibility to Smith, who will
become sole CEO of consumer and community banking by the end of
next year as Maclin assumes the role of the unit’s chairman.  Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein, 51, who previously
reported to Dimon, will report to Zames, Dimon said today in a
memo to employees, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. Barry Zubrow, 59, who runs corporate and regulatory
affairs, will also report to Zames instead of Dimon, according
to the memo.  “It’s a promotion for  Matt Zames ,” Dimon said in the
interview.  Dimon said the heads of businesses such as the corporate
and investment bank will report directly to him, rather than to
Zames and Bisignano.  Asset management and commercial banking will remain
separate from the other units. Mary Erdoes, 44, will continue to
run asset management, and Douglas Petno will remain as head the
commercial bank.  Botched Trades  JPMorgan is grappling with a trading loss spurred by bets
on synthetic credit. The loss, which was disclosed May 10 after
it surpassed $2 billion, had grown to $5.8 billion by the end of
the second quarter. The botched trades led to the retirement of
former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, 55, and the shutdown
of the London-based team that built the position.  Regulators, investors, analysts and lawmakers have called
for the break-up of too-big-to-fail banks to unlock  shareholder
value  and prevent another financial crisis. JPMorgan’s trading
loss gave ammunition to those who favor stricter bank
regulation, including supporters of the Volcker rule, which
would bar most proprietary trading by deposit-taking
institutions.  JPMorgan needs to “ensure that we comply with all new
regulatory requirements, which will have a significant impact on
global markets, products and services,” Dimon, who has fought
the Volcker rule, said in the memo.  ‘Ridiculous Concept’  Bank of America Corp., the second-biggest U.S. lender by
assets, also reorganized earlier this year, dividing the firm
into consumer and institutional businesses and naming a pair of
co-COOs to manage them. David Darnell heads the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank’s consumer and business banking division,
and Thomas K. Montag, 55, runs trading and investment banking.  “We believe this could help fuel the speculation that some
of the larger banks may look to more formally separate their
consumer and investment banking operations,”  Jason Goldberg , an
analyst at Barclays Plc who has an overweight rating on the
shares, said today in a note.  If a bank breakup occurs, it will result from shareholder
pressure and will happen slowly over time, said  Paul Miller , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp. in Arlington,  Virginia , who
has a market perform rating on JPMorgan shares.  “My guess is the mindset of Jamie and the rest of the
senior management team of JPMorgan is, that’s a ridiculous
concept,” Miller said. “I think it’s going to eventually
happen, I think it’s going to happen against a lot of these
wills, and Jamie might not be there when it happens.”  Hedging Risks  Zames shook up the CIO’s leadership after taking over the
unit and announced a “renewed focus” on hedging risks.
JPMorgan hired Zames from  Credit Suisse First Boston  in 2004 to
run trading in Treasuries, agencies and  interest-rate swaps  and
options.  In 2009, Zames and Pinto were picked to run fixed income
after Staley took over the firm’s investment bank from William
Winters and Steven Black. Under Zames and Pinto, JPMorgan has
become the top bank globally in fixed-income trading. The firm’s
17 percent market share in 2011 was a record for  Wall Street ,
Staley told shareholders earlier this year.  “Matt has done an exceptional job overseeing our global
fixed-income business, and more recently, jumping in to
skillfully help us deal with the difficult CIO issue,” Dimon
said in the memo. “We are fortunate to be able to leverage his
skills and counsel across the entire firm.”  Led Investigation  Bisignano has been JPMorgan’s chief administrative officer
since 2005, when he left Citigroup, where he ran global
transaction services, to rejoin Dimon. Bisignano worked at  Smith
Barney  in the late 1990s. At JPMorgan, Bisignano took on the
additional role in February 2011 as head of Chase Home Lending.
JPMorgan praised his work there, saying he led “the highly
successful transformation of mortgage banking.”  Cavanagh, who will run the corporate and investment bank
with Pinto, led JPMorgan’s internal investigation into the
trading loss and previously ran treasury and securities
services. A longtime Dimon loyalist, Cavanagh was hired by the
firm’s chief at  Salomon Smith Barney  in 1993 and then again in
2000 at Bank One Corp., which merged with JPMorgan in 2004.  “The same clients that I’ve been calling on in my old job
will be the same clients I’m calling on in the new job,”
Cavanagh said today in an interview, referring to the customers
of the units he oversaw.  ‘Go-To Guy’  Holland of Holland & Co. said Cavanagh is “the one name
consistently that keeps coming up as a go-to guy.”  “The change, particularly bringing on the younger people,
is an important part of continuing to strengthen the management
team,” Holland said. “As a shareholder, I’m pleased with the
continuation here.”  Staley has worked at JPMorgan since 1979, including an
eight-year stint as head of the bank’s money-management
division. He became head of the investment bank in September
2009 when Dimon announced that Winters and Black, the division’s
co-heads, would step aside after leading the bank through the
2008 financial crisis. Winters departed immediately, surprising
analysts who had viewed him as a potential successor to Dimon.
Black, 60, was named executive chairman and left the firm in
early 2011.  Risk Controls  In the late 2000s, Staley was among executives -- along
with Winters and Black -- who questioned Dimon on why risk
controls inside the CIO weren’t as extensive or robust as in
other departments, according to people who participated in or
witnessed the conversations. Staley told Fortune magazine in
April 2010 that he considered himself a contender to succeed
Dimon.  “If Jamie doesn’t leave, then I probably need to leave
myself in a few years,” Staley added.  JPMorgan hired Smith to run its Chase card services group
in 2007. He was previously president of the global commercial
card unit at  American Express Co. (AXP) , where he had worked for more
than 25 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  