-- KB Financial Profit Falls as Bad-Loan Provisions Rise
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-07-27T07:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/kb-financial-profit-falls-as-bad-loan-provisions-rise-1-.html
KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) , the owner
of South  Korea ’s largest lender, said second-quarter profit
dropped 33 percent after booking more provisions for bad debt.  Net income  fell to 547.5 billion won ($481 million) in the
three months ended June 30 from 817.3 billion won a year earlier
when it booked gains from a stake sale, the Seoul-based company
said in a regulatory filing today. Earnings were in line with
the 545.3 billion won average of 25 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  KB joins  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  in posting lower income
as South Korean lenders strengthen buffers against soured loans
to builders and small companies struggling with an economic
slowdown in  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy. Earnings may decline
further this year a  Bank of Korea  rate cut aimed at stimulating
growth hurts loan profitability and bad-loan provisioning
continues, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “KB and other South Korean lenders will see net interest
margins contract and provisions rise amid lingering uncertainty
in the global economy,” Michael Na, a Seoul-based banking
analyst at Nomura said ahead of today’s earnings release.
“Korean bank shares will become more sensitive to external
economic shocks rather than their earnings power.”  Shares of KB rose 2.1 percent to 34,500 won at the 3 p.m.
close of Seoul trading before the earnings report. The stock has
declined 5 percent this year, compared with a 3.4 percent drop
in the 57-stock  Korea Financial Industry index .  Higher Provision  KB set aside 364 billion won in loan-loss provisions last
quarter, 20 percent more than a year earlier, according to the
filing.  The Bank of Korea on July 13 cut its economic-growth
forecast for this year to 3 percent, the second revision this
year, after unexpectedly reducing  interest rates  and signaling
it would act preemptively to guard against slowing global
growth. The forecast was lowered from an April estimate of 3.5
percent and 3.7 percent growth predicted in December.  Banks’ combined debt provisions may rise by 1.1 trillion
won as Korea’s prolonged real-estate slump forces more companies
to restructure debt, the  Financial Supervisory Service  said on
July 6.  Margin Squeeze  Net interest margin, a key measure of  profitability  from
lending, was 2.93 percent in the last quarter, compared with
3.07 percent a year earlier and 2.97 percent in the first
quarter.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo on July 12 cut
borrowing costs for the first time in more than three years,
joining an international push among central banks for monetary
stimulus to counter threatens from the  European debt crisis .  KB in the second quarter of last year booked a 413.9
billion won pretax gain after its lending unit sold a stake in
Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  