-- Kia Profit Misses Analysts’ Estimates on Marketing Costs
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-07-27T06:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/kia-profit-misses-analyst-estimates-on-marketing-strike-costs.html
Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ,  South Korea ’s
second largest carmaker, reported second-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates after the company increased marketing
costs for new vehicles.  Net income  fell 2.8 percent to 1.1 trillion won ($965
million), compared with a revised 1.13 trillion won a year
earlier, the Seoul-based company said in a statement today.
Profit missed the 1.21 trillion won average of 24  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue increased 8.4 percent
to 12.55 trillion won.  Kia boosted spending on promoting the Pride subcompact in
 overseas markets  to target demand for more fuel efficient models
while also increasing marketing of its luxury K9 sedan in South
Korea. The higher costs limited the benefit of increased
earnings and market share gains in  Europe .  “Moving forward, we will have to look into how well Kia
manages costs and how the operating margins turn out,” said Lee Jin Woo, senior  fund manager  at Seoul-based KTB Asset Management
Co. that oversees $7 billion in assets including  Kia shares .
“Although, today’s results are a bit disappointing, I expect
Kia to maintain good performance.”  Kia rose 0.1 percent to 76,400 won at the close of trading
in  Seoul . The benchmark Kospi index rose 2.6 percent.  Operating profit, or sales minus the costs of goods sold
and administrative expenses, rose 18 percent to 1.22 trillion
won. That missed the 1.27 trillion won average analyst estimate.  “Marketing costs rose as we made some early investments to
promote our brand image in overseas markets,” Chief Financial
Officer Park Han Woo said on a conference call today.  Labor Strikes  The company will be able to meet its sales target of 2.71
million units this year, said Park. Kia will also be able to
produce and sell 3 million units in 2013, he said.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , Kia’s  biggest shareholder  and the
country’s largest automaker, yesterday reported a 10 percent
increase in second-quarter profit.  The automaker’s earnings announcement comes amid strikes
held by the company’s union seeking increased pay and improved
working conditions. Kia’s workers together with Hyundai’s union
have staged two partial strikes this month.  The company estimates a production loss of 5,450 units
amounting to 94 billion won from the partial strikes held on
July 13 and July 20.  Overseas Sales  In  China , Kia’s deliveries increased as sales of Pride
subcompacts rose almost fivefold. Plants in China sold 18
percent more cars, according to data on the company’s website.  Demand in China may slow as major cities of the world’s
largest automobile industry impose a quota on new vehicle
registrations to control vehicle emissions and ease traffic
congestion.  Kia sales jumped 25 percent in Europe, fueled by sales of
the Pride and Sportage sport-utility vehicle. By comparison,
industry sales in the region shrank 3.2 percent.  The automaker gained the most share in Europe among major
automakers, increasing it to 2.7 percent of the market from 2.1
percent a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kia’s sales slumped 16 percent in  Latin America , while the
industry saw a decline of 3.5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 11 percent in the Asia-Pacific
region which excludes South Korea and China, according to
 company data  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  