-- KKR Forms $300 Million Venture With Stone Point Capital
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-07-27T12:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/kkr-forms-300-million-venture-with-stone-point-capital.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the investment firm run
by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , formed a $300 million
venture with Stone Point Capital LLC to manage and underwrite
debt and equity deals.  KKR-SPC Merchant Advisors LLC will be funded by $150
million each from KKR and Stone Point’s Trident V fund, the
companies said in a statement today. New York-based KKR’s
existing capital-markets unit will initially manage the day-to-
day operations. KKR and Greenwich, Connecticut-based Stone Point
will have equal representation on the new firm’s board.  The creation of Merchant Advisors, which is separate from
KKR’s existing capital markets business, continues a strategy of
diversification by the 36-year-old firm best known for private-
equity deal-making. KKR in 2006 hired Citigroup Inc.’s Craig Farr to create an underwriting business for the firm’s own
holdings. Farr extended those services to non-KKR companies as
Wall Street banks wrestled with heightened regulations in the
wake of the 2008 global financial crisis.  “We believe Merchant Advisors will be well-positioned to
deliver a critical  capital-markets  service to underserved
corporate and sponsor clients, particularly as the structure of
the financial industry is getting reshaped,” Farr said in the
statement.  Stone Point, based in Greenwich, Connecticut, raised $3.5
billion for its fifth fund last year. The firm has historically
backed insurance, employee-benefits and financial services
companies.  Created by cousins Kravis and Roberts, along with Jerome
Kohlberg, in 1976, KKR initially specialized in leveraged
buyouts, and has bought companies from Toys “R” Us Inc. to
 Safeway Inc. (SWY)  In the past decade, KKR has expanded businesses
tied to trading debt and offering financing, as well as managing
hedge funds and making real estate investments.  KKR Capital Markets has worked on offerings for companies
including retailer  Dollar General Corp. (DG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  