-- Korea Gets No Initial Bids for Stake in Woori Finance
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-07-27T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/korea-gets-no-initial-bids-for-stake-in-woori-finance.html
South Korea ’s third attempt to sell
 Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000)  failed after the government received
no initial bids for its $4.3 billion stake in the country’s
biggest financial group by assets.  No parties submitted preliminary bids for the government’s
57 percent stake by a 5 p.m. deadline yesterday, the Korea
Deposit Insurance Corp. said in an e-mailed statement. Two
previous efforts to sell Woori in the past two years collapsed
due to lack of investor interest.  The failure is a setback for President  Lee Myung Bak  in his
push to consolidate South Korea’s financial companies and make
them globally competitive before leaving office in February.
Profit prospects for banks are waning as the economic slowdown
forces them to set aside more cash for bad loans and the central
bank cuts interest rates to spur growth.  “The result was widely expected,” said Choi Jung Wook, a
Seoul-based analyst at Daishin Securities Co. “It would have
been tough for a buyer to overcome strong opposition from
politicians and workers. The next attempt is likely to come way
after the new president’s inauguration in February.”  Shares of Woori rose 3.9 percent to 10,700 won at the close
of trading in  Seoul  yesterday before the deadline, valuing the
government’s holding at 4.92 trillion won ($4.3 billion). The
benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index gained 2.6 percent.  KB Financial  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) , whose Chairman Euh Yoon Dae
expressed interest in Woori earlier this month, confirmed that
it didn’t join the race, according to a regulatory filing. Kyobo
Life Insurance Co. said it decided not to take part, though it
may consider a potential future bidding round.  The Public Fund Oversight Committee, which is leading the
sale of Woori and other firms bailed out with taxpayers’ money,
will meet on Aug. 2 to discuss future steps, the Financial
Services Commission said.  “It’s regrettable we had to halt this sale process without
results,” the regulator said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“Considering the current environment, it would be difficult to
resume the sale process in the near future.”  FSC Chairman Kim Seok Dong, the top government official
who’s helming the Woori sale, told lawmakers on July 26 that a
fast privatization is necessary for Woori to recover its
competitiveness and it’s time for the public to recoup
taxpayers’ money spent more than a decade ago.  Asian Crisis  Woori was created in 2001 as a holding company for banks
rescued by the government following the Asian financial crisis
in 1997-1998, as part of a push to make the banking industry
more competitive. The government spent 12.8 trillion won to aid
Woori and has recouped 5.6 trillion won so far through share
sales and dividends.  Bidders were required to buy more than 30 percent of Woori
and the government will sell the group together, the Public Fund
Oversight Committee said in April.  Daewoo Securities Co. (006800) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Samsung Securities Co. were hired in
September 2010 to help Korea Deposit sell its stake.  President Lee, former chief executive officer of the
nation’s largest construction firm, was elected in a landslide
in 2007 on pledges to deregulate and sell firms bailed out
following the Asian crisis. Lee’s single five-year term ends in
February and he can’t run again according to constitutional law.  Park Geun Hye, a ruling New Frontier Party lawmaker who
leads opinion polls ahead of the December presidential election,
said on July 16 that the Woori sale should be left to the next
administration.  The Korean Financial Industry Union, which includes bank
workers from Woori and KB Financial, said yesterday it plans to
proceed with its first nationwide strike in more than a decade
on July 30 to protest against a Woori sale. The union said the
government should sell the stake publicly to individual
investors rather than pursue consolidation with other firms.  Bank workers will extend the strike if demands including
better  job security  and higher wages aren’t met, the union said
on July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  