-- Krone Weakens as Haven Dented on Support for Euro: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-07-27T12:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/krone-weakens-as-haven-dented-on-support-for-euro-oslo-mover.html
Norway’s krone declined the most
against the euro in more than four months as European policy
makers expressed support to preserve the common currency amid
concern over a breakup of the 17-nation bloc.  The krone weakened as much as 1.17 percent to 7.4795 per
euro, the most since March 14, and traded at 7.4684 as of 2:42
p.m. in Oslo. The currency fell against all other 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg and is poised for its first
weekly loss since end of June.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve the euro.
The comments at a conference in  London  yesterday fueled
speculation the ECB will unveil new measures to tackle the
region’s debt crisis as surging bond yields in Spain and  Italy 
threaten the future of the bloc.  “For the short-term it has gone fairly quick and the
Norwegian krone does look at risk of a temporary correction,”
said Kasper Kirkegaard, senior currency strategist at Danske
Bank A/S, by phone. “If you look at the weekly flow data from
Norges Bank it doesn’t look like positioning is very stretched
but if we do see further short squeeze in the euro that will
also hurt the Norwegian krone, of course.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today he
welcomed the comments made by Draghi to take necessary steps
within the operational rules of the central bank.  The Norwegian krone emerged as a haven amid  Europe ’s debt
crisis as investors fled the euro area. Norway is the world’s
third-richest country per capita and has no net debt, thanks to
its $580 billion sovereign wealth fund.  “For the medium to long-term we’re still fairly bullish,”
Kirkegaard said. “The arguments that have taken the Norwegian
krone stronger this year and last year are intact. It’s still a
world where you still focus on high sovereign  credit quality  --
Norway has that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  