-- N.Y. Mayor Bloomberg Sues City Council Challenging Wage Laws
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-27T19:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/n-y-mayor-bloomberg-sues-city-council-challenging-wage-laws.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
sued the City Council, challenging so-called living-wage and
prevailing-wage bills approved over his veto earlier this year,
the city’s Law Department said.  The bills require landlords who rent  office space  to the
city and many industrial companies and real-estate developers
that get city financial aid to pay employees who work on the
premises more than the state’s minimum wage, the Law Department
said in a statement. The suit was filed today in state  Supreme
Court  in Manhattan, the department said.  “The council seeks to impose a regulatory minimum wage
upon selected sectors of the city economy that are remote from
direct city involvement,” Michael A. Cardozo, the city
corporation counsel, said in the statement. The highest state
court “has held that  minimum wage  regulation is a subject
matter reserved to the state,” he said.  Bloomberg said at the time of his veto that the bills would
harm the ability to attract business to the city and make it
less desirable to do business, the Law Department said.  “We are confident that in passing the prevailing-wage and
living-wage laws, the council acted within its authority under
state law and the City Charter,” Zoe Tobin, a City Council
spokeswoman, said in a statement.  The filing of the suit couldn’t be immediately confirmed in
court records.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York
at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net . 