-- Northeast Storm That Killed Two Was a Weak Derecho
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-27T17:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/northeast-storm-that-killed-two-was-a-weak-derecho.html
The storm that rolled across the
U.S. yesterday, killing at least two, leaving thousands without
power and scrubbing more than 1,000 flights, was a weak version
of a rare windstorm known as a derecho.  The storm, spawned by a larger cold front that stretched
from  Texas  to the Northeast, “was certainly a low-end
derecho,” said Stephen Corfidi, a meteorologist at the U.S.
 Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma .  A  derecho  is defined as having gusts of at least 58 miles
(93 kilometer) per hour and leaving a swath of damage for a
minimum of 240 miles.  “As far as it being on par with what occurred on June 29,
no,” Corfidi said, referring to a more powerful storm that
killed at least 24 and left 4.3 million people without power
from New Jersey to  North Carolina . “It wasn’t right up there
with the earlier event.”  New York  Assistant Attorney General Richard Schwartz was
killed by the storm, according to a statement from Attorney
General Eric T. Schneiderman. Schwartz died after lightning
knocked bricks and a scaffolding off a church in the Cobble Hill
neighborhood of  Brooklyn , the New York Post reported.  A woman in Genesee,  Pennsylvania , was killed when a tree
fell on her, according to  AccuWeather Inc .  About 386,000 customers in five states lost power, the
majority in New York and Pennsylvania. The storm also spawned a
possible tornado in Elmira, New York, in Chemung County, and
caused so much damage there that Governor Andrew M. Cuomo
declared a state of emergency for the region.  Power Out  As of 12:30 p.m. there were still 43,000 customers in New
York without power, Cuomo’s office said in a statement.  In addition to the deaths and power outages, 1,012 flights
were canceled in the U.S. yesterday. LaGuardia Airport in New
York was hardest hit with 180 departures scrubbed, said
 FlightAware , a tracking company based in Houston.  Corfidi said the derecho didn’t have more power in  New York
City  because thunderstorms earlier in the day upset atmospheric
conditions the system needed to gain strength.  It also tended to follow two main nodes of thunderstorms,
one of which passed to the north of the city while the other
diverged south toward Trenton,  New Jersey , he said.  Severe thunderstorms and tornadoes have been the most
damaging U.S. natural disasters in the first six months of 2012,
according to the  Insurance Information Institute  in New York.
The storms have caused at least $8.8 billion in insured losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  