-- Obama Advisers Project $1.2 Trillion Deficit for 2012
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-28T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/obama-sees-deficit-down-to-1-2-trillion-gdp-at-2-6-in-2012.html
The Obama administration forecast
the  federal budget   deficit  will be $1.21 trillion this year,
down from $1.33 trillion projected in February, as gridlock in
Congress slows  government spending .  The national  unemployment rate  will average 8 percent for
the year, the president’s Office of Management and Budget said
in an annual update of its budget projections. The updated
figures were released yesterday amid a presidential election
campaign in which the economy is the dominant issue.  Economic growth from the fourth quarter of 2011 to the
fourth quarter of this year is projected to be 2.6 percent,
according to the OMB’s mid-session review. While that’s lower
than what the administration said it expected in February, it
remains higher than the forecasts of private economists.  “Economic and financial fragility in the euro area remains
a significant risk to the U.S. recovery and to the global
economy,” according to the  report , written by White House
economists. “Despite these headwinds, the administration
expects economic growth to continue at a moderate pace in 2012
and 2013 and to pick up in 2014.”  Jobs, taxes and the deficit are central points of debate in
the presidential contest between Obama and Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , and polls indicate the two
candidates are separated by a narrow margin. Obama has a 1.1
percentage point advantage in the average of seven national
polls taken since July 9 compiled by the website Real Clear
Politics.  Debt Debate  The White House reports show that Obama will have run
deficits exceeding $1 trillion throughout his four-year term,
which Romney and other Republicans seized on. “Today was just
another signal that President Obama’s policies haven’t worked,”
 Ryan Williams , a Romney campaign spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Senator  Jeff Sessions  of  Alabama , the top Republican on the
Budget Committee, said the revised forecasts show a $10.6
trillion increase in gross debt in the next decade, even as an
Obama campaign ad says “he has a plan to ‘pay down the debt in
a balanced way.’”  The OMB forecast “reveals just how dramatically false this
claim is,” Sessions said in an e-mailed statement. “These ads
ought to be pulled down.”  The federal  budget deficit  was $1.4 trillion in 2009, and
$1.3 trillion in 2010 and 2011. Even with the deficit, there was
record demand for U.S. government bonds in 2011, pushing longer-
maturity Treasuries to their best performance since 1995. Low
Treasury yields show that most investors believe the U.S.
government will meet its obligations even with a political
stalemate in  Washington .  Congressional Stalemate  The new White House deficit projection for this year marks
a narrowing of the shortfall forecast in the budget the
president released in February primarily because Congress has
blocked many of Obama’s tax and spending plans.  “In the February budget, much of the cost of these
proposals was estimated to occur in 2012,” according to the
review. The current forecast “estimates that these costs will
largely shift to 2013 and later years, which reduces the 2012
deficit.”  The deficit for 2013, the amount of spending that exceeds
revenue, is forecast at $991 billion, up from $901 billion in
the February forecast, because of lower tax collections than
expected five months ago and the shift in costs of temporary
jobs proposals. Administration economists said they expect a
budget shortfall of $661 billion in 2014, little changed from
$668 billion projected in February.  Budget Shortfalls  Obama and congressional Republicans remain at odds over how
to reduce budget shortfalls. Unless a compromise is reached
before Dec. 31, the government will come to a so-called fiscal
cliff when $607 billion of automatic spending cuts and tax
increases are triggered, which risks slowing the economy further
or plunging the nation back into a recession.  The Commerce Department reported yesterday that the  U.S.
economy  expanded at a 1.5 percent annual rate in the second
quarter after a revised 2 percent gain in the first three months
of the year, as a continuing weak job market caused consumers to
pare spending. Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy.  The White House budget office projected that the economy
will expand 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 to the
fourth quarter of this year, compared with the 3 percent
forecast in the budget Obama submitted to Congress in February.  That’s more optimistic than the outlook of private
economists. The median forecast of 55 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News July 6 to July 10 is for GDP growth of 2.1
percent over the period.  ‘Hopeful’ Forecast  The administration’s forecast showed the gross domestic
product, the value of all goods and services, unchanged at 2.6
percent in 2013, rising to 4 percent in 2014.  Jared Bernstein , former chief economist to Vice President
 Joe Biden , said the 2.6 percent growth forecast for this year
and next “may be a bit hopeful but it’s not outside the realm
of possibility.”  “Housing was definitely pulling the economy down, now it’s
pretty clearly bumping along at the bottom,” said Bernstein,
who’s now a senior fellow at the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities . “That’s less of a drag on growth in the second
half” of this year.  The  unemployment rate  has held at over 8 percent for the
longest stretch since World War II, having peaked at 10 percent
in October 2009. The OMB forecast forecasts a slow decline. It
says the rate will dip to 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter of
this year, around the time of the November elections.  Only one U.S. president has been re-elected since World War
II with a jobless rate above 6 percent.  Ronald Reagan  won a
second term with the rate on Election Day 1984 at 7.2 percent,
having dropped almost 3 percentage points in the previous 18
months.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  will issue its
version of the mid-session budget review next month, spokeswoman
Deborah Kilroe said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  