-- Obama, Democrats Recasting Health Care to Blunt Attacks
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-07-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/obama-democrats-recasting-health-care-to-blunt-attacks.html
Heidi Heitkamp, a North Dakota
Democratic Senate candidate, has been buried by more than 2,000
Republican-sponsored television ads criticizing her for
supporting President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  Yet, Heitkamp, who is running in a Republican-leaning
state, isn’t ducking; she’s punching back with an ad citing the
law’s most popular provisions, including prohibiting insurance
companies from refusing coverage because of pre-existing
conditions. “I would never vote to take away a senior’s health
care or limit anyone’s care,” she says.  According to the latest polls, the race is tied between
Heitkamp and House Representative Rick Berg for the seat being
vacated by retiring Democrat  Kent Conrad .  Heitkamp’s aggressive strategy marks a change from two
years ago, when an avalanche of Republican attacks on the 2010
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act went mostly
unanswered and Democrats lost their U.S. House majority and saw
their Senate ranks shrink.  “We had a gale-force wind blowing against us on the issue
of health care,” said  New York  Representative Steve Israel,
chairman of the Democrats’ House re-election effort. “We now
have a gentle breeze at our backs.”  With a Supreme Court ruling upholding the law’s
constitutionality and a Republican plan to privatize Medicare to
use as a political counter-punch, Democrats are trying to
neutralize the health-care issue -- if not turn it to their
advantage.  Law Requirements  The law requires most individuals to obtain health
insurance, forces insurers to cover people with pre-existing
conditions, and allows parents to cover their children until age
26. It also removes lifetime caps from policies and provides
cash incentives for states to extend Medicaid benefits.  The Obama campaign has spent the last four months calling
voters, sending mail and posting web ads to promote the most
popular parts of the law to women and seniors.  The Health and Human Services Department is airing a $20
million national advertising effort -- an informational blitz
authorized as part of the law -- to inform Americans about their
new benefits and services.  Embracing the Name  And the president is embracing the Republicans’ derogatory
nickname for the measure: Obamacare. “I don’t mind the name
because I really do care,” the president has said at recent
campaign events.  Representative Greg Walden of  Oregon , deputy chairman of
the  National Republican Congressional Committee , said Democrats
have more to lose from campaigning on the law.  “Democrats wanting to defend Obamacare is a lot like
running head first into a bed of roses,” Walden said in an e-
mailed statement. “The flowers are pretty and the aroma is
sweet, but then you’re tangled in all of the thorns and say to
yourself ‘maybe I shouldn’t have run in here.’”  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , who’ve long made repealing and replacing the
law their number-one priority, held a 33rd repeal vote on July
11. Yet, along with presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , they
haven’t offered any alternatives and are largely trying to steer
the spotlight to the economy and jobs.  Voter Sentiment  Polls taken immediately following the court’s ruling show
there may be a political risk to continuing the repeal drive.
More than 7 in 10 Americans called the health-care overhaul
either “not a major issue” or “just one of many issues,”
according to a  USA Today /Gallup poll taken as a snapshot right
after the court’s June 28 decision.  In a June 28 Kaiser Family Foundation survey, 51 percent of
independents who don’t lean toward any party and 26 percent of
Republicans said opponents should stop their efforts to block it
and move on to other national problems, such as  jobs .  To be sure, outside Republican groups aren’t relenting in
the aftermath the court’s decision finding the law’s requirement
that most individuals purchase insurance is constitutional.  In the past 30 days, there have been 33,751 negative ads in
the presidential election against the Obama plan, compared to
18,647 buys the previous 30 days, according to Kantar Media’s
CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.  Joseph Antos , a health-policy expert at the  American
Enterprise Institute , a Washington-based group that supports a
smaller role for the federal government, expressed skepticism
that Democrats will be able to materially change attitudes about
the law.  Big Theme  “Their big theme has been, ‘We just have to explain to
people what they need to know and then they’ll like it,’” said
Antos. “The needle on approval hasn’t moved.”  The real effect of the court ruling has been convincing
some skittish Democrats to drop those reservations, said Robert Blendon, public opinion expert at Harvard University’s School of
 Public Health . “There’s no reason for a Democrat not to fight
back,” he said.  Democrats also benefit from the fact that Romney’s
signature, as governor, on a similar  Massachusetts   health care 
law complicates his ability to attack on the issue, said Antos.  “How would he explain what he did in Massachusetts without
getting tied up in knots rhetorically?” said Antos. “The
Romney side doesn’t seem to want to talk about it for obvious
reasons.”  Heitkamp, who’s kept her distance from the president
because she hails from a state that traditionally votes
Republican in presidential elections and backed  Arizona  Senator
 John McCain  over Obama by 8 percentage points in 2008, also
embraces the law. She says that while it’s imperfect, it beats
what Republicans would do.  Cancer Struggle  Her Republican opponent, Berg, “voted to go back to
letting insurance companies deny coverage to kids, or for pre-
existing conditions,” she said in her ad. Mentioning her own
struggle with  breast cancer , she says, “When you live through
that, political attack ads seem silly.”  Health care has been the number-one topic of attack ads
against Heitkamp, 56, since the start of her campaign, according
to CMAG data. Not only has Heitkamp hit back with her own
health-care-themed ad, she and her allies are now managing to
outpace Republicans in the battle of negative ads.  According to CMAG, Democrats have sponsored 2,368 negative
spots to Republicans’ 2,108, most of which have been sponsored
by Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, the nonprofit
aligned with former President George W. Bush strategist  Karl Rove .  Dead Heat  Heitkamp is in a dead heat with her competitor, Berg,
according to a June 4 Mason-Dixon Polling and Research survey.
In the poll Heitkamp’s support stood at 47 percent, while Berg
had 46 percent.  Democrats also see favorable signals from a June victory in
a special election in Arizona’s Republican-leaning eighth House
district as evidence that the issue has lost some of its sting.  Democrat Ron Barber beat Republican Jesse Kelly after the
race became a referendum on Obama’s health law and Democrats
cast Kelly as hostile to Social Security and Medicare.  In an internal memo, Democrats called the on-air
advertising “a preview of the 2012 message battle between
Democrats and Republicans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  