-- Obama Moves to Bolster Israel Ahead of Romney Visit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-07-27T16:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/obama-moves-to-bolster-israel-ahead-of-romney-visit.html
President  Barack Obama  signed
legislation to bolster U.S. military cooperation with Israel and
highlighted the release of $70 million for the Jewish state’s
missile defense on the eve of Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney ’s arrival in  Tel Aviv .  “I have made it a top priority for my administration to
deepen cooperation with Israel across a whole spectrum of
security issues,” the president said before signing the U.S.-
Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act in the Oval Office. The
bill signing took place before the start of the Sabbath local
time in Israel.  Romney has been critical Obama’s approach to Israel, and
the president has had public disagreements with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  on such issues as limiting Jewish
settlements in Palestinian areas.  Obama won 78 percent of the Jewish vote in 2008, according
to national exit polls, and Romney has been seeking to peel off
some of that support.  The signing ceremony coincided with release of a White
House statement recounting steps the administration has taken to
strengthen Israel’s security and was the latest move by Obama to
emphasize his commitment before Romney’s visit. In the past two
weeks, Obama has sent Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and
advisers John Brennan and Thomas Donilon on separate visits to
the country. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta   is scheduled to
travel to Israel next week.  ‘Coincidence’  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  denied any political
motives and said the timing of the signing was coincidental to
Romney’s trip because Congress sent the legislation to the White
House last week and Obama had been traveling.  “I understand the coincidence,” Carney said at a
briefing. “But the fact is our cooperation with Israel on its
security is a subject we could discuss every day, because there
are things that take place in that relationship and in our
assistance to Israel every day.”  Obama was joined for the signing by Lee Rosenberg, chairman
of the board of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee;
past Aipac board Chairman Howard Friedman; Richard Stone,
chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American
Jewish Organizations, and two Jewish Democrats in Congress,
Senator  Barbara Boxer  and Representative Howard Berman, both of
 California .  Missile Defense  Panetta in May announced the Pentagon’s plans for $70
million in additional funding for the rocket shield, known as
Iron Dome. Obama today said the program has been “critical” in
preventing missile strikes inside Israel and that “we’re going
to be able to lock in that funding.” The funds were transferred
on July 25.  The U.S. authorized $205 million last year to buy Iron Dome
installations. In operation since last year, Iron Dome, built by
Israel’s Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd., intercepts short-
range rockets fired by Palestinian militants from the  Gaza Strip 
into southern Israel, according to Israeli and U.S. officials.  Boxer, speaking with reporters after the bill signing, said
it was “not true at all” that Obama’s timing is political. She
said “this president loves  Israel , cares about Israel.”  Berman said the $70 million is part of a push to expand the
number of batteries that can be deployed to protect more areas
of Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  