-- Lockheed Martin Gains U.K. Nuclear Submarine Work With Babcock
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-27T15:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/lockheed-martin-gains-u-k-nuclear-submarine-work-with-babcock.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Babcock
International Group Plc (BAB)  will take over support activities
involving the U.K.’s Vanguard submarine-based nuclear deterrent
under a contract signed today.  The U.K. Ministry of Defence finalized a 15-year agreement
with the ABL Alliance for support of the Trident weapon system
at the Royal Naval Armament Depot in Coulport and the Strategic
Weapon Support Building at Faslane, the defense ministry said in
a statement. The contract is valued at 150 million pounds ($236
million) over its duration, a defense ministry spokesman said.  AWE Plc, based in Reading,  England , will act as the prime
contractor. The company, owned equally by Lockheed Martin,  Serco
Group Plc (SRP) , and  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (JEC) , also runs the U.K.
Atomic Weapons Establishment under a government-owned
contractor-operated arrangement.  The Trident support contract is part of a wider U.K.
defense ministry initiative to shift work to the private sector
and reduce the government’s work force. The defense ministry
decided last year to outsource the Trident work after a three-
year review period.  “All three members of the Alliance are already engaged in
supporting the U.K.’s strategic deterrent,” Tony Morris, ABL
Alliance’s director at Coulport said in a statement. “Our
immediate focus is to work with the established MOD employee
team already based at Coulport and to ensure a seamless
transition of operational support.”  Several civilian and Royal Navy positions will shift to the
ABL Alliance under the new arrangement. Legally required
discussions with labor unions still have to be completed.
Industry is to take over the support activities in January
“subject to the successful completion of this further
consultation,” the defense ministry said.  The U.K. maintains a fleet of four Vanguard strategic
submarines that are the backbone of the country’s nuclear
deterrent policy. The government, last year, began the process
to develop a replacement for the Vanguard-class fleet. A final
decision to go ahead with the program is due in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  