-- Oil Pares Weekly Drop on Speculation ECB to Boost Efforts
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-07-27T12:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/oil-trades-near-week-high-on-euro-pledge-u-s-economic-outlook.html
Oil pared its weekly decline in
 London  amid speculation the  European Central Bank  may take
further steps to address the region’s debt crisis and avert a
deeper global slowdown.  Brent futures rose as much as 1.1 percent. France’s Le
Monde reported that the European Central Bank is preparing to
buy debt after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that
policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve the euro.
Crude pared gains after Germany’s Bundesbank said restarting the
ECB’s bond-purchase program was not the best solution and a
report showed U.S. economic growth slowed in the second quarter.  “Returning confidence in the euro zone after Draghi’s
commitment to protect the euro” is buoying oil, said Myrto
Sokou, an analyst at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London.  Brent crude  for September settlement was up 37 cents at
$105.63 a barrel at 1:50 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London, paring this week’s decline to 1.1 percent. The
European benchmark’s premium to West Texas Intermediate was at
$16.25, up from $15.87 yesterday.  WTI for September delivery on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange was little changed at $89.46 a barrel after rising as
much as 84 cents to $90.23. The contract climbed 0.5 percent
yesterday to $89.39, the highest close since July 20. Prices are
2.3 percent lower this week.  U.S. GDP  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate after a
revised 2 percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.4 percent
increase. Household purchases, which account for about 70
percent of the world’s largest economy, grew at the slowest pace
in a year.  Financial markets surged yesterday on speculation the ECB
will act to lower Spanish borrowing costs after yields on the
nation’s bonds rose to levels that prompted bailouts for  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland. The ECB started buying Spanish and Italian
debt in August last year as part of its bond-purchase program.
The ECB suspended the program in March.  Oil may decline next week on speculation that central banks
will take insufficient steps to bolster economic growth, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Eighteen of 30 analysts and traders, or 60 percent,
forecast crude will decrease through Aug. 3. Nine respondents,
or 30 percent, predicted that futures will increase and three
said there will be little change in prices. Last week, 44
percent of analysts projected a drop.  -- Editors:  John Buckley , Rachel Graham  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  