-- Oil Rises for Fourth Day on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-07-27T19:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/oil-fluctuates-on-u-s-growth-stimulus-speculation.html
Oil rose for a fourth day on
speculation that the  European Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal
Reserve will ease monetary policy to boost economic growth and
curb the debt crisis.  Prices gained 0.8 percent after ECB President  Mario Draghi 
was said to be planning to hold talks with Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann on stimulus measures including bond purchases. ECB
and Fed policy makers are scheduled to gather separately next
week to discuss the economy.  “What’s underpinning the market is expectations that we
are going to see some kind of action from the ECB and the Fed,
and that seems to be why  oil prices  are firming up around $90,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in  Stamford , Connecticut.  Oil for September delivery climbed 74 cents to settle at
$90.13 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have
risen 16 percent since June 28 and fell 1.4 percent this week.  Brent crude  for September settlement gained $1.21, or 1.2
percent, to end the session at a one-week high of $106.47 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Having secured the backing of governments in Spain, France
and Germany, Draghi is seeking to win over ECB policy makers for
a multi-pronged approach to reduce bond yields in countries such
as Spain and Italy, two central bank officials said, speaking on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private.  ECB Expectations  “People are expecting the ECB to do something, and if they
do, the market would get another bounce,” said  Kyle Cooper ,
director of commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston.  Draghi’s proposal involves Europe’s rescue funds buying
 government bonds  on the primary market, flanked by ECB purchases
on the secondary market to ensure transmission of its record low
 interest rates , the officials said.  Earlier today, futures rose after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  said they will do
“everything” necessary to protect the euro. The remark echoed
a comment yesterday by Draghi, who said the ECB will do
“whatever it takes” for the common currency to survive.  Germany and France are “bound by the deepest duty” to
keep the 17-nation currency bloc intact, Merkel and Hollande
said in a joint statement after they spoke by phone today.  “Merkel is saying that they are going to protect the euro
and perhaps that’s perceived by the majority as a positive
signal because it suggests Germany is going to do its part to
bail out the weaker members,” said  Sarah Emerson , managing
director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts .  Euro Protection  The ECB’s Governing Council is scheduled to meet Aug. 2 in
Frankfurt and gauge the effect of its July decision to cut the
benchmark interest rate to a record low of 0.75 percent. The
Fed’s Federal Open Market Committee will consider the need for
more stimulus at a two-day meeting that concludes Aug. 1.  Fed policy makers are studying options for further easing
that could be deployed in case economic growth remains too
feeble to produce a lasting decline in unemployment, Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said July 17.  Easing tools include further purchases of assets, such as
mortgage-backed securities, reducing the interest rate that the
Fed pays on reserves banks keep with the Fed, and altering its
communications on the outlook for  interest rates , he said.  The central bank bought a total of $2.3 trillion in bonds
from December 2008 to June 2011 to stimulate the economy in two
rounds of asset purchases known as quantitative easing.  Equities Rally  Oil also followed advances in stocks and other commodities.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose as much as 2.1 percent and
the S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities advanced as much as 1.2
percent.  Prices briefly erased gains after the Commerce Department
reported U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 1.5 percent
annual rate in the second quarter from a revised 2 percent gain
in the prior quarter. It was the slowest pace of expansion since
the third quarter of 2011. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1.4 percent increase.  “I am not very impressed by the GDP number and it
increases chances for the Fed’s monetary stimulus,” Cooper
said. “Oil is moving in lockstep with equities.”  Oil may decline next week, a Bloomberg survey showed.
Eighteen of 30 analysts, or 60 percent, forecast crude will
decrease through Aug. 3. Nine respondents, or 30 percent,
predicted that futures will increase and three said there will
be little change in prices.  Electronic trading  volume  on the Nymex was 379,398
contracts as of 3:29 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 378,604
contracts yesterday, 32 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.4 million.  -- Editors: Margot Habiby, Bill Banker  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  