-- London Olympics Open With $42.5 Million Party of Music, History
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y ,   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-28T03:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/olympics-42-5-million-ceremony-celebrates-music-eccentricity.html
The London Olympics opened with a
spectacle celebrating Britain’s engineering, national health
care and rock ‘n’ roll.  Harry Potter  and the Beatles joined in.  The 27-million-pound ($42.5-million) show culminated with
seven young British athletes lighting the flower-petal-shaped
Olympic cauldron after the flame was brought into the stadium by
Steve Redgrave, who won five gold medals for Britain in rowing.  Aditya Mittal, chief financial officer of Luxembourg-based
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, sat in the second
row waving an Indian flag.  “It had a lot of soul, it went through Britain’s glorious
history and it was very compelling and very emotional and a lot
of fun,” he said in an interview.  Medals will be awarded in 12 events today, the first full
day of competition. The schedule includes the men’s swimming
400-meter individual medley at the Aquatics Centre that will
feature 14-time gold medalist  Michael Phelps  of the U.S.  Watched by more than 130 heads of state and an estimated
global television audience of 1 billion, last night’s opening
ceremony took a sweep through British history. It was
choreographed by film director  Danny Boyle , who won an Oscar for
“Slumdog Millionaire” in 2009.  Spectators gathered outside the park more than eight hours
before the start of the show. After several days of sunny, warm
weather, rain began 30 minutes before the start, causing fans to
gather under umbrellas and ponchos. It stopped by show time.  Nation’s Recession  The Olympic Park, including the stadium, is in one of the
poorest areas of the capital city of a nation mired in
recession.  “Britain needs a bit of a lift at the moment,” said Karen
Saleh, from Portsmouth on the south coast of England, who paid
600 pounds for tickets for a family of four.  Starting with the “green and pleasant land” of William Blake’s poem “Jerusalem,” the show passed through the
Industrial Revolution and led to popular music of the past half-
century.  The portion of the show on the National Health Service,
featuring volunteer performers from hospitals and clinics, was
watch by spectators including U.S. Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , who has pledged to overturn President
 Barack Obama ’s healthcare plan if elected.  Former Beatle  Paul McCartney ; actors Rowan Atkinson,  Daniel Craig  and  Kenneth Branagh , and “Harry Potter’” author JK Rowling all joined in the ceremony. Queen Elizabeth II
officially opened the games.  Flag Carriers  The British flag was carried into the stadium by Chris Hoy,
the most successful Olympic male cyclist. Fencer Mariel Zagunis
was the flag-bearer for the American team, while reigning French
Open tennis champion  Maria Sharapova  held the flag for Russia.
The world’s fastest man, Usain Bolt, carried the Jamaican flag.  Distance runner Haile Gebrselassie and 1960 boxing champion
 Muhammad Ali  were among the flag bearers carrying the Olympic
banner.  Flower petals carried by each team were combined into the
cauldron, which rose from the floor of the stadium to form one
flame. Fireworks lit up the sky as McCartney took the stage.  Throughout the almost four-hour extravaganza, loud music
ranging from the Beatles and the Rolling Stones to  David Bowie 
and Adele pulsed around the 80,000-seat Olympic Stadium.  “I thought it was epic, a little long, but I loved the
music closing,” Jim Habel, a Los Angeles attorney with the firm
of McKool Smith Hennigan, said in an interview at the stadium.
“I loved the fact that they saluted all the eras of music.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  