-- Olympics Test Network as IPhone-Toting Visitors Clog U.K.
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-27T20:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/olympic-bandwidth-demands-test-u-k-s-wireless-capacity.html
British telecommunications companies
serving  London ’s  Olympic Park  say they have created a wireless
system capable of handling a large city. Legions of iPhone-
toting visitors are about to put them to the test.  Annual smartphone purchases have risen almost fivefold
worldwide since the Beijing Olympics four years ago, according
to researcher IDC, and many fans and athletes in the 2.5-square
kilometer (0.97-square mile) park in east London will be
watching video on iPads, chatting with friends and e-mailing
photos as they take in the games that kick off with today’s
opening ceremony.  London’s  Oxford Economics  estimates the city, with a
population of 8 million-plus, could draw 6 million more over the
course of the games, many of them crowding into the park for
events. Analysts question whether preparations are enough to
serve so many accessing mobile and Wi-Fi networks at once.  “There is no doubt that carriers have put extensive
planning into this, but there will be huge problems with
cellular communications during the Olympics,”  Ben Wood ,
research director with London-based consulting firm CCS Insight,
said in a telephone interview. “Cellular technology is a finite
resource and that is complicated by the fact that this is the
most multimedia-interactive Olympics that we have ever seen.”  O2 Outage  Organizers have warned businesses that mobile phone traffic
may be slowed at times of peak demand -- especially for larger
files such as photos and videos.  “Voice, e-mail and low-data traffic are unlikely to be
affected, but it may be difficult to download larger content
such as file or images,” according to a  booklet  distributed by
London 2012.  Two weeks ago,  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2, the U.K.’s second-
largest mobile service provider with 23 million customers,
suffered a network crash that left users unable to make calls or
send messages. The outage, attributed to a faulty network
system, led analyst Steven Hartley of Ovum to question whether
the telecommunications infrastructure is ready for the London
Games.  O2 and  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , which is providing the fixed-line
backbone for the games, referred questions about the system’s
overall readiness to  Stuart Newstead , volunteer chairman of the
Mobile Experience Group, which represents Olympics TV
programmers, Internet sites such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube.com
and the phone networks serving the area.  ‘Four Weddings’  Providers have done as much as possible, Newstead said in
an interview.  “The demands that will be placed on the networks will be
like having four royal weddings per day for 17 consecutive
days,” Newstead said. “Like any of the athletes, we’ve
prepared as well as we could and whatever happens, happens.
Let the games begin.”  BT climbed 0.4 percent to 218.20 pence in London, while
Telefonica rose 3 percent to 9.21 euros in  Madrid .  The Joint Operators Olympic Group, which includes mobile
operators, BT, the country’s biggest land-line operator, and the
London Organizing Committee of the Olympic and  Paralympic Games ,
has been working for more than 2 1/2 years to design a system
that won’t freeze or break down under unprecedented wireless
demand.  3,000 Photographs  BT is laying down enough cable to stretch from London to
 New York , according to the London-based company.  That infrastructure is expected to carry 60 gigabits of
information every second, the equivalent of 3,000 photographs,
the carrier said in an e-mail. The capacity is four times that
of the Beijing games, according to BT, the official
communications service partner.  “BT may see volumes in the Olympic Park alone that are the
equivalent of normal volumes across its whole Wi-Fi network, all
4 million hotspots,” Newstead said.  The company, which doesn’t have a mobile network, also
installed 500,000 Wi-Fi hotspots in Olympic Park and London
ahead of the games, creating access points that will steer
 Internet traffic  away from the mobile carriers’ networks.  “It is smart to be using this Wi-Fi as an offload
mechanism,”  Charles Golvin , a  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  analyst,
said in a telephone interview. “If you can steer one customer
over to Wi-Fi, you are taking traffic off your network and
liberating someone else to use this newly opened capacity.”  The mobile providers, including O2, No. 1 Everything
Everywhere, a venture between  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France
Telecom SA (FTE) , and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , have wholesale agreements
providing customers on their networks with free access to about
4,000 Wi-Fi hotspots, BT said.  Internet Olympics  BT also negotiated an agreement with  AT&T Inc. (T)  that lets
visiting customers of the U.S. phone company use any hotspot at
their normal roaming rate. Other tourists from overseas can buy
e-vouchers for Wi-Fi access, BT said.  “This is the first Olympics where there is a robust shift
in consumers’ behaviors,” Golvin said. “It’s not a promise
anymore, it’s a reality. More people spend time working with the
Web and data than they do making calls and texting.”  Video will be a big drain on capacity. The British
Broadcasting Corp. is providing live-streamed Olympic coverage
that can be accessed on mobile phones and tablet computers, as
is  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal  in the U.S. One short video on
a smartphone can gobble the same bandwidth as 500,000  text
messages  sent at once, according to Newstead.  “Once you appreciate the scale of the initiative, you have
to start thinking, ‘OK, are the U.K. wireless networks up to
it?’” Ovum’s Hartley said in a phone interview from London.  Network Spending  O2 has invested 50 million pounds ($78 million) in London
this year as the company expanded capacity on its current
network and built new temporary sites across the U.K., Derek
McManus, chief operating officer, said in a statement.  Newbury-based Vodafone, the world’s second-largest mobile
phone provider, is investing 1.5 million pounds per day on its
network, with spending weighted toward the first half of the
year, according to the company.  Operators haven’t been able to run a test of peak traffic
in real time. The opening ceremonies began at 9 p.m. London
time.  “Though they have many previous events that they can use
to simulate a certain density of users, like the  Super Bowl  or
New Year’s Eve, they can’t realistically assemble 90,000 of
their closest friends and have them mimic activities to simulate
Olympic behaviors,” Golvin said. “They have to extrapolate on
the data that they do have.”  Toughest Periods  Everything Everywhere offered technical assistance to O2
during its network outage and is studying the financial
feasibility of helping its rivals during future breakdowns,
according to Chief Executive Officer Olaf Swantee.  The toughest periods for access are likely to be during
popular events, such as the men’s 100 meter final. Fortunately,
most visitors have become accustomed to the unpredictability of
wireless networks in these kind of situations and are aware that
there could be a freeze, Wood said.  “The knock-on effect comes if something goes wrong,”
Ovum’s Hartley said. “Then you’re relying on the legacy
infrastructure. Over the last three years we haven’t seen a lot
of evolution of that wireless infrastructure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  