-- Olympics Leader Rogge Sees Cavendish Gold Medal Boosting Games
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-27T12:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/olympics-leader-rogge-sees-cavendish-gold-medal-boosting-games.html
The London Olympics could use an
early gold medal from British cyclist  Mark Cavendish  to boost
the atmosphere as the city prepares to welcome 750,000 visitors
to the games, the top Olympics official said.  Cavendish is the gold-medal favorite in the men’s cycling
road race, which starts at 10 a.m. tomorrow and finishes on The
Mall by the Queen’s residence,  Buckingham Palace . It’s the first
test of how London handles crowd congestion,  Jacques Rogge ,
president of the  International Olympic Committee , told a news
conference.  “I know the entire  Great Britain  is waiting for Cavendish
to win gold,” Rogge said. “This is one of the crucial
events.”  The first London games since 1948 officially gets under way
today with an opening ceremony overseen by  Danny Boyle , director
of Oscar-winning movie “ Slumdog Millionaire .”  Cavendish, a 27-year-old sprinter, will be supported by
Tour de France champion Bradley Wiggins in the 149-mile (240-
kilometer) race. The first gold of the games will be awarded
earlier in the women’s 10-meter air rifle shooting event.  Rogge, overseeing his sixth games as president of the
Lausanne, Switzerland-based IOC, said London is as well-prepared
as previous hosts Sydney and Beijing, although the “proof of
the pudding is in the eating.”  He said transportation is his biggest priority after
security and the welfare of athletes over the next two weeks of
competition.  ‘Congested City’  “London is already a congested city, and adding 750,000
more to an already crowded city is not an easy task,” Rogge
told reporters at the Olympic Park in the east of the capital.  Rogge, a 70-year-old Belgian surgeon, said he hasn’t had a
chance to travel on  London ’s subway because of meetings into the
early hours of the morning, although he plans to do so
“systematically” as he travels to each of the 26 sports events
at the Olympics.  Some soccer matches already took place. Japan upset gold-
medal favorite Spain 1-0 in the men’s tournament at Hampden Park
in Glasgow yesterday when Britain drew 1-1 with Senegal at
Manchester United’s Old Trafford stadium.  Rogge said he wasn’t privy to who will light the Olympic
cauldron at today’s opening ceremony.  Bookmaker William Hill Plc said yesterday it closed betting
after 98 percent of bets that morning were on Roger Bannister, a
Briton who in 1954 was the first athlete to run a mile in under
four minutes.  Five-time gold medal-winning rower Steve Redgrave was
second-favorite, ahead of  David Beckham . The former England
soccer captain is from east London, where the main Olympic
stadium is located.  “This is one of the best kept secrets,” Rogge said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff at the Olympic Park on  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  