-- House to Take Up Extension of Agriculture Bill, Drought Aid
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-07-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/house-takes-up-one-year-agriculture-bill-drought-aid-correct-.html
The U.S. House next week will take
up a one-year extension of most of an agriculture-policy law
that expires in September along with a provision that would help
livestock producers hurt by a record drought, according to a
 posting  yesterday on the Rules Committee website.  The bill would allow growers of major crops such as corn
and soybeans to continue to receive so-called direct payments,
which are allotted regardless of commodity prices and which the
Senate and the House Agriculture Committee have voted to
eliminate. It would also allow lawmakers to provide emergency
relief to cattle, pig and poultry producers who’ve suffered
losses, without having to make an election-year vote on
legislation that calls for deep cuts in food-stamp funding.  Representative  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , the top
Democrat on the House Agriculture Committee, said he’s against
any extension of the farm-policy law unless he’s assured it will
lead to a conference with the Senate on the five-year bill that
chamber approved in June.  “Congress should not be playing politics with the rural
economy,” Peterson said yesterday in a statement. “Farmers
need the certainty of a five-year farm bill.” His comments
echoed those made a day earlier by  Debbie Stabenow , the Michigan
Democrat who heads the Senate Agriculture Committee.  While the House Agriculture Committee approved its version
of the bill July 12, Speaker  John Boehner , Republican of  Ohio ,
never scheduled a vote on the measure.  Lucas’s Support  Still, House Agriculture Committee Chairman  Frank Lucas , an
Oklahoma Republican, said he supports an extension.  “It is critical that we provide certainty to our producers
and address the devastating drought conditions that are
affecting most of the country,” Lucas said yesterday in a
statement.  Lawmakers begin a monthlong recess Aug. 6 and don’t return
to  Washington  until Sept. 10.  The current law authorizing spending for U.S. Department of
Agriculture programs, including nutrition and conservation
initiatives as well as subsidies, expires Sept. 30. While the
legislation has provisions that help farmers insure major crops,
a measure that would have provided disaster aid for ranchers
expired last September.  Spending Cuts  The draft bill posted yesterday would cost $621 million, if
scored over a 10-year period, while saving $399 million if
compared with current federal policies, according to a statement
from the House Agriculture Committee. The measure would cap some
funding for conservation programs and provide a slight reduction
in the direct-payment subsidies.  The farm bill approved by the House Agriculture Committee
would have cut Agriculture Department spending by $35.1 billion
over a 10-year period, with almost half of the savings coming
from food aid to needy families. The Senate’s legislation called
for reductions of $23.6 billion over a decade, with about $4
billion coming from  food stamps .  The agriculture-policy bill has become a prime target for
congressional budget cutters because of near record farm profits
and the highest-ever expenditure on food stamps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  