-- Palm Oil Trims Third Weekly Loss on Stimulus Bets, Europe Pledge
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-07-27T10:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/palm-oil-trims-third-weekly-loss-on-stimulus-bets-europe-pledge.html
Palm oil  advanced, paring a third
weekly decline, on speculation that central banks will act to
spur economic growth, increasing demand for commodities.  The October-delivery contract climbed 1.6 percent to close
at 2,927 ringgit ($926) a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange. Futures lost 3.8 percent this week on speculation that
rain in the U.S. will help soybean crops damaged by the worst
drought in more than 50 years.  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  pledged to
preserve the euro, suggesting policy makers may intervene in
bond markets. Le Monde reported that the European Central Bank
is preparing to buy securities of the region’s most indebted
economies. Data today may show the  U.S. economy  grew at the
slowest pace in a year, while a decline in Japanese consumer
prices spurred speculation the  Bank of Japan  will add stimulus.  “The ECB is willing to help and this has boosted
confidence,” Donny Khor, senior vice president for futures and
options at OSK Holdings Bhd., said by phone in  Kuala Lumpur .
“This may spark some short-covering.” Short-covering refers to
investors reversing bets on declining prices.  Palm oil exports from Indonesia, the largest producer,
declined 17 percent to 1.14 million tons in June from 1.37
million tons a month earlier as exporters delayed shipments to
avoid paying a higher  tax rate , according to the Indonesia Palm
Oil Association. That was lower than the median estimate of 1.5
million tons in a Bloomberg survey published last month.  Indonesia Duty  The duty on crude palm oil exports was cut by Indonesia to
15 percent in July from 19.5 percent in June. Indonesia will
keep the duty on exports of crude palm oil unchanged at 15
percent in August,Deddy Saleh, director general of foreign
trade at the Trade Ministry said today.  Thailand plans to import 30,000 tons of crude palm oil by
August to replenish low domestic stockpiles, Apichart Jongskul,
secretary-general of Office of Agricultural Economics said.  December-delivery soybean oil climbed 0.6 percent to 52.69
cents a pound on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybeans for
November-delivery advanced 1.5 percent to $15.9125 a bushel.  Palm oil for January delivery gained 1 percent to close at
7,768 ($1,210) a ton on the Dalian Commodity Exchange. Soybean
oil for delivery in the same month rose 0.6 percent to 9,402
 yuan  a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  