-- Petronas Boosts Price for Progress Energy
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-07-27T20:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/petronas-boosts-price-for-progress-energy.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd,  Malaysia ’s
state-owned oil and natural-gas company, boosted its cash bid
for  Progress Energy  Resources Corp. to C$5.16 billion ($5.13
billion) to counter a competing offer as producers race to
secure Canadian supplies for export.  Petronas, as the Kuala Lumpur-based company is known,
raised its price to C$22 a share from the C$20.45 it agreed to
pay last month, according to a statement from Progress Energy
Resources today. The new offer is 90 percent more than the
Canadian oil and gas producer’s closing price on June 27, the
day before the initial Petronas agreement was announced.  The higher price Petronas is willing to pay for the
Calgary-based company highlights the interest in gaining access
to gas reserves in Western  Canada  and shipping the fuel to  Asia .
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Imperial Oil Ltd. and
Apache Corp. are among the companies that have said they’re
considering exports of liquefied natural gas.  While “the price looks very high relative to how natural
gas is trading,” Progress Energy Resources’ holdings in British
Columbia’s Montney shale-gas region give it a unique position to
supply LNG projects on the province’s west coast, which is
driving up the bids, said Michael Tims, chairman of Calgary-
based investment bank Peters & Co. Ltd.  Progress Energy Resources rose above the offer price to
C$22.85 at the close in Toronto, a 13 percent gain and the
highest intraday price in more than four years.  Other Bidder  Chief Financial Officer Art MacNichol declined to identify
the other bidder, citing confidentiality agreements.  The company rejected two bids from a “multi-national  oil
company ” before agreeing to the Petronas takeover, according to
a July 24 regulatory filing. Progress Energy Resources’ board
was in talks with the unidentified company until June 11, two
weeks before the Petronas deal was announced. The bids were
rejected because they didn’t adequately value the company,
according to the filing.  Shell is a multi-national oil company, is studying the
feasibility of an export terminal in Kitimat, British Columbia,
and recently pulled out of the race to acquire East Africa-based
explorer Cove Energy Plc without providing an explanation,
Sachin Shah, a merger arbitrage strategist at Tullet Prebon
Americas Corp., said in a note.  “We believe the third party is someone that already has a
vested interest in LNG in B.C., and Shell is probably at the top
of that interest list,” Shah said in an interview.  Montney Basin  Shell does not comment on market rumor or speculation,  Bill
Tanner , a company spokesman, said in a telephone interview
today.  Progress Energy Resources has 1.9 trillion cubic feet of
proved and probable gas reserves and 820,000 acres (331,842
hectares) in the Montney, according to the company’s website.  British Columbia’s Montney Basin, one of Canada’s largest
proven shale-gas reserves, holds an estimated 49 trillion cubic
feet of gas, according to an April 2011 report by the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  Petronas is one of several Asian companies that have
announced deals to buy Canadian oil and gas companies this year.
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  announced an agreement on July 23 to pay $15.1
billion in cash for Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , in what would be
the largest overseas purchase by a Chinese company.  Asian Prices  Driving global interest in Canada’s gas reserves is the
difference between North American prices and those paid in Asia
for the fuel, where it’s linked to the price of oil. Japan LNG
prices were $17.04 per million British thermal units as of May
31, including freight costs, compared with  New York  gas futures
that averaged $2.354 per million Btu in the April-to-June
period.  Another bid for Progress Energy Resources “is a distinct
possibility, given the obvious interest by another party and
Petronas’s strong commitment to closing this acquisition,”
Steve Toth, a Calgary-based analyst for Canaccord Genuity Corp.,
wrote in a note today.  Progress Energy Resources would owe Petronas C$150 million
if it accepts a better bid or cancels the deal.  “LNG is real, and the Montney Shale is real,” Progress
Energy Resources’ MacNichol said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  