-- Philippine Peso Pares Weekly Loss; Bonds Gain on Policy R
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-27T08:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/philippine-peso-pares-weekly-loss-bonds-gain-on-policy-rate-cut.html
The  Philippine peso  advanced, paring
a weekly decline, after European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  pledged to take steps to preserve the euro. Bonds gained
after a surprise interest-rate cut by the central bank.  Draghi suggested yesterday policy makers may intervene in
bond markets as surging yields in Spain and Italy threaten the
existence of the common currency. The peso had its biggest jump
since July 3 even after the Philippine monetary authority
lowered borrowing costs yesterday for the third time this year
to a record low of 3.75 percent from 4 percent.  “The entire idea that the ECB is going to do something is
supportive of risk,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast
Pte in  Singapore . Philippine authorities “hope yesterday’s rate
cut will slow speculative inflows,” she said.  The peso appreciated 0.5 percent to 41.908 per dollar in
 Manila , reducing this week’s loss to 0.1 percent, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 6.25 percent today and
increased 65 basis points from last week.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 fell four basis points to 5.57 percent today, for a weekly
decline of five basis points, according to prices from Tradition
Financial Services.  The peso has strengthened 4.5 percent this year, the
biggest gainer among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said yesterday
the interest-rate cut will help slow the currency’s gains.  The decision to reduce borrowing costs is also “a pre-
emptive move against the risks associated with the global
slowdown,” Governor  Amando Tetangco  said at a briefing
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  