-- Piraeus to Absorb ATEbank in Greek Banking Reorganization
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2012-07-27T17:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/piraeus-to-absorb-atebank-in-greek-banking-reorganization-1-.html
Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  will absorb the
sound part of the Agricultural  Bank of Greece (TELL)  SA in a
restructuring of  Greece ’s banking industry demanded by
international creditors.  Piraeus was chosen after an examination of the interest
from local and international banks, the  Bank of Greece  said in
an e-mailed statement. The offer has been approved by the
Hellenic Financial Stability Fund and will mean “the deposits
of all customers are secured in their entirety and the smooth
continuation of business is ensured.”  The part of  Agricultural Bank (1288)  to be absorbed by Piraeus
comprises “mainly the performing loans and securities
portfolio, as well as the full amount of all the bank’s
deposits,” the Bank of Greece said. The difference in the
transferred assets and the liabilities will be covered by the
HFSF, according to the statement. Financial terms weren’t
provided.  Greece has been told to overhaul its banking industry after
lenders sustained losses on their holdings of Greek  government
bonds  in the country’s debt swap, the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history. The country obtained a 130 billion-
euro ($161 billion) bailout from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  in March, which earmarked 50 billion
euros for recapitalizing the banks.  Branch Network  Piraeus Bank said it will “ensure all job positions” at
Agricultural Bank, according to a separate e-mailed statement.
Starting July 30, Agricultural Bank’s branch network will become
part of Piraeus. The combined entity will have 75 billion euros
of assets, 35 billion euros of customer deposits and 47 billion
euros of loans. Agricultural Bank’s network will retain the
“ATEbank” brand, Piraeus said.  Agricultural Bank’s license has been revoked and a
“special legal provision” will be made for its non-performing
loans that will not be transferred to Piraeus, according to the
central bank’s statement. Units not moved to Piraeus will be
taken on by the state.  The HFSF said in a statement that  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Moelis
& Co. advised it on the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  