-- Popular ‘Refuses’ Bailout, Doesn’t Need More Capital Than Stated
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-07-27T12:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/popular-quarterly-profit-drops-as-loan-impairment-costs-mount.html
Banco Popular (POP)  Espanol SA said it
will shun state aid under a European bailout of  Spain ’s banks,
Chief Financial Officer Jacobo Gonzalez-Robatto said.  “We are refusing any money from the government at whatever
the price,” Gonzalez-Robatto said on a webcast for analysts
today. “We will do whatever is in our hands not to ask for any
penny or any euro-cent.”  Popular, which says it expects as much as 2.4 billion euros
($2.95 billion) of profit through 2014, is among banks that must
show in stress tests they don’t need state aid as part of the
European Union’s 100 billion-euro bailout. Popular doesn’t plan
to raise capital beyond a 700 million-euro issue of bonds
mandatorily convertible into shares, part of the acquisition of
Banco Pastor SA announced in October, Gonzalez-Robatto said.  Not everyone is convinced that Popular can avoid state aid.
Accounting firms are preparing audits of lenders for September
to identify which banks need funds as part of the bailout.  Popular still needs to set aside 4 billion euros of
provisions for real estate assets by the middle of next year
after setting aside 3.4 billion euros in the first half.  “If the number for the capital shortfall is small enough,
it is possible then they might be able to cover the deficit
themselves,” said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura
International in  Madrid . “There is, though, a very real risk
that they will have to rely on government support in the end.”  Beats Expectations  The lender needs to raise 1.5 billion euros “through
 capital gains  and a small rights, or whatever, capital
increase,” Gonzalez-Robatto said on the call today. Diego Barron, head of  investor relations  at the bank, said in a phone
interview that the “small rights issue” referred to the 700
million-euro exercise linked to Pastor, which is scheduled to
occur by June 2013.  Net income  fell to 75.4 million euros in the second quarter
from 119.7 million euros a year earlier, the Madrid-based lender
said today. Popular rose as much as 4.7 percent in Madrid
trading after earnings beat the 64.8 million-euro average
 estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The shares were
up 2.5 cents to 1.40 euros by 1:54 p.m.  Popular is seeking 2 billion euros from asset sales by the
end of 2013 to withstand more than 7 billion euros of provisions
ordered by the government to clean up its balance sheet. Bad
loans as a proportion of total lending reached 6.98 percent in
June from 6.35 percent in March and 5.58 percent a year ago,
Popular said.  “Foreseeably there will be a greater deterioration of
 credit quality  as a consequence of the economic situation and
most particularly in the property development and construction
sector,” the bank said in a statement.  Net interest income jumped to 743 million euros from 529.5
million euros a year earlier as revenue from commissions climbed
25 percent to 223.2 million euros, Popular said.  The bank’s core capital ratio under the European Banking
Authority’s criteria reached 10.3 percent in June, exceeding the
9 percent required, Popular said. Popular completed its
acquisition of Banco Pastor SA on July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  