-- Porsche Profit Advances on 911 Demand as VW Purchase Nears
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-07-27T09:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/porsche-profit-jumps-on-911-demand-as-volkswagen-purchase-nears.html
Porsche AG, the sports-car maker
being purchased by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said first-half profit jumped
21 percent on demand for a new generation of the 911.  Operating profit rose to 1.26 billion euros ($1.55 billion)
from 1.05 billion euros a year earlier, the Stuttgart, Germany-
based company said in a statement today. Revenue increased 29
percent to 6.76 billion euros.  “We offer our customers outstanding  sports cars  that live
up to the highest demands,”  Matthias Mueller , the brand’s
chief, said in the statement. “This way, we can stay in the
success lane even in economically difficult times.”  Porsche’s profit gain comes as the European auto market
heads for a fifth straight annual decline. The slowdown has
prompted  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  to consider
shutting factories in the region, while  Ford Motor Co. (F)  warned
that its European losses could exceed $1 billion this year.
Porsche today forecast higher profit this year, even as it
increases spending on new models.  “The new 911 generation provided a good tailwind that you
can see clearly in the figures,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , an M.M.
Warburg analyst based in Hamburg. “Operating profit came in a
bit better than expected. The margin level is very pleasing.”  VW Purchase  VW, based in Wolfsburg, Germany, agreed on July 4 to
purchase a 50.1 percent stake in the brand from Porsche SE for
4.46 billion euros, assuming full ownership of the sports-car
maker. The transaction is due to close next week, VW Chief
Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said yesterday.  Adding Porsche to its portfolio of luxury brands that
include Audi, Bentley and Lamborghini may bolster VW Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn ’s effort to overtake  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and GM to become the world’s largest automaker.  “The operating business of Porsche looks very strong,”
said  Frank Schwope , a Hanover-based analyst at NordLB.
“Volkswagen can look forward to adding another very attractive
daughter to its family of brands next week.”  Porsche posted a profit margin of 18.7 percent in the first
half, beating VW’s 6.8 percent return on sales. VW said
yesterday that Porsche’s profit contribution will mainly be
consumed by charges this year.  Deliveries climbed 23 percent to 68,940 vehicles on demand
for the updated 911 sports car, which surged 43 percent. Sales
of the Panamera four-door coupe jumped 31 percent, while
deliveries of the Cayenne sport-utility vehicle climbed 25
percent. Porsche introduced a new version of the Boxster
roadster in April. Porsche has forecast deliveries to rise at
least 10 percent this year.  Expansion Plans  Volkswagen and Porsche agreed to combine in 2009 after
Porsche SE’s failed attempt to take over  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker. Backed by VW, Porsche plans to sell 200,000 vehicles a
year by 2018. The brand will expand its lineup with the Macan
compact sport-utility vehicle, which starts production in 2013.
It will also add the 918 Spyder, a limited-run hybrid super car
that will be Porsche’s most expensive model ever when deliveries
start late next year.  The Porsche SE holding company still owns 50.7 percent of
VW common stock and is considering investing in energy trading
and other activities with the proceeds from the sale of the
sports-car business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  