-- Raimondo Pension Lawsuit Seen Risking Bankruptcies: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/raimondo-pension-lawsuit-seen-risking-bankruptcies-muni-credit.html
Rhode Island  Treasurer Gina Raimondo
championed an overhaul last year of one of the nation’s worst-
funded public pensions, setting out a road map for states and
cities by curbing benefits and delaying retirements.  Now the revamp, which took effect this month, is facing a
legal challenge from unions. If successful, the lawsuit could
produce fiscal “devastation” by spurring more municipal
bankruptcies in a state already on the verge of falling back
into  recession , according to Raimondo, a 41-year-old Democrat.  While the court action may take months or years, it’s being
closely watched as it may provide guidance in other states where
similar legal battles have arisen, said Amy Monahan, who teaches
law at the  University of Minnesota  in  Minneapolis . Rhode Island
is also unusual because, unlike in  California , where court
rulings have sided with labor to protect benefits, there is
little precedent to guide the outcome, she said.  “Other state courts will watch because they’d love to come
up with a way to address this area that makes sense,” Monahan
said, calling it “a compelling case.”  “Rhode Island has it all: a poorly funded plan and really
widespread changes,” she said.  $4.6 Trillion Gap  The law provided “a dramatic punctuation” to efforts by
U.S. state and local governments seeking to control retiree
costs as pension-plan losses drained assets, said Ronald Snell,
a senior fellow at the  National Conference of State Legislatures 
in Denver. Estimates of the collective unfunded liability run as
high as $4.6 trillion.  Cuts affecting public workers have been made in more than
40 states since the financial crisis, typically targeting newly
hired employees because of legal or contractual restraints,
according to the legislatures group.  In Rhode Island, five unions representing state and
municipal workers, teachers, firefighters and police claim that
the law violates their constitutional rights by breaking
contracts and taking away benefits earned by retirees and
workers. The groups also say Raimondo manufactured a crisis by
lowering pension investment-return assumptions, increasing
unfunded liabilities and forcing lawmakers to back the cuts.  “Gina Raimondo, who I am personally fond of, did a
phenomenal job of equating the unfunded pension liability as if
it were a weapon of mass destruction,” said Robert Walsh, the
executive director of the National Education Association of
Rhode Island, the teachers’ union that has sued. “The political
tide was unstoppable once that connection was made.”  National Attention  Raimondo gained celebrity status by engineering the
overhaul. She was featured in Time magazine, and earned awards
and recognition from public-policy groups. She rose in voter
surveys, becoming Rhode Island’s most-popular politician. The
accolades reflected both her willingness as a political neophyte
to buck her party and take on unions as well as her success in
winning passage for far-reaching pension changes.  By delaying retirement, suspending cost-of-living increases
and offering workers 401(k)-type savings plans, Rhode Island cut
its pension obligations by $3 billion, to $4.3 billion, and
lowered the state’s required annual contribution by $275
million, to $414 million. In 2007, the system was judged by
Bloomberg Rankings to be the least funded of any state, with 54
percent of assets needed to cover projected liabilities.  “She deserves credit along with others,” said  David
Walker , president of the Comeback America Initiative, a
nonprofit public-policy group in Bridgeport,  Connecticut . “She
had the courage to campaign on the need for pension reform and
to make tough choices, even in the face of significant union
opposition.”  Court Action  Labor leaders promised to sue to block the changes as soon
as Governor Lincoln Chafee, elected as an independent in 2010,
signed the overhaul law in November. They made good on their
threats last month, taking the issue to court days before the
law took effect July 1.  Rhode Island Superior Court Judge Sarah Taft-Carter
rejected a request to block the changes while the dispute is
litigated. The complaints brought by the five unions have been
consolidated into a single action, according to Craig Berke, a
court spokesman. The unions continue to seek an injunction to
block enforcement, according to court records.  The stakes are high in Rhode Island, which has dealt with
six-straight budget deficits and has the second-highest
 unemployment rate  in the U.S., according to Labor Department
data. One city,  Central Falls , sought protection in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Providence last year, citing pensions it
couldn’t afford. The state has taken over the finances of two
others, Woonsocket and East Providence.  $100 Million Cost  Raimondo told reporters in April that overturning the law
would mean cities and towns would have to contribute an
additional $100 million to the pension system this year for
teachers and other workers, potentially pushing more into
bankruptcy. The state would also have to boost its contribution.  “You will see devastation, I believe, in municipalities
not being able to pay those bills,” she said on WPRI-TV’s
Newsmakers program.  At the same time the former venture capitalist, who has a
law degree from  Yale University  in  New Haven , Connecticut, has
said she’s confident the overhaul will withstand the challenge.  “We had to do this,” she said in an interview earlier
this year. “It served a public purpose. If I didn’t think we
were on a good legal standing, I wouldn’t have done this.”  Chicago Calling  The overhaul she led prompted Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel ,
President  Barack Obama ’s former chief of staff, to consult with
Raimondo about changes proposed in  Illinois . Governor  Pat Quinn ,
a Democrat whose state had the worst-funded retirement system in
2010, has been trying to craft a proposal that would withstand
legal challenges, yet he has been unable to get lawmakers on
board. Emanuel is backing Quinn’s efforts.  Rhode Island’s tax-exempt debt has earned almost 4.7
percent this year, trailing the returns of 37 U.S. states and
territories and the 5.4 percent advance for the $3.7 trillion
municipal-debt market, according to Barclays Capital data.  Union leaders in Rhode Island say the state can find other
ways to balance its budget, improve pension funding, and help
local governments, by raising taxes or making other changes.  “If the unions prevail, that means the state broke the
law,” said Ken DeLorenzo, executive director of Rhode Island
Council 94 of the American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees, which represents about 8,000 local and
state workers. “It’s not necessarily the unions’ fault the
state broke the contract.”  Negotiated Solution  In Providence, the state capital, the City Council sought
to prevent insolvency by passing a law in May modeled on
Raimondo’s plan. Instead of awaiting a court challenge, Mayor
Angel Taveras hammered out a deal with the city’s unions and
retirees, putting in place much of what the legislation
mandated. The agreement cut the unfunded pension liability by
$170 million and reduced the required annual contribution by
$18.5 million.  “She’s a smart politician,” Walsh said. Yet, he said,
“she didn’t take the opportunity to consider all the reasonable
alternatives.” Raimondo’s proposals were unreasonably harsh,
and the Providence agreement may provide a precedent for a
negotiated, out-of-court solution, he said.  “With credit comes blame,” Walsh said. “How the
treasurer deals with this will determine her political future.”  The case is Rhode Island Public Employees Retiree Coalition
v. Chafee, 12-3166, State of Rhode Island Superior Court
(Providence).  Following is a pending sale:  MINNESOTA plans to borrow about $659 million of general-
obligation debt through competitive bid as soon as Aug. 7, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The deal includes $234 million of
debt repaid with motor-vehicle taxes, according to bond
documents.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the state AA+, its second-
highest grade. (Updated July 27)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  