-- Rand Gains, Set for 1st Weekly Advance in Four on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-07-27T15:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/rand-strengthens-third-day-on-stimulus-bets-set-for-weekly-gain.html
The rand gained for a third day, set
for its first weekly advance in four, as stocks and commodities
surged on speculation central banks from  Europe  to the U.S. will
boost efforts to spur economic growth.  South Africa’s currency strengthened 0.9 percent to 8.1892
as of 5:08 p.m. in Johannesburg, extending its gain this week to
1.2 percent. Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.55
percent.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
 Francois Hollande  said they were ready to do “everything”
necessary to protect the euro, a day after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to preserve the single currency,
suggesting policy makers may intervene in bond markets. The U.S.
economy expanded at a slower pace in the second quarter,
spurring speculation the Federal Reserve will add stimulus next
week.  “Markets have rightly rallied hard and the mood remains
positive,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in e-
mailed comments. “Commodities rallied in overnight trade as the
pledge by the ECB revived risk appetite. Next week’s ECB meeting
is now up there with the Fed meeting in terms of importance.”  The Federal Open Market Committee will announce its rate
decision on Aug. 1.  Emerging-market stocks  rose, sending a benchmark index to
its biggest gain this month. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of
raw materials climbed to its highest on a closing basis since
July 20. Commodities accounted for 45 percent of South Africa’s
exports in 2011, according to government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  