-- TransForce Jumps on Possible Acquisition, Profit
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-07-27T20:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/transforce-jumps-on-possible-acquisition-profit.html
TransForce Inc. (TFI) ,  North America ’s
largest mover of oil and gas-drilling rigs, jumped the most in
six months in Toronto after posting profit that beat analysts’
estimates and signaling it may acquire a U.S. company.  The provider of transportation and logistics services will
close the C$25 million ($24.9 million) to C$35 million deal,
with a cash flow of about C$6 million, by Aug. 31, Chief
Executive Officer Alain Bedard said in a conference call today.
Bedard did not identify the company.  TransForce, based in St. Laurent,  Quebec , rose 6.3 percent
to C$17.63, its biggest rise since May, 2011, and is up 36
percent this year.  “TransForce is very much an M&A and execution story,”
said Maxim Sytchev, an analyst at AltaCorp Capital Inc. by
telephone. “They aren’t shy about buying assets that have been
underperforming.” Sytchev, based in Toronto, rates the stock
sector perform.  Since organic growth opportunities remain stale, the
company “intends to maintain its disciplined acquisition
strategy” to drive revenue growth, said Benoit Poirier, an
analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc. in a note.  Second-quarter profit rose 30 percent to C$34.1 million
from a year earlier while earnings per share rose to 34 cents
from 27 cents a share. Adjusted earnings of 38 cents beat
analysts estimates of 37 cents. Sales jumped 25 percent to C$812
million from last year.  “Last year, they did a significant number of
acquisitions,” said Jason Granger, an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets, in a phone interview from Toronto. “This year, they’ve
noted their focus is more on integrating those acquisitions and
improving operations.”  Granger, who rates the stock outperform, said the company’s
shift to services from trucking is paying off.  “What they’re doing is executing a strategic repositioning
where they are shifting their business mix from trucking to
service lines with more defensible characteristics like courier,
oilfield and waste management,” said Granger. “As they start
to execute that shift, I think the market gives them credit for
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  