-- Treasuries Fall as Speculation Europe to Act Crimps Haven Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-07-27T21:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/treasuries-fall-on-stimulus-speculation-as-u-s-economy-expands.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose
the most in four months on speculation European leaders were
taking steps to resolve the region’s sovereign-debt crisis,
damping demand for the safest assets.  The benchmark 10-year yield rose to the highest in three
weeks after a report that the heads of the  European Central Bank 
and the Bundesbank will hold talks on new rescue measures as the
leaders of  Germany  and  France  pledged to do “everything”
necessary to save the euro. Treasuries trading volume was the
highest this month as the  U.S. economy  expanded faster than
forecast in the second quarter, Commerce Department data showed.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets for two days starting
July 31.  “There is a little bit more optimism about a plan coming
together from European policy makers, which is giving the risk-
off rally a bit of a breather,” said  Michael Cloherty , head of
U.S. interest-rate strategy in  New York  at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed. “The data wasn’t as horrible
as many people expected.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note rose 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 1.55 percent at 5 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The yield
rose as many as 15 basis points, the most since March 14. The
1.75 percent note maturing in May 2022 fell 32/32, or $10.00 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 27/32. The yield has climbed from a
record low 1.379 percent on July 25 after declining from 1.6003
percent on July 20.  Treasury trading  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose to $330.3
billion at 5:03 p.m. in New York, the highest since June 6.
Trading has averaged $240.1 billion this year.  ‘Buying Point’  Investors should view the rise in yields from record lows
as an “attractive buying point,” Brett Rose, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at primary dealer Citigroup Inc., wrote
today in a report. “Ultimately, we expect that many of the same
things that have guided yields lower over the past year will
drive yields even lower.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  and Bundesbank President Jens
Weidmann will hold talks in the coming days in an effort to
overcome the biggest stumbling block to a new raft of measures
including bond purchases, two central bank officials said.  The central-banker meeting “definitely spooks people” who
own longer-term Treasuries, said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-
rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA.  ‘Comfort Zone’  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced in the nation, rose at a 1.5 percent annual
rate. That followed a revised 2 percent pace in the prior
quarter, and compared with the 1.4 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The market was positioned for Armageddon,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “We’ll go back to
comfort zone, 1.5 percent. That could be comfort for the market,
but it may take a little bit more to get there.”  Treasuries declined earlier on speculation major central
banks globally will boost measures to revive the global economy.
The ECB and Bank of England also meet next week, and the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  gathers Aug. 9.  Spanish and Italian bonds surged for a third day as  Italy ’s
10-year yields fell below 6 percent for the first time in a week
after Le Monde reported that the ECB is preparing to buy
securities in the secondary market, followed by primary-market
purchases from the region’s bailout funds. A spokeswoman for the
ECB declined to comment.  The Italian 10-year yield dropped as low as 5.83 percent,
dipping below 6 percent for the first time since July 20.
Spanish 10-year bond yields fell as low as 6.70 percent.  Merkel, Hollande  Two-year notes  headed for the first weekly loss since June
as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois
Hollande  said their countries are “bound by the deepest duty”
to keep the monetary union intact.  France and Germany both seek “quick” implementation of
resolutions made at a June 28-29 European Union summit,
according to the statement.  “Still, we can’t go too much higher in yield as there are
still massive concerns in  Europe ,” said RBC’s Cloherty. “And
domestically we are still seeing slower growth.”  The U.S. central bank sold $7.93 billion of Treasuries due
from May to September 2015 today. The sales are part of the
central bank’s effort, known as Operation Twist, to swap short-
term Treasuries in its holdings for those with longer
maturities, supporting the economy by pushing long-term
borrowing costs lower.  ‘Common Ground’  While Fed policy makers at their meeting last month
refrained from introducing a third round of asset purchases, a
tactic known as quantitative easing, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
indicated that it’s an option. The benchmark rate has been in a
range between zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008.  RBC’s Cloherty said he expects the Fed to announce a new
round of asset purchases at the September FOMC meeting.  Consumers are cutting back just as Europe’s debt crisis and
looming U.S. tax-policy changes dent confidence, hurting sales
at companies from United Parcel Service Inc. to Procter & Gamble
Co. Cooling growth makes it harder to reduce unemployment,
helping explain why Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has said policy
makers stand ready with more stimulus if needed.  “The U.S. economy needs help right now to escape the
quicksand, and policy makers have shown absolutely no
willingness to seek common ground on virtually any measure,”
 Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at the broker-dealer BTIG
LLC in New York, wrote in a note to clients. “The U.S. economy,
which is already being depressed by the lingering effects of the
recession, is being held hostage to politics.”  Ten-year notes have returned 5.8 percent this year and 2.2
percent this month, compared with a 3.1 percent gain by
Treasuries overall this year and 1.4 percent this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  