-- Treasury Yield Is Six Basis Points From Low Before GDP
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-07-27T09:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/treasury-yield-is-five-basis-points-from-low-before-gdp.html
Treasury yields were six basis
points from a record low before a government report that
economists said will show growth in U.S. gross domestic product
slowed and inflation cooled.  Yields indicate investors are cutting bets on inflation as
the expansion slows. The five-year, five-year forward  break-even
rate , a measure of expectations for prices that the  Federal
Reserve  uses to guide monetary policy, fell to 2.39 percentage
points on July 24, the least in four months and below the
average of 2.75 for the past decade. Today’s GDP report may
signal “danger” for the economy, said  Tony Crescenzi  at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund.  “Treasury bond yields will decline further,” said
Hiromasa Nakamura, who invests in Treasuries in  Tokyo  at Mizuho
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $42
billion and is part of Japan’s third-biggest bank. “The economy
is very fragile. Inflation is subdued.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  was little changed at 1.44
percent at 10:07 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The all-time low was 1.379 percent set July 25. The
1.75 percent note due in May 2022 traded at 102 25/32.  Nakamura said he favored longer maturities, those that will
rally most if yields fall. He switched his forecast for 10-year
yields at year-end to 1 percent from 1.2 percent.  U.S. Growth  U.S. GDP growth slowed to a 1.4 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, from 1.9 percent in the previous three months,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce
Department reports the figure today.  A measure of inflation that is tied to  consumer spending 
and strips out food and energy costs, climbed at a 1.8 percent
annual pace, compared with 2.3 percent in the previous quarter,
a separate survey showed. Fed officials have defined their
inflation target as 2 percent a year.  Treasuries have returned 1.4 percent this month as of
yesterday, according the Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes,
reflecting demand for  U.S. debt  as a haven from slowing growth
and surging yields in Europe amid the financial turmoil. For
2012, U.S. government securities have gained 3.1 percent, versus
5.3 percent for the MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks.  Draghi’s Pledge  Treasuries fell yesterday after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said the ECB will defend the euro,
damping demand for the safest assets.  “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro,” Draghi said during a speech in
London. “And believe me, it will be enough.”  Yields on Spanish bonds have dropped after rising to euro-
era records earlier in the week.  “Draghi comments have the potential to be a game
changer,” said  Peter Jolly , head of market research at  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in Sydney. “Our sense is that yields are
probably not justified at these levels.” Ten-year rates will
climb to 2 percent by Dec. 31, he said.  The U.S. central bank plans to sell as much as $8 billion
of Treasuries due from May to September 2015 today, according to
the Fed Bank of New York  website . The sales are part of its
effort to swap short-term Treasuries in its holdings for those
with longer maturities, supporting the economy by putting
downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.  ‘Stall Speed’  “Most investors judge that it is going to be hard for the
Fed to keep U.S. rates down forever and any good news from here
could lead to a reversal,”  George Goncalves , head of rates
research at Nomura Securities International Inc., wrote in a
report yesterday. The company is one of the 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed.  Floating-rate notes offer investors protection in case
inflation quickens and the Fed raises  interest rates  in the
years ahead, said Meg McClellan, the U.S. head of fixed income
at JPMorgan Private Bank in New York.  “If you do buy five-, six-year maturity floating-rate debt
and the Fed does have to move because of inflation, you’re going
to get some upside from a pickup in coupon,” she said yesterday
on Bloomberg Television’s  “Market Makers” with  Stephanie Ruhle  and Scarlet Fu.  The 1.4 percent gain projected for today’s GDP report may
spell trouble for the  U.S. economy , said Pimco’s Crescenzi, who
is based in  Newport Beach ,  California .  “Readings below 1.5 percent are in danger territory
because they suggest stall speed,” Crescenzi told Susan Li on
Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  