-- Redbox Owner Coinstar Falls as Revenue Misses Estimates
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-07-27T20:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/redbox-owner-coinstar-falls-as-revenue-misses-estimates.html
Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , owner of the Redbox
movie-rental kiosks, fell the most in 18 months after second-
quarter revenue growth missed analysts’ estimates.  The shares lost 14 percent to $51.16 at the close in  New
York . Coinstar reported yesterday that quarterly sales rose 22
percent to $532.2 million, falling short of the $545.7 million
average of 13 analysts’ estimates.  Investors expected faster growth because Redbox is adding
locations and customers as DVD rentals from competitors  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX)  and Blockbuster decline. The company’s unit share of the
DVD-rental market expanded by 8 percentage points to 42.5
percent from a year earlier, J. Scott Di Valerio, Coinstar’s
chief financial officer, said in a telephone interview.  “We feel good about the strength of our quarter,” Di
Valerio said. He said consumers had fewer DVD releases to choose
from in the period, and more people kept movies out only one
night.  Second-quarter net income rose 38 percent to $36.9 million,
or $1.11 a share, from $26.7 million, or 83 cents, a year
earlier, Bellevue, Washington-based Coinstar said yesterday in a
 statement . Excluding items, profit of $1.25 compared with the
$1.16 a share average of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The current quarter will see 23 percent fewer releases than
a year ago, with titles that performed about 13 percent below
comparable box-office results, Di Valerio said.  Sales Forecast  Even with the possibility that the  Olympic Games  in  London 
may affect rentals, sales should increase from a year earlier to
a range of $550 million to $575 million, Di Valerio said.
Analysts project sales of $566 million, the average of 13
estimates.  Coinstar probably benefited from a decline in Netflix
Inc.’s DVD rentals, and gained business from retailer
Blockbuster, Ronald Bookbinder, an analyst at Benchmark Co.,
said in a July 24 research note. He also suggested some
consumers may be cutting back on their cable TV service.  The shares had advanced 30 percent so far this year, as
investors bet the company will benefit from the June purchase of
 NCR Corp. (NCR) ’s kiosk rental business, which eliminated a large
competitor, and the planned online video venture with  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  starting this year.  The service, called Redbox Instant, is on track to begin
selling a subscription plan that includes DVD rentals from
Redbox kiosks, said Di Valerio, who declined to discuss pricing
or a starting date.  Coinstar is responsible for 35 percent of the $450 million
investment, Di Valerio said on a conference call.  In October, Coinstar raised the price of nightly rentals
for standard DVDs to $1.20 from $1, saying costs were expected
to go up because of debit-card fees. Prices for Blu-ray disks
and video-game rentals didn’t change.  Last month, Coinstar announced a joint venture with
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  to sell Seattle’s Best Coffee in vending
machines in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  