-- Republicans Attack Obama on Israel to Hide Agenda: Pelosi
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-07-28T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/republicans-use-israel-to-distract-from-tax-cuts-pelosi.html
U.S. House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  predicted Jewish voters will reward President  Barack Obama  in November’s election for his record on the  Middle East ,
while she said Republicans “are using Israel as an excuse; what
they really want are tax cuts for the wealthy.”  Republicans are trying to appeal to Jewish voters by
portraying Obama as distant toward Israel, though the
president’s record proves the opposite, Pelosi said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ” airing this weekend. The argument over Israel
distracts voters from Republicans’ true agenda, she said.  “That’s how they’re being exploited,” said Pelosi, a
California Democrat. “They’re smart people. They follow these
issues. But they have to know the facts” about Obama’s record.  Pelosi was interviewed as  Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee, traveled to Israel as part of
his effort to win Jewish votes in the U.S.  Pelosi disputed a July 25 statement by House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, on  Fox News  that his
party has an opportunity with Jewish voters because there’s a
“real cloud” over Obama’s relationship with Israel.  “This president has been a staunch supporter of Israel,”
Pelosi said. “No president has done more.”  Obama won 78 percent of the Jewish vote in 2008. A Gallup
Poll released in June showed his support from Jewish voters at
64 percent and Romney’s at 29 percent. The survey was conducted
from April 11-June 5 and had an error margin of plus or minus 5
percentage points.  Military Cooperation  Yesterday in Washington, Obama signed legislation to
bolster U.S. military cooperation with Israel.  Pelosi said that Obama has been “the strongest person in
terms of sanctions on  Iran , which is important to Israel” and
has supported funding for Israeli rocket and missile-defense
systems such as Iron Dome and David’s Sling.  Pelosi said Republicans are distorting Obama’s record on
Israel as part of pursuing their goal of cutting taxes for the
wealthy.  “What they really want are tax cuts for the wealthy,” she
said. “So Israel, that can be one reason they put forth.”  While Jewish voters overwhelmingly backed Obama in 2008,
support has softened amid concerns that the administration is
being too tough on Israel and reports of a tense relationship
between Obama and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .  Swing States  Republicans don’t expect to win the community outright in
November. Rather, they see an opportunity to gain enough Jewish
Democrats and independents to change the outcome in a few swing
states.  A 10 percent loss of Jewish Democrats could shift vote
margins in Romney’s favor by 98,000 in  Florida , 35,000 in
 Pennsylvania , 18,000 in  Ohio  and 8,500 in  Nevada , according to
the National Jewish Democratic Council, a Washington-based
organization.  Pelosi rejected suggestions that Congress should extend
into 2013 the George W. Bush-era tax cuts and a deadline for
automatic spending reductions to allow more time to reach a
deficit-cutting plan.  “What would be the point?” Pelosi said. “Let’s go to the
table.”  Pelosi said  Wall Street  should urge  House Republicans  to
adopt a plan that would reduce the nation’s deficit and avoid
automatic cuts of $1.2 trillion set to start in January.  ‘Your Friends’  “All of your friends on Wall Street who are concerned
about full faith and credit of the  United States , who are
concerned about certainty in our economy, should be urging them
to do just that,” she said.  Pelosi said the Republican-led House should pass a Senate-
approved plan to extend most Bush-era income tax cuts while
ending them for top earners.  “Everybody agrees the middle-income tax cuts should
continue,” she said. “We can do that right now today. And then
you can do whatever else you want to do.”  Letting tax cuts for top earners expire would provide $800
billion in revenue, according to Pelosi.  She said Romney is “wedded” to a budget proposed by House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican,
that “will only increase the deficit, will break the Medicare
guarantee” to senior citizens.  She also said Romney was “completely inappropriate” in
giving a “political speech” on July 24 to the Veterans of
Foreign Wars convention in Reno, Nevada.  National Security  Romney told the veterans that Obama’s policies “exposed
the military to cuts that no one can justify, compromised our
national-security secrets, and in dealings with other nations,
he has given trust where it is not earned, insult where it was
not deserved and apology where it is not due.”  The Democratic leader said it is a “big deal” that Romney
is refusing to release his income tax returns for years prior to
2010. She said she and other members of Congress won’t release
theirs because they aren’t running for president.  “When we all run for president, then we’ll have to take
that into consideration,” Pelosi said. “He could not even be a
member of his own Cabinet.”  Pelosi said the race for control of the House is “sort of
a dead-even race.” Democrats would need to gain a net 25 seats
to take control of the chamber.  “I think the momentum is with us,” she said. “We’ve out-
raised them. We’ve out-redistricted them. We’ve out-recruited
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  