-- Romania’s Crop-Damaging Hot Weather Seen Lasting Into Next Week
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-27T10:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/romania-s-crop-damaging-hot-weather-seen-lasting-into-next-week.html
Romania ’s hot weather that has dried
out soils and damaged corn and sunflower crops is set to
continue into next week, the country’s weather agency said.  Temperatures will climb as high as 39 degrees Celsius (102
degrees Fahrenheit) in growing regions through Aug. 3, with the
south and east the hottest, the National Meteorological
Administration wrote in its agro-weather  bulletin  today.  Corn in Romania, the European Union’s second-largest grower
behind  France , is in the flowering and pollination phase, when
heat and drought stress can diminish crop potential. Romania’s
corn yields are forecast to slide 29 percent to 3.18 metric tons
a hectare (2.47 acres), the EU’s crop-monitoring unit said
earlier this week.  “If the higher-than-normal air temperatures remain
unchanged, along with high water deficits in the soil, the
physiological processes of crops will be under strain,” the
agency wrote. “The vegetation state of plants will gradually
deteriorate for crops and trees and vineyards, with continued
wilting and leaves curling and drying in the afternoon.”  Average daily temperatures will range from 19 to 33 degrees
Celsius for most of the agricultural areas, 1 to 10 degrees
higher than normal, the weather office wrote.  Rain may fall as downpours with lightning and hail, mainly
in the north, center and west of the country, according to the
report. Soil-moisture conditions range from moderate to extreme
drought in most farming regions, the administration wrote.  The heat and lack of water is forcing crop development,
resulting in reduced grain and seed weight, undersized corn cobs
and smaller sunflower heads, with a negative effect on harvest
quality, the weather office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  