-- Romanian Wheat Crop Falls on Drought as Harvest Nears Completion
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-27T15:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/romanian-wheat-crop-falls-on-drought-as-harvest-nears-completion.html
Romania’s wheat production dropped
after drought damaged crops, with the harvest almost completed,
the  Agriculture Ministry  said.  Farmers reaped 4.75 million metric tons as of today with 98
percent of the area harvested, Agriculture Minister Daniel Constantin said at a conference in Bucharest. That’s 34 percent
below last year’s production of 7.2 million tons and compares
with 5.79 million tons harvested at the same time last year,
according to Constantin and data on the ministry’s website.  Crops in Romania have been battered by a heat wave with
temperatures as high as 41 degrees Celsius (106 degrees
Fahrenheit). The heat has depleted soil moisture, with moderate
to extreme drought across most growing regions, according to the
national weather agency.  “The wheat output is indeed smaller than last year but
from my point of view this isn’t alarming,” Constantin said.
“This doesn’t mean we won’t have enough to meet food
requirements. I spoke to traders, I can tell you that exports in
2012 are lower than in 2011, which makes us believe domestic
needs won’t be affected at all.”  Wheat yields are estimated at about 2.6 tons a hectare
(2.47 acres) this year from 3.5 tons in 2011, the minister said.
 Romania  was the European Union’s fifth-largest wheat producer
last year, behind  France ,  Germany , the U.K. and  Poland ,
according to data from the bloc’s statistics office.  The heat wave may damage Romania’s corn and sunflower
crops, after temperatures remained above 33 degrees Celsius for
almost a month, the minister said.  “We can’t necessarily say that water in the soil hasn’t
been enough in April and May, but the fact that temperatures
haven’t dropped below 33 degrees over 29 days simply overwhelmed
the plants and will probably affect the crops to a larger degree
than the wheat crop,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  