-- Romney’s Gaffe Joins Quayle’s Potatoe on Gore’s Internet
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-07-28T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/romney-s-gaffe-joins-quayle-s-potatoe-on-gore-s-internet.html
Was this  Mitt Romney ’s “potatoe”
moment?  The presumed Republican presidential nominee’s brief stay
in  London  came off more like a blooper reel than a statesman’s
first audition on the international stage.  The visit recalled candidate slip-ups of years past -- from
Dan Quayle’s misspelling of potato to  Al Gore ’s claim of
inventing the Internet -- questioning whether Romney’s could do
lasting damage to his image and electoral prospects.  “From the point of view of diplomacy and the original
intent and nature of the trip, it looks like a real foot-in-the-
mouth moment for Romney,” said  Michael Silverstein , a professor
of anthropology, linguistics and psychology at the  University of
Chicago  who co-wrote a forthcoming book about communication in
presidential politics. “It’s really a question of how this will
continue -- or not -- to reverberate, and what are its
consequences?”  U.S. political history is rife with embarrassing tales of
candidate slips that took on lives of their own, sometimes
forming lasting tropes about the politician in question.  Supermarket Scanner  There was former President  George H.W. Bush ’s much-
lampooned moment of amazement when he encountered a supermarket
scanner at a 1992 grocer’s convention. It opened him to ridicule
as out of touch with American life outside the cloistered
confines of the White House.  Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry , the 2004 Democratic
presidential nominee, drew ridicule for ordering a Philadelphia
cheese steak sandwich with Swiss cheese and dressing in head-to-
toe camouflage for a campaign trail photo-opportunity going
goose-hunting. Both were seen as Kerry’s tin-eared efforts to
portray himself as something he was not.  Quayle, who served with Bush, couldn’t shake his reputation
as an intellectual lightweight after he corrected a sixth grader
during a visit to a Trenton,  New Jersey , school, saying the
child had left the “e” off the end of the word “potato.”  Quayle would later write in his autobiography that it was
“a defining moment of the worst kind imaginable.”  Enter Romney, who had scarcely been on the ground in London
a few hours when he came under withering criticism from leaders
and media there for having cast doubt on the success of the
summer Olympic games.  “You know, it’s hard to know just how well it will turn
out,” Romney told NBC in an interview, adding that reports of
security problems were “disconcerting.”  London Erupts  The comments prompted a tart retort by British Prime
Minister  David Cameron , who noted that, “Of course it’s easier
if you hold an Olympic Games in the middle of nowhere” -- an
implicit reference to the games Romney chaired in 2002 in  Salt
Lake City , Utah.  London Mayor  Boris Johnson  worked a crowd of 80,000 into a
lather referring to the candidate as “a guy called Mitt
Romney” who was questioning whether his city could handle the
games. “Are we ready? Yes we are!” he yelled.  Romney, wrote The Telegraph newspaper, “is perhaps the
only politician who could start a trip that was supposed to be a
charm offensive by being utterly devoid of charm and mildly
offensive.” The Sun tabloid labeled him “Mitt the Twit.”  It wasn’t over yet. In damage-control mode, Romney slipped
again yesterday, as he tried to praise London’s management of
the Olympics in an interview with NBC, calling it “impressive”
that spectators could watch events from downtown.  Downing’s Backside  “You’re going to be able to be just in the backside of 10
Downing Street for beach volleyball,” Romney said.  The mistakes may not have much shelf-life, given that they
occurred overseas and will soon be overtaken by the  Olympic
Games , said political science professor Steven Frantzich.  “The ones that are damaging are ones that really reflect a
candidate’s character or ability, and particularly ones that are
repeated so that it becomes a storyline of its own,” said
Frantzich, who teaches at U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis,
 Maryland , and has written a book about political gaffes.  “At this point, I don’t think we’re going to look back and
say, ‘That was the moment in which Mitt Romney lost the
election.’” Frantzich said. “Now, if there is a longer series
of missteps, there may be a story that this carefully managed
campaign could be coming apart at the seams.”  The former Massachusetts governor’s allies say Americans
couldn’t care less about perceived insults and mistakes in
 England .  No Worries  “We’re not worried about overseas headlines -- we’re
worried about voters back here at home in America,” Louisiana
Republican Governor  Bobby Jindal  told reporters during a
conference call July 26.  Still, one top aide did try to change the subject. Beth
Myers, who is heading Romney’s vice presidential search,
tantalized reporters and others by taking to the social media
site Twitter urging them to follow politicians believed to be on
the short list -- and then she listed 13 names, including former 
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a prospective pick that no party
strategist considers serious.  Still, some gaffes -- however silly or overblown -- can
help dash presidential hopes. When  Gerald Ford  fell down the
stairs of Air Force One while waving to supporters, he was
satirized by  Chevy Chase  on “Saturday Night Live” as clumsy
and dim, doing lasting damage to his reputation.  Biden’s Goof  Vice President  Joe Biden , a Democrat, has had his share of
bloopers -- such as when he asked a wheelchair-bound man at a
campaign event to, “Stand up -- let ’em see you!” --yet the
miscues are rarely seen as a major liability.  “Since virtually all of his over-speakings are of the
genial, hail-fellow-well-met sort, he gets away with it,”
Silverstein said.  That’s not the case for Romney, he added, in part because
of how tightly his campaign manages media and public access to
the candidate.  “The strategy seems to involve large clumps of silence or
avoidance, and that’s never really a good way of trying to
fashion an image or personality,” Silverstein said. “When
gaffes are taken to be little breakthrough windows into the real
self, then you have a problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  