-- Troopers Charged After Escorting High-Speed Car Convoy
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-07-27T18:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/troopers-charged-after-escorting-high-speed-car-convoy.html
Two  New Jersey  state troopers were
charged with records tampering for allegedly altering the
license plates of the cruisers they used to escort a high-speed
caravan of  sports cars  down a highway in March.  State Police Sergeant Nadir Nassry, 47, is accused of
leading the convoy and faces two counts of tampering with
records, New Jersey Attorney General Jeffrey S. Chiesa announced
today in Trenton, the state capital. Trooper Joseph Ventrella,
28, faces a single count of tampering.  Motorists reported two state-police cruisers on March 30
leading a pack of sports cars in a “Death Race” convoy at
speeds of 100 miles (160 kilometers) an hour toward  Atlantic
City , according to complaints filed with the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority.  The troopers “turned our highways into virtual speedways,
placing countless motorists at risk,” Chiesa said today.  Charles Sciarra , Nassry’s attorney, said his client denied
the charges. Vincent Nuzzi, a lawyer for Ventrella, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  The two officers allegedly used black electrical tape to
change the numbers on their license plates, according to the
statement. Nassry is also accused of instructing the other
drivers to hide or alter their license plates.  The most serious charge against Nassry carries a maximum
five-year prison sentence. Ventrella faces a maximum sentence of
18 months, according to the attorney general.  ‘Unblemished Career’  Sciarra said yesterday that Nassry led the caravan at the
request of  Brandon Jacobs  of the  National Football League ’s  San
Francisco 49ers .  “Sgt. Nassry denies the charges, admits the escort was a
mistake and has moved to retire as a result, and will fight
these charges and for his well-earned pension after an otherwise
unblemished career,” Sciarra said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Chiesa said today that neither Jacobs nor any other drivers
escorted by Nassry and Ventrella will face criminal charges. The
time in which the drivers could have been issued tickets for
exceeding speed limits on the Garden State Parkway has expired,
the attorney general said.  ‘Unknown Number’  “My client denies he told anyone to tape their plates,
while some unknown number of affluent exotic-car owners
explained their taped plates by saying the trooper said to do
it,” Sciarra said. “Why are affluent exotic-car owners’ words
given any more credence by this administration than a decorated
public servant?”  State police officials suspended Nassry and Ventrella
without pay over the incident. Nassry, who submitted retirement
papers this week, is seeking full pension benefits, Sciarra
said. Nassry’s annual salary was $110,423.54 and Ventrella’s is
$75,230.04, according to state  records .  Jacobs was released as a running back in March after seven
seasons with the Super Bowl-winning  New York Giants . He signed a
one-year contract in April with the 49ers.  Nassry knows Jacobs from charity work, Sciarra said
yesterday. Jacobs contacted the trooper to request an escort for
the drivers, who were heading to the seaside resort to discuss
fundraising, the lawyer said.  Public Records  Prosecutors contend that Nassry and Ventrella taped over
their license plates as part of an effort to “conceal the
identity of the troopers and their vehicles” leading the
convoy, Colonel Rick Fuentes, head of the state police, said at
the press conference. The license plates constitute public
records, he added.  Sciarra said he couldn’t discern what motive might be
ascribed to Nassry for altering the plates, calling it “akin to
putting a wig on Godzilla.”  “This escort of marked troop cars and quarter-million-
dollar vehicles in broad daylight seems pretty visible,” the
lawyer said in today’s statement.  Chiesa also said two other troopers are facing internal
disciplinary actions over a highway escort two years ago.
Authorities contend the troopers engaged in unsafe driving
during the June 2010 incident.  The state also is changing its procedure for authorizing
highway escorts to create better oversight and accountability,
Chiesa said.  “The days of any escort that puts the public at risk” are
over, Chiesa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stacie Servetah at   sbabula@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 