-- Russia Seeks Naval Bases in Cold War Allies Cuba, Vietnam
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2012-07-27T16:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/russia-seeks-naval-supply-bases-in-cold-war-allies-cuba-vietnam.html
Russia is in talks to set up naval
bases in former Cold War allies Cuba and  Vietnam  as President
 Vladimir Putin  undertakes the country’s biggest military
overhaul since the Soviet era.  “We are working on establishing navy bases outside
Russia,” Vice-Admiral Viktor Chirkov, the navy’s commander-in-
chief since May, said in an interview with the state-run RIA
Novosti news service and confirmed by the navy. “We aim to set
up resupply bases in Cuba, the Seychelles and Vietnam.”  Russia’s intentions for overseas military expansion
threaten to further strain relations with the U.S. when the
former superpower rivals are at loggerheads over American
missile-shield plans and how to respond to the fighting in
 Syria . Putin’s government plans to spend 23 trillion rubles
($712 billion) this decade on defense spending, including 4.4
trillion rubles next year, an increase of 19 percent.  “There’s a lot of tension between  Washington  and Moscow
right now as Syria is creating a lot of bad feeling between
them,” said Pavel Felgenhauer, an independent defense analyst
in Moscow. “This will be seen by some in the U.S. as the
Russian bear growling in its lair.”  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said Russia has “a right
to enter into military agreements and relationships” with other
nations, just as the U.S. does. He didn’t raise concern about
Russia seeking military access to Cuba, which lies near the
mouth of the  Gulf of Mexico  and is 145 kilometers (90 miles)
south of the Florida Keys.  “I’m aware of the reports, but I don’t know that an
agreement has been reached between the Russians and Cubans on a
base,” Little told reporters at the Pentagon today.  ‘Red Line’  U.S. Air Force General Norton Schwartz in 2008 warned
Russia not to cross a “red line” by stationing bombers in
Cuba, where the deployment of Soviet missiles brought Moscow and
Washington close to nuclear conflict in 1962. Schwartz commented
after the newspaper Izvestia said Russia planned to build a
refueling base for strategic aircraft in the Communist island
state in response to U.S. plans to deploy elements of a missile-
defense system in  Europe . The Russian Defense Ministry later
denied the report.  Under the deal that ended the 1962 Cuban crisis, the  Soviet
Union  withdrew its missiles and pledged not to station offensive
weapons on the island. Russian military cooperation with Cuba
ended in 2002 after Russia closed its radar base at Lourdes,
Russia’s only intelligence-gathering center in the Western
hemisphere, which had been operating since the 1960s.  Vietnam Agreeable  Vietnam’s President Truong Tan Sang said in an interview
broadcast by Voice of Russia radio that his country is ready to
let Russia set up a servicing facility in Cam Ranh Bay, a former
Soviet naval base, though Vietnam will not lease its territory
to any country.  In June, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  visited the
one-time hub of American military activity seeking greater naval
access to the port as the U.S. rebalances its forces toward the
Asia-Pacific region.  Sang held talks with Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  in
Moscow yesterday and met Putin in the Black Sea resort of Sochi
today. Cuban leader  Raul Castro  held talks with Putin in Moscow
earlier this month. Calls to the Cuban Embassy in Moscow weren’t
answered.  Vietnam backs Russia’s criticism of U.S. plans to expand
missile-defense sites, which improves security in some nations
at the expense of others, the countries said in a joint
communique today after the talks.  ‘Good News’  Russia risks losing its only military base outside the
former Soviet Union, a naval resupply facility in the Syrian
port of Tartus, as President Bashar al-Assad fights for survival
in the face of a 17-month uprising.  Russia doesn’t have the naval resources at the moment for a
permanent presence outside its territorial waters, with only
about 30 major warships split between five fleets, so the
possibility of opening resupply bases doesn’t mean an expansion
of Russian maritime power, Felgenhauer said.  “But this is good news for the U.S. navy” as it seeks to
protect its funding in a time of budget cuts, Felgenhauer said.
“They can go to Congress to warn that  Russia  is trying to get a
presence around the world.”  Chirkov said yesterday that Russia may take delivery of  10
to 15 naval ships this year, including frigates and nuclear-
powered submarines, according to RIA Novosti.  Rebuilding Mode  The Russian Navy has been rebuilding since 2008, after
falling to about one-quarter its Soviet-era peak, according to
Thomas Fedyszyn, a retired Navy captain who is a national
security professor at the Naval War College in Newport,  Rhode
Island .  Russia sees its navy as a tool to “project the Russian
image abroad and ensure the security of all Russian economic
expansion,” he  wrote  in the March issue of Proceedings, a
publication of the U.S. Naval Institute. “Russian task groups
in the Caribbean will be increasing Russia’s international
stature as well as selling arms to Latin American nations,
rather than threatening American military exercises,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  