-- S&P 500 Has Longest Weekly Rally Since March on Europe
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-07-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/s-p-500-has-longest-weekly-rally-since-march-on-europe.html
U.S. stocks rose for the week,
giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index the longest rally since
March, amid optimism Europe’s policy makers will act to ease the
region’s debt crisis and better-than-expected earnings from
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  to  Moody’s (MCO)  Corp.  Financial and industrial shares in the S&P 500 climbed at
least 2.5 percent as a group, as Caterpillar advanced 6.4
percent and Moody’s jumped 13 percent. Phone stocks surged 3.9
percent, the most among  10 industries,  as  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
and  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  beat sales estimates.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  fell at least 3.1 percent
amid disappointing earnings.  Facebook (FB)  Inc. lost 18 percent after
reporting its first results since its initial public offering.  The S&P 500 advanced 1.7 percent to 1,385.97 for the week,
rising the most since June and extended its gain for the year to
10 percent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 253.09
points, or 2 percent, to 13,075.66. Its three-week rally was the
longest streak since January.  “There is hope that policy makers will do what they need
to do to ease the debt crisis,” said Michelle Clayman, chief
investment officer at New Amsterdam Partners in New York, which
manages $2.5 billion. “Whenever that happens, the market cheers
up again. I’m not sure that it’s an issue of people being so
happy. It’s more that things aren’t going to get worse and maybe
they will stabilize.”  Lowered Outlooks  Equities slumped in the first three days of the week amid
concern more of Spain’s regions will seek aid, while Moody’s
Investors Service lowered outlooks for Germany, the Netherlands
and Luxembourg. The S&P 500 then posted the biggest two-day
rally since December, surging 3.6 percent, after speculation
grew that the European Central Bank would buy bonds to ease
borrowing costs for Spain and Italy.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  will hold talks with Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann in an effort to overcome the biggest
stumbling block to a new raft of measures including bond
purchases, two central bank officials said on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel , French President  Francois Hollande  and Draghi
pledged to do everything to protect the euro.  Economic reports showed the U.S. economy expanded at a
slower pace in the second quarter as a softening job market
prompted Americans to curb spending. Consumer confidence in July
dropped to the lowest this year, new home sales unexpectedly
fell from a two-year high while orders for equipment slumped.  Fed Speculation  Concern about a global economic slowdown and a worsening
crisis in Europe sent the S&P 500 down 9.9 percent from its 2012
high in April through June 1. The index has since climbed 8.4
percent after central banks in Europe and China cut interest
rates and weaker-than-expected economic data fueled speculation
that the  Federal Reserve  may be close to adding more stimulus.
The Federal Open Market Committee meets next week.  “The occurrence of real significant weaknesses will be
less and less, unless you have some catastrophic failure in the
banking system in Europe,”  David Steinberg , who manages about
$250 million as founder of Chicago-based DLS Capital Management
LLC, said in a phone interview. “Many of the people that want
to be out are already out. They’re going to open up their eyes
and see that the world is going to continue to go on, and assets
are going to go higher.”  An S&P index of financial shares jumped 2.8 percent during
the week.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  climbed 8.8 percent, the most in
the Dow, to $36.89, while  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  gained 7.9
percent to $101.64.  Credit Ratings  Moody’s surged 13 percent, the most since October, to
$40.91. The second-largest provider of credit ratings reported
second-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates as demand rose
for its financial information.  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  rose 11 percent to $7.10. The 10th-
largest U.S. bank by deposits exceeded estimates for a fourth
straight quarter as provisions for loan losses declined.  Caterpillar led industrial companies to a 2.5 percent
increase. The largest maker of construction and mining equipment
added 6.4 percent to $86.16 after raising its full-year profit
forecast. The company, considered a U.S. economic bellwether, is
selling more excavators, scrapers and dozers even as it sees a
slowdown in some of its largest markets. Machinery sales are
climbing as developed countries replace aging equipment and U.S.
construction spending gains.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
climbed 11 percent to $12.01 after reporting better-than-
estimated earnings amid a jump in orders. U.S. homebuilders are
becoming more profitable as record-low mortgage rates and
stabilizing prices lure buyers to new houses.  IPhone Demand  The  S&P 500  index of  phone companies  rallied to the highest
level since 2008. Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless
carrier, jumped 18 percent to $4.31 after iPhone demand helped
bolster spending on data plans, lifting the company’s sales
above analysts’ estimates.  MetroPCS soared 41 percent, the most since it went public
in 2007, to $9.04. The pay-as-you-go wireless carrier reported
second-quarter earnings that beat estimates amid a decrease in
promotional costs.  While cost cuts helped 72 percent of S&P 500 companies that
have reported quarterly results so far exceed analysts’
estimates,  sales  topped at only 41 percent of companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Analysts ratcheted down their projections for second-
quarter profits at the start of earnings season, forecasting a
decrease of 2.1 percent, compared with an increase of 4.4
percent at the beginning of this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. By the end of the latest week, their outlook
improved and they now estimate a 0.8 percent drop.  ‘Definitely Suffer’  The earnings beat “shows you that companies are running
their business very well and they’re mindful of expenses,” E. William Stone, chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth
Management in Philadelphia, said in a phone interview. His firm
manages about $112 billion. Their sales picture “does underline
that the macro environment is becoming more and more
challenging. If it continues to deteriorate, at some point
earnings will most definitely suffer.”  UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, cut its
full-year forecast after a drop in international package sales
dragged quarterly profit below analysts’ estimates. The stock
declined 3.1 percent to $76.  Apple slipped 3.2 percent to $585.16 after quarterly sales
and profit missed analysts’ estimates for the second time since
2003. Customers delayed purchases of existing iPhone versions
while awaiting the next model.  Narrower Margins  Facebook plunged 18 percent to a record $23.71 after
reporting a slower sales gain and narrower profit margins.
Executives led by Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg ,
addressing analysts for the first time since the company’s May
17 initial public offering, issued no growth forecasts and said
little else to reassure investors who fret that the company is
overvalued. The largest social network is down 38 percent from
its $38 IPO price.  Raw-material producers posted the only retreat among 10 S&P
500 groups, falling 0.8 percent.  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF) ,
the largest U.S. iron-ore producer, tumbled 14 percent to $39.39
after the company forecast higher costs and lower prices.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  reported second-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates amid slowing U.S. same-store sales
and said the restaurant chain may miss its full-year operating
income growth target. The shares slipped 2.6 percent to $89.19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  