-- San Francisco Gasoline Jumps After Valero Shuts Unit
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-07-27T21:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/san-francisco-gasoline-jumps-after-valero-shuts-unit.html
Spot gasoline in San Francisco
gained for a second a day against futures after  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  said the catalytic cracker at the Benicia refinery in
Northern California will be shut for “several days” of work.  Valero’s 170,000-barrel-a-day Benicia plant will keep the
fluid catalytic cracker, which upgrades heavy gasoil into
gasoline and other lighter products, out of service until
compressor repairs are complete,  Bill Day , a spokesman at the
company’s headquarters in San Antonio, said in an e-mail. The
plant flared gases yesterday after a mechanical issue, a notice
to the California Emergency Management Agency shows.  California-blend, or Carbob, in San Francisco advanced 3.5
cents to a premium of 9.75 cents a gallon against gasoline
futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:10 p.m.
New York time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the highest level for the fuel in the  Bay Area  since July 16.  “The Benicia FCC remains shut down and will remain down
for several days while repairs to a compressor take place,” Day
said in the e-mail.  The same fuel in  Los Angeles  gained 3.25 cents to 9.75
cents a gallon above futures.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s 150,000-barrel-a-day Torrance refinery
in  Southern California  is scheduled to flare gases through
tomorrow related to maintenance on a unit, Gesuina Paras, an
Exxon spokeswoman in Torrance, said by e-mail yesterday.  Refinery Maintenance  The refinery shut a pretreater earlier this month after a
breakdown, a person familiar with operations at the plant said
July 13. The unit was included in a maintenance turnaround that
also involved work on a hydrogen unit and a coker.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
increased 2.75 cents to a discount of 8.75 cents a gallon versus
Nymex gasoline futures.  California-blend diesel, or CARB diesel, in  San Francisco 
was unchanged at a premium of 4.5 cents a gallon versus Nymex
heating oil futures. CARB diesel in Los Angeles was also
unchanged at 5.25 cents a gallon above futures.  Low-sulfur diesel  in Portland  rose 1.63 cents to 9.13 cents
a gallon above heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  