-- Sexual Assaults Plague Military After Decades of Reform
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-07-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/sexual-assaults-plague-military-after-decades-of-reform.html
Air Force  Staff Sergeant Luis
Walker called the woman identified in court as “Airman 9” into 
his office and asked her to close the door.  Walker, a military instructor at Lackland Air Force Base in
 San Antonio , turned up the volume on a pornographic video, asked
the 21-year-old recruit if she was turned on, and then demanded
oral sex, according to testimony in a court-martial that ended
last week in his conviction.  Walker, 26, was sentenced to 20 years in prison on July 21
for crimes including rape, adultery, obstruction of justice and
aggravated sexual assault against 10 victims. He is one of 15
instructors at the Texas air base who’ve been under 
investigation for sexual misconduct involving at least 38 
trainees.  “It’s appalling that this would happen again,” said
Elizabeth Hillman, a law professor, Air Force veteran and
president of the National Institute for Military Justice, a
nonprofit group.  It’s been nine years since allegations of sexual assaults
rocked the Air Force Academy in  Colorado , 16 years since a dozen
Army instructors were charged with abusing recruits at the
Army’s Aberdeen Proving Ground in  Maryland  and 21 years since
the Tailhook scandal, in which scores of Navy and Marine
officers were alleged to have sexually assaulted at least 83
women during a military convention at the Las Vegas Hilton
hotel.  Order, Discipline  Now, yet another sex scandal has engulfed the military,
renewing questions about why the Pentagon’s leaders and the
services have failed for decades to curb sexual abuse despite
the military’s emphasis on “good order and discipline.”  “Nothing’s changed,” said Paula Puopolo, who as a Navy
lieutenant became the  public face  of the Tailhook scandal. She
was the only victim to come forward publicly.  The military’s macho culture, a strict hierarchy that can
lead to abuses of power and a reluctance to roil units through
prosecutions are to blame, say those who have studied the issue
or endured its consequences, including Puopolo.  “It’s not just a woman’s issue that women are being raped
by men they serve with,” Puopolo, who was Paula Coughlin at the
time of Tailhook before she married, said in an interview. “I
just don’t see how anyone’s going to accomplish a mission or
create an integrated force if they don’t get rid of this
cancer.”  Women made up about 14 percent of the active-duty military
force last year, according to Defense Department figures, and
they are now eligible for all but direct combat roles. More than
280,000 women have served in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.  Victims Units  The failure to curb assaults led Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  to propose “special victims units” to pursue
complaints. It also has revived past proposals, from taking the
prosecution of sexual assault charges out of the military chain
of command to having segregated training for women with female
instructors.  Lackland, one of the military’s busiest training centers,
provides basic training to all Air Force recruits. About 500
instructors train 35,000 cadets annually, General Edward Rice,
the head of the Air Force Air Education and Training Command,
said at a June 28 press briefing.  About 22 percent of the recruits are women, as are 11
percent of the trainers, he said.  Retired Navy Rear Admiral Marianne Drew, who helped
overhaul the Navy’s sexual harassment policies after the
Tailhook scandal, said military instructors can become sexual
predators because of the power they hold over young recruits
taught to obey their every word.  “They have complete control over these kids, and it’s
important that they do,” Drew said in an interview. “But it’s
possible to get somebody in there who takes that too far.”  ‘Boy’s-Club Attitude’  Morris Davis , a former military prosecutor who led an
investigation of the 2003 Air Force Academy scandal, said some
officers’ clubs still had strippers when he joined the Air Force
in 1983.  “Thirty years later, there’s still some of that boy’s-club
attitude,” Davis said. “I don’t know that we’ve ever overcome
that institutional culture.”  As they’ve done many times before, military leaders
responded to the Lackland charges by vowing to stamp out sexual
abuse and institute reforms to help victims and strengthen the
hands of prosecutors.  “We have no place in the military for sexual assault,”
Panetta said at a June 29 press conference.  ‘No Difference’  For all the hearings, study commissions and promised
reforms, nothing has solved the problem, as an Air Force general
acknowledged last week.  “We’ve done a lot of work, and we’ve made no difference,”
said General Mark Welsh, commander of U.S. Air Forces in  Europe ,
whom President  Barack Obama  has nominated to be the next Air
Force chief of staff.  “Everyone is trying to do the right thing and figure out
some way of stopping this,” he told the Senate Armed Services
Committee at a July 19 hearing. “In fact, we haven’t even
reversed the trend.”  The Pentagon said 3,192 sexual assaults were reported in
the military last year, from unwanted sexual touching to rape, a
1 percent increase from the previous year.  Fail to Report  Most victims fail even to report abuse, according to the
Pentagon, which estimated the actual number of assaults is
almost 19,000 a year, based on anonymous surveys of the active-
duty force in 2010.  Such a survey of Air Force personnel in 2010 found 19
percent of all female airmen and 2 percent of male airmen
reported being victims of sexual assault at some time in their
military careers.  The surveys nonetheless show progress, according to Air
Force Colonel Alan Metzler. The rate of unwanted sexual contact
against women declined by 35 percent from 2006 to 2010, said
Metzler, deputy director of the Pentagon’s Sexual Assault
Prevention and Response Office, which  was created  in 2005 to
provide services such as a 24-hour rape hotline.  Jennifer Norris, who joined the  Maine  Air National Guard in
1996 at the age of 24, said she can still recall the shame and
fear she felt as the victim of sexual assault in two incidents,
one involving her immediate superior.  “He pulled me into his room and tried to force me on his
bed,” Norris said in an interview, describing an incident at
Brunswick Naval Air Station in Maine in 1997. “The door didn’t
shut tight. I was able to scream and one of my friends heard me.
It was totally traumatizing.”  ‘Survival Mode’  Even so, she said, she was reluctant to report the assault.  “I was forced to work with my assaulter,” Norris said.
“I was so worried about the power he had over me, my promotion,
my job assignment. I had to find a survival mode. I knew if I
said anything my career would be over.”  Norris filed a complaint about a year later against the
noncommissioned officers. Air National Guard documents that she
provided show that a master sergeant agreed to a voluntary
reduction in rank, resignation from his position and
reassignment to a different Guard unit. The case involving a
former tech sergeant was settled with a letter of reprimand and
his immediate resignation from the Guard.  “‘When they do prosecute, which is rarely, they end up
getting a slap on the wrist and not ruining their careers,’’
Norris said. She said she agreed to the settlement of her case
because ‘‘I just wanted it to go away so I could go back to work
and move on.’’  Captain Shanon Cotta, a spokesman for the Maine National
Guard, said yesterday the Guard couldn’t confirm the documents
because records aren’t kept for more than four years after cases
are resolved.  Coach Paterno  Representative Jackie Speier, a California Democrat who
serves on the House Armed Services Committee, is pushing
legislation that would take the prosecution of sexual assault
cases outside the military chain of command. She said commanders
are loath to go after their own men, and victims fear
retaliation if they report an assault.  Likening the prevalence of assaults in the military to the
abuse scandals that have plagued  Pennsylvania State University ’s
football program and the Roman Catholic Church, Speier said,
‘‘As long as Coach Paterno or the bishop is in charge, they’re
going to take steps to mitigate the problem and sweep it under
the rug.”  Commander in Field  The chairman of the House Armed Services Committee,
Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, a California Republican,
hasn’t agreed to take up the bill to create an independent
council to oversee prosecutions, and military officers are
making their opposition clear.  “We don’t think having a committee of folks sitting in
 Washington , D.C., should substitute their judgment for the
commander in the field,” Metzler of the Pentagon office on
assault prevention said. “That can’t happen from here.
Commanders are the ones that are going to solve this problem.”  A directive by Panetta in April requires cases such as rape
to be handled by an officer with the rank of colonel or Navy
captain at minimum.  “At the local unit level, sometimes these matters are put
aside,” Panetta said at the briefing. “At a higher command
level, we will have action taken as a result of these
complaints.”  Closed-Door Hearing  McKeon is focusing on enacting provisions on sexual assault
that were included in the annual defense authorization bill,
spokesman Claude Chafin said in an e-mail. Those include
creating the special victims units of investigators, prosecutors
and counselors that Panetta proposed in April, as well as better
reporting of assault allegations.  McKeon’s House committee plans to hold a closed-door
hearing with Air Force Secretary Michael Donley on the Lackland
scandal next week, Chafin said.  Of the 15 instructors under investigation at Lackland, six
have been charged with crimes, from sexual advances to rape. The
others are being investigated for allegations of improper
sexual contact, non-physical contact through social media and,
in at least two cases, some form of sexual assault.  With no solution in sight, the Air Force is considering
segregated training for women, Rice said.  The approach has worked for the Marine Corps, the only
service branch that trains women separately, said Lieutenant
Colonel Gabrielle Hermes, commanding officer of the 4th Recruit
Training Battalion at Parris Island,  South Carolina , where all
female Marine recruits are trained.  Female Mentors  “It allows them strong female mentors for this
transformation to become a Marine,” Hermes said in an
interview. “This strong female role model is important.”  Davis, the former military prosecutor, said segregated
training is sure to face opposition.  “There’s a philosophy that you’ve got to train like we
fight, and that’s not how we fight,” Davis said of gender
segregation. “When we deploy, it’s men and women. It would seem
in 2012 that we shouldn’t have to segregate like that.”  Fifteen years ago, a commission headed by former senator
Nancy Kassebaum-Baker, a Kansas Republican, found that the
Marines’ separate basic training was producing good results and
recommended that the Army, Navy, and Air Force train and house
new male and female recruits separately. Defense Secretary
 William Cohen  immediately rejected that recommendation, although
he adopted some lesser measures.  Puopolo, the victim of the Navy Tailhook scandal who now
runs a yoga center in  Florida , hesitated when asked whether she
encourages women to join the military.  “All I can say is, ‘Be careful,’” Puopolo said. “Don’t
lose touch with who you are, what’s acceptable, and what’s
not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  