-- Shanda May Increase Fund for China Game Makers, CEO Says
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-07-27T19:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/shanda-may-increase-fund-for-china-game-makers-ceo-says.html
Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) , China’s third-
biggest online games operator, said it may expand a fund that
invests in local game developers as the company seeks to offer
more titles played on Web browsers and mobile phones.  Shanda is seeking outside investors for its 1 billion yuan
($157 million) 18 Capital fund, Chief Executive Officer Alan Tan
said in a phone interview yesterday. The fund, set up by Shanda
in 2007, is currently focused on investments in developers of
games for Web browsers and mobile phones, he said.  Tan is developing slimmed-down versions of Shanda’s most-
popular games including “World of Legend,” played mostly by
users who download the software to personal-computers, to expand
their appeal among more casual Web surfers and smartphone
owners. The Shanghai-based company is also working with Chinese
Internet firms including  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and  Renren Inc. (RENN)  to expand
distribution of its titles in the world’s biggest online market.  “We want to be China’s leading operator and developer of
mobile games,” Tan said. Still, games played on phones probably
won’t make a “clear contribution” to revenue immediately, Tan
said, without providing figures.  Shanda fell 0.9 percent to $3.19 at 3 p.m. in  New York 
trading. The stock has fallen 18 percent this year, trailing
Chinese online game companies  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and
 NetEase.com Inc. (NTES)   Tencent, China’s biggest Internet company, accounted for
43.6 percent of China’s online games market in the first
quarter, according to a July 16 report by BOCOM International.
Second-ranked NetEase had 15 percent market share, ahead of
Shanda’s 10.8 percent, according to BOCOM.  Shanda’s 18 Capital fund had invested  700 million yuan  as
of the third quarter of 2011, according to its website. Shanda
has more than $400 million of cash, Tan said.  Tan said the introduction of new browser and mobile games
will help boost players at Shanda, without providing figures. In
the first quarter, Shanda had an average of 19.1 million active
users a month, 4.3 million of which are paying customers, the
company said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  