-- Singapore Law Professor in Sex-for-Grades Corruption Case
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-07-27T10:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/singapore-law-professor-in-sex-for-grades-corruption-case.html
National University  of Singapore
associate professor of law  Tey Tsun Hang  was charged with
corruption for allegedly trading better grades for sex with a
female student.  The student gave Tey, 41, a Mont Blanc pen, two tailored
shirts, an Apple Inc. iPod Touch and had sex with him twice,
according to a charge sheet filed today at the Subordinate
Courts of Singapore. Tey, who was suspended by the university,
said he would contest the charges.  His prosecution follows the filing of corruption charges
last month against the former director of the country’s drug
agency and Singapore’s former Civil Defence Force chief, for
allegedly accepting sexual favors from female executives seeking
agency contracts. At a separate hearing today, three men were
charged with having sex with an underage prostitute, bringing
the number of men accused in that case to 51.  Tey, who didn’t enter a plea in court today, told reporters
after the hearing that he would defend himself against the
charges “fearlessly and vigorously.”  “I am known to speak up, amongst other things on the
Singapore legal system,” he said. His writings are in good
faith with no ill intent and his defense will be in a similar
vein, Tey said, declining to comment further on this subject.  Academic Writing  Tey has published several books on trusts, according to his
profile on the  National University of Singapore  web site. He
also  authored  “Legal Consensus: Supreme Executive, Supine
Jurisprudence, Suppliant Profession of Singapore” that was
published in September by the University of  Hong Kong ’s Centre
for Comparative and Public Law.  “There is no link between these charges and Mr. Tey’s
academic publications and writing,” the Attorney General’s
Chambers said in an e-mailed statement in response to queries.  Singapore ranks 20th out of 142 countries in judicial
independence, according to the  World Economic Forum ’s report on
global competitiveness.  The National University of Singapore said in a statement
today that it’s investigating Tey.  Tey faces a maximum fine of S$100,000 ($79,888) and a jail
term of as long as five years for each of the six corruption
charges if convicted.  The case is Prosecutor v. Tey Hsun Hang. DAC027011/2012.
The Subordinate Courts of  Singapore .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  