-- Slovakia Needs More Austerity as Tax Revenues Wane, Kazimir Says
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-07-27T11:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/slovakia-needs-more-austerity-as-tax-revenues-wane-kazimir-says.html
Slovakia will require additional
spending cuts and take additional measures to meet the budget
 deficit  target as fading  tax revenue  has put the fiscal goals at
risk, Finance Minister Peter Kazimir said.  Even as the economy is set to expand faster than previously
estimated, the ministry expects to collect about 250 million
euro ($307 million) less than planned in taxes this year,
according to the revised projection released today. Without
additional steps, the  budget deficit  for 2012 would reach 5.3
percent of gross domestic product, up from the targeted 4.6
percent of GDP, Kazimir said.  “The 2012 budget is now nothing more but a scrap of
paper,” Kazimir told journalists in Bratislava, Slovakia. “The
shortfall in tax revenue is an unpleasant surprise for us and I
don’t see any other solution but imposing spending caps.”  The eastern euro-region member is striving to improve its
public finances to protect itself from the region’s debt crisis,
which has already prompted five nations to seek a bailout.
Slovakia’s goal to trim the budget deficit next year below the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of GDP is “unquestionable”
and the government will do anything needed to meet it, Kazimir
said.  Premier  Robert Fico , in power since April, seeks to balance
the need for about 1.8 billion euros in saving and revenue boost
by 2013 with his pre-election pledges to insulate most citizens
from their impact. Among other measures, the government plans to
raise the income tax for companies and best earners and has
already introduced special levies for banks and selected
industries.  The  Finance Ministry  expects the economy to  grow  2.5
percent this year and 2.6 percent in 2013, which should make
Slovakia one of the fastest-growing EU members.  Slovakia’s benchmark 2021 bond yielded 3.28 percent, or
1.94 percentage point more than German bunds with similar
maturity, down from 4.76 percent at the beginning of the year.
The country, rated A and A2 by Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s
Investors Service, respectively, has already met its borrowing
needs for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  