-- Spain Slump Estimate Doubled by IMF as Budget Squeeze Praised
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-07-27T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/spain-slump-estimate-doubled-by-imf-as-budget-squeeze-praised.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
doubled its estimate for the depth of  Spain ’s slump in 2013 even
as it praised budget cuts by Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  that
risk worsening the recession.  Spain’s  economy  may contract 1.2 percent next year, the
Washington-based IMF said in a report today, compared with an
estimate for a 0.6 percent slump published earlier this month.
The economy will shrink 1.7 percent this year, more than the
prior forecast of 1.5 percent, pushing unemployment to 24.9
percent.  “The new fiscal package, regional government actions and
structural measures are broadly in line with staff
recommendations,” the IMF said in the report. The deficit
squeeze will have a “significant impact on growth, especially
in 2013.”  Rajoy announced 65 billion euros ($80 billion) of budget
cuts on July 11, ditching election pledges as he raised value-
added tax, reduced  unemployment benefits  and scrapped tax
rebates. He is trying to stem a surge in borrowing costs to
euro-era records and comply with conditions linked to a 100
billion-euro European bailout for the nation’s banks.  The IMF also praised the terms of the bank rescue, saying
they were “in line” with the fund’s recommendations. Still,
while the loan for banks and agreements to strengthen the euro
region made by leaders last month “mitigate short-term risks,”
they may not be enough, it said.  “Market tensions could intensify further, threatening
 market access , particularly if policies fail to stem capital
outflows or due to further stress elsewhere in the euro area,”
it said. “Downside risks dominate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  