-- Spain Jobless Reaches Post-Franco Record Amid Austerity: Economy
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-07-27T11:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/spanish-unemployment-rises-to-highest-in-democratic-history.html
Spanish  unemployment  rose to the
highest on record after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  made it
easier to fire workers while implementing the steepest budget
cuts in the country’s recent democratic history.  Unemployment, already the  highest  in the European Union,
rose to 24.6 percent in the second quarter from 24.4 percent in
the prior three months, the National Statistics Institute said
in Madrid today. That was the largest proportion since at least
1976, the year after dictator  Francisco Franco  died, prompting
the transition to democracy. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of nine economists was 24.7 percent.  The Bank of Spain said this week that the nation’s
recession deepened in the second quarter as the government
intensified efforts to reduce a budget  deficit  almost as large
as  Greece ’s. Spanish ministers are focusing on reducing the
nation’s debt burden while arguing that the euro area’s monetary
policy isn’t helping them to revive its fourth-largest economy.  “We are pessimistic,” said Jose Antonio Herce, a Madrid-
based economist at Analistas Financieros Internacionales.
“There is every reason to believe activity will contract 2
percent this year and push unemployment to 26 percent.”  Rajoy’s seven-month-old People’s Party government last week
gave up on its forecast for the  economy  to return to expansion
next year, replacing a 0.2 percent growth estimate with a
prediction for a 0.5 percent contraction. Officials anticipate
the economy will shrink 1.5 percent this year while unemployment
will peak at 24.6 percent.  No Breadwinners  Today’s jobs data were in line with government forecasts,
Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said in
Parliament.  More than 50 percent of under 25 year-olds are already
jobless in  Spain  and overall unemployment is as high as 33.9
percent in the southern region of Andalusia, the third-biggest
contributor to the nation’s gross domestic product. The number
of homes with all breadwinners unemployed has reached 1.7
million, up 27 percent from a year ago.  “The prospect of further employment losses and the end of
the tourism season is likely to push the  unemployment rate  above
25 percent,”  Raj Badiani , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London , said in an e-mailed note. “This presents a significant
obstacle to any recovery impetus as Spain is set for a deep and
prolonged recession.”  Room for Maneuver  Ministers have bemoaned Spain’s lack of room for manoeuver
within the single currency to fight its second recession since
2009. The country is experiencing its first major crisis without
being able to devalue or increase the amount of money
circulating, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said July 17.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said yesterday the
 European Central Bank  lacked commitment to the monetary union
even as its president,  Mario Draghi , pledged to do whatever is
necessary to defend it. The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark
bond dropped after the comments and fell further today. It was
down 23 basis points at 6.7 percent at 1:32 p.m. in Madrid.  Support for the ruling PP has declined in opinion polls
amid spending cuts. A 65 billion-euro ($80 billion) austerity
package announced this month, the PP’s fourth since coming to
power, has increased to 10 percent of annual GDP the total
amount of tax increases and spending cuts the government is
trying to implement through 2014.  Labor Overhaul  A labor rule overhaul approved in February made it easier
and cheaper to fire workers, leading companies including fashion
retailer  Adolfo Dominguez SA (ADZ)  and cement-maker  Cementos Portland
SA (CPL)  to shed staff. The government needs to step up such measures
to overhaul the economy as key energy or public administration
reforms have not yet been tackled, Herce said.  “They should’ve been ready to be implemented from day
one,” he said. “The PP knew for more than one year before the
election that it would come to power.”  Elsewhere today,  Japan ’s consumer prices unexpectedly fell
and retail sales missed analysts’ forecasts, adding to evidence
that the economy’s expansion is faltering as gains in the yen
and austerity measures in  Europe  hit exports. In  Thailand ,
industrial output shrank more than economists anticipated in
June, sliding 9.6 percent from a year earlier.  The U.S. Commerce Department will release growth figures
later today. The data may show that the economy expanded in the
second quarter at the slowest pace in ayear. GDP rose at a 1.4
percent annual rate after a 1.9 percent gain in the prior
quarter, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  