-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Spain (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-27T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-spain-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Spain :  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation with
Spain  On July 25, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Spain.  Background  The economy has entered an unprecedented double-dip recession with
unemployment already very high and public debt increasing rapidly.
On the positive side, imbalances are improving, especially the current
account deficit, inflation, and unit labor costs, and deleveraging is
underway. But market confidence remains weak. Spain has suffered a
sharp reversal of private external financing flows in the second half
of 2011 and early 2012. After an LTRO-induced respite, market tensions
re-emerged in the spring. Yields and spreads on Spanish  government bonds 
remain high and banks unable to tap private unsecured financing.  Many major policy actions have been taken in recent months on several
fronts. On banks, provisions and capital requirements have been raised,
independent valuations commissioned, and a backstop provided with support
from Spain’s European partners. The key policies incorporated to accompany
this backstop are: (1) identifying individual bank capital needs based
on a comprehensive asset quality review and an independent bank-by-bank
stress test; (2) recapitalizing, restructuring and/or resolving
weak banks; (3) segregating legacy assets of weak banks into an asset
management company; (4) burden sharing from hybrid/subordinated-debt
holders in banks receiving  (5) strengthening supervision and regulation.  The financial assistance will cover estimated  capital requirements  with an
additional safety margin, estimated as summing up to €100 billion in total,
to be disbursed in several tranches over the 18-month duration of the program.
On fiscal policy, the 2011 fiscal slippage was about 3 percent of GDP,
much worse than expected, underlining the challenges of fiscal consolidation
at all levels of government. The new government introduced a first
package of measures in December, an ambitious 2012 budget was adopted in
June, the fiscal framework was improved, and a scheme for clearing
sub-national arrears was put in place. In July, the Council of the European
Union recommended another year (until 2014) for Spain to reduce its deficit
below 3 percent of GDP and loosened the targets for 2012-14. To help achieve
the new targets, the government recently announced a series of
measures--including increases in VAT and reductions in civil service
remuneration and unemployment benefits. Regarding regional governments,
the government initiated the first step in the warning process for several
regions at risk of missing targets, monthly reporting from October,
and a new funding mechanism. On labor market policy, a profound labor
reform was introduced in February with measures to reduce labor market
duality (by lowering the dismissal costs of permanent workers for unfair
dismissals) and wage rigidity and to increase firms’ internal
inflexibility (by giving priority to firm level agreements over wider
collective agreements).  Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors commended the Spanish authorities for taking decisive
actions on many fronts. Nevertheless, in light of the ongoing private
sector’s deleveraging, heightened market tensions, fiscal retrenchment,
and the high unemployment, Directors noted that the economic outlook
remains very difficult and vulnerable to significant downside risks.
Accordingly, they emphasized the critical importance of sustained efforts
and a clear, credible medium-term strategy for fiscal consolidation,
financial sector restructuring, and structural reforms. Directors agreed
that the success of this strategy in restoring confidence, jobs, and
growth depends critically also on progress at the European level in
strengthening the currency union.  Directors commended the Spanish authorities for the measures taken to
restructure the financial sector in a challenging environment.
They welcomed the European financial assistance for the recapitalization
of Spanish financial institutions and the accompanying policies, as
well as the envisaged role of the Fund in monitoring progress.
Directors stressed the need to continue providing official support
for weak but viable banks, resolve non-viable banks, and implement a
comprehensive strategy to deal with legacy assets. Further efforts are
also needed to upgrade supervision,  crisis management , and the
resolution framework. Directors considered that allowing direct
recapitalization for Spanish banks through the European Stability
Mechanism would help break the adverse feedback loops between the
sovereign and banks, and have positive spillover effects for the wider
euro area. Faster progress toward establishing a common supervisory
mechanism for euro area banks would also boost market confidence.  Directors welcomed the new fiscal package that supports a smoother
path of consolidation in the context of weaker growth, although a few
saw scope for a less front-loaded adjustment. Directors urged the
authorities to adhere strictly to the agreed fiscal path, stressing the
need for a credible medium-term budget strategy to reduce deficits and
safeguard debt sustainability, while protecting the most vulnerable.
In this context, they called on the authorities to take additional
measures as necessary, especially on the revenue side, as well as use
the available tools to enhance fiscal discipline, particularly at the
sub-national level. Directors welcomed significant progress in
strengthening the fiscal framework and looked forward to further
improvements.  Directors underlined the urgency of additional progress in boosting
Competitiveness and jobs, given the high level of unemployment in
particular among the youth. They welcomed the recent labor market
measures, aimed at reducing market duality and wage rigidity, and
increasing firms’ internal flexibility. These efforts should be
complemented with further steps to improve the product and service
markets, and the business environment. More broadly, Directors encouraged
a rapid implementation of the government’s structural reform agenda.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  