-- Suzlon Borrows to Repay $360 Million U.S. Dollar Debt
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-27T14:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/suzlon-said-to-get-300-million-loan-to-repay-bonds-due-today.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s biggest
wind turbine-maker, today paid $360 million to redeem its U.S.
dollar-denominated convertible bonds, Chief Financial Officer
Kirti Vagadia said.  The company borrowed $300 million from lenders including
 State Bank of India , according to a person familiar with the
matter. Suzlon received the 18-month facility from 11 banks and
is paying interest of 350 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate, the person said, asking not to be
identified because the details are private.  Suzlon, after three consecutive years of losses, is seeking
to pay down debt and boost orders amid heightened competition
and an industry supply glut. A cash-crunch at the Pune-based
company prompted it to ask investors this year for a 45-day
extension on the notes originally due June 12.  Suzlon is “not out of the woods yet,” said  Charanjit Singh , a Bangalore-based analyst for HSBC Bank Plc. The length
of the loan is critical to the company, which has about $700
million of obligations to meet in the year ending March 31,
2013, including today’s repayment, and $250 million more the
following financial year, he said.  The company redeemed the debt “from the sale of non-
critical assets, internal accruals and the new facilities from
our senior secured lenders,” Vagadia said an e-mailed
statement, without giving details of the company’s transaction
with the banks.  Suzlon has fallen 68 percent this year making it the third-
worst performing stock on the BSE 200 index. It  dropped  0.6
percent to 17.15 rupees in Mumbai today.  Debt Maturities  Having to  repay  the $300 million loan before the end of the
next financial year in March 2014 could “raise the risk of a
default,” HSBC’s Singh said. The global wind market’s decline,
as European and U.S. governments roll back clean-energy
subsidies, will intensify pricing and margin pressure for
Suzlon, which has seen its market share in  India  drop to 35
percent last year from 49 percent in 2009, he said.  The company has $2.7 billion of bonds and loans  maturing 
before the end of 2017, including the equivalent of about $922
million in revolving facilities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This year, it began principal repayments on 106
billion rupees ($1.9 billion) of bank loans refinanced in 2010
after struggling with debt taken on to buy its German unit
Repower Systems SE and a Belgian gearbox maker.  Convertible Bonds  Suzlon’s foreign-currency bonds redeemed today include $307
million of zero-coupon debt and $53 million of 7.5 percent
notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has another
$209 million of convertible bonds maturing in October, the data
show.  Other lenders to the $300 million loan are  Bank of Baroda ,
 Central Bank of India , ICICI Bank Ltd., IDBI Bank Ltd., Indian
Overseas Bank,  Oriental Bank of Commerce , Punjab National Bank,
 State Bank  of Bikaner & Jaipur, State Bank of Patiala and Yes
Bank Ltd., the person familiar with the matter said today.  State
Bank of India (SBIN)  Capital Markets acted as the lead arranger, the
company said.  Suzlon reported a fourth-quarter loss of 3 billion rupees
on May 25 as sales declined and finance costs increased. It’s
scheduled to report first-quarter results next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  