-- Sweetwater Gets $9 Million to Extract Plant Sugars for Biofuels
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-07-27T01:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/sweetwater-gets-9-million-to-extract-plant-sugars-for-biofuels.html
Sweetwater Energy Inc. , a closely
held company that supplies systems that extract fermentable
sugars from non-food plants, received $9 million to develop its
technology for biofuel and biochemical refiners.  Chief Executive Officer Arunas Chesonis was among the 35
investors, including Riverhorse Investments Inc., Cranberry
Capital and other “wealthy family offices,” Chief Financial
Officer  Keith Wilson  said today by telephone. Funding will be
used to design and build sugar processing facilities for initial
customers, Sweetwater said today in a  statement  on its website.  “In 2013, we expect to have somewhere between two and four
operational,” Wilson said. Each machine will process about 100
tons of biomass a day, using a combination of acids and enzymes
to produce 24,000 tons of sugars annually, he said.  That amount would be enough to produce about 3.4 million
gallons of ethanol a year, Wilson said. The facilities are
modular and some customers may purchase many, or use the sugars
to make biochemicals or bioplastics, he added.  “You can use it effectively as a replacement for
petroleum,” he said.  Oil companies  in the U.S. are mandated to  blend  36 billion
gallons (136 billion liters) of biofuel with their fuel products
by 2022, including 16 billion gallons made from so-called non-
food cellulosic feedstocks.  No commercial volumes  of cellulosic biofuels are produced
currently in the U.S., according to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. Conventional corn ethanol producers may
incorporate Sweetwater’s systems to produce next-generation
fuels at their plants, according to Wilson.  Ethanol Plants  “We can be a component of the first generation ethanol
folks, and we’re working with folks who are looking at moving
into the second generation on a pure basis,” Wilson said.  The company, based in Rochester,  New York ,  began operating 
a pilot facility in March and expects to start up a
demonstration unit in the fourth quarter. Sweetwater in April
announced a  partnership  with BioGasol ApS, a Danish
biotechnology company, to incorporate its biomass pretreatment
processes with Sweetwater’s systems.  “We will build the facility, we will manage the feedstock,
and we will deliver to the end user the industrial sugars,”
Wilson said. “The goal is to put them as close to the feedstock
and the end user as possible,” he said.  The Series A financing follows Sweetwater’s $1.2 million
seed funding round, which was provided primarily from Chesonis
and President and Chief Operating Officer Jack Baron in February
2010, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  