-- Swiss Stocks Advance as EU Leaders Commit to Defend Euro
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-07-27T16:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/swiss-stocks-advance-after-report-ecb-may-purchase-bonds.html
Swiss stocks  climbed to a 13-month
high as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  pledged to protect the euro and the  U.S.
economy  expanded more than estimated.  Cie. Financiere Richemont AG led gains on the  Swiss Market
Index (SMI) , advancing 3.8 percent.  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , the Swiss
bank and brokerage specializing in derivatives, surged 10
percent after first-half net income beat analysts’ estimates.  The SMI rose 1.4 percent to 6,362.82 at the close of
trading in Zurich, extending yesterday’s 1.6 percent jump for a
weekly increase of 1.2 percent. The benchmark measure has
advanced to the highest level since June 2011 after surging 11
percent from this year’s low on June 4. The broader Swiss
Performance Index climbed 1.3 percent today.  “Both  Chancellor Merkel  and President Hollande said that
they would do everything to protect the euro,” Chris Beauchamp,
a market analyst at IG Index in  London , wrote in e-mailed
comments. “In the U.S., GDP growth came in broadly in line with
expectations, at 1.5 percent for the second quarter, so we were
spared any disappointment.”  The SMI rose the most in five weeks yesterday as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers will do
whatever is needed to preserve the euro.  The ECB is preparing a plan to buy Spanish and Italian debt
in the secondary market in the coming weeks to be followed by
purchases in the primary market by government-financed bailout
funds, Le Monde reported today, without citing anyone. An ECB
spokeswoman declined to comment.  ‘Deepest Duty’  Merkel and Hollande said their countries are “bound by the
deepest duty” to keep the euro area intact and that they will
do “everything” necessary to protect the single currency. The
leaders commented in a joint statement made after a telephone
conference today.  The European Financial Stability Facility has 240 billion
euros ($295 billion) in capacity remaining after this month’s
approval of as much as 100 billion euros of aid for  Spain ’s
banks. The permanent 500 billion-euro European Stability
Mechanism is on hold until a German court ruling in September.  “The bailout funds are not big enough to cover Spain and
 Italy  and to solve all these problems,” Stefan Keitel, global
chief investment officer at Credit Suisse Asset Management Ltd.,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “That’s the reason we
have to have the ECB coming up rather sooner than later.”  U.S. Economy  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after a revised 2 percent gain in the prior
period, Commerce Department figures showed. The median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.4
percent increase.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has said the
central bank will pursue “powerful monetary easing” until its
1 percent inflation goal set in February is in sight.  Richemont, the owner of the Cartier brand, added 3.8
percent to 56.80 Swiss francs, its biggest gain in two months.
 Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s largest watchmaker, increased 2.9
percent to 397 francs, its fourth day of gains.  Holcim Ltd., the second-biggest cement maker, advanced 3
percent to 57.30 francs, gaining for a second day.  Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank,
rose 2.8 percent to 16.75 francs. UBS AG, the country’s biggest
lender, added 1.8 percent the 10.52 francs. A gauge of bank
shares was the  second-best performer  on the Stoxx 600 Europe
Index, after automakers.  Vontobel surged 10 percent to 20.40 francs, the biggest
jump in more than ten years. The bank said first-half net income
declined to 66.6 million francs ($68.1 million) from 78 million
francs a year earlier. That compared with the 45.3 million-franc
median estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Nestle SA (NESN) ,  the world’s largest food company , contributed
the most to the SMI’s gain as Danone, the biggest maker of
yogurt, reported increased first-half profit. Nestle shares,
which make up 26 percent of the Swiss gauge by  weighting , rose
1.7 percent to 59.65 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  