-- Syria Pounds Rebel Areas as UN Warns of Confrontation
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-07-27T14:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/syria-pounds-rebel-areas-as-un-warns-of-confrontation.html
Syrian troops loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad clashed with rebels in Aleppo as the  United
Nations  warned of a “major confrontation” in the country’s
largest city.  Opposition groups also reported fighting in the northern
province of Idlib, Daraa to the south and the suburbs of
Damascus, the capital, where the government used helicopter
gunships to blast rebel hideouts, according to the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights. Protests against Assad erupted in
Homs, Hama and other provinces after Friday prayers, Al Arabiya
television reported.  State media said the army killed four “terrorists” after
prayers in Daraa, and authorities dismantled eight bombs near a
mosque in the Damascus suburb of Hajar al-Aswad.  International and regional efforts have failed to end the
violence in  Syria , which began in March 2011 and has left at
least 19,000 people dead, including about 5,000 government
troops, according to the Observatory. At least 40 people were
killed today, including 10 in Daraa, nine in Damascus and its
suburbs and six in Aleppo, the opposition Local Coordination
Committees in Syria said in an e-mail.  United Nations High Commissioner for  Human Rights  Navi Pillay “expressed particular concern about the likelihood of an
imminent major confrontation” in Aleppo, according to a
 statement  posted on the UN website today.  ‘Extremely Volatile’  The International Committee of the  Red Cross  is moving some
of foreign staff out of Damascus to  Beirut  in neighboring
Lebanon due to “security conditions,” spokeswoman Carla Haddad
Mardini said today by phone from Geneva. A 50-member team,
including 11 expatriates, will remain in the city, she said.  “The situation in Aleppo is extremely volatile and in
Damascus, too, thousands of people have fled their homes in
search of safety,” the Red Cross said in a statement.  Aleppo is Syria’s commercial capital with a  population  the
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency estimates at 3 million.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  demanded that Assad’s
government call off the assault and urged all countries to join
in condemnation, including Russia and  China .  Russia and China used their vetoes in the UN Security
Council on July 19 to block for the third time a Western-drafted
resolution that called for an arms embargo and other sanctions
on the Middle Eastern nation.  ‘Utterly Unacceptable’  “I am deeply concerned by reports that the Syrian
government is amassing its troops and tanks around Aleppo and
has already begun a vicious assault on the city and its civilian
population,” Hague said in an e-mailed statement. “This
utterly unacceptable escalation of the conflict could lead to a
devastating loss of civilian life and a humanitarian disaster.”  The U.S. has “grave concerns” about Assad’s military
actions, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
yesterday in  Washington . The U.S. is alarmed that that “we will
see a massacre in Aleppo, and that’s what the regime appears to
be lining up for,” she said.  The newspaper Al-Watan, which is close to the government,
led yesterday with the headline “Aleppo, the mother of all
battles.” Citing an Arab diplomatic source, Al-Watan said,
“Aleppo will be the last battle waged by the Syrian army to
crush the terrorists and after that Syria will emerge from the
crisis.”  Turkish Warning  Turkey  warned that it may take action against Kurdish
groups with links to the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, that
have taken control of several towns in northern Syria near the
Turkish border.  “We won’t allow such a structure on our borders,” Foreign
Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said in a television interview today,
according to the state-run Anatolia news agency. He accused
Assad’s government of permitting the Kurdish groups to seize
border areas in order to stir up ethnic conflict and threaten
Turkey.  Davutoglu’s comments came after Turkish media reported that
a group called the Democratic Union of Kurdistan, affiliated to
the PKK, had taken control of towns near the border including
Kobane and Efrin as Assad’s forces withdrew.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  