-- Syria Pounds Rebels in Aleppo as Civilians Flee
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-07-28T13:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/syria-hits-rebels-in-aleppo-as-vicious-assault-looms.html
Syrian troops loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad clashed with rebels in Aleppo as the former head
of the  United Nations ’ observer mission said Assad’s fall is
“just a matter of time.”  Major General Robert Mood, the Norwegian who commanded the
UN monitoring mission for three months, told a news conference
in Oslo yesterday that “it’s impossible to imagine a future in
Syria where the current people remain in power,” the  Associated
Press  reported.  Still, he said, the Assad government has the military
resources to sustain its fight for months or even years, and its
collapse “could easily be the start of a situation that is way
worse” than the current level of bloodshed.  Aleppo, Syria’s most populous city, is shaping up as the
biggest test yet of opposition fighters’ capabilities against
the regime’s artillery and air power, with thousands of
civilians fleeing the area to avoid what the U.S. warns may be a
“massacre.” The city is  Syria ’s commercial capital with a
 population  the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency estimates at 3
million.  Helicopters, Tanks  Government forces are using military helicopters in Aleppo,
AP reported today, citing activists who said soldiers are
targeting rebel-controlled neighborhoods to crush the opposition
forces for good.  The British Broadcasting Corp. today cited activists who
said troops were moving tanks into the southwestern districts of
Aleppo and that the bombardment of rebel-held areas intensified
this morning, with military aircraft flying over the city at low
altitudes and many casualties.  “I am deeply concerned by reports that the Syrian
government is amassing its troops and tanks around Aleppo and
has already begun a vicious assault on the city and its civilian
population,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “This utterly unacceptable
escalation of the conflict could lead to a devastating loss of
civilian life and a humanitarian disaster.”  ‘Grave Concerns’  The U.S. has “grave concerns” about Assad’s actions,
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said on July 26 in
 Washington . The U.S. is alarmed that “we will see a massacre in
Aleppo, and that’s what the regime appears to be lining up
for,” she said.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, in  London  for the opening
of the  Olympic Games , yesterday appealed to the Syrian
government to halt its offensive.  “The violence from both sides must stop for the sake of
the suffering civilians,” he said, as he has before without
effect in recent months.  Opposition groups also reported fighting in the northern
province of Idlib, Daraa to the south and the suburbs of
Damascus, the capital, where the government used helicopter
gunships to blast rebel hideouts, according to the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights. Protests against Assad erupted in
Homs, Hama and other provinces after Friday prayers, Al Arabiya
television reported.  At the UN in  New York , the  Arab League  circulated a draft
resolution for the 193-member General Assembly calling on Ban to
arrange for “prompt investigations” of Syria’s stockpile of
chemical weapons. The League also demanded that Assad secure the
arsenal amid reports of movement of such weapons.  Ignoring Sanctions  The largely symbolic resolution is meant to show the scale
of international opinion since such assembly measures are only
binding if approved by the  Security Council , where Russia and
 China  have protected Syria with their veto power. A vote is
expected on Aug. 1.  Russia will ignore new European Union sanctions requiring
EU governments to search vessels suspected of carrying weapons
into Syria, Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman for the Foreign
Ministry, said today. The EU introduced sanctions against Syria
on July 23.  International and regional efforts have failed to end the
violence in Syria, which began in March 2011 and has left at
least 19,000 people dead, including about 5,000 government
troops, according to the Observatory.  Syrian state media said the army killed four “terrorists”
after prayers in Daraa, and authorities dismantled eight bombs
near a mosque in the Damascus suburb of Hajar al-Aswad.  The International Committee of the  Red Cross  is moving some
of its foreign staff out of Damascus to  Beirut  in neighboring
Lebanon due to “security conditions,” spokeswoman Carla Haddad
Mardini said yesterday by phone from Geneva. A 50-member team,
including 11 expatriates, will remain in the city, she said.  ‘Extremely Volatile’  “The situation in Aleppo is extremely volatile and in
Damascus, too, thousands of people have fled their homes in
search of safety,” the Red Cross said in a statement.  The BBC today reported that a “steady stream” of vehicles
carrying families is leaving Aleppo.  U.S. Ambassador to SyriaRobert Ford stressed in a
statement to the Syrian people yesterday the need for individual
accountability for crimes being committed in the country and the
importance of justice rather than retribution in a post-Assad
era.  “Neither a community nor an ethnicity must be blamed for
the actions of individuals in the regime,” he wrote on the U.S.
embassy’s Facebook page. “It must be clear that only
individuals who committed crimes against humanity will be
identified and held accountable for their abhorrent actions.”  Internationally backed initiatives, such as the Syrian
Justice and Accountability Center, will “coordinate efforts to
research and collect evidence of  human-rights  violations for use
in future Syria-led transitional justice processes,” according
to Ford.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  