-- U.K. Stocks Climb Amid Pledges on Euro; Barclays Rallies
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-27T16:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/u-k-stocks-climb-amid-pledges-on-euro-barclays-rallies.html
U.K. stocks  rose to a one-week high,
led by a rally in banks, as European leaders pledged to protect
the euro and U.S. economic growth exceeded forecasts.  Barclays Plc climbed 8.7 percent, the most in six months,
after reporting better-than-estimated earnings.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds (LLOY)  Banking Group Plc also advanced.
 Anglo American (AAL)  Plc and  Pearson Plc (PSON)  paced declining shares after
they reported declines in profit.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index added 54.05 points, or 1 percent, to
5,627.21 at the close in London, paring the weekly declined to
0.4 percent. The gauge jumped 1.4 percent yesterday after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers
will do whatever it takes to preserve the euro and act on
surging bond yields. The broader FTSE All-Share Index climbed 1
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.8 percent.  “More rhetoric out of Europe from the leaders of France
and Germany boosted confidence today,” said  Angus Campbell ,
head of market analysis at Capital Spreads in London. “Even
though market expectations of a euro break up in some shape or
form have increased, investors were willing to buy equities.”  Stocks rallied as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Francois Hollande  said their countries are
“bound by the deepest duty” to keep the euro area intact and
that they will do “everything” necessary to protect the single
currency.  Fulfill Commitments  In a joint statement made after a telephone conference
today, Merkel and Hollande added that the 17 members of the euro
as well as institutions must fulfill their commitments “within
their own areas of competence.”  Spanish and Italian bonds surged for a third day amid
speculation policy makers will sanction purchases of government
debt to ease the debt crisis. Italy’s  10-year yields  fell below
6 percent for the first time in a week after Le Monde, a French
newspaper, reported that the ECB is preparing to buy securities
in the secondary market, followed by primary-market purchases
from the region’s bailout funds.  The  U.S. economy , thew world’s largest, expanded at a 1.5
percent annual rate in the second quarter after a revised 2
percent gain in the prior period, Commerce Department data
showed today. The median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 1.4 percent increase.  Barclays Jumps  Barclays (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-biggest lender by assets,
rallied 8.7 percent to 167 pence. The lender, which is searching
for a new management team in the wake of the Libor scandal,
reported a 13 percent increase in first-half pretax profit
excluding debt-valuation adjustments and other one-time items to
4.2 billion pounds ($6.6 billion). That beat the 3.9 billion-
pound median analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The shares climbed even as the bank disclosed that U.K.
regulators are investigating four current and former senior
employees, including Finance Director Chris Lucas, over the
disclosure of fees related to a fundraising in 2008.  RBS climbed 3.2 percent to 214.5 pence, Lloyds increased
3.7 percent to 30.21 pence and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  rose 1.8
percent to 1,493 pence.  UBM Plc (UBM)  gained 7.5 percent to 652.5 pence after the
publisher of InformationWeek said it may sell its data services
division to invest in businesses with better returns. First-half
net income climbed 11 percent from a year earlier to 55.5
million pounds.  William Hill Plc (WMH)  surged 7.1 percent to 311.1 pence, the
highest since January 2008. The U.K. bookmaker reported first-
half pretax profit and revenue that exceeded estimates.  Anglo American  Anglo American slid 3.6 percent to 1,894 pence, the lowest
price since October 2009, after the mining company said first-
half earnings tumbled 46 percent, more than analysts expected,
as commodity prices declined.  Anglo also said its Minas-Rio iron-ore project in Brazil
will probably start shipping ore in the second half of 2014, a
year later than planned. The company, which in December said the
cost may rise to $5.8 billion, is assessing the effect of the
delay on spending.  Pearson declined 5 percent to 1,230 pence after the owner
of the Financial Times said first-half operating profit shrank
9.6 percent to 188 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  