-- Treasuries Fall Third Day on Bets Central Banks Will Spur Growth
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-07-27T11:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/u-s-treasuries-decline-with-10-year-yield-rising-to-1-46-.html
Treasuries fell for a third day on
speculation major central banks from the Federal Reserve to the
 Bank of Japan  will boost measures to revive the global economy.  Two-year notes headed for the first weekly loss since June
as French President  Francois Hollande  and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  were to speak today about how to help  Spain .
Officials will do everything possible to preserve the euro,
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday. A
U.S. report today is forecast to show gross-domestic-product
growth slowed in the second quarter.  “Some of the fear was driven out of the market by Draghi’s
comments yesterday,” said  Philip Marey , a senior market
economist at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, the Netherlands. “This
could be a temporary thing, and we are waiting for the GDP
numbers. Yields are extremely low but at the same time the
circumstances that have led to these levels remain.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.46 percent at 7:20 a.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
maturing in May 2022 declined 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face
amount, to 102 19/32.  Two-year yields  were little changed at 0.23 percent, having
climbed three basis points since July 20, the first weekly
increase since the period ended June 22.  Hollande told reporters he would speak to Merkel today
about implementing last month’s summit agreements and on how to
help Spain reduce its borrowing costs.  Draghi Comments  “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro,” Draghi said in a speech in  London ,
yesterday, fueling speculation the central bank may resume its
bond-purchase program. His comments sparked a rally in Spanish
and Italian bonds.  Germany ’s Bundesbank said restarting the ECB’s bond-
purchase program was not the best way to address the
sovereign debt crisis. A spokesman for the Frankfurt-based
Bundesbank also said it opposes giving Europe’s rescue fund a
banking license so that it can borrow from the ECB.  U.S. GDP growth slowed to an annual rate of 1.4 percent in
the second quarter, from 1.9 percent in the previous three
months, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before the Commerce Department reports the figure today.  Inflation Bets  Yields indicate investors are cutting bets on inflation as
growth slows. The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate ,
a measure of expectations for prices that the  Federal Reserve 
uses to guide monetary policy, fell to 2.39 percentage points on
July 24, the least in four months and below the average of 2.75
for the past decade.  “Treasury bond yields will decline further,” said
Hiromasa Nakamura, who invests in Treasuries in  Tokyo  at Mizuho
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $42
billion and is part of  Japan ’s third-biggest bank. “The economy
is very fragile. Inflation is subdued.”  The U.S. central bank plans to sell as much as $8 billion
of Treasuries due from May to September 2015 today, according to
the Fed Bank of New York  website . The sales are part of the
central bank’s effort to swap short-term Treasuries in its
holdings for those with longer maturities, supporting the
economy by pushing long-term borrowing costs lower.  Treasury 10-year yields will probably stay between 1.40
percent and 1.50 percent for the remainder of 2012, Rabobank’s
Marey said. The yield will climb to 1.90 percent by year-end,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 