-- U.S. Muni Debt Gains Fourth Straight Week as Issuance Declines
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-07-27T15:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/u-s-muni-debt-gains-fourth-straight-week-as-issuance-declines.html
U.S. municipal bonds gained for the
fourth straight week, the best streak since May, as a slowdown
in issuance by states and cities helped push yields toward
record lows.  The  yield  on top-rated, tax-exempt bonds due in 10 years
dropped about 0.1 percentage point this week to 1.63 percent at
11 a.m. in New York, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index.
That’s about the  lowest  since the index began in January 2009.
Yields move inversely to bond prices.  Municipalities sold about $7 billion in debt this week, the
least for a non-holiday-week since the period ending May 11,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Meanwhile, investors added
about $1.65 billion to U.S. municipal mutual funds in the past
two weeks, the most since May, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  “Supply has been moderate, demand has been favorable, and
munis -- with yields above Treasuries and in many cases above
corporates -- have been seen as a store of value in a very low
interest-rate environment,” said David Manges, municipal
trading manager at BNY Mellon Capital Markets LLC in Pittsburgh.  Interest rates  on 10-year tax-exempt municipal bonds have
exceeded those on similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries since mid-
May, the longest stretch since 2009. A  ratio  above 100 signals
that local debt is cheaper than its federal counterpart.  The ratio fell to about 108 percent today, the lowest since
May, as European leaders said they’ll do “everything”
necessary to save the euro, reducing haven demand. Ten-year
Treasuries are poised for their first weekly loss since June.  The  yield  on U.S. industrial corporate debt rated A, the
sixth-highest grade by  Standard & Poor’s , was 2.48 percent
yesterday, according to a Bloomberg Fair Value index data.
Similarly rated munis yielded  2.72 percent .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  