-- U.S. Sets Duties on Chinese, Vietnamese Wind Towers
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-07-27T21:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/u-s-sets-duties-as-high-as-73-on-chinese-tower-imports.html
Proposed U.S. tariffs on  wind-energy 
towers from China and Vietnam were welcomed by a trade group
that had complained competitors were dumping  products in the
American market.  The Commerce Department concluded in preliminary findings
yesterday that producers in the nations, which exported $301
million in towers to the U.S. in 2011, sold the utility-scale
goods below production costs. The department, which set duties
as high as 73 percent for Chinese products and 60 percent for
goods from Vietnam, acted on a complaint by U.S. companies such
as  Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)  of Naperville, Illinois. Broadwind rose
13 percent in trading yesterday.  “Commerce has taken an important step to address the
significant dumping that is taking place,”  Alan Price , an
attorney with Wiley Rein LLP in Washington who represents the
U.S. group, said in a  statement . Duties will help to “force the
Chinese and Vietnamese producers to compete fairly.”  The U.S. has imposed duties on numerous types of renewable-
energy products from China in recent months, prompting
retaliation in an escalation of trade tensions between the
world’s two largest economies. President  Barack Obama  and
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  have pledged
stronger enforcement of trade actions against China, ahead of
U.S. elections in November.  Officials from the Chinese and Vietnamese embassies in
Washington didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Broadwind, Trinity  The Wind Tower Trade Coalition, a group of U.S.
manufacturers, in December filed its complaint against Chinese
producers with the Obama administration. The group also includes
 Otter Tail Corp. (OTTR) ’s DMI Industries, Katana Summit LLC and a unit
of  Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN) , along with Broadwind.  Broadwind rose 4 cents to 30 cents in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The shares are down 57 percent this year.  The anti-dumping measures for Chinese wind-tower exporters
include a 21 percent duty for  Titan Wind Energy Suzhou Co. (002531) ,
according to a Commerce Department fact sheet. CS Wind Corp.,
 Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)  and Guodian United Power Technology
Baoding Co. will be subject to duties of 26 percent. Chengxi
Shipyard Co. received duties of 31 percent, and all other
Chinese producers and exporters will pay the 73 percent rate.  CS Wind’s Vietnamese unit will be subject to a 53 percent
duty, while all other manufacturers in the country received a 60
percent rate.  The Commerce Department will make a final determination for
both nations on Dec. 16. In the meantime, U.S. Customs and
Border Protection officers will collect duties based on the
rates announced today.  Government Subsidies  “China has ramped up the wind-tower production and done it
in a way that is not reflective of market forces,” said  Scott Paul , the  executive director  for the Washington-based Alliance
for American Manufacturing. “I’m hopeful these tariffs will
give the American wind-energy manufacturers the breathing space
to compete for more market space in the U.S.”  The Commerce Department on May 30 set duties as high as 26
percent on wind-tower imports from China to compensate for
government subsidies, siding with U.S. manufacturers.  The U.S. imported about $222 million of utility-scale wind
towers -- the steel structures that support engines and turbine
blades -- from China last year, according to the agency. Similar
imports from Vietnam were valued at $79 million.  The U.S. market for wind towers this year is valued at $1
billion and $1.5 billion, according to Amy Grace, an analyst for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  New York . If the U.S. production
tax credit for wind energy expires at the end of the year as
scheduled, those those figures may decline to $100 million to
$400 million, she said in an e-mail.  Solar Energy  In a separate action, the Commerce Department on May 17 set
anti-dumping tariffs of 31 percent to 250 percent on imports of
Chinese solar-energy products, after a complaint by
manufacturers including the U.S. unit of  SolarWorld AG. (SWV)  The
agency in March announced duties of as much as 4.73 percent to
offset subsidies received from China’s government, and last
month determined that the country’s producers benefited from
additional state support. A final ruling on those duties is
scheduled for October.  In a complaint May 24 to the Geneva-based  World Trade
Organization , China’s Ministry of Commerce said renewable-energy
programs in California, Massachusetts,  New Jersey , Ohio and
Washington state violate global trade policies. The nation has
also said it filed a complaint at the WTO, alleging that U.S.
anti-subsidy duties undercut $7.3 billion in Chinese products
including solar panels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  