-- U.S. Home vacancy Rate Falls as Housing Demand Improves
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-07-27T16:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/u-s-home-vacancy-rate-falls-as-demand-for-housing-improves.html
The U.S. home-vacancy rate, a
measure of properties empty and for sale, fell to the lowest
level since 2006 as demand for housing improved and lenders
slowed property repossessions.  The rate declined to 2.1 percent in the second quarter from
2.2 percent in the previous three months and 2.5 percent a year
earlier, the Census Bureau said today in a report from
 Washington . A gauge that measures the share of Americans who own
their homes rose to 65.5 percent from a 15-year low of 65.4
percent in the prior quarter.  The inventory of available homes is dwindling amid growing
investor purchases of discounted foreclosures and other
distressed properties. Public builders, which have reported
increased orders this year, are turning out new houses to meet
demand from traditional buyers who are being crowded out by
cash-paying investors.  The vacancy decline “means builders will have another
reason to start ramping up on construction,” said  Patrick
Newport , an economist for IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “The reason home construction has been so low
since 2009 is because so many people moved back in with their
parents. The household formation rate just dropped sharply so we
didn’t need to build a lot of homes.”  Short Sales  While foreclosure starts rose 6 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the first annual increase since
2009, home seizures fell 22 percent, according to data provider
RealtyTrac Inc. Lenders have been using alternatives to
repossessions such as short sales, where the price is less than
what the delinquent borrower owes. One advantage to a short sale
is that the property doesn’t sit vacant.  The home-vacancy rate in the second quarter matched the 2.1
percent rate reached in the first three months of 2006.  For  rental homes , the vacancy rate fell to 8.6 percent in
the second quarter, the lowest since the second quarter of 2002.
The rate was 9.2 percent a year earlier and 8.8 percent in the
first quarter, the Census Bureau said in today’s report.  The homeownership rate in the second quarter declined from
65.9 percent a year earlier, according to the report. It reached
a record 69.2 percent in June 2004. Foreclosures, strict lending
standards and an  unemployment rate  stuck above 8 percent are
limiting home purchases and pushing more people into rentals.  Renter Households  The U.S. added 5 million more renter households since the
homeownership rate peaked, according to Greg Willett, vice
president of MPF Research, a Carrollton, Texas, based apartment-
data firm that is a division of  RealPage Inc. (RP)   “There’s a doubling up and a tremendous amount of young
adults living with mom and dad,” Willett said.  About 1.5 million to 2 million people in their 20s and
early 30s who normally would be living on their own now live
with their parents, he said.  The homeownership rate may drop further as lenders step up
actions against delinquent borrowers following an agreement in
February by the nation’s biggest lenders to settle allegations
of abusive practices.  The share of American who own their homes may drop to 64
percent within two years,  Paul Diggle , property economist for
Capital Economics Ltd., wrote in a note today.  The decline is temporary, and buyers will return to the
market when economic pressures ease, Diggle said yesterday in a
telephone interview from  London .  “Homeownership is still viewed as a central idea of the
American dream so I think demand will come back,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  