-- U.S. Said to Set Duties as High as 73% on Chinese Towers
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-07-27T17:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/u-s-said-to-set-duties-as-high-as-73-on-chinese-towers.html
The U.S. Commerce Department set
tariffs of as much as 73 percent on imports of wind towers from
 China  and as much as 60 percent on similar products made in
Vietnam, people familiar with the decision said.  The agency today made preliminary findings in its
investigation of whether producers in the Asian nations are
selling utility-scale wind towers in the U.S. below production
costs, according to people who declined to be identified before
the agency announces the decision.  The department is investigating a complaint filed by U.S.
manufacturers including  Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)  of Naperville,
Illinois. The agency on May 30 set duties as high as 26 percent
on wind-tower imports from China to compensate for government
subsidies, siding with U.S. manufacturers.  The U.S. has imposed duties on numerous types of renewable-
energy products from China in recent months, prompting
retaliaton in an escalation of trade tensions between the
world’s two largest economies. President  Barack Obama  and
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney have pledged
stronger enforcement of trade actions against China, ahead of
U.S. elections in November.  The Wind Tower Trade Coalition, a group of U.S.
manufacturers, in December filed its complaint against Chinese
producers with the Obama administration. In addition to
Broadwind, the group includes  Otter Tail Corp. (OTTR) ’s DMI Industries,
Katana Summit LLC and a unit of  Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN)  The
Commerce Department in May set preliminary anti-subsidy duties
on Chinese exporters and producers, including CS Wind China Co.
and  Titan Wind Energy Suzhou Co. (002531)   Import Value  The U.S. imported about $222 million of utility-scale wind
towers -- the steel structures that support engines and turbine
blades -- from China last year, according to the agency.  The Commerce Department on May 17 set anti-dumping tariffs
of 31 percent to 250 percent on imports of Chinese solar-energy
products, after a complaint by manufacturers including the U.S.
unit of  SolarWorld AG. (SWV)  The agency in March announced duties of
as much as 4.73 percent to offset subsidies received from
China’s government, and last month determined that the country’s
producers benefited from additional state support. A final
ruling on those duties is scheduled for October.  In a complaint May 24 to the Geneva-based World Trade
Organization, China’s Ministry of Commerce said renewable-energy
programs in California, Massachusetts,  New Jersey , Ohio and
Washington state violate global trade policies. The nation has
also said it filed a complaint at the WTO, alleging that U.S.
anti-subsidy duties undercut $7.3 billion in Chinese products
including solar panels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  