-- Universal Said to Offer Sale of EMI Classics, Most of Parlophone
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-07-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/universal-music-offers-eu-antitrust-concessions-over-emi-bid-1-.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group 
offered European regulators to dispose of local assets that may
fetch more than 250 million euros ($309 million) to soothe
antitrust concerns over its takeover of EMI Group’s recorded-
music business, said one person familiar with the matter.  Universal offered to sell Parlophone Records, home to
Coldplay and Gorillaz, in the U.K. while keeping the label’s
Beatles songs, the person said yesterday, declining to be
identified as the matter is not public. The company would also
sell some labels including EMI Classics and Virgin Classics in
Europe and EMI’s units in France, Belgium, the  Czech Republic ,
Poland, Portugal, Norway and Sweden to get approval for the 1.2
billion-pound ($1.9 billion) deal, the person said.  Universal Music , the world’s largest record company,
yesterday said it submitted a package of concessions to European
Union regulators. Universal has a list of about 20 entities,
ranging from independent music labels to major rivals such as
 Sony Music Entertainment  and Bertelsmann AG’s BMG Rights
Management LLC, which have indicated interest for assets
potentially up for sale, according to two people familiar with
the process.  “We believe the package fully addresses the commission’s
concerns and follows our constructive discussions with
regulators, independent labels and competitors,” Universal said
in an e-mailed statement, adding that it’s “confident of
receiving clearance.”  Market Testing  The offer will now be circulated to third-party record
labels and customers for so-called market testing.  A Universal representative declined to comment on details
of the concessions. A representative for BMG also declined to
comment.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed in November to sell EMI Group’s
recorded-music and publishing businesses in separate
transactions. Universal agreed to buy EMI’s record labels and a
 Sony Corp (6758) .-led group that includes billionaire  David Geffen  paid
$2.2 billion for the publishing unit.  Universal also offered to sell the Virgin Classics label in
Europe and the British catalogue of  Pink Floyd . A sale of
Chrysalis Records would not include songs by  Robbie Williams ,
the person said.  Proposed Concessions  Universal is also proposing to divest some its own
businesses, including Sanctuary Records, its business in Greece
and several European jazz labels, EMI Chief Executive Officer
Roger Faxon said in an internal e-mail to employees yesterday.  Universal would keep the biggest parts of the EMI Records
and Virgin Records businesses in Europe under the proposed
concessions, the person said.  Richard Branson  said this month he would bid for Virgin
Records, the music label he started in London in the 1970s,
should Universal sell the asset.  Branson had held talks with Patrick Zelnik about bidding
together, Nick Fox, Branson’s spokesman, has said. Zelnik
started Virgin Records in France in the 1980s and is co-
president of Impala, an independent record labels group based in
Brussels.  Smaller independent companies will be allowed to bid first
for some assets, the person said. The deadline for the European
review of Universal’s bid is Sept. 27.  Universal would re-invest the proceeds from the sale to
rebuild EMI, the person said.  Vivendi yesterday rose 1.3 percent to 15.42 euros in Paris
trading, valuing the company at 20.1 billion euros. The stock
has declined 5.8 percent this year.  Competition Concerns  EU regulators last month sent Universal a list of potential
competition problems, noting the deal would remove a key rival
and could harm competition for music sales. While regulators can
block potentially anti-competitive deals, companies usually try
to eliminate such concerns by offering to sell units or promise
to change business behavior.  Universal would be “almost twice the size of the next
largest player” in  Europe , the EU said in March when it started
an in-depth probe into the EMI deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  