-- UPS’s EU Deadline for TNT Express Bid Extended by Extra 10 Days
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-27T10:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/ups-s-eu-deadline-for-tnt-express-bid-extended-by-extra-10-days.html
European Union regulators extended
their review of  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ’s bid for  TNT Express
NV (TNTE)  by 10 working days until Dec. 12.  The European Commission didn’t specify the reason for the
delay that was  signaled  in a filing on its website today. The
time limit for the regulatory review of deals can be prolonged
at the request of the companies or officials.  UPS, the world’s biggest package-delivery company, is
seeking to expand in  Europe  with the biggest deal in its 105-
year history. It will vault to equal footing there with  Deutsche
Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, the market-share leader. The tie-up with money-
losing TNT will immediately add to earnings on an adjusted basis
once the deal is done, the company said in March.  Atlanta-based UPS said earlier this month it expects the
acquisition to close in the fourth quarter. It plans to extend
its 5.16 billion-euro ($6.3 billion) cash offer for TNT beyond
Aug. 31.  Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman for UPS, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment before U.S. business hours.
Ernst Moeksis, a Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based spokesman for TNT,
didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail message and an e-mail
seeking comment.  TNT shares fell as much as 1.1 percent to 8.80 euros in
Amsterdam trading. They  traded  at 8.83 euros at 12:30 p.m., down
0.8 percent. UPS is offering 9.50 euros a share.  EU regulators said last week there are potential
competition concerns for small parcel delivery services, in
particular international express services, in several European
countries where the companies would have very high combined
market shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  