-- Turkey Warns of Threat From Kurdish Groups in Northern Syria
-- B y   B e n   H o l l a n d
-- 2012-07-27T14:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/turkey-warns-of-threat-from-kurdish-groups-in-northern-syria.html
Turkey  warned that it may take
action against Kurdish groups with links to the Kurdistan
Workers’ Party, or PKK, that have taken control of several towns
in northern  Syria  near the Turkish border.  “We won’t allow such a structure on our borders,” Foreign
Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said in a television interview today,
according to the state-run Anatolia news agency. He accused
President Bashar al-Assad’s government of permitting the Kurdish
groups to seize border areas in order to stir up ethnic conflict
and threaten its neighbor.  Davutoglu’s comments came after Turkish media reported that
a group called the Democratic Union of Kurdistan, affiliated to
the PKK, had taken control of towns near the border including
Kobane and Efrin as Assad’s forces withdrew.  The PKK, which has its main bases in Kurdish-controlled
northern Iraq, has been fighting for autonomy in largely Kurdish
southeast Turkey for almost three decades, in a conflict that
has left about 40,000 people dead, mostly Kurds. Turkey, the
U.S. and the European Union classify it as a terrorist group.  Turkey, a former ally of Assad’s, is now one of the main
backers of the Syrian rebels fighting to end his rule and allows
them to operate from its territory.  Under Assad’s father, Hafez, Syria backed the PKK and
hosted its leader,  Abdullah Ocalan , and the group’s main camps
for several years. It ended that support after Turkey massed
troops near the border in 1998 and threatened an incursion.  Aleppo Population  Davutoglu said efforts by Kurdish groups to dominate parts
of northern Syria would lead to tensions with the majority Arabs
and other groups, including ethnic Turks. He said Kurds make up
about 10 percent of the population of Aleppo, Syria’s biggest
city, where clashes between security forces and rebels are
intensifying.  Davutoglu is due to visit northern Iraq in the coming weeks
for talks with its Kurdish leader,  Massoud Barzani . Erdogan
yesterday warned the Iraqi Kurds not to collaborate with the
Kurdish groups in northern Syria.  Some Kurdish organizations have historically argued for a
state that would bring together Kurds living in Turkey,  Iraq ,
 Iran  and Syria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Holland in Istanbul at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  