-- Vontobel Climbs as Profits Surprise After Client Inflows
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-07-27T08:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/vontobel-first-half-profit-drops-15-amid-low-customer-activity.html
Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , a Swiss bank
and brokerage specializing in derivatives, surged in Zurich
trading after first-half profit beat expectations and clients
added new funds.  Net income declined 15 percent to 66.6 million Swiss francs
($68.1 million) from 78 million francs a year earlier, the
Zurich-based bank said today in a  statement . That compares with
the 45.3 million-franc median  estimate  of four analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The  shares  jumped as much as 9.7 percent for the biggest
gain in more than three years and were up 8.7 percent to 20.10
francs as of 9:52 a.m. in Zurich, valuing the company at 1.31
billion francs.  “It was a pretty good performance given the ugly market
environment, and they’ve got costs reasonably under control,”
said  Tim Dawson , an analyst at Helvea SA in Geneva, who has a
neutral rating on the stock. “The standout is the asset-
management unit.”  Pretax profit in the asset-management unit almost doubled
to 34.7 million francs even as “difficult markets” impeded
earnings across the firm. The private-banking business had a
“very subdued performance” and pretax profit from  investment
banking  slumped 42 percent to 44.3 million francs on declining
trading volumes, Vontobel said.  Net Inflows  Vontobel reported net inflows of 5.3 billion francs
compared with 3.4 billion francs in the same period a year ago.
That helped boost client assets under management by 10 percent
to 90.5 billion francs from the end of December. The gain in
client assets enabled the firm to maintain the same level of
commission income as for the first half of 2011, according to
the statement.  The cost-to-income ratio, a measure of profitability,
worsened to 79.3 percent compared with 78.3 percent a year
earlier. Vontobel “must implement a lean cost structure,” the
firm said in a letter to shareholders published in its  financial
report . While the company said it reduced expenses 5 percent
compared with the first six month of 2011, headcount was little
changed at 1,411.  “We’re expecting a challenging environment in the coming
months,” Chief Executive Officer Zeno Staub told reporters on a
conference call today, adding that political uncertainty around
the euro region’s debt crisis was discouraging clients from
investing. “We’re approaching these challenges with a clear
focus and growth strategy.”  The firm is targeting 175 billion francs of total client
assets, including those held in custody, by 2014, compared with
139.4 billion francs reported today.  Staub reiterated Vontobel is seeking acquisitions in
private banking or asset management and has about 600 million
francs of capital to finance a transaction.  The bank, majority-owned by a shareholder pool including
the founding family, said July 13 it has offered to buy  BB
Biotech AG (BION) , an  investment company  that focuses on drugmakers,
for about 1.4 billion francs.  “We’re leaving it now to the constructive dialogue of BB
Biotech’s investors to make up their mind,” Staub said today,
declining to say whether the shareholders were given a deadline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  