-- Wadhwani Says Draghi Must Break Pattern of Disappointing Markets
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   L i n d a   Y u e h
-- 2012-07-27T16:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/wadhwani-says-draghi-must-break-pattern-of-disappointing-markets.html
Former Bank of England policy maker
Sushil Wadhwani said European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  must follow through on his comments this week and break a
pattern of euro-area officials disappointing investors.  Draghi said yesterday the ECB would do “whatever it takes
to preserve the euro,” comments that helped boost European
stocks and bonds.  “The typical pattern right through this crisis has been
one where they make certain statements that get markets excited
and then we unfortunately have to grapple with the detail,”
Wadhwani, founder of Wadhwani Asset Management LLP, said on
Bloomberg Television in  London  today. “And when the markets
realize that actually they are willing to do less than initially
meets the eye, markets then sell off.”  Spanish and Italian bonds advanced for a third day on
speculation the ECB will sanction purchases of government debt
in its so-called Securities Market Program to ease the debt
crisis. Italy’s 10-year yield fell below 6 percent for the first
time in more than a week, while the Spanish yield dropped 18
basis points to 6.74 percent after surging to a euro-era record
7.751 percent on July 25. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 1.3
percent.  “Given his language, one has to be hopeful that one is
going to hear something new and decisive next week, but
unfortunately so far, it hasn’t been sensible to be hopeful,”
Wadhwani said of Draghi’s comments. “My fear though is that if
all that happens is that he reactivates SMP and buys a few
Spanish and Italian bonds, it doesn’t get you very far.”  “We have to see whether they can break the pattern this
time,” he said. Draghi “is quite hemmed in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Yueh  in London at 
 lyueh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  