-- Energy From Waves, Tides May Bring 3 Billion Pounds to U.K.
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-27T14:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/wave-tidal-power-may-bring-3-billion-pounds-to-u-k-s-economy.html
Wave and tidal energy has the
potential to bring 3 billion pounds ($4.7 billion) a year to the
U.K. economy, according to the Carbon Trust, a group set up to
advise business and government on how to reduce emissions.  The industry could also create 8 billion pounds of exports
and 26,000 new jobs, Stephen Wyatt, head of technology
acceleration at the organization, said today at a conference in
 London . He didn’t specify when those gains might be realized.  Energy from the waves and tides has the potential to meet
11 percent of the U.K.’s current energy needs by 2050, Wyatt
said. No commercial-scale projects are operating now because the
technology remains in its infancy and expensive to develop.  Wave and tidal technology developers still need to lower
costs and prove their devices work at full-scale, said Wyatt.
Energy from the waves currently costs about $484 a megawatt-hour
and tidal power costs about $440 a megawatt-hour. This compares
to coal-fired electricity at $82 a megawatt-hour.  The industry  this week  received a boost as the U.K.
government said it will more than double its support for marine
energy under its Renewable Obligation Certificate program that
requires utilities to buy increasing amounts of electricity from
clean sources.  Wave and tidal energy is now eligible to receive five
certificates a megawatt-hour, up from the previous two. Five
ROCs equates to about 210 pounds, at  current ROC prices .  “To get the industry off the ground we need equity
investment to develop commercial products and project equity to
fund installation of technology at the sea,” Martin McAdam,
chief executive officer of wave company Aquamarine Power Ltd.,
said by e-mail. “The five ROC announcement is an important step
in ensuring we give investors’ confidence to invest in this
sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  