-- Weill Comments Revive Washington Debate on ‘Too-Big-to-Fail’
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-07-27T22:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/weill-comments-revive-washington-debate-over-too-big-to-fail-.html
Sanford “Sandy” Weill’s call this
week for breaking up large banks revived debate in Washington
over “too-big-to-fail” lenders, prompting renewed assertions
by industry groups that size yields economic benefits.  Downsizing would impede U.S. banks’ ability to serve the
country’s largest businesses and would lead companies to use
foreign banks instead, said  Frank Keating , president and chief
executive officer of the  American Bankers Association .  “It’s time to push the pause button on flawed proposals
that would damage the  U.S. economy ,” Keating said in a
statement today.  Keating and others commented after Weill, the former
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  CEO who helped champion the repeal of the
Depression-era law that split deposit-taking from  investment
banking , said in a July 25 CNBC television interview that he now
believes the separation should be reinstated.  “A big-bank bust-up on these simple, if alluring, criteria
will do nothing to make banking safer,” Karen Shaw Petrou, a
managing partner and co-founder of Federal Financial Analytics
Inc., said today in a memo to clients of the Washington-based
firm. Clearer rules for regulators and bankers are needed
instead, she said.  The Clearing House, a New York-based association of large
commercial banks, released a report saying that for the last 20
years, bank assets have grown on the same scale as companies in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and U.S. exports.  “Large banks offer several unique contributions to the
U.S. economy,” the Clearing House said in the report. “These
contributions include unique products and services, economies of
scale and spread of innovation.”  ‘Too Simplistic’  Former Senator  Chris Dodd , the Connecticut Democrat who co-
sponsored the 2010 financial-regulation law that bears his name,
said Weill’s suggestion was “too simplistic” and breaking up
banks wouldn’t solve the challenges regulators face.  Dodd’s view was echoed by the law’s other sponsor,
Representative  Barney Frank , who said the same end can be
accomplished by the law’s restrictions on proprietary trading.  “You can accomplish much of what he says he’s now for with
the Volcker rule, and I will welcome his support for a tough
Volcker rule,” Frank said in a CNBC interview. “The Volcker
rule does say that banks should not be engaged in a lot of
trading and other non-lending activities.”  Stricter Limits  Some Washington lawmakers expressed support for new
measures to curb the size and activities of large banks.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat who sits on the
Banking Committee and has sponsored a bill to impose size limits
on banks, said Weill’s statement will help more bankers and
economists recognize problems in the banking system.  “People who understand what’s happening with banks realize
that these banks are too big to fail, too big to manage and too
big to regulate,” Brown said in an interview.  Senator Robert Corker, a Tennessee Republican also on the
Banking Committee, said Weill’s Wall Street past and leadership
in repealing Glass-Steagall make his change of heart noteworthy.  “It’s just not possible to regulate in such a way that
risk that’s concentrated in this way is mitigated,” Corker said
in an interview. “I think people are looking at a lot of
things, stronger capital. But I do think coming from someone
like this makes it interesting and probably causes people to
focus more on what he’s saying.”  ‘Interesting Transformation’  Senator  Mark Warner , a Virginia Democrat, referred to
Weill’s comments during Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s
appearance before the Senate Banking Committee on July 26.
Weill’s call for change represents an “interesting
transformation,” Warner said.  Congress thought “long and hard” about the size of banks
when drafting the Dodd-Frank Act and enacted “a set of pretty
tough new safeguards to the system,” Geithner said.  Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, and
Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat, both said in
interviews that they made note of Weill’s comments and that the
issue warrants further consideration.  “I think it will lead people to take a second look at
whether it was right to repeal Glass-Steagall,” Lieberman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Fidel in  Washington  at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  