-- West Ham Makes $28 Million Bid for Liverpool’s Carroll: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-27T06:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/west-ham-makes-28-million-bid-for-liverpool-s-carroll-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Hammers’ Offer  West Ham United offered to take Liverpool striker Andy Carroll on loan for 2 million pounds ($3.1 million) with a
further 16 million pounds to make the move permanent provided
the London team stays in the Premier League next season, the
 Guardian reported .  Liverpool is holding out for 20 million pounds and would
prefer not to loan out Carroll, for whom it paid Newcastle a
club-record fee of 35 million pounds 18 months ago, the
newspaper added.  Waiting Game  Liverpool is waiting to see if West Ham’s offer will spark
a bidding war for Carroll as it puts the onus on Newcastle, the
 Daily Express reported . The Magpies had a 12 million-pound bid
for the England striker rejected two weeks ago, the paper added.  Cole’s Contract  England left-back Ashley Cole is still waiting to be
offered a new contract by Chelsea even though he’s got just one
year remaining on his current deal, the  Daily Mirror said .  Cole may be happy to let his contract wind down and leave
as a free agent at the end of next season, the Mirror added.  Capello Claim  Former England manager  Fabio Capello  said the Football
Association broke the terms of his contract by stripping  John Terry  of the national team captaincy, the  Sun reported .  “It was put on paper that the decision on the captain
should be taken by the coach,” Capello, who quit the role in
February, was cited as saying by the Sun.  The newspaper cited an F.A. spokesman it didn’t identify as
saying that the governing body had the authority to remove Terry
as captain.  Central Role  Arsenal has earmarked Spain winger Santi Cazorla for a
central playmaking role next season and is still chasing Rennes
midfielder Yann M’Vila and Caen’s teenage forward M’Baye Niang,
the  Mirror reported .  The Gunners have a deal in place for Cazorla with Malaga
ready to sell for about 20 million pounds, the newspaper added.  Berbatov Bid  Turkish club Galatasaray is stepping up its bid to sign
Manchester United’s Dimitar Berbatov by preparing a 5 million-
pound offer for the Bulgarian striker, the  Sun reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  