-- Whitman Trial to Turn on Whether He Knew of Illicit Tips
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-07-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/whitman-trial-to-turn-on-whether-he-knew-of-illicit-tips.html
Whitman Capital LLC founder Doug
Whitman is going on trial for using illicit tips from technology
company insiders including one who was a neighbor, a woman at
the center of the biggest stock-tipping probe in U.S. history.  Roomy Khan , a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive, is scheduled to
be one of the government’s key witnesses at Whitman’s trial that
starts July 30 in federal court in  Manhattan . Khan twice pleaded
guilty to passing inside information to Galleon Group LLC fund
manager  Raj Rajaratnam  -- once in 2001 and again in 2009.  Khan cooperated with prosecutors after she was arrested
with Rajaratnam in October 2009 and played a crucial role in the
biggest prosecution of  insider trading  at hedge funds by
providing investigators with evidence used to obtain court-
authorized wiretaps against Rajaratnam.  Whitman allegedly earned $900,000 for his hedge fund in two
separate insider-trading schemes, one involving Khan and her
tippers and another with Karl Motey, an independent consultant.
Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara say Motey obtained illegal tips about  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL) , from two insiders, including one man who allegedly
tipped former Galleon fund manager Ali Far, the U.S. said.  Karl Motey, an independent consultant who pleaded guilty to
insider-trading and is cooperating with the U.S., will be the
government’s first substantive witness against Whitman,
prosecutors said. Motey testified as a key government witness
last year against a former Primary Global Research LLC executive
accused of passing inside information to fund manager clients.  Inside Tips  Whitman’s lawyers say their client had traded in Marvell
and other stocks cited by prosecutors for years. He can’t be
convicted of  securities fraud  for trading on information he got
from a middleman without knowing it was obtained illegally from
insiders, they have said.  “There is no allegation that Mr. Whitman provided payoffs
or any other benefits to any insiders for inside information,”
his lawyer  David Anderson  said in an interview. “He’s been
following these companies for as long as they have existed as a
well-regarded research analyst in Silicon Valley.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the
trial, has said prosecutors will have the burden to prove
Whitman traded on information he knew wasn’t public.  Whitman is charged with two counts of conspiracy and two
counts of securities fraud. The most serious charge carries a
maximum 20-year prison sentence.  Marvell  In detailing their case against Whitman for his lawyers,
prosecutors cited technology company insiders they say are co-
conspirators in the scheme. Motey funneled inside information to
Whitman from two employees at chipmaker Marvell -- Sam Miri, a
former Marvell employee and Bill Brennan, a former Marvell vice
president of sales. Miri and Brennan haven’t been charged with
criminal wrongdoing, according to court records.  “Miri and Brennan were sources of material, nonpublic
information at Marvell Technology Group from approximately late
2007 through early 2009,” assistant U.S. attorneys Chris LaVigne and Jillian Berman said in a letter to Whitman’s lawyers
made public this month.  Prosecutors identified Whitman’s intermediary as Motey, who
testified against former Primary Global executive James Fleishman. Fleishman was convicted last year on insider-trading
charges involving the  Mountain View , California-based expert
networking firm.  Ali Far  Miri’s name first emerged during the November 2009 guilty
plea of Ali Far, a former  fund manager  at Galleon and co-founder
of Spherix Capital LLC, who admitted to paying a Marvell
employee in return for inside information. Three more alleged
Whitman sources have been accused by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission of passing information to Rajaratnam, who is
serving an 11-year prison sentence for insider trading.  Brennan provided nonpublic information to Motey “in
exchange for Motey’s views and analysis on the semiconductor
industry; for professional and networking opportunities and
because Brennan was dissatisfied with aspects of Marvell
management,” LaVigne and Berman wrote in the letter.  “Miri provided information to Motey because of their
friendship and because Miri had a pre-existing debt to Motey,”
the prosecutors said. “At times, Motey also paid for meals when
he dined with Miri.”  Over Meals  Prosecutors said Motey passed the information to Whitman on
several occasions from 2007 to 2009, both by phone and in
person, sometimes over meals at a restaurant in Sunnyvale,
 California . In exchange, Whitman paid Motey’s consulting firm at
least $12,500 a quarter, LaVigne and Berman said.  Daniel Yoo, a spokesman for Marvell, didn’t respond to
voice-mail or e-mail messages seeking comment about Brennan and
Miri. Marvell is located in  Santa Clara , California, and
registered in Hamilton,  Bermuda .  Voice-mail messages left at Brennan’s office and Miri’s
home seeking comment on the allegations weren’t returned.  Bradford Berenson, another lawyer for Whitman, said during
a court hearing that his client hired Motey to do legitimate
research and didn’t know whether Motey’s sources breached their
fiduciary duty by supplying the information Whitman traded on.  “Mr. Whitman employs people like Karl Motey to help him do
research,” Berenson said. “In those kinds of situations, if he
does not know where or how or who Mr. Motey gets his information
from, how is he ever to know that he can’t trade on the
information that he’s hearing?”  Guilty Plea  Prosecutors also allege that Whitman got Wesley Wang, a
hedge-fund consultant who formerly worked for Trellus Management
and Sigma Capital, a division of SAC Capital Advisors LP. Both
have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the government.  Whitman got inside information from Khan about Google Inc.
and  Polycom Inc. (PLCM) , prosecutors said in the indictment. Khan was
Whitman’s neighbor in Atherton, California, according to a
related civil complaint filed by the SEC.  Two other alleged Rajaratnam tippers who prosecutors say
passed nonpublic information to Whitman are Shammara Hussain and
Sunil Bhalla. Hussain couldn’t be reached by telephone for
comment on Whitman’s case.  Timothy P. Crudo , a lawyer for Bhalla, and Shawn Daina, a
Polycom spokesman, didn’t return voice-mail messages seeking
comment Bhalla’s role.  Whitman obtained nonpublic information about Polycom, a
Pleasanton, California-based maker of videoconferencing
equipment, from Bhalla, a senior vice president and general
manager of the company’s voice division, the government said.
Bhalla hasn’t been criminally charged.  Hussain, of Fremont, California, worked in 2007 at Market
Street Partners, an investor-relations consulting firm. The SEC
said that Hussain’s firm did work for Google and that Hussain
tipped Khan about the search-engine company’s earnings. Hussain
hasn’t been criminally charged.  Wiretaps  Prosecutors have told Rakoff that Motey and Wang will
testify at the trial. They said their evidence against Whitman
includes consensual recordings and court-ordered wiretaps of
phone conversations between Whitman, Motey and others.  “The evidence will show that Mr. Whitman knew this
information was provided by Khan and Motey by insiders
corruptly,” LaVigne said in court hearing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Whitman, 12-cv-01055, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  