-- WL Ross Misses Target With $640 Million Raised for Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-07-27T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/wl-ross-misses-target-with-640-million-raised-for-fund.html
Billionaire Wilbur Ross Jr. raised
about $640 million from investors for a new private-equity fund
to buy distressed assets, falling short of a $2 billion goal.  WL Ross & Co. (IVZ) , a New York-based unit of investment manager
Invesco Ltd., closed the fund in June after cutting its original
$4 billion target in half and receiving a nine-month extension
to continue raising money. WLR Recovery Fund V LP will carry a
1.5 percent management fee for investors, known as limited
partners, Loren Starr, chief financial officer at Invesco, said
yesterday on the company’s earnings conference call.  Genstar Capital LLC cut the target on its latest private-
equity fund to $1 billion from $1.5 billion and Natural Gas
Partners LLC may fall short of its $4 billion goal this year as
investors turned more selective and the number funds seeking
money increased. Ross, 74, also faced questions from investors
about succession plans at the firm, according to two people
familiar with the situation, who asked not to be identified
because they didn’t want to jeopardize their relationship with
the firm.  “The office of the chairman, myself, Jim Lockhart and
Steven Toy, is functioning very well,” Ross said in an e-mailed
response to questions about succession and fundraising.  WL Ross raised $2.2 billion when including about $560
million in separate accounts and about $1 billion from clients
who invested alongside Fund V, Starr said. The co-investments
don’t carry annual management fees, while fees on separate
accounts are a “more complicated structure than the fund
itself,” Ross said in the e-mail.  “The smaller fund size itself has a beneficial effect on
rate of return because there is less of a J factor,” he wrote.
The J-curve effect describes the negative impact of fees and
initial expenses on returns in the early years of a private-
equity fund.  Changing Mix  “We believe that in the future those major investors who
have staffed up to do so will be emphasizing separate accounts
and co-investment arrangements and de-emphasizing their
participation as limited partners,” Ross wrote. “Co-investment
has always been part of our product offering. It is simply the
mix that has changed.”  Fund V, which is more than half invested, was producing a
1.08 times multiple as of March 31, according to performance
data by Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund. Ross’s previous
distressed fund raised $4 billion in 2007 and was producing a
1.21 times multiple as of the same date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  