-- Two Duke Energy Directors Resign, Call for New CEO
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-07-27T20:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/two-duke-energy-directors-resign-call-for-new-ceo.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  directors Theresa M. Stone and John D. Baker II, who joined the board when the
company took over Progress Energy Inc., resigned and called on
Duke to immediately start looking for a new chief executive
officer.  Stone and Baker, who previously served on the Progress
board, announced their resignations in separate letters filed
today with the North Carolina Utilities Commission. The state
agency is investigating Duke’s decision to fire  Bill Johnson ,
the former Progress CEO, on July 2 within hours of completing 
its $17.8 billion merger creating the largest U.S. utility 
company.  Johnson, who was supposed to become CEO of the combined 
companies, was replaced by Duke CEO  Jim Rogers . Two other 
former Progress board members, E. Marie McKee and James B. Hyler, told the commission on July 19 they were considering 
resigning over the executive change. The board of the combined 
company had voted 10-5 to replace Johnson, with all former 
Progress members opposed. Hyler declined to comment in an 
e-mail today.  “The board should immediately identify and adopt a process
for selecting a new CEO and institute that process as soon as
possible,” Baker wrote in a letter to Rogers and Ann Maynard Gray, the company’s lead director. “Only after taking these
immediate steps will the board be able to work together for the
best interests of Duke’s shareholders.”  Duke, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,  rose  0.2 percent
to $67.45 at the close in  New York .  New Board  The resignations pave the way for Duke to appoint “new
board members who may not be as upset by recent events,” said
 Paul Patterson , a New York-based utility analyst for Glenrock
Associates LLC, who doesn’t rate the stock and owns no shares.  Duke accepted the resignations today and won’t comment on
the specifics of the letters, the company said today in an e-
mailed statement. The corporate governance committee will
recommend replacements to the full board.  “We look forward to working with the entire board to
continue the integration process to drive the significant
benefits for customers and shareholders that this combination
creates,”  Tom Williams , Duke’s spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Stone and Baker didn’t return phone calls seeking comment,
nor did former Progress director Harris E. DeLoach Jr. McKee
declined to comment. Director Carlos A. Saladrigas couldn’t be
reached by phone.  ‘Leadership Style’  Both Stone and Baker said in their letters that Johnson’s
replacement revealed problems with the company’s corporate
governance practices.  Corroborating testimony by McKee and Hyler, Stone wrote
that former Progress board members weren’t notified that
Johnson’s dismissal was under consideration when the 18-month
merger review came to an end. Gray, who presided over the
conference call when the vote was taken, cited only Johnson’s
“leadership style” as a reason for his ouster.  Johnson, in testimony, said he was a victim of “buyer’s
remorse.” Gray said the Duke board lost confidence in Johnson
because of Progress’s poor performance and foot dragging by the
CEO in disclosing information about a damaged nuclear reactor in
 Florida .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  