-- World’s Richest Gain $15.2 Billion as Global Markets Rise
-- B y   P e t e r   N e w c o m b
-- 2012-07-27T21:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/world-s-richest-gain-15-2-billion-as-global-markets-rise.html
The richest people on the planet
added $15.2 billion to their collective net worth this week as
global markets rose on speculation that Europe will move to ease
borrowing costs in Italy and Spain.  The week’s biggest gainer was Spanish retail tycoon  Amancio
Ortega , who added $3 billion to his fortune after Inditex, the
world’s largest clothing retailer, announced plans to build a
753,000 square-foot logistics center in Spain’s Guadalajara
province. Inditex shares were up 3.8 percent for the week.  Ortega’s gain came as Spain’s unemployment rate reached
24.6 percent, the highest on record. With a net worth of $43.5
billion, the 76-year-old is Europe’s richest man, and ranks
fourth on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “At the beginning of the week we had a flood of bad news,
starting with Greece and culminating with Spain credit at all-
time wides,” said Nelson Saiers, chief investment officer of
Alphabet Management LLC, a New York-based hedge fund with more
than $500 million under management. “When  Mario Draghi  came out
midweek and said the ECB would do whatever it takes to protect
the euro, that hit the brakes on the bad news and the market
ripped,” he said, referring to the European Central Bank
president.  U.S. stocks rose, commodities climbed and the euro
strengthened yesterday amid speculation that European policy
makers may take steps to ease the debt crisis. Stocks were
further bolstered after German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
French President Francois Hollande said their countries are
“bound by the deepest duty” to keep the euro area intact and
that they will do “everything” necessary to protect the single
currency.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted a 1.7 percent gain
during the week to close at 1385.97 in New York. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index climbed 0.64 percent.  Facebook Falters  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder and chief executive officer,  Mark
Zuckerberg , continued his slide down the ranks of the world’s
billionaires as shares of the world’s largest social-networking
company plunged to a record low after its first earnings report
showed a slower sales gain and narrower profit margins.  The 28-year-old’s fortune plummeted $2.5 billion during the
week. His fortune now stands at $12.1 billion.  Other Facebook shareholders also took a hit. Dustin
Moskovitz, 28, who started the company with Zuckerberg from
their dorm room at Harvard University, owns 133.7 million shares
of the company’s Class B stock worth $3.2 billion, down $1.9
billion since the IPO.  Eduardo Saverin, 30, has a $1.3 billion stake, down $760
million since the offering. According to a regulatory filing
dated May 17, he owns 53.1 million shares of the company.  Sean Parker  owns 66 million Facebook shares valued at $1.6
billion. The 32-year-old persuaded Zuckerberg to move to
California to focus on the company full-time in 2004.  Batista Gains  Eike Batista , the richest person in Brazil, gained $795
million this week amid a recovery in the shares of his commodity
startups. His flagship oil company,  OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas
Participacoes SA, jumped 12.8 percent July 27 as crude prices
rose for a fourth day.  Batista’s shipbuilder,  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , rallied 11.2 percent
yesterday after the company’s chief executive said it’s in
advanced talks for a new contract to supply oil rigs. Batista’s
net worth of $21.3 billion makes him the world’s 22nd-richest
person.  Jeff Bezos  gained $820 million during the week. Shares of
his  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest Internet retailer,
gained the most in three months as investors bet that
investments in its distribution network will pay off by the
holiday season.  Carlos Slim , 72, remains the world’s richest person.
 America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, the largest wireless carrier in the Americas
by subscribers, fell the most in eight weeks after a weaker
Mexican peso and increasing competition damped quarterly profit.
The Mexico City-based company reported a 46 percent drop in
second-quarter net income after markets closed July 26.  Slim’s fortune gained $1.4 billion for the week. He now has
a net worth of $75.5 billion.  Gates, Buffett  Bill Gates  is $12.7 billion behind Slim. The 56-year-old
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder’s fortune rose $600 million as shares
of the Redmond, Washington-based company fell 1.2 percent during
the week.  Number three on the index is  Warren Buffett , 81, who is
worth $45.7 billion. The  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  chairman agreed
to buy closely held Meadowbrook Meat Co. on July 26. Terms of
the deal were not disclosed.  The purchase would increase Buffett’s bet on food-
distribution companies. In the past three years, Berkshire’s
McLane Co. unit has bought Empire Distributors Inc., Horizon
Wine & Spirits and Delta Wine & Spirits.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York and listed in U.S.
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Newcomb in New York at 
 pnewcomb2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  