-- Myanmar May Suffer If U.S. Extends Import Ban, Group Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-07-27T05:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/myanmar-may-suffer-if-u-s-extends-import-ban-group-says.html
U.S. lawmakers may hurt Myanmar’s
ability to attract labor-intensive investments in manufacturing
by extending an import ban in place since 2003, according to
policy research organization International Crisis Group.  The  Senate Finance Committee  recommended extending the ban
on imports from Myanmar for three years, according to
legislation under consideration in the upper house. President
 Barack Obama , who this month authorized U.S. companies to invest
in Myanmar for the first time in about 15 years, can issue a
waiver at any time to overturn the measure, according to the
group.  The extension “could have a serious impact on Myanmar’s
economic recovery, by hindering the growth of job-creating
manufacturing industries and further skewing the economy towards
potentially problematic extractive industries,” the  report 
said. “It is indeed hard to see how retention by the U.S. of
its import ban could in any way serve the interests of the
Myanmar people or assist the democratization process.”  Obama has eased sanctions against Myanmar after a shift to
democracy, while maintaining the underlying legislation to
penalize the former military regime if it backslides on rights.
President  Thein Sein  has called for sanctions to be fully lifted
to eliminate uncertainty that may deter investors.  Myanmar dismantled a fixed  exchange rate  in April and
parliamentarians are revamping laws to attract investors to the
country of 64 million people. The nation’s per capita gross
domestic product is less than 10 percent that of neighboring
 Thailand , according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  Senator  Jim Webb  earlier this month praised Obama’s
decision to allow new investment in Myanmar and called for the
suspension of the import ban.  Popular Expectations  “We are facing a critical window of time to push for
continued reforms and political reconciliation within that
country,” he said in a July 11 statement.  The import ban “would exert no obvious pressure on
hardliners in Myanmar” because they don’t have economic
interests in manufacturing, the  International Crisis Group  said.
The government is taking steps to end monopolies and favored
access to state contracts that benefitted crony business
tycoons, military generals and political leaders, all of whom
appear to be repositioning themselves instead of blocking
reforms, it said.  “There is a risk that popular expectations rise faster
than the government can meet them,” Crisis Group said in the
report. “When expectations are not met, there can be political
consequences -- particularly when longstanding authoritarian
controls on the population are being simultaneously removed,
allowing frustrations to come into the open.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  