-- Yanzhou Coal Expects Price Gain in September on China Rebound
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-07-27T03:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/yanzhou-coal-expects-price-gain-in-september-on-china-rebound.html
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) , China’s
fourth-largest producer of the fuel, said the nation’s
recovering economy will boost demand and the price of thermal
coal from late September.  “The economy in China is strengthening, so the expectation
is demand will start to pick up toward the end of the third
quarter,” Weimin Li, chairman of Shandong-based Yanzhou, said
today in Sydney. “From late September, you will see support for
prices.”  China’s government is cutting  interest rates  to boost
slowing growth. The central city of Changsha, capital of Hunan
province, yesterday introduced an 829.2 billion yuan ($130
billion) investment plan to shore up growth. Prices for thermal
coal, used in power generation, have slumped because of waning
demand and increased exports from the U.S., where lower gas
prices have prompted substitution.  “Internationally, the trend is very similar,” Li said,
using a translator. “We’re hitting the bottom, and we’re
waiting for the market to pick up.”  Yanzhou (1171)  rose as much as 2.5 percent to HK$11.32 and traded
at HK$11.26 as of 11:08 a.m. in Hong Kong. The shares have
declined 32 percent this year, compared with a 4.4 percent gain
in the benchmark  Hang Seng  index.  Li, speaking at an investor briefing for Yanzhou-controlled
 Yancoal Australia Ltd. (YAL) , listed on the Australian stock exchange,
also said the company is in early talks with commodity trader
Noble Group Ltd. to co-operate on global sales and marketing.
Noble owns a 13 percent stake in Yancoal.  Benchmark Newcastle Coal Futures have declined 20 percent
this year, putting coal producers under pressure. Rio Tinto
Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company, said this month
it is shedding jobs at one of its thermal coal mines in
 Australia  to cut costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  