-- LyondellBasell Rises on Earnings, Possible Special Dividend
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-07-27T20:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/lyondellbasell-rises-on-earnings-says-special-dividend-possible.html
LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the
world’s biggest producer of polypropylene resins, rose the most
in nine months after reporting earnings that topped analysts’
estimates and saying it may pay a second special dividend.  LyondellBasell jumped 8.8 percent to $44.51 at the close in
 New York , the biggest gain since Oct. 21.  Excluding debt-refinancing costs, adjustments to inventory
values and other items, profit in the second quarter was $1.65 a
share, Rotterdam-based LyondellBasell said today in a statement.
That exceeds the $1.40 average of 14 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jim Gallogly is
maximizing U.S. chemical production as natural-gas liquids
provide a cost advantage in export markets, he said today on a
conference call with analysts. U.S. production costs should
remain “good” for the rest of the year, he said.  “The company took full advantage of declining NGL
feedstock prices in the Americas,” Don Carson, a New York-based
analyst at Susquehanna Financial LLC, said today in a report.
“With the exception of refining, every business segment
contributed to the earnings upside.”  LyondellBasell, which in December paid a special dividend
of $4.50 a share, is considering using excess cash to pay
another special dividend, Chief Financial Officer Karyn F. Ovelmen said on the call.  “We would look to supplement our regular dividend with the
potential of returning excess cash,” Ovelmen said.  She declined to comment on the size or timing of such a
payout. Dividends are preferable to share repurchases because of
2012 tax implications, Ovelmen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  