-- Hyundai Heavy Leads Won Bond Sales as Yields Hit Record Low
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-07-27T07:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-27/hyundai-heavy-leads-korean-bond-sales-as-yields-hit-record-low.html
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540) , the
world’s biggest shipbuilder, and  Korean Air  Lines Co. took
advantage of record-low borrowing costs to raise 1.4 trillion
won ($1.2 billion) in the  bond market  this month after the
central bank cut  interest rates .  The companies, along with Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co., made up almost half the 4 trillion won of
domestic bond sales in July, down 29 percent from last month and
below the 12-month average of 4.8 trillion won, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Three-year AA- rated corporate
yields, the  Korea  Financial Investment Association’s benchmark,
touched 3.37 percent this week, the least in data going back to
2000. U.S. corporate debt with an AA grade yields 2.13 percent,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Bond sales stalled in the first half of July before  South
Korea ’s central bank unexpectedly reduced  rates  for the first
time in three years on July 12, triggering almost 70 percent of
the month’s offerings. The  Bank of Korea  is lowering borrowing
costs to boost growth in  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy because
of concern that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis will curb exports.  “Companies are gearing up for more bond sales to stockpile
cash to get through the slowdown in the global and domestic
economy,” Kim Min-Jeong, a credit analyst at KDB Daewoo
Securities Co., said by telephone from  Seoul  yesterday. “The
market is good for borrowers, though not so for investors, with
yields hitting historically low levels.”  HSBC, Goldman  HSBC Holdings Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the
Bank of Korea will lower its 3 percent interest rate again by
October after a government report yesterday showed the economy
grew at the slowest pace in almost three years last quarter.
 Gross domestic product  expanded 2.4 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, less than the median 2.5
percent estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The yield on benchmark five-year government bonds declined
44 basis points since July 1 to 2.98 percent today, set for the
fourth monthly drop. Yields fell below the key interest rate on
July 18 for the first time since October 2008. Forward rate
agreements suggest a 50 basis-point rate reduction within six
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on three-year AA- rated corporate debt declined 42
basis points, or 0.42 percentage point, this month to 3.45
percent today, financial association data shows. KDB Daewoo’s
Kim estimates yields will drop 10 basis points by the end of
this quarter amid weakening growth. U.S. corporate yields fell
32 basis points this month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
shows.  Hyundai Record  Hyundai Heavy  raised 700 billion won this month in its
biggest-ever debt offering, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company, based in the south-eastern coastal city
of Ulsan, sold 300 billion won of three-year bonds priced to
yield 3.23 percent and 400 billion won of five-year securities
priced to yield 3.35 percent, the data show.  Hyundai Oilbank Co., a unit of Hyundai Heavy, also raised
300 billion won selling five-year notes.  Daewoo Shipbuilding offered 200 billion won of three-year
notes priced to yield 3.52 percent and 300 billion won of five-
year debt at a yield of 3.73 percent, the data show. Korean
Air’s 150 billion won of three-year securities were priced to
yield 3.58 percent, while 250 billion won of five-year bonds
were sold to yield 3.98 percent, according to the data.  Long-Term Capital  “As yields have fallen recently, we issued the bonds to
raise and manage long-term capital more so than short-term
funding,” An Wook Hyeon, a senior manager with  Daewoo
Shipbuilding (042660) ’s finance team said by telephone today.  Hyundai Heavy spokesman Kim Kwang Kook and a spokesman for
Korean Air, Cho Hyong Chol, weren’t immediately available to
comment when called in Seoul today.  Doosan Infracore Co. and Korea South-East Power Co. led 770
billion won of issuance this week. The previous week, companies
sold 2 trillion won of notes, the most since the last week of
June, the data show.  Korea South-East, which holds the fifth-highest A1 rating
from Moody’s Investors Service, the same as the sovereign,
offered a record-low yield for its second 10-year bond offering
in five months as expectations of another rate reduction boosted
demand for longer-dated debt.  ‘Buying Spree’  “Pension funds and life insurers, which typically invest
in longer-maturity bonds, went on a buying spree because they
feared another rate cut by the central bank could bring yields
down even further,” Byun Jeong Hye, a credit analyst with
Shinhan Investment Corp. said by telephone on July 25 in Seoul.
“It’s better to snap up solid credits now, rather than later.”  South Korea’s won strengthened 0.6 percent this month to
1,138.90 against the dollar. The currency fell to a two-week low
of 1,153.45 on July 25 after Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said the nation may not meet the bank’s growth target.  Korea South-East, the power generating unit of  Korea
Electric Power Corp. (KEP) , priced 110 billion won of 10-year
securities to yield 3.33 percent, its lowest-ever yield for that
maturity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lotte Shopping Co., South Korea’s largest department store
operator, plans to offer 750 billion won of bonds next week,
according to preliminary data compiled by Bloomberg. Samsung
Techwin Co., a maker of aircrafts and imaging products, is
readying a sale of 200 billion of three-year notes that will
probably price next week, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  