-- Macquarie Sees Crops Extending Rallies on Tighter Supply
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-09-06T14:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/macquarie-sees-crops-extending-rallies-on-tighter-supply-1-.html
Soybeans and corn may extend rallies
as supplies tighten following droughts in the U.S. and  South
America , while demand for oilseeds is most robust, said
Macquarie Group Ltd.  Soybeans may jump to an average of $19 a bushel in 2013’s
first quarter before dropping to $17.50 in the following two
periods, the bank said today in a report. Corn may average $7.75
in the first quarter, $8.50 in the three months after that and
$8.75 in the third quarter before sliding to $5 in next year’s
last quarter, it said.  Brazil ’s ability to increase exports may be limited by
logistical inefficiencies, which are likely to create “large
backlogs of boats” as local crops come to harvest, London-based
analyst Chris Gadd said today on a conference call. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  predicts Brazil will surpass the U.S.
in the 2012-13 season as the world’s biggest soybean exporter,
after crops recover from the past year’s drought.  “By far we feel that soybeans are the most bullish
component of the grains and oilseeds complex,” Gadd said. “The
impact of drought in the U.S. is far more material for soybeans
than corn because we’ve seen loss of production already this
year in South America, and we’re seeing poor production in other
oilseeds” including sunflower seeds in the former  Soviet Union 
and rapeseed in  Europe , he said.  Corn, Wheat  Soybeans rose to a record $17.89 a bushel on Sept. 4 on the
Chicago Board of Trade and are up 44 percent this year. Corn
touched an all-time high of $8.49 a bushel last month.  Wheat may average $9.25 a bushel in the first two quarters
of 2013 before dropping to $8.75 in the following three months
and $6 in the fourth quarter, Macquarie said. The grain traded
at $8.7525 a bushel today in  Chicago , up 34 percent this year.
It will “remain in lockstep with the fortunes of corn” because
both are used in feed, Gadd said.  Wheat traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris may gain relative to
Chicago grain because of tightening supplies in  Russia  and
Europe, Gadd said. Dry weather spurred Russia today to cut its
wheat-harvest outlook to 40 million metric tons, less than the
country produced in 2010, when the worst drought in 50 years
spurred a 10-month ban on cereal exports. Russia has said it
plans no restrictions on shipments this year.  “Production problems in wheat have been locational issues,
rather than global problems,” Gadd said. “We’ve seen poor
crops in both the FSU and Europe, and that will mean they can’t
supply all the needs of North Africa and the  Middle East . At
some point in the season, Europe and the FSU will be priced out
of those markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  