-- TAG Immobilien Joins German Mid-Cap Index After Value Climbs
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-09-06T15:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/tag-immobilien-joins-german-mid-cap-index-after-value-climbs-3-.html
TAG Immobilien AG (TEG) , Germany’s third-
largest publicly traded residential landlord, was admitted to
the MDAX Mid-Cap Index after its market value rose 66 percent
this year. The shares rose as much as 1.9 percent.  TAG, based in Hamburg, will replace engine maker  Deutz AG (DEZ) 
in the 50-member index for medium-sized companies,  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  said in a statement after the market closed yesterday.  The residential and office landlord had been the largest
German real-estate company not included in the index. The
company expanded its market value to 769 million euros ($970
million) through the 160 million-euro purchase of DKB Immobilien
AG in March and a share sale that raised  127 million euros .  “Being a member of the MDAX lets TAG address a bigger
investor community, not just in  Germany , but on a pan-European
basis,” said Kai Klose, an analyst at Berenberg Bank. Joining
the index will also make it easier for TAG to raise capital to
finance future acquisitions, Klose said.  TAG rose about 21 cents, or 2.7 percent, to 7.98 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, giving the company a market
value of 789 million euros. The shares have advanced  more than
30 percent  this year.  Deutsche Boerse  decides which stocks to include in its
indexes based on criteria such as market value and trading
volume. TAG has the 35th highest market value among German
medium-sized companies excluding technology firms and ranks 52nd
in 12-month trading volume. The stock will begin trading on the
MDAX on Sept. 24.  German residential real estate companies listed on the MDAX
include  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) ,  Gagfah SA (GFJ)  and  GSW Immobilien AG. (GIB)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 