-- MagicJack CEO Sees 2013 Profit Rising on Apps: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-06T21:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/magicjack-ceo-sees-2013-profit-rising-on-apps-israel-overnight.html
MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) , the Israeli
company whose founders invented the technology used for making
phone calls over the Internet, is forecasting higher profits for
2013 as customers use its new mobile phone applications.  “Our apps have been very popular and we are going to
monetize them,” Chief Executive Officer Daniel Borislow said
yesterday by phone from  West Palm Beach ,  Florida . “It also
helps us cut our media costs,” as the tool will become popular
through word-of-mouth publicity, he said.  The technology company surged 4.3 percent to $26.54 in New
York yesterday, the highest level since March 21, after raising
its 2012 earnings forecast for the second time in two months.
MagicJack led gains on the  Bloomberg Israel-U.S. equity index  of
the biggest Israeli companies traded in  New York , which climbed
to the highest level since May yesterday.  MagicJack forecast 2012 earnings of as much as $2 per
share, compared with an earlier estimate of $1.50 to $1.80,
according to a statement yesterday. Profitability will further
improve in 2013 with revenue from the apps and a new product
that will be used via WiFi technology, Borislow said yesterday.
The company also plans to buy another 5 percent of outstanding
shares, he added.  MagicJack’s jump sent valuations to 17.4 times estimated
earnings. The ratio surpassed for the first time since May the
average multiple of 17 for companies on the Nasdaq Composite
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Israel-US Equity Index rose 1.5 percent to 85.42
yesterday while the benchmark TA-25 Index declined 0.1 percent
to 1,112.57 in  Tel Aviv .  ‘Dedicated Phone Number’  The company had previously increased its earnings forecast
for the year to $1.50 to $1.80 in July from as little as $1.25,
citing higher device sales and customers renewing their use of
the services.  The company’s main product is a device that connects to a
computer or to a router to enable voice calls over the Internet.
Last week it rolled out an app for Google Inc.’s Android
platform, after developing a free app for users of Apple Inc.’s
iPhone. The company is seeing app downloads in excess of 20,000
a day, according to Borislow.  “At some point when people want a dedicated phone number,
then they will be happy to pay for the app,” he said. The apps
also help the company gain market share in countries outside the
U.S., as no hardware investment is required, he said.  The Israeli company competes with Skype Technologies SA,
which was acquired by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for $8.5 billion last
year, and  Vonage Holdings Corp. (VG) , the biggest U.S. provider of
telephone service over the Internet.  Share Buyback  MagicJack spent $30 million to $40 million on buybacks
during the second-quarter, Borislow told investors on a
conference call on July 30.  “We have an aggressive buyback policy and we are trying to
keep people as informed as possible,” he said.  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , the maker of customized chips,
rose 4.2 percent to $8.93. Its shares in Tel Aviv climbed 2.8
percent to 35.05 shekels, or the equivalent of $8.73.  The Migdal Haemek, Israel-based company has increased 13
percent this week, the most since the week ended March 23.  Tower’s shares were relisted on the Nasdaq Global Select
Market, according to a statement yesterday. The company reported
on Sept. 3 that it will manufacture products for Vishay
Siliconix, a unit of  Pennsylvania , U.S.-based Vishay
Intertechnology, at factories in Japan and Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  