-- Thai Baht Gains on Speculation of U.S. Stimulus, ECB Bond Buying
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-09-06T09:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/thai-baht-gains-on-speculation-of-u-s-stimulus-ecb-bond-buying.html
Thailand ’s baht strengthened for the
fourth time in five days amid speculation the U.S. plans further
monetary easing and Europe will bolster efforts to resolve a
regional debt crisis.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks rose the most in two
weeks before a European Central Bank meeting at which details of
a bond-buying plan may be announced. The U.S may report tomorrow
payrolls grew at a slower pace in August, adding to the case for
the Federal Reserve to begin a third round of asset purchases,
or quantitative easing. The Bank of Thailand kept its benchmark
interest  rate  unchanged yesterday, resisting calls from the
government to reduce borrowing costs.  “What’s driving the baht and other Asian currencies is
expectations of more stimulus measures from the U.S. and
stabilization in Europe,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “The Bank of
Thailand’s decision to hold its policy rate was mildly
supportive.”  The baht climbed 0.2 percent to 31.21 per dollar as of 4:21
p.m. in Bangkok, contributing to a 0.5 percent advance for the
past week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was steady at 4.27 percent.  Ten-year government notes fell for a third day. The yield
on the 3.65 percent bond due December 2021 rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.42 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest level since Aug.
22.  Rate Unchanged  The Bank of Thailand kept its benchmark interest  rate  at 3
percent for a fifth straight meeting yesterday, a decision
predicted by 18 of 21 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Three
forecast a 25 basis point cut. Global funds bought $39 million
more Thai equities than they sold in the first three days of
this week, exchange data show.  U.S. payrolls probably increased by 127,000 last month,
less than the 163,000 jobs added in July, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before
the Labor Department report due Sept. 7. Thai exports to the U.S.
amounted to $1.96 billion in July, about 10 percent of total
shipments, official figures show.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 31 that
U.S. joblessness was a “grave concern” and further monetary
easing can’t be ruled out. European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  will today unveil a proposal that involves unlimited
purchases of government debt, two central bank officials said
yesterday on condition of anonymity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 