-- AIG Sells AIA Stake as Benmosche Seeks Funds for Buybacks
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-09-06T14:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/aig-to-sell-aia-stake-as-ceo-benmosche-seeks-funds-for-buybacks.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out U.S. insurer, is raising as much as $2 billion
selling a stake in  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  as the company seeks to
repurchase its stock from the U.S. Treasury Department.  AIG is offering about 600 million AIA shares at HK$26.30 to
HK$26.50 ($3.39 to $3.42), above the mid-point of the original
range of HK$25.75 to HK$26.75, according to a term sheet
obtained by  Bloomberg News . AIG plans to spend as much $5
billion buying back its shares, it said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 68, is raising
funds to buy back stock of New York-based AIG from the U.S.,
which still has a  stake  of 53 percent, about four years after a
government rescue. The Treasury has trimmed its holding from 92
percent through four share sales, and a lockup period on the
next offering expired Sept. 2.  “The sale of only a partial stake of AIA and only $5
billion of potential buybacks leaves us underwhelmed,” Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc. analysts led by  John Nadel  said in a note to
clients. “The stock will come under considerable pressure given
the much-lower-than-expected buybacks from Treasury near-term.”  AIG fell 1.8 percent to $34.18 at 10:20 a.m. in New York,
the only  decliner  on the 22-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Insurance Index. The shares have gained 47 percent this year.  This is the third time that AIG has offered shares of AIA,
the third-largest Asia-based insurer by market value. The sale
will leave AIG with a 13.6 percent stake in the Hong Kong-based
company.  Selling Down  AIG cut its AIA holdings to 33 percent in a 2010 offering
that raised about $20.5 billion and priced AIA shares at
HK$19.68. AIG sold $6 billion more in March, with shares priced
at HK$27.15.  AIG is offering the shares at a 2.1 percent discount to a
1.7 percent premium to AIA’s closing price of HK$26.30 today,
according to the term sheet. It is restricted from selling the
remaining AIA shares in the next 90 days.  “Investors are willing to buy a small lot” given the
current market conditions, said Kenneth Yue, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at CCB International Securities Ltd., of AIG’s decision
not to sell all remaining shares at once.  A larger share sale would probably involve a higher
discount, affecting AIA’s share price, Yue said in a phone
interview. AIA fell 8.4 percent the day after AIG sold 1.72
billion shares at HK $27.15 on March 5.  ‘Minimal Discount’  “AIG in a way is trying to sell the stake with a minimal
discount and support AIA’s share price,” Yue said.  The  price range  may indicate the share sale is in good
demand from investors, said Yue, who has a neutral rating on AIA
with a price target of HK$29.  Yue said he expected AIG to sell some of its remaining AIA
shares after the 90-day lockup and reduce its holding below 5
percent in about 180 days.  AIA has repositioned itself as an independent insurer after
losing share of new business during the global financial crisis
because of ties to AIG, which would have collapsed without
government aid. AIA, the third-largest Asia-based insurer by
market value, has delivered eight straight quarters of growth in
the value of new business under CEO  Mark Tucker , who was hired
by Benmosche in July 2010.  “Mark Tucker has done an outstanding job,” Benmosche said
on an Aug. 3 conference call. “We’re looking for the right time
and the right price to monetize our ownership of AIA.”  Rivals Expand  The bailout forced AIG to scale back in  Asia , while rivals
including  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  expanded on
the continent by buying units from Benmosche. AIA operates in
markets including  Hong Kong ,  Thailand , China,  Singapore ,
 Malaysia  and South Korea. Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who had
built AIG during his four-decade leadership of the firm until
2005, called AIA one of his company’s “crown jewels.”  The sale of AIA shares and the wind-down of two bailout
vehicles holding mortgage debt will reduce volatility in AIG’s
 earnings , which had swung with fluctuations in the market value
of the assets. Benmosche is seeking to focus on global property-
casualty coverage and U.S. life insurance and retirement
products.  Benmosche turned to public offerings to divest AIA after
the collapse in 2010 of a deal to sell the insurer to  Prudential
Plc (PRU)  for about $35.5 billion. The London-based company sought a
lower price under pressure from its shareholders, and AIG’s
board rejected a reduced bid that Benmosche supported, people
familiar with the discussions have said. The clash led to the
departure of AIG Chairman  Harvey Golub  in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  