-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Touch Two-Week High on ECB Bond-Buy Plan
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-09-06T08:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/taiwan-dollar-rises-to-3-week-high-on-ecb-hopes-bonds-steady.html
Taiwan dollar  forwards touched the
strongest level in more than two weeks on optimism European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will announce details of a
bond-buying plan to tame the region’s debt crisis.  Draghi’s proposal involves unlimited purchases of
government debt, two central bank officials briefed on the plan
said. South Korea’s  Finance Ministry  said today an economic
slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis are hurting consumer and
business sentiment, after paring its second-quarter growth
estimate to 0.3 percent from 0.4 percent.  “Expectation for ECB action is running very high,” said
Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale
SA in Hong Kong. “Export growth continues to weigh on Asia’s
economies. The central banks’ focus is expected to be firmly on
growth.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.1 percent to
NT$29.810 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
They touched NT$29.785 earlier, the highest since Aug. 22.  The Taiwan dollar was little changed at NT$29.902 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It reached
NT$29.801 earlier, the strongest level since July 6, One-month
implied volatility in the currency, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, held at 3.6 percent.  Investors are also waiting for U.S. jobs data due tomorrow.
Payrolls grew at a weaker pace in August and unemployment
exceeded 8 percent for a 43rd month, economists forecast before
the Labor Department report. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, last week that he
wouldn’t rule out more stimulus to revive growth.  Government bonds  were steady. The yield on Taiwan’s 1.125
percent notes due September 2022 was little changed at 1.165
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. The  overnight
money-market rate  held at 0.39 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  