-- Major Drilling Soars on Record Quarterly Revenue: Toronto Mover
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-09-06T17:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/major-drilling-soars-on-record-quarterly-revenue-toronto-mover.html
Major Drilling Group International (MDI) 
Inc., a Canadian drilling company, climbed the most in almost
three years after reporting record revenue for the first quarter
and raising its dividend.  Shares of Major Drilling rallied 11 percent to C$10.11 at
1:49 p.m. in Toronto, on track for the biggest percentage gain
since October 2009.  Yesterday after the market closed, Major Drilling reported
revenue of C$237.6 million for its fiscal first quarter ended
July 31, up 45 percent compared with a year ago. Earnings per
share of 40 Canadian cents came in ahead of consensus  estimates 
of 39 Canadian cents, according to a survey of analysts by
Bloomberg.  Major Drilling, which is based in Moncton,  New Brunswick ,
boosted its semi-annual  payout  to shareholders by 11 percent to
10 Canadian cents a share, payable Nov. 1.  While overall drilling activities are expected to decline
over the next six months, the company said, it anticipates
demand for specialized drilling, which represents 76 percent of
revenue, will continue through the year ahead. Major Drilling
said it plans to reduce  capital expenditures  for the year
because of the expected decrease in overall drilling.  “We continue to believe that Major Drilling Group remains
one of the best drillers given its size and large senior client
base,” Ryan Hanley, analyst with Mackie Research Capital Corp.,
said in a note to clients today. “However, we remain cautious
on the drilling space as a whole until we have a better handle
on 2013 budgets for exploration spending.”  Shares of Major Drilling have  plunged  35 percent this year.
They fell 14 percent, the biggest drop in more than two years,
on Aug. 30 after larger U.S. competitor  Boart Longyear Ltd. (BLY)  cut
its 2012 forecasts and outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  