-- Majority of Premier League Teams in Favor of Fiscal Controls
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-06T14:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/majority-of-premier-league-teams-in-favor-of-fiscal-controls.html
As many as 17 Premier League teams
are in favor of introducing financial control measures in an
effort to prevent soccer’s richest league from operating with
losses, West Ham co-owner  David Gold  said in an interview.  Representatives of the English top division’s 20 teams met
today in London to discuss the possibility of adding rules
requiring fiscal restraint. A briefing document outlining a
range of potential proposals, including limits to wage bill
raises or a break-even clause, was handed out.  UEFA, European soccer’s governing body, has already created
so-called Financial Fair Play regulations that aim to punish
clubs that spend beyond their means from 2014. English soccer’s
second-tier Championship division has also introduced fiscal
controls. At least 14 member teams must agree to proposals
before they can be brought in by the Premier League.  “I think that there are 14 clubs that are ready for
change,” Gold said in an interview after the meeting at the
Bloomsbury Hotel in  London . “I think there are more. I think
there are as many as 17 clubs.”  English soccer’s elite teams have record revenue, yet much
of it is spent on players’ salaries. Twelve Premier League teams
operated at a loss, according to the most recent filings.  Teams including Chelsea and  Manchester City  have been
fuelled to success on the back of lavish spending by billionaire
owners. Months after City announced a record loss of $311
million for the year ended May 31, 2011,  Sergio Aguero , a striker
purchased for 38 million pounds, scored an injury time winner 
that delivered the team its first league title since 1968.  `Best Interest'  “There’ll be a few who this won’t suit but you’ve got to
say what’s in the best interest of the league as a whole,” said
Gold, who with business partner  David Sullivan , took over West
Ham in January 2010 after its former Icelandic owner went
bankrupt. “Some will vote against what we’re trying to achieve,
but the vast majority supports some form of control that’s in
the best interests of not just the football clubs but the family
which includes the fans.”  The group will meet again to discuss the issue at the end
of the month. Before that, two groups each with executives from
10 clubs will discuss the options in more detail.  The Premier League previously strengthened financial rules
in 2010 following the bankruptcy of Portsmouth. They include
provisions like proof that tax liabilities have been paid, debts
to rivals teams are accounted for and proof owners have the
wealth to run teams.  Club Backing  Clubs such as  Manchester United  and Liverpool are in favor
of rules similar to UEFA’s.  Manchester United Chief Executive Officer David Gill said
in an interview last week that all Premier League teams should
be able to break even in light of a record 3 billion-pound
domestic television rights contract announced in June.  “If you look at it, we’ve got financial regulations in the
league below us, the Championship, and the competition above us,
the  Champions League , so we need to do it,” Gill said. “The
Premier League being the best league in the world, the most
commercially effective league in the world, I think there’s a
real opportunity to introduce some sensible rules that
effectively improve and enhance the long term or medium term
financial stability.”  Opponents of financial controls in the Premier League,
which include Fulham, argue that the regulations would put
English teams at a disadvantage to those playing in rival
leagues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  