-- Tallinn LNG Project Needs EU to Cover Third of Cost, Study Finds
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-09-06T08:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/tallinn-lng-project-needs-eu-to-cover-third-of-cost-study-finds.html
A planned Estonian liquefied natural
gas terminal, co-developed by a unit of  Royal Vopak NV (VPK) , needs
the European Union to cover a third of its estimated cost of 221
million euros ($279 million), a study found.  The terminal, developed by Vopak LNG Holding BV, Estonia’s
power grid operator Elering AS and port operator Tallinna Sadam
AS at Muuga harbor, near Tallinn, would be the cheapest option
for a regional LNG hub covering the three Baltic countries and
 Finland , the  Economy Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement
today, citing the preliminary feasibility study commissioned
from Ramboll Oil & Gas A/S. It would take four years to
complete, including two years of construction.  “By a conservative estimate, a third of the financing of
the terminal’s construction will need to be provided by
investment grants from the European Union, in order to ensure
the project’s financial stability and avoid placing an excessive
burden on gas consumers,” the ministry said, citing the study
commissioned from Ramboll Oil & Gas A/S.  Building an LNG terminal is part of  Estonia ’s strategy to
reduce dependence on  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom, which owns 37 percent
of local gas utility Eesti Gaas and is the sole supplier of gas
to Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania . As former Soviet republics
before declaring independence, the three countries have uneasy
political relations with their larger neighbor and point to
supply risks and higher natural-gas prices than in western
 Europe .  The three Baltic countries asked the EU commission last
November to help decide whether a regional LNG terminal is
needed and where to build it, after failing to agree on a
location.  Commission Support  Elering said in May the commission expressed support for
the development of the LNG solution in the Baltics on condition
that it is “able to cover at least 25 percent of the
consumption of the entire region.”  The Tallinn terminal would include a storage facility of
90,000 cubic meters of LNG and the ability to receive ships of
up to 75,000 cubic meter capacity, the ministry said. The
terminal could release 9 million cubic meters of natural gas a
day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  