-- ANZ Customers Fees Suit Expanded by High Court Ruling
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-09-06T01:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/anz-customers-fees-suit-expanded-by-high-court-ruling.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  customers can pursue claims to recoup more banking
fees that they said were illegal,  Australia ’s top court ruled.  The High Court of Australia in Canberra today upheld the
customers’ appeal of a lower-court ruling that limited their
class-action lawsuit to fees relating to credit card late-
payment charges.  “It’s a complete vindication of our position,” James
Middleweek, managing director at  IMF Australia Ltd. (IMF) ’s Financial
Redress Pty unit, said in a phone interview today. “Hopefully,
the banks do the right thing and come to the table now.”  ANZ is the first of 12 banks that IMF Australia, the
country’s biggest litigation funder, planned to sue in a bid to
recoup as much as A$5 billion ($5.1 billion) that Australian
account holders paid in fees since 2005, according to
Middleweek. Today’s ruling expands the claims bank customers can
pursue in the other lawsuits.  “This action is still at the preliminary stages and
today’s judgment does not provide a resolution,” Philip Chronican, chief executive officer of ANZ, said in a statement
today. The court rulings haven’t determined whether the fees
charged were excessive, he said.  The  High Court  ruling expands the law of penalty with
implications for many Australian businesses, the bank said in
the statement. ANZ abolished 27 fees on personal accounts and
reduced overdrawn, dishonor and late payment fees in December
2009, the bank said.  Penalty Law  Federal Court Justice Michelle Gordon in December dismissed
complaints that charges for insufficient funds in accounts or
for overdrawn bank accounts were illegal because she said they
weren’t penalties. She allowed the lawsuit to proceed in
relation to credit card late-payment charges.  Customers holding more than 249,000 accounts have
registered to sue, according to  IMF’s website.   The High Court unanimously rejected the proposition that
the fees could only be considered a penalty if there were a
breach of contract, as Gordon concluded.  “It has a profound impact in terms of getting us over that
hurdle,” Middleweek said, referring to the ruling and the
effect on the lawsuits against the other banks.  The banks will have to persuade the judge in federal court
that fees charged, including a A$45 dishonor fee, or a A$29.50
fee for overdrawing an account, were reasonable to recover the
cost incurred.  The credit card late-payment charges make up about 40
percent of the A$50 million in refunds for so-called exception
fees sought by ANZ’s customers, according to  Andrew Watson , a
principal at  Maurice Blackburn .  The case is: John Andrews v. ANZ Banking Group Ltd.
VID811/2010. Federal Court of Australia ( Melbourne ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net 
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  