-- SEC’s Insider-Trading Case Against Obus Revived on Appeal
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-09-06T18:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/appeals-court-revives-sec-insider-trading-case-against-obus.html
An appeals court revived an insider-
trading lawsuit against hedge-fund manager Nelson Obus brought
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Manhattan  today reversed a lower court’s dismissal of the case
against Obus, the president of Wynnefield Capital Inc.; Thomas Strickland; and Peter Black.  The SEC alleged that Obus used a tip from Strickland, then
at General Electric Capital Corp., to buy stock in SunSource
Inc. for three  hedge funds  he controlled. Strickland had given
the tip in May 2001 to his friend Black, an analyst at
Wynnefield, that SunSource would be acquired by Allied Capital
Corp., according to the SEC.  The district court relied on an internal investigation by
 GE Capital  showing that Strickland hadn’t breached a duty to his
employer by sharing information with Black. The appeals court
found that evidence might show otherwise.  “The GE investigation was motivated by corporate interests
that may or may not coincide with the public interest in
unearthing wrongdoing and affording a remedy,” U.S. Circuit
Judge John Walker Jr. wrote for the appeals court.  “We are obviously disappointed by this ruling,” said  Joel Cohen , a lawyer for Obus, in an emailed statement. “For over
ten years, Mr. Obus and Wynnefield Capital have refused to
settle this lawsuit as a matter of principle. The facts remain
the same: the lawsuit is baseless.”  A lawyer for Black, Mark Cohen, who isn’t related to Joel
Cohen, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
ruling.  “We wish the result had been different, but we remain
confident that in the long run we will prevail,” Roland Riopelle, a lawyer for Strickland, said in a phone interview.  The case is SEC v. Obus, 10-4749, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 