-- Apple Urged by China Dissident to Act Against One-Child Rule
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-09-06T06:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/apple-urged-by-chinese-dissident-to-act-against-one-child-policy.html
Chen Guangcheng , the Chinese
dissident whose flight to the U.S. in April roiled  U.S.-China
relations , said iPhone-maker  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  should take a more
outspoken role criticizing  China  for its one-child policy.  Apple, which hires manufacturers to assemble products such
as the iPhone and iPad in China, can help stop forced abortions
and other coercive population control measures, Chen said in an
interview this week. The blind human-rights activist is betting
that Apple’s presence in China and the popularity of its
products there will help draw attention to the issue.  “Apple in China should take a very active role,” Chen
said. “There’s a huge social responsibility for these
international corporations like Apple.”  This is the first time since arriving in the U.S. that the
civil rights activist is speaking against his country’s forced
birth-control policy, the issue that led to his arrest and jail
term in China. Chen received a fellowship to study at  New York 
University after seeking help at the U.S. embassy in Beijing
just as high-level talks between the two countries got under way
in April.  Chen and other China human-rights advocates are seeking a
meeting with Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  to discuss
their concerns. They sent a letter to Cook last week asking
Apple to adopt measures to end coercive family planning
practices in its factories. The proposals included prohibiting
access to factories for government family-planning officials and
refusing to report women who are pregnant without birth permits.
The group also wants other companies, including  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) , to urge the Chinese government to drop its policy.  Responsibility Report  China’s Foreign Ministry didn’t immediately respond to a
faxed request for comment. Cai Feng, an official with the
National Population and Family Planning Commission’s news
department, directed requests for comment to the agency’s
international cooperation department. Calls to that department
weren’t answered today.  Introduced in the late 1970s and made mandatory in 1980,
China’s one-child policy restricts most married couples to
having one child in order to control  population growth  in the
country of 1.3 billion.  Migrant women must provide certificates showing their
childbearing and  birth-control  status to the provincial
government where they work, according to government regulations.
Employers are required to play a role in family planning and
accept government supervision, the national commission says on
its website.  Broader Action  Apple said in its most recent annual  corporate
responsibility report  that 24 facilities it audited conducted
pregnancy tests of female workers and that 56 didn’t have
policies and procedures that prohibit discriminatory practices
based on pregnancy. Apple said it classified these practices as
discrimination, even if permitted by local law, and that the
suppliers had stopped the screenings. Apple has said it will
stop doing business with suppliers who can’t meet its code of
conduct.  Apple relies on Foxconn Technology Group,  Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co. (2317)  and  others  to build its products.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment
beyond information provided in the company’s corporate-
responsibility report, where it says it considers conducting
pregnancy tests discriminatory.  State Department  Chen and his group didn’t provide any evidence that Apple
has been tied to forced abortions or other coercive birth-
control measures. John Earnhardt, a spokesman for Cisco, didn’t
respond to a call seeking comment on Chen’s assertions.  Geng Shuang and Gao  Yuan , spokesmen for the Chinese embassy
in Washington, didn’t respond to two e-mails and a phone call
seeking comment. After more than three decades of strict birth
control, China’s Communist Party is tolerating debate on the
policy as it risks restraining economic growth as the nation
ages and the  labor force  shrinks. However, in his annual report
to lawmakers in March, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China will
continue to keep its birth rate low.  “As a matter of U.S. policy, any coercive measures,
including forced abortion, we deplore,” Assistant Secretary of
State  Michael Posner , who oversees democracy, human rights and
labor issues for the State Department, said during a July 25
 briefing  on the 17th U.S.-China Human Rights Dialogue. Posner
said the U.S. would continue to raise the issue when asked about
China’s one-child policy by reporters.  Role Model  Chen’s group said it is working with U.S. lawmakers to
craft legislation giving companies a one-time waiver to
repatriate cash being held overseas if they chose to move
manufacturing from China to the U.S., a tax break they say could
be worth about $25 billion for Apple.  Chen and his group said they aren’t trying to single out
Apple and instead see the company as a potential leader on this
issue. Because of its size and appeal among consumers, Apple has
a greater responsibility to act, he said.  “Apple is in a unique position to take a leadership role
in standing up against coercive family planning in China,” Chen
and the other activists wrote in the letter to Apple’s CEO.  Apple is being targeted first by Chen and fellow activists
because it’s the leading company in technology and the world’s
largest company by market value, said Andrew Duncan, a film
producer and human rights advocate. Duncan is working with Chen,
along with Bob Fu, the president of China Aid, and Reggie
Littlejohn, who operates  Women’s Rights Without Frontiers .  Latest Challenge  “Give the voiceless a voice -- that’s what we’re asking
Apple to do,” said Duncan, a former private-equity executive.
“Apple is the leader of corporate America.”  Chen, a self-taught lawyer and prominent opponent of forced
abortions under China’s one-child policy, praised  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
for shutting down its China website in 2010 after the operator
of the world’s largest search engine said it would no longer
filter results to comply with Chinese regulations to self-censor
content.  “The bold step taken by Google showed tremendous courage
and had impact on China,” Chen said.  Chen’s letter is the latest challenge to Apple’s
manufacturing operations in China, which has been a source of
criticism, particularly after at least 10 suicides at a Foxconn
factory in 2010. China Labor Watch has accused Apple of enabling
excessive overtime, poor pay and unsafe working environments.  Building Electronics  In response, Apple in January partnered with the Fair Labor
Association to conduct independent audits of facilities where
its products are made. The Fair Labor Association said last
month that Foxconn had cut working hours and improved safety at
a faster pace than had been scheduled in its agreement with the
group. Cook also visited China this year, where he toured
factories and met with government officials.  Apple isn’t alone in using manufacturers such as Foxconn in
China to build some of the world’s leading consumer electronics.
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  also use a network of suppliers in China to
manufacture its devices.  Last month, Samsung was accused by New York-based China
Labor Watch of using underage workers at a Chinese assembler.
Samsung said it didn’t find underage workers at the facility.  “It is totally unacceptable for these corporations to just
concentrate on the financial benefit,” Chen said.
“Corporations are made of human beings and we all have a
responsibility to take a moral and conscious stand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  