-- Apple-Samsung Judge Won’t Change Sales Ban Hearing Dates
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-09-06T19:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/apple-judge-won-t-delay-samsung-bid-to-lift-tablet-sales-ban.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost a bid to delay
Samsung Electronics Co.’s request to lift a preliminary ban on
U.S. sales of its Galaxy Tab 10.1 computer until after a judge
considers Apple’s request to bar some products permanently.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , California, today
denied Apple’s request to reschedule the Dec. 6 hearing for a
permanent ban on U.S. sales of eight Samsung mobile devices
ahead of a Sept. 20 hearing on Samsung’s request to lift a
preliminary sales ban on the Galaxy tablet. Apple argued in a
court filing that its request is “more urgent” than Samsung’s.  Apple is seeking to bar U.S. sales of the eight smartphone
models and the tablet after a jury found Aug. 24 that Samsung
infringed six of seven patents at stake in the trial and awarded
Apple $1.05 billion in damages. Seven of the eight smartphones
that Apple seeks to ban are part of Samsung’s Galaxy line.  In her opinion today, Koh said she previously disagreed
with arguments Apple made in court filings, “and no change in
facts or the law has changed the court’s opinion.”  Koh also cited Apple’s indication that it may seek to
broaden the scope of Samsung products it wants banned in a
permanent injunction as a reason not to change the hearing
dates.  Tab 10.1  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , won a ban on U.S.
sales of the Tab 10.1 in June that the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said wouldn’t significantly affect its business. Apple,
seeking to make that prohibition permanent, said in an Aug. 27
court filing that Koh should also bar U.S. sales of a version of
the tablet that runs on mobile networks, even though that
product wasn’t covered by the Aug. 24 verdict.  Samsung sought to have the ban on the Tab 10.1 lifted on
Aug. 26 after the jury found the device didn’t infringe the
Apple design patent on which the June 26 court-ordered sales ban
was based. The jury instead found that the Tab 10.1 infringed
three of Apple’s software patents.  Colleen Patterson and Lauren Vroom, spokeswomen for Apple,
didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment on today’s
ruling.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 