-- Harper Seeks More Gains From China in Exchange for Oil
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-09-07T01:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/harper-seeks-more-gains-from-china-in-exchange-for-oil.html
 Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said his government will seek to correct trade imbalances
with  China  as he manages a wave of takeover spending from the
Asian country.  Harper, speaking at the Bloomberg Canada- Asia  Conference in
 Vancouver , said Canada needs to diversify trade to Asia because
of sluggish growth in much of the rest of the world, adding that
the relationship also needs to become reciprocal.  “The Chinese are acutely aware, in my own experience, of
the fact the trade and investment flows are disproportionately
in their favor,” Harper said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Erik Schatzker . “They recognize that has to
change,” he said, adding “we will also be seeking things from
them.”  Harper’s ability to bolster economic relations with China,
which he calls a national priority, is being tested by concern
the Asian country may gain too much influence over Canada’s oil
sands, the world’s third-largest pool of oil reserves. A poll by
Sun News Network last week showed a majority of Canadians
surveyed want him to reject a $15.1 billion takeover of Calgary-
based oil company  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  by China’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)   Harper today said he’s aware Canadians are wary of Chinese
investment and said it’s incumbent on China to show it can play
by “the same rules” as Canadians.  Provide Clarity  To provide clarity, Canada’s government is preparing a
“policy framework” for foreign investment to explain the
government’s decision regarding the Nexen bid and future
transactions, he said.  Canada’s system for weighing takeovers is “highly
subjective and unpredictable,” Toronto-based research group
C.D. Howe Institute said in a  study  released in December. The
rules may have contributed to the decline in Canada’s share of
global foreign-direct investment, it said.  Harper’s government will use “broad” criteria in its
review of the transaction, he said without giving details.
“We’re going to be looking for ways to make sure we can promote
first and foremost Canadian interests in this relationship.”  Canadian  legislation  allows the government to reject
foreign takeovers on the basis of three criteria: The
acquisition doesn’t give a “net benefit” to  Canada , it’s made
by a state-owned company that doesn’t act on a commercial basis
or it creates national-security concerns.  Different Requirements  Harper said Cnooc’s status as a state-owned enterprise
makes it “somewhat different” and leads to range of different
requirements in the review process.  Investors may have to wait until November or longer for a
decision on the bid. Cnooc made a formal application for
government approval on Aug. 29. The government has 45 days to
review foreign takeovers once an application has been filed and
can extend the deadline by 30 days if it notifies Cnooc before
the initial period expires. Canadian officials can extend the
review further if both Cnooc and Canadian Industry Minister
Christian Paradis agree.  While Harper’s government is deciding on the Cnooc bid,
Canadian financial institutions, such as  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , are waiting for Chinese approvals of
proposed investments in the world’s second largest economy.  Losing Value  Nexen’s  shares  have lost 2.9 percent through yesterday
since Beijing-based Cnooc’s offer was announced July 23, leaving
them 8.5 percent below the $27.50 agreed price. The difference
is the second-largest among proposed North American acquisitions
valued at $1 billion or more, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares closed at $25.50 in  New York  trading
today.  Harper visited China this year to promote Canada’s energy
industry and build trans-Pacific ties. Harper told Chinese
business leaders in February during a dinner in Guangzhou,
China, that he wants to take Canada’s economic partnership to
“the next level.” They are expected to sign soon a foreign-
investment protection agreement to promote capital flows between
the two countries.  On that trip, Harper’s government made it clear Canada is
seeking to increase Chinese investments. Natural Resource
Minister Joe Oliver, in a Bloomberg interview during that trip,
said Canadian officials have told the Chinese they are welcome.  Nexen’s assets include the Long Lake oil-sands operations
in  Alberta , offshore oil production in  Nigeria  and the U.K.
 North Sea , as well as in the  Gulf of Mexico . These assets
produced 207,000 barrels a day in the second quarter, which
would boost Cnooc’s output by about 20 percent.  In its July 23 announcement, Cnooc promised to retain Nexen
employees, keep a North American headquarters in Calgary,
maintain Nexen’s planned capital spending and list its shares on
the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Vancouver at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Vancouver at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  