-- Modell, Who Shaped NFL, Moved Cleveland’s Team, Dies at 87
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-09-06T16:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/art-modell-who-shaped-nfl-moved-cleveland-s-team-dies-at-87.html
Art Modell, the marketing executive
who helped negotiate the  National Football League ’s first
television contract and later enraged fans when he moved the
Cleveland Browns franchise to Baltimore, has died. He was 87.  Modell died today of natural causes, the  Baltimore Ravens 
said in a statement, citing his son, David. He died at Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, where he was admitted yesterday,
the  Associated Press  reported, citing the team.  “He was a great man who had a tremendous impact on the
NFL,” league Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said today at the
Bloomberg Sports Business Summit hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in New
York.  A high-school dropout who made a fortune on Madison Avenue
and married a soap opera star, Modell bought the Browns in 1961
for $3.9 million. The team had won three NFL championships
during the 1950s and added another under Modell in 1964,
cementing the relationship between the native New Yorker and
Cleveland, his adopted hometown.  He would later leave Cleveland as a pariah for moving the
team in 1996 to Baltimore, where, under a deal with the NFL, it
became the Ravens, leaving the Browns name in Cleveland for a
new team to adopt.  In 2001, a year after Modell sold 49 percent of the Ravens
for $275 million, the team won its first championship since 1964
and its only  Super Bowl , beating the  New York  Giants 34-7. “We
came so close time and time again, but no cigar,” Modell said
after the victory. “Now comes the cigar.”  Modell finally sold his majority share in 2004, ending 43
years of active ownership, during which time he shaped not only
a franchise but the entire league.  Rozelle Adviser  He was one of former NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle’s most
trusted advisers as the league rose in the 1960s and 1970s to
become the most popular U.S. spectator sport.  “Whenever there was a decision to be made, Pete would go
to Art to confirm it was the right one,” said NFL spokesman Joe Brown, who began working for the league as an intern in 1965.  Modell helped negotiate the league’s first national
television contract, a two-year, $4.6 million agreement with CBS
in 1962. In 1970, he participated in negotiations with ABC that
led to Monday Night Football. He was chairman of the owners’
committee that negotiated the first collective-bargaining
agreement with players in 1968.  He also helped develop the NFL’s revenue-sharing system,
which he called the biggest reason for the league’s success and
popularity, since it helps teams in smaller media markets
compete with those in big cities. “It’s imperative that revenue
sharing be the hallmark of this league,” Modell said shortly
before stepping down as owner in 2004.  Brooklyn Born  Arthur Bertram Modell was born to George Modell, a day
laborer, and his wife Kitty on June 23, 1925, in  Brooklyn , New
York.  He dropped out of high school at 15 and got his first job
as an electrician’s helper, cleaning out the hulls of ships in a
local shipyard. He served in the U.S. Army Air Forces, the
predecessor of the U.S. Air Force, during World War II, then
made use of the G.I. Bill to attend television school in New
York. Starting in 1948, he helped create some of the earliest
daytime programming on ABC.  In 1954, he joined the New York advertising firm of L.H.
Hartman Co., where he became a partner and made his fortune.  Cleveland fans expressed skepticism, and sometimes
hostility, when the New Yorker Modell bought the Browns in 1961.
Following the 1962 season, Modell dismissed  Paul Brown , a legend
in Cleveland as the team’s founding head coach.  Just Short  After the Browns won the NFL championship in 1964, they
lost the title game in 1965, 1968 and 1969. On three other
occasions, they came one game short of reaching the  Super Bowl ,
losing all three times to the  Denver Broncos .  Though Cleveland had one of the most loyal fan bases in the
NFL, Modell said in the 1990s that he couldn’t compete with
teams that had modern stadiums with lucrative luxury boxes. The
city refused to build him a new stadium, so after the 1995
season, he moved the franchise to Baltimore, where they became
the Ravens.  Cleveland didn’t let the team go without a fight. The city
sued Modell for more than $300 million as fans marched on the
stadium carrying signs reading “Art the Ripper.” At one game,
a fan sat a Modell effigy in an electric chair with a sign
reading “Pull the Switch,” while another group marched around
the parking lot carrying a coffin.  After a settlement with the league and the city, Modell
wound up owing  Cleveland  $12 million in damages, and the NFL
promised to put an expansion team in the city. That team, the
current Browns, started play in 1999. Even then, Cleveland fans
didn’t exactly forgive Modell.  ‘Can’t Forgive’  “We fought in the Second World War and the Japanese and
Germans killed thousands of our people, and they are our friends
today,” former Browns guard John Wooten said in an interview
after Modell stepped down in 2004. “But there are people in
Cleveland today who still can’t forgive Art for taking his team
to Baltimore. It’s an injustice.”  Saddled with $185 million of debt he incurred during the
move, Modell agreed in December 1999 to sell a 49 percent stake
in the team to Stephen Bisciotti, owner of temporary-employment
company Allegis Group Inc.  Modell in 1969 married  Patricia Breslin , who starred in the
1950s television show “People’s Choice” and played Meg Baldwin
on TV’s “General Hospital.” He adopted her two sons, John and
David, from a previous marriage. She died Oct. 12, 2011, at the
age of 80.  Modell is survived by his two sons and six grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  