-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Gain Amid Signals of Further Easing
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-09-07T17:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/australian-n-z-dollars-hold-gains-as-global-stocks-rise-on-ecb.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars climbed after Asian stocks extended a global rally amid
signals central banks will take steps to contain  Europe ’s debt
crisis and flagging U.S. employment growth.  The so-called Aussie extended gains after touching the
highest level this month against the yen and dollar after U.S.
payrolls rose less than projected in August, spurring
speculation continued weakness will encourage the  Federal
Reserve  to add stimulus. The South Pacific currencies rose
against most major peers after commodity prices yesterday
climbed for the first day this week.  “The Australian dollar is going to be well supported
today,” said  Andrew Salter , a strategist in Sydney at Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “The decision by the ECB to
engage in some form of asset-purchase program is going to
underpin risk sentiment. That’s going to benefit the Australian
dollar.”  The Aussie rose 1 percent to $1.0392 as of 1:30 p.m. in  New
York , after touching the strongest level since Aug. 29. The
currency advanced 0.2 percent to 81.24 yen and reached 81.63,
the most since Aug. 29. The New Zealand dollar, known as the
kiwi, added 1.3 percent to 81.18 U.S. cents following
yesterday’s 0.9 percent advance.  The Australian dollar has climbed 0.7 percent since Aug.
31, snapping three weeks of declines. The New Zealand dollar
strengthened 1 percent over the past week.  Australian  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on 10-
year government debt to its highest level since Aug. 29. The
rate advanced 10 basis points to 3.20 percent. The advance in
rates was the biggest since Aug. 16.  Stocks Rally  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks climbed 2.7 percent.
That followed gains yesterday of 1.9 percent in MSCI’s World
Index and 0.2 percent for the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of raw materials, its first advance since Aug. 31.  The Aussie and kiwi rose yesterday after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  announced an unlimited bond-purchase
program to regain control of  interest rates  in the euro area and
fight speculation of a currency breakup.  The program “will enable us to address severe distortions
in government bond markets which originate from, in particular,
unfounded fears on the part of investors of the reversibility of
the euro,” Draghi said at a press conference in  Frankfurt  after
the ECB held its benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75 percent.  U.S. Jobs  The  U.S. economy  added 96,000 workers after a revised
141,000 increase in July that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a gain of 130,000. The jobless rate fell to 8.1
percent.  Concern about jobs growth may prompt the U.S. central bank
to implement a third round of asset purchases, or quantitative
easing, in a bid to stimulate the economy. Such measures tend to
debase the U.S. currency relative. The Fed’s policy committee
next meets Sept. 12-13.  A private report today indicated that  Australia ’s building
industry  shrank  in August at the fastest pace in 11 months, led
by a slump in apartments and weaker engineering construction as
demand from the resources industry wanes. The construction
performance index fell to 32.2 last month from 32.6 in July, a
survey by the Australian Industry Group and the Housing Industry
Association released showed.  Australia  recorded  a wider-than-estimated trade deficit in
July as weaker exports of gold and iron ore outpaced a decline
in imports of industrial equipment. The shortfall was A$556
million ($574 million), from a revised A$227 million deficit in
June, the Bureau of Statistics said today. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists was for a deficit of
A$300 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  