-- Australian Construction Contracts Fastest Pace in 11 Mths
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-06T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/australian-construction-contracts-fastest-pace-in-11-mths.html
Australia’s building  industry shrank
in August at the fastest pace in 11 months, led by a slump in
apartments and weaker engineering construction as resource
industry demand wanes, a private gauge showed.  The construction performance index fell to 32.2 last month
from 32.6 in July, a survey by the Australian Industry Group and
the Housing Industry Association released in Sydney today
showed. A reading below 50 represents a contraction.  Australia’s housing industry is struggling even after the
 Reserve Bank  lowered its benchmark borrowing cost by a total of
1.25 percentage points from November to June. Prices for  iron
ore  tumbled this quarter as growth slows in China, Australia’s
largest trading partner, and today’s survey showed engineering
construction companies cited the impact of weaker demand in the
resources industry and project delays.  “The near-term outlook for the construction sector
deteriorated with a further fall in new orders,” said Peter
Burn, the Australian Industry Group’s director of public policy,
said in a statement. “The drop-off in new orders was
particularly sharp for engineering construction and the
apartment sub-sector.”  Construction of apartments plunged 10.8 points to 22.1 and
engineering slid 3.8 points to 35.7, today’s report showed.
House building rose 3.5 points to 31.5 and commercial
construction gained 7.9 points to 34.  New orders dropped 5.8 points to 28.1, while a gauge of
employment rose 3 points to 35.4 last month, it showed.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest miner, last month
decided to delay approval of an estimated $33 billion expansion
of the Olympic Dam copper, uranium and gold mine in  South
Australia .  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s biggest iron
ore producer after Rio Tinto Group and BHP, this week cut its
full-year  capital spending  forecast by 26 percent to $4.6
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  