-- Australia Employers Unexpectedly Cut Payrolls by 8,800 in August
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-06T01:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/australia-employers-unexpectedly-cut-payrolls-by-8-800-in-august.html
Australian employers unexpectedly
cut payrolls in August for the second month in the past three,
as evidence mounts that China’s slowdown is discouraging hiring.  The number of people employed fell by 8,800, the statistics
bureau said in Sydney today. That compares with the median
estimate for a 5,000 increase in employment in a Bloomberg News
survey of 23 economists. The  jobless rate  declined to 5.1
percent from 5.2 percent as the participation rate dropped to
the lowest level in more than five years, a sign that some job
seekers exited the labor force.  The data support traders’ bets that  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will resume cutting  interest
rates  as early as next month from the current 3.5 percent, the
highest benchmark among major developed nations. While the
world’s 13th-largest economy grew about 4 percent in the first
half, a strengthening currency has triggered job reductions at
companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and falling commodity
prices prompted miners to scale back projects.  “Leading indicators have been pretty soft for the past few
months and we just don’t think the demand for labor is as
strong” as recent employment data indicate,  Michael Turner , an
economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney who predicted a
10,000 drop, said before the report. “Business confidence
remains pretty low.”  The number of  full-time jobs  advanced by 600 in August, and
part-time employment fell by 9,300, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the  labor force  in
proportion to the population, dropped to 65 percent in August,
the lowest level since March 2007, from 65.2 percent a month
earlier, it showed.  Dollar’s Rise  The Australian dollar snapped three days of declines,
buying $1.0218 at 11:39 a.m. in Sydney compared with $1.0180
before the data were released. Traders are pricing in a 58
percent chance the RBA will lower the benchmark rate by a
quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent at its Oct. 2 policy
meeting, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mounting signs of a slowdown in  China’s economy  have
spurred a 3.6 percent drop in the Aussie over the past month
against its U.S. counterpart, making it the worst performer
among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven have spurred gains in the
currency, which closed above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for all
but 23 days this year. The Aussie has averaged $1.0245 in the
past two years, compared with 72 U.S. cents in the prior decade.  Help-Wanted Ads  Today’s Australian data follow a drop in Australian help-
wanted notices for a fifth straight month in August as slumping
business confidence delays hiring plans in mining states.  Toyota and  General Motors Co. (GM)  have fired workers in
Australia this year, citing the strength of a currency fueled by
the mining bonanza, while banks cut their payrolls as credit
growth weakened.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner, last month
decided to delay approval of an estimated $33 billion expansion
of the Olympic Dam copper, uranium and gold mine.  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s biggest iron ore producer after
Rio Tinto Group and BHP, said this week it’s cutting its full-
year capital spending forecast by 26 percent to $4.6 billion.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao in March reduced the
government’s growth target for China to 7.5 percent for this
year, the lowest since 2004, as policy makers there seek to
reduce the role of large-scale fixed-asset investment in favor
of greater consumer demand. China also has applied limited
stimulus relative to 2008-09, as officials rein in property
market speculation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  