-- Australian Unemployment Unexpectedly Falls, Lifting Currency
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-06T06:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/australia-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-falls-lifting-local-dollar.html
Australia ’s jobless rate
unexpectedly declined in August on signs employers in mining
states are still hiring workers, boosting the local currency
after a three-day slide.  The  unemployment rate  fell to 5.1 percent from 5.2 percent
in July, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists was for a
rise to 5.3 percent. The  participation  rate slumped to the
lowest level in more than five years, a sign job seekers exited
the labor force. The number of people employed dropped by 8,800,
compared with economists’ forecast for an increase of 5,000.  The currency advanced as traders reduced bets  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will cut  interest rates  next
month from the highest level among major developed nations.
While the economy grew about 4 percent in the first half on the
strength of resource-industry investment, a stronger currency
and slower global growth have led to job reductions at companies
including  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)   “The fact that the unemployment rate continues to
oscillate within a relatively stable 5-5.25 percent band, with
full employment estimated to be a little shy of 5 percent,
supports the RBA’s call that policy has been appropriate,” said
Jarrod Kerr, director of Australia rates strategy at Credit
Suisse Group AG in  Singapore . “The report does not have enough
meat in it to satisfy the bears.”  Participation Plunge  The number of  full-time jobs  advanced by 600 in August, and
part-time employment fell by 9,300, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the  labor force  in
proportion to the population, dropped to 65 percent in August,
the lowest level since March 2007, from 65.2 percent a month
earlier, it showed.  The Australian dollar snapped three days of declines,
buying $1.0232 at 4:08 p.m. in Sydney compared with $1.0180
before the data were released. Traders are pricing in a 54
percent chance the RBA will lower the benchmark rate by a
quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent at its Oct. 2 policy
meeting, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yesterday the
chance was 71 percent.  Today’s report reflected Australia’s so-called two-speed
economy -- a phrase the RBA uses to distinguish resource-rich
regions in the north and west that are powering growth and
hiring, from struggling tourism, manufacturing and retail
industries across the south and east.  Rust Belt  Employment dropped by 14,800 in Victoria and 9,000 in the
 South Australia , states that form the hub of the nation’s
manufacturing industry, today’s report showed. It gained by
6,900 in  Western Australia  and 5,800 in Queensland, which are
centers of the resource industry.  Nationwide, the jobless rate has been 5 percent to 5.3
percent for the past 17 months.  “The decline in unemployment suggests that perhaps the
labor market isn’t as bad as was anticipated,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “I don’t
think this data is going to really change the RBA’s view that
they’re going to hold steady for the near term.”  The data followed a drop in Australian help-wanted notices
for a fifth straight month in August as business confidence
weakened.  Shorter Days  Today’s employment report showed aggregate hours worked
declined 0.4 percent in August from a month earlier. Kerr of
Credit Suisse estimates average weekly hours declined to 32.38
from 32.47.  “This may be taken as a positive in that it implies
employers preferred more heads in seats rather than culling
headcount,” he said. “But we note the average hours worked per
week remains below the post-Lehman average, and well below the
pre-Lehman average.”  Mounting signs of a slowdown in  China’s economy  have
spurred a 3.3 percent drop in the Aussie dollar over the past
month against its U.S. counterpart, making it the worst
performer among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven have spurred gains in the
currency, which closed above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for all
but 23 days this year. The Aussie has averaged $1.02 in the past
two years, compared with 72 U.S. cents in the prior decade.  Factory Firings  Ford’s Australian division said in July it will cut
production and slash one in seven jobs after sales of trucks and
its flagship Falcon car slumped. Qantas, Australia’s largest
airline, said May 21 it will cut 500 jobs and consolidate heavy
maintenance in two bases to pare costs as it contends with
rising fuel prices and losses on international routes.  The prospects for the country’s job market have grown
dimmer in recent weeks as companies scaled back investment
plans.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner, last month
decided to delay approval of an estimated $33 billion expansion
of the Olympic Dam copper, uranium and gold mine in South
Australia.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s biggest iron
ore producer after Rio Tinto Group and BHP, said this week it’s
cutting its full-year  capital spending  forecast by 26 percent to
$4.6 billion.  “The government recognizes that there is ongoing softening
in Australian labor market,” Employment Minister  Bill Shorten 
told reporters today in Brisbane, the capital of Queensland
state. “We’ve seen an easing in the participation rate.
Australia is still doing better in the global rankings than most
other countries in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  