-- May Gurney Falls on Waste Contracts as CEO Quits: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-09-06T15:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/may-gurney-falls-on-waste-contracts-as-ceo-quits-london-mover.html
May Gurney Integrated Services Plc (MAYG) 
fell the most since it sold shares in 2006 after the recycling
services and road repair provider said it will “significantly
underperform” expectations and the CEO will step down.  May Gurney has experienced “serious operational issues”
in two long-term waste and recycling contracts and in plans to
exit the facility services business, the Norwich, England-based
company said today in a statement. Chief Executive Officer
Philip Fellowes-Prynne is stepping down immediately.  The  shares  fell 41 percent to 130 pence at the close
in  London . That extended the stock’s decline this year to
54 percent and valued the company at 91.3 million pounds
($145 million).  May Gurney said it will take a charge of about 10 million
pounds this year to discontinue facilities work. “The group
will significantly underperform its original expectations for
the current year,” it said.  Peel Hunt, the company’s house broker,  reduced  its
estimate for fiscal-year 2013 adjusted pretax profit by
17 percent to 25 million pounds, and for 2014 to 26 million
pounds from 32 million pounds. Peel Hunt analyst Andrew Nussey
cut his recommendation to hold from buy, while N+1 Brewin
changed its rating to sell from add.  Problem areas have been “ring-fenced” and the facilities
unit’s charge is “conservative,” Chairman Margaret Ford said
in a telephone interview. May Gurney doesn’t anticipate that
other executive departures will follow Fellowes-Prynne’s exit,
she said.  Acting CEO  Willie MacDiarmid, a former Scottish Power manager who
serves as a May Gurney non-executive director, will act as CEO
until a permanent chief is named, the company said. May Gurney
also faces declining revenue in its Scottish utilities business
because Scotia Gas Networks Ltd. intends to reduce outsourcing,
the company said.  Targeted margins for waste contracts that involve sorting
recyclables at the curbside haven’t been met, and May Gurney is
“taking stringent actions” to improve profitability, it said.
The contracts have represented 3 percent of annual revenue and
are spread over seven to 14 years.  “The underlying performance of the rest of the business is
sound, in line with previous announcements, and we are
continuing to actively bid for new business,” May Gurney said.  The company, founded in 1926, had sales of 695.3 million
pounds in the year ended March 31 and has been profitable every
year since going public. May Gurney maintains more than 37,000
kilometers (23,000 miles) of roads and more than half a million
streetlights and signs, according to its website. The company
also does repair work on U.K. railroads and maintains waterways.  The stock remains an “interesting opportunity at lower
levels given the group’s positioning in an attractive and
consolidating sector,” Peel Hunt’s Nussey said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  