-- Bankrupt San Bernardino Closes Libraries to Close Deficit
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/bankrupt-san-bernardino-closes-libraries-to-close-deficit.html
San Bernardino,  California , the
second-largest U.S. city to enter bankruptcy, will close its
branch libraries, dismiss school crossing guards and buy fewer
bullets while under court protection.  The reductions are part of a  plan  to reduce a  budget
deficit  by two-thirds, to $16.4 million from $45.8 million,
approved by the City Council yesterday. The council backed away
from some cuts in the Fire Department, meaning that the city may
not realize all of the savings outlined in the proposal until
those cuts or alternatives are adopted.  Three municipalities in the largest state by population,
led by Stockton, have sought court protection from creditors
since the end of June. California cities suffered steep declines
in  tax revenue  after the recession depressed property values and
reduced retail sales. At the same time, local governments are
burdened with higher employee costs including pensions.  “The situation is dire,” Andrea Travis-Miller, the
interim city manager, told the council as it began deliberations
Sept. 4. “We’re dealing with an $18 million cash deficit. We
have a structural deficit of $45.8 million this fiscal year and
we have unfunded liabilities to the tune of $300 million that we
will have to deal with.”  The city of 209,000, about 60 miles (100 kilometers) east
of  Los Angeles , sought Chapter 9 protection in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  Aug. 1, saying it would be unable to cover payroll within
two months. Officials have said the move was prompted by an
almost $12 million drop in revenue from a peak of $133 million
in 2008.  Rising Retirement  The city’s retirement costs are projected to rise from $20
million in the year ended June 30 to $24 million five years from
now, according to the budget document reviewed by the council.
Estimated pension obligations exceeded assets by about $320
million as of June 2010, according to the document.  Measures approved by the council would shrink the police
force by 18 officers from 289 through attrition, fire 41 of the
Police Department’s 104 civilian employees, and reduce purchases
of ammunition and other supplies. The city also would close two
community centers set up to reduce  gang violence .  Council members said the public safety cuts were
particularly onerous in a city that had 14 murders per 100,000
people last year, about three times the national average,
according to FBI  data .  San Bernardino has about $90 million of outstanding bond
debts, according to the budget document, and another $200
million owed to holders of securities issued by the city’s now-
dissolved redevelopment agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  