-- Batista OGX Profit Takes Longer on Production Woes
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-09-06T18:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/batista-ogx-profit-takes-longer-on-production-woes.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista 
may need to wait longer than he expected for  OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA  to make money after the  oil company  extended
the time it will take to reach production targets.  OGX is pushing back targets under new management brought in
after the company lost half of its value in less than two weeks
in June. Chief Financial Officer Roberto Monteiro said OGX,
based in Rio de Janeiro, will only reach output of 70,000
barrels a day, about enough to break even on  cash flow , at some
point after 2013. As recently as March the company planned to
reach 150,000 barrels a day before the end of 2013.  OGX removed long-term production targets from presentations
in June after its first two wells pumped about 5,000 barrels a
day each, less than the company expected. Batista replaced four
top executives, including Chief Executive Officer Paulo
Mendonca, after a June 26 reduction in production goals caused
OGX to slump 40 percent in two days. The head of strategic
alliances also left and hasn’t been replaced.  “We’re going to be spending and decreasing our cash
position over time,” Monteiro said in an interview at OGX’s
downtown Rio offices yesterday. “When we start producing
something around 70,000 barrels a day we will have a break even.
This is why we don’t see ourselves returning to the market.”  The company had $2.9 billion in  cash  at the end of the
second quarter. It pumped 10,600 barrels a day in August at its
first two wells and will add a third before the end of the year.
OGX plans to install two additional production vessels in late
2013 at the Campos Basin and will gradually increase output.
Each vessel, known as an FPSO, has an installed capacity of
100,000 barrels a day.  OGX rose 1.6 percent to 6.26 reais at 2:48 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo , compared with a 1.7 percent gain in  Brazil ’s benchmark
stock index.  Worst Bovespa Stock  The timing of when OGX reaches 70,000 barrels a day depends
on how fast it connects production wells to the new equipment,
he said.  OGX is the  worst-performing  stock in the Brazilian
benchmark Bovespa index this year after falling 55 percent.
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-controlled oil producer,
dropped 4.2 percent while the Bovespa index gained 0.2 percent.
 HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA , a pre-operational oil company
exploring in Brazil’s Amazon that is not a member of the Bovespa
index, slumped 61 percent after it disappointed investors by
only finding natural gas and no oil.  More Conservative  “They are more conservative so they don’t create very
optimist market expectations,” Erick Scott Hood, an analyst at
SLW Corretora, said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “They still
have the big challenge of developing the exploration campaign
and trying to fulfill the schedule,”  OGX, which went public in 2008, is the main pillar in
Batista’s empire of interlinked oil, mining, shipbuilding and
logistics companies and propelled him to become Brazil’s richest
man. OGX rents its production vessels from shipbuilder  OSX
Brasil SA (OSXB3)  and will process and ship oil from a port owned by  LLX
Logistica SA. (LLXL3)  All his companies end in X to represent the
multiplication of wealth, according to Batista.  The plunge in OGX and subsequent losses in his other
companies knocked Batista off the list of the world’s top
richest people. Batista, whose fortune peaked at $34.5 billion
in March as the eighth largest, is now worth $20.2 billion,
making him number 27 in the Bloomberg Billionaire index.  Of the 18 analysts who rate OGX, nine have buy
recommendations, seven have hold recommendations and two say
sell.  The lower production rates at each well don’t reduce the
total amount of oil the company can extract from below the
seabed, Monteiro said. It will take the company longer to
produce the oil from a larger number of wells, and producing at
a slower pace will guarantee oil doesn’t get stranded in the
reservoir, he said.  “The name of the game is recovery factor,” Monteiro said.
“This is how we maximize the value of the company, not cash
flow for tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  