-- Baytex May Move 40% of Crude Output by Rail by End of Year
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-09-06T15:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/baytex-may-move-40-of-crude-output-by-rail-by-end-of-year-1-.html
Baytex Energy Corp. (BTE) , a Calgary-based
oil and gas production company, may transport 40 percent of its
oil output by rail by year’s end, helping insulate profits from
pipeline disruptions.  “We have been moving a very significant amount of our
production by rail,” Chief Financial Officer Derek Aylesworth
said at the Barclays CEO Energy/Power Conference in New York.  Baytex expects to produce an average of 54,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day this year, Aylesworth said. Oil output
accounts for 87 percent of the company’s production.  The company’s internal trucking division can move oil from
wellheads to rail terminals, Aylesworth said. Shipping by train
allows the company to deliver hydrocarbons into higher-priced
markets that are less accessible by pipeline, he said.  “That gives us a pricing advantage, and to the extent that
there are pipeline constraints, we’re not going to be exposed to
any potential volume shut-ins because of the alternate delivery
route,” Aylesworth said.  Prices for heavy Alberta oil and volatility in 2012 may be
affected by pipeline disruptions, increased refinery demand and
rising Canadian output, Aylesworth said.  Western  Canada  Select’s  discount  to U.S. benchmark West
Texas Intermediate was unchanged yesterday at $11.50 a barrel.
The Alberta grade’s average discount over the past year was
$18.66, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Potential Interruptions’  “The things that will likely impact us for the balance of
the year are ongoing potential interruptions in the pipeline
system,” Aylesworth said. ‘If there is a downtime on one of the
main lines, that impacts all of western Canada.’’  Demand for Canadian heavy oil may rise as  Marathon
Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  complete upgrades at their Detroit
and Whiting,  Indiana , refineries to process more high-sulfur
Alberta oil, he said.  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) ’s Kearl production
project may help counter increased refinery demand with more
supply, he said.  “For the balance of this year I would really say it’s
which comes first,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Clark in  New York  at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  