-- Biden in Back Seat as Clinton, First Lady Take Top Slots
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-09-06T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/biden-in-back-seat-as-clinton-first-lady-take-top-slots.html
Joe Biden  has been relegated to a
role at this year’s Democratic convention that gives him less
exposure than former President  Bill Clinton , First LadyMichelle Obama, San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro, and even Senate
candidate  Elizabeth Warren .  The vice president will address the Democratic National
Convention in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , tonight during an hour
that puts him on only one of the major U.S. television networks.
The non-marquee slot marks a shift from Biden’s pivotal position
in advocating  Barack Obama ’s bid for the presidency in 2008.  “There’s somewhat of a limited impact you can have as an
incumbent vice presidential candidate,” said Joel Goldstein, a
law professor at Saint Louis University who has written
extensively on the vice presidency. “When you’re brand new to
the stage, there’s a fresh evaluation going on.”  Four years ago, Biden gave the capstone speech on the third
night of the Democrats’ convention in Denver, providing the
national security ballast to Obama’s candidacy and the
connection to white working-class America. This year, Biden will
be more of a cheerleader for Obama’s achievements: the auto
industry rescue, the stimulus that helped stanch the recession
and the raid that killed  Osama bin Laden .  Biden is scheduled to speak at 9:30 p.m. East Coast time,
according to a person familiar with the planning. Within the
three-day arc of the convention, planners decided it worked best
for Clinton to make the case for Obama’s economic policies and
Biden to serve the next night as a witness to the president’s
decisions, said the person, speaking on condition of anonymity.  Gaffes Lampooned  The effusive, blunt-spoken vice-president’s penchant for
gaffes, lampooned on late-night comedy shows, also has cut into
his public persona. Biden, 69, once asked a state senator in a
wheelchair to stand up to be recognized.  Earlier this year, he had to apologize to Obama for getting
ahead of the president in announcing public backing of same-sex
marriage rights. And his remarks last month that Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s regulatory policies would
put middle-income Americans “back in chains” opened a war of
words between the two campaigns.  “Some of Biden’s well-publicized gaffes and mistakes have
had an impact,” said Carroll Doherty, associate director of the
nonpartisan Pew Research Center in  Washington . “When you ask
people to come up with words to describe him, many of them use
words that are mocking or disparaging.”  ‘Best Spot’  Associates said Biden, who listened to Clinton’s speech in
the hall last night, is happy with his speaking slot.  “That’s the best spot for him to be speaking about the
president,” said Ted Kaufman, a former Delaware senator and
Biden’s former long-time chief of staff. “It’s right before the
president speaks.”  Douglas Brinkley , a presidential historian at  Rice
University  in Houston, said the entry of Clinton into the re-
election campaign as a full-throated advocate for Obama has
helped place Biden in a different position than 2008, when the
former president was less active and still nursing wounds from
the defeat of his wife,  Hillary Clinton , in the party’s primary.  The vice president’s “role was more essential in ’08 than
’12,” Brinkley said. “Biden had a crucial role with those
lunch-bucket Democrats in 2008, and this time around that’s a
role Bill Clinton is fulfilling. In some ways this is an Obama-
Bill Clinton convention. In ’08, it was Obama-Biden.”  Less Decisive  The practice of giving the incumbent vice president one
convention night to headline is relatively recent, only going
back to 1996, when the event lasted four days, Goldstein said.
This year, the conventions were compressed to three nights, with
only one hour of network television coverage in most cases,
constraining the time available to showcase speakers.  A less-decisive political role for vice presidents in re-
election efforts than in a ticket’s initial campaign has been
typical in recent years, Goldstein said.  Al Gore  in 1992 helped reinforce the image of generational
change and a move to the center by the Democrats in Clinton’s
presidential campaign, and  Dick Cheney  in 2000 provided gravitas
and foreign policy experience to  George W. Bush ’s campaign,
Goldstein said.  Neither of the vice presidents’ roles was as significant in
their re-nomination conventions, he said.  “Biden has really been out campaigning and doing
appearances more than most vice presidents do, certainly more
than Cheney did,” Goldstein said. “He’s playing a pretty
aggressive role, particularly with traditional Democrats that
Obama doesn’t play well with: unions and blue-collar
Democrats.”  Biting Attacks  Biden has already headlined more than 100 political events
and traveled through battleground states. He delivered some of
the Obama campaign’s more biting attacks on Romney, assailing
the former Massachusetts governor’s refusal to release tax
returns and immigration stance in one line: “Romney wants you
to show your papers, but he won’t show you his.”  Biden has also distilled the Obama record into a bumper
sticker: “Osama bin Laden is dead and  General Motors (GM)  is
alive.”  That role has cost Biden some public favorability, Kaufman
said. Republicans “go after him to lower his credibility”
because he is “scoring points on Romney,” Kaufman said.  While Clinton and Biden both speak to constituencies of
non-college-educated whites that Obama has difficulty reaching,
the two men appeal to somewhat different constituencies --
Clinton to independents and Biden to labor leaders and unions,
Brinkley said.  Union Turnout  Obama “needs an amazing union turnout in places like  Ohio ,
 Pennsylvania , and  Wisconsin ,” Brinkley said.  Steve Jarding, a former Democratic political consultant and
a lecturer at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, said
Biden’s gaffes haven’t diminished his appeal to white working-
class voters and ethnic Catholics.  The verbal miscues reinforce the impression that Biden, the
son of a used-car salesman from Scranton, Pennsylvania, “is
like us, not too slick,” Jarding said.  “This guy can light up a room full of working folks,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  