-- Big East Conference Considers Name Change After Adding Schools
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-09-06T21:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/big-east-conference-considers-name-change-after-adding-schools.html
The  Big East  is taking steps to
“tweak” its name now that it includes schools from California,
Idaho, Texas, Tennessee and Florida, according to  Joe Bailey ,
the conference’s former interim commissioner.  The  Big East  has commissioned a study to consider
alternative names, Bailey said today at the Bloomberg Sports
Business Summit hosted by Bloomberg Link in New York. He
wouldn’t say when the names would be presented to conference
presidents for their consideration.  “The unintended consequences of adding new schools is that
all of a sudden the Big East is a national conference,” Bailey
said. “It extends to four time zones in major markets. In one
sense, it almost represents the United States in that
diversity.”  The Providence, Rhode Island-based conference has eight
football teams this season:  Temple University  in Philadelphia,
the  University of Connecticut  in Storrs, the  University of South
Florida  in Tampa, the University of Louisville in Kentucky,
 Rutgers University  in Piscataway,  New Jersey , the University of
Cincinnati in Ohio,  Syracuse University  in New York and the
 University of Pittsburgh .  Pittsburgh and Syracuse leave in 2013, and the Big East
will add Boise State University in Idaho and San Diego State
University in California in football, and Dallas-based Southern
Methodist University, the University of Memphis in Tennessee,
the University of Central Florida and the University of Houston
in Texas in all sports.  Final Count  The U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, will join
the conference in football in 2015, bringing the number of
football schools to 13 and the number of programs competing in
all sports to 18.  “A brand is extremely important because it tells the
marketplace that this is what the Big East stands for,” Bailey
said. “There is so much equity in the name, Big East, what do
you do with that?”  He said it was more likely the conference will “tweak a
little” than come up with a wholesale change to the name.  “Stay tuned,” Bailey said. “There will be a twist to
that, but it can’t look less than authentic.”  The Big East announced last month that CBS Sports Executive
Mike Aresco had been picked as commissioner. Bailey will serve
in an advisory capacity until Aresco gets up to the speed,
according to the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  