-- Billabong Said to Get A$694 Million Bid From Bain to Rival TPG
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-09-06T01:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/billabong-said-to-get-a-694-million-bid-from-bain-to-rival-tpg.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) 
received a A$694 million ($707 million) offer from Bain Capital
Partners LLC, said people familiar with the matter, setting up a
possible bidding war with rival suitor TPG International LLC.  Bain, a Boston-based private equity firm, has started
studying Billabong’s financial records, two people with
knowledge of the process said, declining to be identified as the
information is private. The surf-wear maker said in a statement
today that the A$1.45-a-share conditional cash bid matched TPG’s
offer, without naming the second suitor.  Billabong jumped in Sydney trading after saying neither
offer is sufficient and it’s allowing due diligence in an effort
to draw a higher bid.  Gold Coast , Australia-based Billabong last
month posted its first loss since its initial public offering 12
years ago on writedowns and falling sales.  “It’s great news for shareholders of Billabong because it
adds pricing tension,’ said Tim Montague-Jones, senior equity
analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  ‘‘The probability is quite high that
a higher offer could come through. A deal could get done.”  Shares of Billabong rose 7.9 percent to A$1.37 at 11:08
a.m. local time, posting the  biggest intra-day gain  since July
24 and swelling the company’s market value to A$656 million. The
stock reached a record high of A$17.67 in 2007.  TPG, the buyout firm run by  David Bonderman , started due
diligence on Billabong in late August, according to the
Australian company.  ‘Fundamental Value’  Neither offer “reflects the fundamental value of Billabong
in the context of a change of control transaction,” the
retailer said in its statement. There’s no guarantee the bidders
will produce a bid that Billabong’s directors can recommend to
shareholders, the company said.  Billabong said July 24 that TPG’s bid “may be refined”
following due diligence. Colonial First State Investment Ltd.
and Perennial Value Management Ltd. agreed to sell about 12.5
percent of Billabong’s issued capital to  Fort Worth , Texas-based
TPG, Billabong said July 24.  Billabong in February rejected an offer of A$3.30 a share
from TPG. Founder and largest shareholder Gordon Merchant,
together with director Colette Paull, said they wouldn’t
consider a bid of less than A$4 a share.  Even after making offers beneath that threshold, the
private equity firms have been granted access to Billabong’s
books following a slump in sales and operating losses in
Australasia,  Europe  and the Americas. Billabong has been forced
to cut jobs and sell items at a loss to clear stockpiles, as it
racked up charges for closing store leases early.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  