-- Bill Clinton Asserts Democrats Create More Jobs: Reality Check
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-06T05:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/bill-clinton-asserts-democrats-create-more-jobs-reality-check.html
Former President  Bill Clinton 
delivered a defense of President  Barack Obama ’s record in a
speech last night at the Democratic National Convention in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . How do Clinton’s assertions square
with the facts?  Job Creation  The Claim: Clinton said that over the past half century
almost twice as many jobs had been created when Democrats were
in the White House as under Republican administrations.  The Background: Republicans have used today’s weak job
market as a club to beat President Obama. Clinton confronted the
Republican charges by claiming long-term success for the
Democrats’ “we’re all in this together” philosophy, which he
contrasted with what he described as the Republicans’ “you’re
on your own” approach. Since 1961, Republican presidents have
served for 28 years while Democrats have been in office for
about 23 years. Clinton said total job growth over that period
amounted to 66 million. “What’s the jobs score?” he asked the
crowd in Charlotte. “Republicans 24 million, Democrats 42
million!” he said.  The Facts: Clinton’s math is correct. Using Bureau of Labor
Statistics figures for the month each president took office,
Democratic presidents presided over the creation of 42.3 million
jobs and Republican chief executives saw 23.9 million.  Republican Tax Proposals  The Claim: Clinton said Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney ’s tax plan would lead to middle-class tax increases,
deep spending cuts or higher  deficits . During his speech,
Clinton said Romney’s plan could lead to $250,000 tax cuts for
people making more than $3 million. Or, he said, it would
“obliterate the budget” for education, clean air, clean water
and national parks. Or, he said, Republicans would increase the
deficit.  The Background: Romney’s fiscal plan calls for a balanced
budget in 8 to 10 years. He would cap spending at 20 percent of
gross domestic product, increase defense spending, cut tax rates
and eliminate tax breaks. He hasn’t specified most of the
spending cuts or any of the tax breaks he would eliminate, and
independent analyses have found that the math is almost
impossible.  The Facts: By noting the gaps in Romney’s proposal and
structuring his argument as a list of possibilities rather than
certainties, Clinton’s phrasing is more accurate than other
Democratic statements. Obama campaign ads, for example, say
Romney’s plan would definitely mean a middle-class tax increase.  Clinton used a number, the $250,000 tax cut for people
making more than $3 million, which was first calculated by the
non-partisan  Tax Policy Center  and reduced by an unspecified
amount when the center considered other possible ways to
structure the Romney plan.  What would actually happen under Romney depends on how he
fills in the details, which he has so far not done.  Romney has said his top priority would be preventing the
middle class from paying higher taxes. He could adjust the other
variables in his tax plan, the rates and the revenue target, to
make that happen. Clinton correctly framed the statement by
saying that middle class taxes would have to go up if Romney
stuck to his rate cut and if he tried to offset the revenue loss
by curtailing tax breaks. There aren’t enough of those to offset
lower revenue from top earners.  On spending, Romney has specified that he would cut
Medicaid, the health benefit for the poor, and other similar
programs by about $100 billion a year. The  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities  found that meeting Romney’s goals would
require a 29 percent budget cut in most programs by 2016.  Choosing to soften the spending cuts or tax-break changes
would, as Clinton suggested, make it harder to avoid increasing
the deficit. Clinton didn’t try to predict exactly what Romney
would do. Instead, he showed the possible choices that Romney’s
constraints would force.  Expanding Debt  The Claim: Clinton said that Republican policies quadrupled
the national debt in the 12 years before he took office and
doubled it again in the 8 years following his presidency.  The Background: At their convention in Tampa,  Florida ,
Republicans prominently placed a digital display showing a
continually updated total for the national debt, which passed
$16 trillion as the Democrats opened their conclave. Romney has
attacked Obama as a big spender who has lavished money on
wasteful government programs.  The Facts: Clinton’s claim is largely true. The Treasury
Department’s website,  www.treasurydirect.gov , includes detailed
historical data on the government’s public debt. Only annual
fiscal year data is available for the period before 1997. Total
public debt rose from $907.7 billion on Sept. 30, 1980, four
months before President Reagan’s inauguration, to $4.1 trillion
on Sept. 30, 1992, as the administration of President  George H.W.
Bush  was coming to a close. Under Clinton, the  rise  slowed
markedly, going to $5.7 trillion. On the second half of his
claim, his math was a little off. Total debt rose from $5.7
trillion on Jan. 22, 2001, the first trading day after President
 George W. Bush  was sworn in, to $10.6 trillion on Jan. 20, 2009,
when Obama took over. That 86 percent jump isn’t quite the
doubling Clinton claimed.  Payroll Growth  The Claim: Clinton said that in the last 29 months the
economy has produced about 4.5 million private-sector jobs.  The Background:  Job creation  has been a critical issue in
the election.  The Reality: The statement is true. Private non-farm
payrolls rose by 4.5 million during the 29 months ended in July,
the most recent month for which figures are available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net  