-- Black’s NewPage Retreat Inflicts Bond Losses: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-09-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/black-s-newpage-retreat-inflicts-bond-losses-corporate-finance.html
NewPage Corp. bondholders,
speculating the company needs no help in boosting earnings in a
hobbled paper market, have seen the value of their holdings
dwindle by $690 million since turning down a buyout offer in May
from a rival controlled by  Leon Black .  The largest U.S. coated-paper maker’s $1.77 billion of
11.375 percent notes due December 2014 fell 4.5 cents yesterday
to 64 cents on the dollar. A day earlier  Verso Paper Corp. (VRS)  said
it ended merger discussions with the Miamisburg, Ohio-based
company. That was the biggest drop since March and put the
bonds, which touched 60 cents, further below the estimated 103
cents Verso offered in May.  NewPage, which filed for bankruptcy in September after
posting 11 straight quarterly losses, is struggling to boost
earnings as demand for coated paper has been declining about 5
percent to 6 percent annually, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. First-lien bondholders have been negotiating a plan of
reorganization with the company after it said that unsecured
creditors are “hopelessly out of the money.”  “First-lien holders should have taken that deal because
the recovery value down the road is both lower and riskier
because creditors will likely be compensated with a greater
portion of equity,” Kevin Cohen, a New York-based analyst at
Imperial Capital LLC, said in a telephone interview. “They
probably misjudged their negotiating power and the desperation,
or the lack thereof, of Verso.”  Attempted Buyout  Verso ended attempts to negotiate an acquisition with
NewPage and its creditors, saying it would instead focus on
“internal growth projects,” the company said in a Sept. 4
statement. New York-based buyout firm  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO)  controlled by Black purchased Verso, a former unit of
 International Paper Co. (IP) , for $1.4 billion in August 2006.  Amber Best, a spokeswoman for NewPage, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  Verso offered the holders of NewPage’s first-lien debt the
equivalent of about 83 cents on the dollar in new Verso first-
lien notes, common stock and cash, it said in a July 3
regulatory filing. NewPage said the offer “posed significant
downside risks to its stakeholders, employees, and business”
and that it didn’t expect to continue discussing the proposal.  The July proposal replaced a higher offer from Verso in
May, when the company offered about 103 cents on the dollar,
according to the filing.  Paper Prices  “There would have been a lot of benefits of combining
NewPage and Verso,”  Ed Sustar , a Toronto-based credit analyst
at Moody’s, said in a telephone interview. “Now those companies
are going to have to make it work on their own.”  Both coated mechanical and freesheet magazine and catalog
paper have declined in price since year-end, according to data
from forest product researcher RISI Inc. Coated mechanical paper
cost $860 per short ton last month, down from $885 in December,
while freesheet paper dropped 3 percent to $970 in the same
period. Coated mechanical prices increased $15 per ton in
August.  NewPage, which had been part of  MeadWestvaco Corp. (MWV) , was
bought by New York-based Cerberus Capital Management LP for $2.3
billion in 2005 and issued $900 million in high-yield, high-risk
bonds to fund the purchase. In the last quarter before NewPage
filed for bankruptcy, its interest expense of $96 million topped
its $24 million of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Recovery Value  NewPage, which is 80 percent-owned by Cerberus, listed
assets of $3.4 billion and debt totaling $4.2 billion in the
Chapter 11 reorganization. Liabilities included $232 million on
a revolving credit plus $1.77 billion on the first-lien notes.
Second-lien obligations included $802 million in 10 percent
secured notes and $225 million in floating-rate notes.  Creditors may be better off without a combination that
would have required additional financing, according to Scott Colyer, chief executive officer of Monument, Colorado-based
Advisors Asset Management Inc.  “The NewPage first-lien bondholders will probably get
close to 100 cents on the dollar,” Colyer, whose firm oversees
$7.4 billion including the debt, said in a telephone interview.  Shuttering Capacity  Waiting until the company emerges from bankruptcy instead
of accepting Verso’s proposals will probably result in a higher
valuation for NewPage bondholders, Hoai Ngo, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  To get a better valuation “you could shutter capacity,
which they really haven’t done yet,” which would improve Ebitda
margins, Ngo said. “NewPage bondholders are waiting for a
higher valuation, and that will probably come post-reemergence
from bankruptcy. They can wait.”  Verso’s $271.6 million of 11.75 percent secured notes due
in January 2019 fell 2 cents yesterday to 78.8 cents on the
dollar to yield 17.4 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
NewPage’s 11.375 percent debt is trading 7 cents more than its
record low of 57 cents reached on Feb. 16.  The company filed a proposed reorganization plan and a
motion for an extension for filing a disclosure statement
explaining the plan on Aug. 14. The proposal contains an option
under which there would be settlement of claims by the unsecured
creditor’s committee challenging the validity of liens held by
first-lien lenders. Alternatively, the plan would forgo
settlement, allowing a lawsuit on lien validity to continue
after the company emerges from bankruptcy.  “We ultimately believe that when NewPage emerges from
bankruptcy they will link up with Verso,” Imperial Capital’s
Cohen said. NewPage would probably get a lower valuation in any
merger because a bankruptcy plan approved by a judge would
likely lower the expectations of first-lien holders, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net 
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  