-- Blind Poised to See in Bionic Eye Drive for 285 Million
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-09-06T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/blind-poised-to-see-in-bionic-eye-drive-for-285-million.html
Jeanette Pritchard slides a brain
onto the table and points to the area where scientists will
implant 600 tiny electrodes to produce bionic vision.  The wobbly white organ is a silicon replica of the human
one a 60-strong team of researchers at  Melbourne ’s  Monash
University  is trying to rewire, sending electrical impulses
directly to the region creating visual percepts -- the brain’s
interpretation of the nerve signals it would receive from a
functioning eye. Their device will be tested in animals later
this year before the first human studies in 2014.  Across town, doctors at the  University of Melbourne  are
taking a different tack, developing an implant to sit at the
rear of the eye and do the work for damaged retinas. Both groups
are in a race to capture the market for bionic vision, offering
hope to the world’s  285 million  blind or partially sighted
people. The Melbourne teams may have an edge: expertise in
stimulating the brain in the city that produced the top-selling
bionic ear and made a $4 billion company of maker  Cochlear Ltd. (COH)   “As far as we’re aware, we’re at around similar stages to
all of the other groups -- certainly not too far behind and, if
anything, a little bit ahead,” said Pritchard,  Monash Vision
Group ’s general manager.  No Steve Austin  Almost four decades after bionic implants created the
fictional  Six Million Dollar Man , scientists are far from being
able to replicate a fully functioning human eye, let alone the
one with zoom and infrared capabilities of  Steve Austin , Lee
Majors’ character in the 1970s television show. The most
advanced attempts have produced pixilated images in monochrome.  Besides the two groups in Melbourne, Second Sight Medical
Products Inc., based in Sylmar,  California , and  Retina Implant
AG , based in Reutlingen,  Germany , are among as many as 20 groups
worldwide trying to reproduce vision that’s closer to that
enjoyed by sighted people. Most research utilizes retinal
implants, relying on still-functioning components of the visual
sensory system, including the optical nerve.  By acting directly on the brain, Monash Vision’s device
will counter all causes of blindness, except those resulting
from damage to the  visual cortex  -- where the percepts are
formed. The group devised the approach three years ago for the
project, which has a budget of about A$15 million ($15 million).  It entails surgically implanting more than a dozen 8
millimeter-square tiles -- each about a quarter of the size of a
thumbnail -- into the visual cortex, located at the back of the
brain. Each tile contains 45 electrodes that will penetrate
about 2 millimeters into the surface of the brain.  The tiles also contain a microchip and wireless receiver to
convey signals delivered from a mobile phone-sized computer that
relays compressed visual data from a camera worn by the user.
The device will have modes for navigation, detecting people and
gauging the proximity of objects, said Arthur Lowery, director
of Monash Vision Group.  ‘In the Race’  Researchers are testing the tiles in animals for safety and
biocompatibility and are studying their function in rats, said
 Jeffrey Rosenfeld , head of neurosurgery at the Alfred Hospital
in Melbourne, who will lead the team implanting the Monash
device. Studies in primates will start later this year, he said.  “We’re in the race and are confident we’ll produce a
commercial device,” Rosenfeld said in an interview. “Whether
it will be as successful as the Cochlear device, who knows. It’s
at the forefront of Australian technological design, but it’s
also at the world’s forefront of new technology.”  Retinitis Pigmentosa  Even among the groups developing bionic prostheses for the
retina, there are differences in approaches. The team at the
 University of Melbourne , known as  Bionic Vision Australia , has
implanted its device behind the eye in an area known as the
super-choroidal space. Their prototype, carrying 24 electrodes
on a thin silicon sheet, has been put in three patients with
 retinitis pigmentosa , an inherited condition affecting about 1
in 4,000 people in the U.S.  The first recipient, Dianne Ashworth, described seeing
flashes of light when the electrodes were stimulated by a
computer connected to a wire attachment behind her ear.  “It was amazing,” Ashworth said in an Aug. 30 statement.
“Every time there was stimulation, there was a different shape
that appeared in front of my eye.”  Ashworth’s response to the stimulation was “vital,” said
Penny Allen, who led a surgical team implanting the prototype at
the Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital.  Right Assumption  “The fact we are getting visual stimulation from the
device in that position means that we are right in our
assumption,” Allen said. “We believe it will be stable there
long term, and that’s very important in any prosthesis.”  Ashworth’s surgery took four and a half hours. It involved
removing some muscle around the eye so the eyeball could be
rolled over and the device placed behind the retina. Once fitted,
the muscle was stitched back on. The third surgery took just
over three hours, indicating the technique may be less taxing
than some approaches that have taken as long as 12 hours, she
said.  Researchers will work with the recipients over the next 12
months to determine exactly what they perceive each time the
retina is stimulated. They’re looking for consistency of shapes,
brightness, size and location of flashes to determine how the
brain interprets the information, said Rob Shepherd, director of
the  Bionics Institute , which designed, built and tested the
early prototype.  The next stage of development will incorporate an external
camera from which messages will be sent to the device behind the
eye. The scientists aim to produce a wide-view implant with 98
electrodes, producing vision with about as many pixels, and a
high-acuity model with 1,024 electrodes that might enable users
to read large-font text, Shepherd said. By early 2016, he
expects the devices to be used in a large-scale patient study.  Recognizing Faces  “All these patients really want is facial recognition,”
he said. “That’s potentially possible with a high-resolution
device.” A more achievable target is a device that enhances
mobility, enabling users to “walk through doors, see large
objects,” he said.  Shepherd, who is also professor of medical bionics at the
University of Melbourne, was a member of the team that developed
the Cochlear implant in the 1970s. At the time, scientists
weren’t aware of the brain’s ability to reorganize its neural
pathways in response to the hearing device, so amplifying its
benefit, he said.  “We called it an aid to lip-reading,” Shepherd said.
“But now, children as young as six months are using them and
people are using them with mobile phones and in noisy
environments.”  Second Sight, co-founded by rival cochlear implant pioneer
Alfred E. Mann, began selling its Argus II device in  Europe  in
October. Some patients have been using the implant for more than
five years, said Brian Mech, vice-president of business
development.  Beer Glasses  The device typically takes 2-3 hours to fit, with users
able to detect faces -- though not recognize them -- and read
large-text font, he said in an e-mail. “Most significant gains
are in the areas of orientation and mobility,” he said.  Another approach is used by Retina Implant, whose  device 
has 1,500 electrodes that convert light entering the eye into
electrical energy, relying on intact nerves inside the retina to
relay information via the optical nerve to the brain.  It takes about 8 hours to fit the implant, which lets users
identify and locate objects like beer glasses, cutlery or
bananas, Walter Wrobel, the  company ’s chief executive officer,
said via e-mail. Users can also read 4-5 centimeter letters from
a distance of about half a meter, he said.  While the teams in Melbourne are playing catch-up with more
advanced products, it’s not a prospect that fazes Allen.  “If we have a surgical procedure that is safe and readily
reproducible, then you don’t really need to be first,” she said.
“You actually want to be better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  