-- BMW’s Beefed-Up M5 Joins Sexy M6 Coupe for Power Trips
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/bmw-s-beefed-up-m5-joins-sexy-m6-coupe-for-power-trips.html
Drunk on power. That’s the best way
to describe two new cars from  BMW (BMW) , the M5 and M6. Both are
variants of the already potent 5 Series sedan and 6 Series coupe
and convertible.  The 2013 models have 560 horsepower. These are cars for
regular consumers, not racecar drivers. That kind of power is
extraordinary, the equivalent of plugging your kitchen blender
into a 240-watt plug and equipping it with lawnmower blades.
Just in case you’d like to juice shrubs and small trees.  Similarly, the entire premise of the new M cars seems to be
overkill. It’s very unlikely that you’d ever bring your $92,000
M5 sedan onto a racetrack, but it’s nice to know you could,
right?  (And yes, in fact, you could, as I recently proved over a
long day at a California track, pounding the heck out of both
the M5 and M6. More on that later.)  That might seem like an irresponsible way to abuse
expensive toys, especially as the M6 coupe and convertible are
even dearer, starting at $108,300 and $115,300. The prices
include a $1,300 gas guzzler tax.  These are the fruits of BMW’s  M Division , which soups up
and retunes models already in the regular lineup. The latest 5
Series was released as a 2011 model year and the new 6 Series as
a 2012. Hungry for more flash and power, many patient buyers
have been waiting until the release of the M variants.  Ludicrous Power  These may be sober times, but sports car enthusiasts are
living in a golden age. Not so long ago a car with more than 500
horsepower was a rare and ludicrous thing. Today you can buy a
 Chevy Camaro  with 580 hp and a Ford Mustang with 662. The latest
Ferrari, the F12 Berlinetta, has 730.  So why not a 560-hp four-seater that can carry  golf clubs 
and several buddies? The M6 coupe will bust 60 miles per hour in
4.1 seconds and the M5 in just a tick over. Still, more isn’t
always more. The M5’s curb weight is a chubby 4,300 pounds. A
diet would mean equal quickness with fewer horses.  To BMW’s credit, the engines have gained power while
diminishing in cylinders and size. The previous generations both
used a 5.0-liter V-10, now exchanged for a more efficient 4.4-
liter V-8.  At 20 miles per gallon highway, however, efficiency is
still relative. Compare that to the teetotaling four-cylinder
528i which gets 34 mpg highway.  As the names and same engine suggest, the M5 and M6 are
similar. The differences really are of style and a certain
degree of practicality.  Executive Parking  The M5 would look comfortable in an executive parking lot,
the M6 on  South Beach ’s Ocean Drive. The M5 is boxier and seats
four reasonably, five in a thigh-pressing pinch. It also has a
more commodious roofline.  The M6 is a two-door that comes with either a fixed roof or
as a convertible. It is both squished and elongated, with a
lower hood, a lower center of gravity and a sense that it slices
more easily through the air. The tradeoff is lack of headroom
and practical back seats.  Both models look great. Compared to the previous generation
M5, the double kidney grill is larger and gets an inverted cant.
The hood has bulging lines which form an arrow-like “V”
pointing down the road.  The M6, on the other hand, is outright sexy, particularly
in convertible guise with the roof down. BMW’s interiors, once
grim, are excellent on both of these cars, and BMW’s navigation
and infotainment systems with head’s up display are first rate.  Power on Tap  Around town, these are both easy beasts. Nothing scary
about them. All that power is just waiting to be tapped, though,
a potential problem on the highway when you glance down to find
yourself driving 90 mph.  It wasn’t until I drove the cars at the Raceway Laguna Seca
in Monterey that it became clear how BMW could release cars this
powerful. The answer: They are highly monitored by electronic
stability and traction controls.  Coming out of a slow corner onto the long front straight, I
found I had to be very delicate with the M5’s gas pedal. Slap it
down too quickly and the wheels would try to spin and the back
end would briefly attempt to step out.  Instead the electronic controls would quickly intercede,
cutting power until things were righted. This is not a bad
thing. Think thrice before fully turning off the traction
control.  The problem is that you begin to feel indestructible, sure
that the cars’ digital brains will fix mistakes or injudicious
applications of power. And, mostly, they will. Cresting one of
 Laguna Seca’s  rolling hills at 125 mph with the gas pedal pinned
to the floor seemed all too easy.  Brake hard at the bottom of that hill, twist the wheel and
careen through the downhill turn. I’ve seen cars fly off at that
turn, but neither the M5 nor M6 would allow it.  Powerful? Absolutely. Drunk? Not at all.  The 2013 BMW M5 sedan and M6 coupe at a Glance  Engines: 4.4-liter V-8 with 560 horsepower and 500 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmissions: Seven-speed double-clutch automated manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.2 seconds; 4.1.  Gas mileage per gallon: 14 city, 20 highway.  Prices as tested: $104,647; $126,218.  Best features: Smart electronic controls mated to  incredible power.  Worst features: Overall weight; slippery seats.  Target buyers: The driver who wants room and great might.  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and
 Lance Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 