-- BMW Never-Too-Old Assembly Insures Against Lost Engineers
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-09-06T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/bmw-never-too-old-assembly-insures-against-lost-engineers.html
Five years ago, managers at
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  realized that with Germany’s graying
population the average age of their workers would jump from 41
to 46 by 2017. So they decided to make it happen sooner.  In 2007, the luxury automaker set up an experimental
assembly line with older  employees  to see whether they could
keep pace. The production line in Dingolfing, 50 miles northeast
of BMW’s Munich base, features hoists to spare aging backs,
adjustable-height work benches, and wooden floors instead of
rubber to help hips swivel during repetitive tasks.  The verdict: Not only could they keep up, the older workers
did a better job than younger staffers on another line at the
same factory. Today, many of the changes are being implemented
at plants across the company.  Like BMW,  Germany ’s other automakers are grappling with an
aging workforce. With the country also facing a shortage of
qualified engineers, many in the industry have decided that its
best to keep good workers on the job as long as possible by
adapting factories to their needs.  The problem is most pressing for luxury brands such as BMW
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi because the higher-end manufacturers
rely more on labor than than volume manufacturers do. And
there’s little substitute for the experience gained by years on
the assembly line.  “A deficit of engineers and skilled workers is one of the
major issues for German carmakers and will become acute in
coming years,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director at the Center of
Automotive Management in Bergisch-Gladbach, near Cologne. “So
staff need to be kept fit on the assembly line.”  Magnifying Glass  BMW says it implemented more than a dozen changes at
Dingolfing, among them movable instruction screens with larger
letters and a magnifying glass, and a two-hour rotation cycle to
keep minds sharp by regularly switching tasks.  “The 2017 assembly line became as productive as the
younger one, but the quality was higher,” said Jochen Frey, a
BMW spokesman on personnel issues.  At Audi, efforts to lock in skills have been extended to
those with more serious ailments. At the department that
packages kits of car parts to be shipped abroad for assembly at
factories in India and  China , nearly half the staff have some
form of physical impairment, ranging from faulty vision to a
balky hip.  Knee Injury  Alfred Kopold, 47, was forced off Audi’s  production line 
after knee surgery left him unable to sit or stand for long
periods. Instead of leaving the company, Kopold moved to the
kit-making group, where a customized work station allows him to
constantly shift position.  The department, which packages kits for models such as the
A4 sedan, A5 coupe and Q5 sport-utility vehicle, also employs
more flexible working practices and measures contributions
across the mixed-age workforce rather than individually.  With the changes, the  department ’s productivity jumped by
40 percent between 2005 and 2010, and it now has 96 percent of
the output of a totally healthy team, according to its head,
Hartmut Bartsch. The “ultimate goal,” Bartsch said, is to
ensure that even those confined to wheelchairs can do the most
demanding jobs.  Audi has also grouped older workers together with young
recruits to aid the transfer of the “implicit knowledge” that
is central to many car-making processes, said Dietmar Frassek,
an Audi project manager for human resources policy. In Audi’s
tooling department it can take a decade to hone the senses well
enough to be able to run a hand over a metal surface and detect
minute flaws.  Porsche Super Car  “In the press plant, for example, there are many variables
such as temperature and the mixture of materials, and infinite
options for combining them,” Frassek said. “Only experience
can ensure optimal results.”  At Porsche AG’s base in the Zuffenhausen area of Stuttgart,
where the 911, Boxster and Cayman are made, older engineers were
recruited to work on the 918 Spyder, a hybrid super car that
will be the automaker’s most expensive model ever when
deliveries start late next year.  Daimler AG (DAI) , where staff will average 47 years old by 2020
versus 43 in 2010, is in a dispute with unions over age-related
issues. The company is asking for contractual changes in return
for factoring age into a system of classifying the physical
demands of various jobs. Daimler is seeking concessions on pay
and future consultation in return for minimizing or eliminating
the toughest procedures, said Erich Klemm, the head of the
Daimler’s works council.  Daimler Dispute  Klemm says the dispute has delayed plant upgrades. At
Daimler’s Sindelfingen factory, near Stuttgart, the unions want
car bodies to be lifted so workers won’t need to bend into a
moving production line when inserting cable harnesses.  While Klemm acknowledges it would cost a “few hundred
thousand euros” to modify 10 workstations, he insists the
change would save Daimler money in reduced sick leave. “It’s in
the company’s interest,” he said.  Daimler declined to comment on any statements by the works
council, but said that its job classification system is fair.  Even with such measures in place it’s impossible to
overcome the impact of aging for some staff, said Joachim Stork,
a medical doctor and director at Audi’s health department. Yet
Stork is confident that technology may someday narrow the gap
between the capabilities of an aging workforce and the demands
of even the toughest factory jobs.  “We can counteract the rising age and necessities of staff
with innovations,” he said. “To solve the conflict between the
aging process and productivity will be a permanent task.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  