-- Boeing May Use Non-Seattle Engineers as Seattle Costs Up
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-09-07T01:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/boeing-may-use-engineers-beyond-hub-if-union-balks-on-pay.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , working to reach a new
contract with union engineers, says some development work on
future airliners may be done at less-expensive sites outside its
Seattle jet-manufacturing hub.  While keeping the renewed focus on engineering championed
by former Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh , Boeing can
draw on resources from across the breadth of the company, not
just those in the Puget Sound region, Mike Delaney, the chief
engineer, said yesterday.  “Seattle is a love-hate relationship for me,” he said.
“I love pumping all the money into my team, but now we’re in
the same place as southern  California  and the Washington, D.C.,
area in terms of cost to do engineering. Those are the three
most expensive places in the country to do engineering.”  Boeing’s engineers not only design new planes, they inspect
those being built and sign off on the work before aircraft are
delivered. That means any labor action would interrupt work flow
during a record production increase, so the Chicago-based
planemaker must balance that risk with winning cost savings in a
contract to replace the one expiring Oct. 6.  “We’re committed to the Puget Sound,” Delaney said. “But
we also have access to the Boeing corporation.”  Talks have been contentious, with disagreement strongest
over Boeing’s plan to switch new engineers to a 401(k)-style
retirement benefit rather than a pension, according to the
Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace.  Engineer Union  Speea, as the union is known, represents about 23,000
Boeing workers, mostly based in the Seattle area. Its 15,000
engineers make an average of $110,000 a year, while 8,000
technical workers under the same contract earn an average
$79,000.  Other U.S. cities where Boeing has engineering operations
are less expensive, Delaney said, including  St. Louis ,
Philadelphia, Houston,  San Antonio  and Huntsville,  Alabama .
Boeing also now builds the 787 Dreamliner in Charleston, South
Carolina, where assembly workers aren’t in a union, as they are
at the company’s wide-body plant outside Seattle.  “We’re committed to the Puget Sound, to Charleston, to St.
Louis,” Delaney said. “But we will do -- I’ve told Speea this
-- when we do the next airplane, I will do and use whatever
resources it takes to launch that airplane.”  Managing Costs  Managing costs is pivotal as Boeing braces for U.S. defense
cuts and focuses on productivity after amassing billions of
dollars in charges from delays to the Dreamliner and the new
747-8 jumbo jet. The planemaker is bringing some design work
back in-house after acknowledging it outsourced too much on the
787 and lost control of the program.  “We’re willing to pay a premium to be in  Seattle  because
there’s a base, there’s capability, we’ve got a great team,”
Delaney said. “But if you took Speea’s proposal,” Boeing’s
costs would balloon and it wouldn’t be competitive, he said.  “No customer will pay that kind of premium,” he said.  Boeing has been able to draw on companywide engineering
resources to solve previous crises, Delaney said. Engineers in
Philadelphia were critical in fixing the 787’s problematic side-
of-body joint, and Boeing’s space team in Houston and engineers
in Huntsville helped with the Dreamliner’s new electrical power
system, said Delaney, who was the 787’s chief engineer.  Speea argues it’s crucial to development for engineers to
work alongside those who build the planes. Boeing assembles its
737s in Renton, south of Seattle, and its 747s, 767s, 777s and
787s in Everett, to the north, along with the new 787 plant in
 South Carolina .  Close Coordination  “Everybody who worked on the 787 will tell you that the
vast majority of problems came from lack of coordination due to
the separation of engineering from manufacturing,” said Ray Goforth, Speea’s executive director. “To have Boeing resurrect
this failed model to threaten employees into accepting pay and
benefit cuts is the most disrespectful thing I’ve heard yet in
these negotiations.”  Boeing has already made some shifts from its historical
hubs. In 2001, the planemaker moved its corporate headquarters
to  Chicago  from Seattle, where the company was founded in 1916.
Earlier this year it decided to shutter operations in Wichita,
 Kansas , where it has built military airplanes since 1929.  Speea has struck at Boeing only twice since the union’s
1946 founding: for one day in 1993 and 40 days in 2000. The
issues in that last walkout were different, and the conflict was
over Boeing’s direction, not economics, Delaney said.  Different Leaders  “We weren’t doing new airplanes,” and the company hadn’t
yet responded to the threat to the Boeing 767 posed by Airbus
SAS’s A330, Delaney said. “We did have some leadership who did
not appreciate and understand the value of engineering.”  He also disputed Speea’s characterization of Boeing’s
proposed contract changes as cuts, since compensation will
increase, though the gains won’t be as large as in the 2008
contract that included annual raises of 5 percent.  Boeing says it’s committed to maintaining its reputation as
an engineering company after challenges to that status in the
past decade.  Delaney said he met with Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney after the June announcement that Albaugh was retiring
and being replaced by Ray Conner, the sales chief. Delaney said
McNerney told him “that all the things we were doing on
engineering excellence and leveraging our engineering talent in
the company” were unchanged by Albaugh’s departure.  “We have a product strategy today,” Delaney said. “We
have 15 years of incredible product development in front of
us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  