-- BOJ Must Monitor Negative Effects of Strong Yen, Shirakawa Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-09-06T07:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/boj-must-monitor-negative-effects-of-strong-yen-shirakawa-says.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  needs to monitor
more carefully negative effects of a strong yen on the economy
amid global uncertainty, Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said.  “The stronger yen causes a decline in exports and
corporate profits as well as deterioration in business
sentiment,” Shirakawa said at an economic forum in  Tokyo  today.
“The negative effect is dominant.”  The yen has advanced almost 45 percent against the dollar
in the past five years, eroding the profits of exporters
including  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Shirakawa reiterated
today that purchases of foreign bonds, urged by lawmakers to
weaken the currency and counter deflation, are outside of the
central bank’s ambit.  The yen was at 78.42 per dollar as of 3:45 p.m. in Tokyo,
about 4 percent from its postwar high.  Deceleration in overseas economies has continued for longer
than expected and has caused Japanese exports and industrial
production to be “somewhat weak,” Shirakawa said.  The slowing is “mainly due to the European debt problem”
that caused a decline in firms’ and households’ confidence and a
slowdown in the real economy, he said. This European situation
is a “headwind” for the  U.S. economy  and its influence on
Chinese exports requires attention.  Foreign Bonds  Shirakawa said that foreign bond purchases by the central
bank aimed at weakening the yen are “identical” to
intervention in foreign exchange markets, which is the purview
of the government.  Japan ’s ruling party yesterday proposed that the central
bank purchase foreign bonds to weaken the yen and fight
deflation. The main opposition party also suggested the same
thing last week. More than a decade of falling prices have
sapped the economy’s momentum, with an inflation report last
week showing that the declines accelerated in July.  A ruling party committee called today for the bank to set a
2 percent inflation goal and purchase 10 trillion yen ($12.7
billion) in foreign bonds. BOJ board member Ryuzo Miyao
yesterday said that foreign bond purchases are the finance
minister’s responsibility.  The  Finance Ministry  should exclusively conduct currency
intervention, Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said in parliament last
month, adding that it was inappropriate for the bank to engage
in intervention-style bond buying.  Takehiro Sato, a former economist at Morgan Stanley who
joined the BOJ board in July, said July 24 that buying foreign
bonds is one option for the central bank. Takahide Kiuchi, a
fellow newcomer to the board, said the same day that the bank
may need to consider “new forms of monetary easing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  