-- Brazil Signals Record-Low Interest Rates Are Here to Stay
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-09-06T13:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/brazil-says-any-future-rate-cut-must-be-with-maximum-parsimony-.html
Brazil ’s central bank signaled it’s
ready to keep interest rates at a record low, rejecting the view
that a jump in food prices and faster economic growth will lead
to an acceleration in inflation.  Policy makers, in the minutes to their Aug. 28-29 meeting
at which they cut interest rates for a ninth straight time, said
that bad weather in the U.S. and Brazil is weighing on the price
of food and beverages. All the same, the supply shock is less
intense than one in 2010 and the country’s long-term price
outlook remains favorable with inflation slowing toward the 4.5
percent target, the bank said.  While traders remain split on whether Brazil will reduce
its benchmark rate a quarter point in October, they have trimmed
bets central bank President Alexandre Tombini will be forced to
increase borrowing costs early next year to keep inflation in
check. The bank’s board voted unanimously last week to cut the
Selic rate 50 basis points to a record 7.5 percent and has
lowered borrowing costs 500 basis points over the past year,
more than any other Group of 20 nation, to revive an economy
that has been stagnant for the past year.  “The name of the game is to stop cutting the Selic in the
short term, but keeping it low in the future,”  Andre Perfeito ,
chief economist at Gradual Investimentos, said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  The swap rate on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo, fell four basis point to 7.78 percent
at 9:55 a.m. local time. The real, which has declined 8.5
percent this year against the greenback, was little changed at
2.0392 per  U.S. dollar .  Futures Market  “If the prospective scenario were to allow for an
additional adjustment in the monetary conditions, this move
should be carried out with maximum parsimony,” the bank said in
the minutes, reiterating language from its decision last week
that economists say signals an end to the easing cycle initiated
last August.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has expanded the
scope of its policy actions to revive growth, which trails that
of Russia, India and  China , the so-called BRIC nations of major
 emerging markets . In addition to pressuring commercial banks to
lower what they charge for loans, the government last week
extended until November tax cuts on car purchases and appliances
for several months amid signs the stimulus measures have been
working.  Slow Growth  Brazil’s car dealership association Fenabrave said this
week that monthly car sales reached a record high 420,000 in
August. Brazil’s industrial production rose for the second
consecutive month in July, the first back-to-back increase in
more than a year, while retail sales in June saw their biggest
jump since January.  Still, economists say there are few signs of a sustained
recovery. Gross domestic product  expanded  0.4 percent in the
second quarter, missing economists’ estimates for 0.5 percent
growth, and the consumer loan default rate rose in July to 7.9
percent, a 30-month high. Analysts cut their forecast for growth
this year for the fifth straight week, to 1.64 percent, in the
last survey taken by the central bank on Aug. 31.  The pace of consumer price increases has also quickened,
putting a limit on the government’s drive to reduce  interest
rates  further. Inflation accelerated for a second month in
August to 5.24 percent, on increasing food and beverage prices
and rising wages. Brazil’s central bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  The central bank said inflation will continue to slow
towards the mid-point of the target on a non-linear way.  The outlook for inflation, “despite being negatively
impacted in the short term by supply shocks stemming from
climatic event abroad and domestically, remains with favorable
signs for longer term,” the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 