-- Canada Review of Nexen Bid Litmus Test: Canaccord’s Ballo
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-06T23:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/canada-review-of-nexen-deal-a-litmus-test-canaccord-s-balloch.html
Canada’s review of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s
$15.1 billion bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  is a “litmus test” for
Canada’s willingness to accept Chinese investment, said Howard Balloch, 61, chairman of the Asian division of investment bank
Canaccord Genuity Corp.  The Nexen-Cnooc approval process “will be seen in China as
an indication of how open the Canadian economy is for major
energy investments,” Balloch, a former ambassador to China,
said today at the Bloomberg Canada-Asia Conference in  Vancouver .  Canaccord advised on last year’s C$2.2 billion ($2.24
billion) takeover of Calgary-based oil and gas producer Daylight
Energy Ltd. by  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)   Chinese companies are moving cautiously to increase their
presence in Canada’s energy sector and are considering larger
investments after Sinopec’s acquisition of Daylight, the “first
100 percent takeover,” said  Wenran Jiang , 56, director of the
annual Canada-China Energy & Environment Forum conference, at
the Bloomberg summit.  “The Chinese are moving forward slowly,” Jiang said.
“When the prime minister went to China in February actively
courting Chinese investment, I think the signal was very clear
to the Chinese that Canada is open for business, and some of the
upper-scale investments could be accommodated.”  Review Period  Cnooc applied for Canadian approval of the deal on Aug. 29,
setting in motion a 45-day review period that the federal
government can extend for another 30 days to mid-November.  The government must review foreign takeovers with asset
values greater than C$330 million to ensure they provide a “net
benefit” to the nation.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , speaking earlier at the
Bloomberg conference, said the fact that Cnooc is a state-owned
company is among a “range” of elements being considered in the
review. Such ownership makes it “a different category under the
act” and different from “genuine private” investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Vancouver at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  