-- Canfor ‘Excited’ About High-Value Wood Exports to China
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-09-07T01:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/canfor-pretty-excited-about-high-value-wood-exports-to-china.html
Canfor Corp. (CFP) , the second-largest
North American softwood producer, is “excited” about the
increase in “high-value” shipments of Canadian wood to  China ,
said Wayne Guthrie, the company’s senior vice-president of sales
and marketing.  “We’re pretty excited about the shift in value,” Guthrie
said today at the Bloomberg Canada-Asia Conference in  Vancouver .
“It’s been an exciting 10-year ride since we started in China
with no sales.”  China is emerging as a critical market for Canfor, West
Fraser Timber Co. and other Canadian wood-product makers after
they were faced with losses, mill closures and layoffs following
the U.S. housing collapse. Canfor’s exports to China have soared
to 25 percent of total lumber sales by volume, up from 4 percent
in 2008, according to regulatory filings.  The influence of Chinese lumber demand on  North America ’s
wood-products market will get stronger as the U.S. home-building
industry continues to recover, Guthrie said last week.  Without sales of 3 billion board feet of wood a year to
China, “we’d have considerably lower prices,” Guthrie said.  Benchmark prices for British Columbia  lumber  made from
spruce, pine or fir trees have risen 29 percent in the past 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lumber Supplies  Guthrie said an expected reduction in the volume of trees
harvested each year in British Columbia will put additional
pressure on prices.  The provincial government had been encouraging lumber
makers to accelerate the harvesting of trees killed by the
world’s largest infestation of mountain pine beetles to salvage
as much value as possible before the wood rotted. The effects of
the infestation, which dates back to at least 1999, has reached
its peak.  “We are already seeing reductions” Paul Jannke, a
Westford, Massachusetts-based timber-industry analyst at Forest
Economic Advisors LLC, said by e-mail. “Supply will be
constrained relative to demand in 2014.”  West Fraser is the largest Canadian soft-wood producer by
2011 output, according to a June report by the Royal Bank of
 Canada .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Vancouver at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  