-- Carnivores Pay $140 for Meat Park Supporting Soldiers
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/carnivores-pay-140-for-meat-park-supporting-soldiers.html
U.S. Navy SEALs will cook venison
steaks as the ninth annual Meatopia gets under way on Saturday
on  Randall’s Island Park .  The East River urban oasis has been turned into a theme
park for carnivores featuring Carcass Hill (starring cuts from a
half-ton steer) and Offalwood (look for scrambled brains and
eggs).  The SEALs are cooking at the Meatopia County Game Reserve.  Started by Time magazine food columnist Josh Ozersky in
2003 as a publication party for one of his books, Meatopia
became an annual private culinary gathering and went public in
2010.  Tickets are $140 with some of the proceeds going to the
Washington-based  Armed Forces Foundation , which supports wounded
military personnel and their families.  Ozersky moved the summer event to September after Meatopia
lost money last year when 100-degree-plus temperatures deflected
all but the most dedicated carnivores.  “Even if the event loses money, we’re committing $10,000
to the foundation,” said Ozersky, who was introduced to the
Armed Forces Foundation by  merchant Pat LaFrieda , Meatopia’s
meat sponsor.  Meatopia also will donate unused food to the nonprofit  City
Harvest , a nonprofit that redistributes about 115,000 pounds of
food each day to emergency programs in New York.  Beef Belly  The chef lineup includes Marea’s  Michael White  serving
grilled pork cheeks, and Takashi Inoue operating on marinated
beef belly, tongue and heart.  “I didn’t want people to just eat barbecue,” Ozersky
said. “I want people to cook and enjoy all the different parts
of the animal.”  Grill master Adam Perry Lang will serve charred beef short
ribs in The Quarter. In Carcass Hill, April Bloomfield (Spotted
Pig, Breslin Bar & Dining Room) will grill a whole hog Kansas
City style.  Ozersky added a best-butcher competition backed by  Whole
Foods Market Inc. (WFM) , Meatopia’s presenting sponsor. Three live
bands will perform.  “There are a million people who have interesting things to
say about public life, but I don’t think anyone else is as
eloquent about sausages as I am,” said Ozersky, whose books
include a history of the hamburger and this year’s “Colonel
Sanders and the American Dream.”  During Meatopia, Ozersky expects to sample Uruguayan chef
Santiago Garat’s whole lamb cooked over a fire. Lamb is his
favorite.  “My last meal would be lamb fat, and if possible, I’d like
to have shredded hash browns that have been cooked in the lamb
fat,” Ozersky said.  (Tickets are still available for Meatopia at  Randall’s
Island Park  on Saturday beginning at 4 p.m. for V.I.P ticket
holders and 5 p.m. for general admission. Information:
 http://meatopia2012.eventbrite.com .)  (Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars, Lance
Esplund on  art .)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 