-- Castro Predicts Strong Win Among Latinos for Obama (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-09-06T21:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/castro-predicts-strong-win-among-latinos-for-obama-transcript-.html
San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro
predicted President  Barack Obama  will win at least 70 percent of
the Hispanic vote, describing Republican challenger Mitt Romney
as “the most conservative candidate that the Latino community
has ever seen.” Castro, the convention’s keynote speaker on
Sept. 4, was interviewed today at a Bloomberg/Washington Post
breakfast in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT , BLOOMBERG NEWS: Guys, why don’t we get going?
Because I know the mayor has a tight schedule. First of all, we
are delighted that you are here.  JULIAN CASTRO: Thank you for having me.  HUNT: You’ve had quite an introduction this week, not only
with the speech the other night, but I saw several interviews
with you and your brother, and I can -- I can see why you can
get away with him showing up or vice versa. But it’s really been
a fascinating week.  Let me start off by asking you the parochial question about
the Latino vote. And the Republicans basically argue that, look,
Romney will do a little bit better than McCain did last time and
turnout will be down because of a lack of enthusiasm for a
president who never bothered to submit a comprehensive
immigration bill after talking about it last time. Assess that
case.  CASTRO: Well -- well, first of all, thank you all very much
for having me. I apologize I’m a little bit late. We were
running from the last thing. Thank you for the question.  I’m convinced that, at the end of the day, let’s start with
the results on Nov. 6, as I -- as I believe they’re going to be.
I believe that, at the end of the day, that the president’s
percentage of the Latino vote is going to be closer to Clinton’s
1996 percentage, which was 73 percent, and I say that for a
couple of reasons, most importantly because of policy.  This is the -- vis-a-vis the Latino community,  Mitt Romney 
is the most conservative candidate that the Latino community has
seen. And his -- a Romney presidency would be the most counter-
productive for the Latino community. So let me give you a couple
of examples of why I say that.  On immigration reform, of course, the president is the only
one in D.C. that’s actually tried to do anything to get
comprehensive immigration reform in the last few years. He made
the administrative decision to allow the DREAMers to come out of
the shadows and at least get into school and get work. He’s
prioritized deportation so that we’re going after -- we’re using
our resources where it makes the most sense to go after folks
who have a serious criminal record.  On the other hand, Mitt Romney has said that he would veto
a DREAM Act. He’s -- he’s hanging out with Kris Kobach and  Jan
Brewer  and Pete Wilson.  On education, the president invested in  Pell Grants ,
financial aid, so that 150,000 Latinos are able to take
advantage -- more Latinos are able to take advantage of that and
afford college. We’ve seen a surge in Hispanic college
enrollment. I’m sure you all have reported on it. That -- that
is the American dream coming true for that community. Mitt
Romney, you know, I believe would cut education funding.  And then, third, on health care, 9 million more Latinos are
going to be able to have good, affordable health care because of
the president’s affordable health care act. For too many
Latinos, the emergency room is their primary care physician. You
have a community that has a tremendous rate of diabetes, for
instance, and everything that goes with that, obesity,
hypertension, stroke, and so getting good health care is a huge
opportunity for the Latino community.  The challenge that Mitt Romney has is not the
personalities. A lot of folks have made a big deal out of me or
Senator Rubio or Governor Martinez or Sandoval speaking at these
conventions. Mitt Romney’s headwind is not -- is not the
personalities. It’s the policies.  And so I believe that, at the end of the day, the reason
you’re seeing these polls show President Obama so far ahead, and
by Election Day he’s going to get up into at least 70 percent
range, is the policies that Mitt Romney has embraced.  QUESTION: How much do you -- the Republicans will say Obama
-- the president will be hurt because he broke his promise in
that he never pushed comprehensive immigration reform, didn’t
have a bill. You know, he’s done some things that he can do
within his power, but never tried to push a bill through
Congress, and that that broken promise will be held against him
in the Latino community.  CASTRO: I don’t believe that’ll be the case. And I believe
that the polls reflect that that’s not the case. You remember --
I mean, I think as all of us who, you know, have dealt with
politics understand that -- that it’s always a choice between
two candidates, and this president has taken affirmative steps
in the direction of comprehensive immigration reform, whereas
Mitt Romney and the  Republican Party  don’t just not like
comprehensive immigration reform, their tone has been so
antagonistic toward immigrants, over-the-top antagonistic, that
when you have to choose between a president who is doing his
best to make something happen and took the responsibility
himself of making those administrative changes, versus a
candidate who is cozying up to the worst elements of the
Republican Party on this issue, the choice is very clear.
There’s not even a choice.  QUESTION: But with --  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  HUNT: Go ahead (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION: With the Latino vote, I mean, nobody doubts that
there’s strong support of the president. The question is
turnout. What - what are the things that you worry about in
terms of turning out the Latinos in the numbers that the
president is going to need them?  CASTRO: Well, there’s been a lot of talk about whether
there’s an enthusiasm gap this year, for instance. And, of
course, we’ll see on November 6th, but at least when I look at
the presidential elections, the -- the voting on presidential
elections, from the most -- let’s take the last 30 years. The
highest level turnout to the lowest level turnout, generally
it’s not going to -- it’s going to be within a range, you know?
It’s not going to be that far off.  The Latino community over the last several cycles has been
increasing, so the overall turnout I expect to increase. I do
believe that by the time we get to November 6th that folks will
be enthusiastic about voting, that they will vote, that more
Latinos will vote in this election.  You know, of course, it’s important for the president to
get out to Florida, Nevada, Colorado,  New Mexico , to help build
up the Latino community, to excite the community and tell the
story of what he has done that has benefited the Latino
community. So, yeah, I mean, he is going to have to get out
there and make the case, but I believe that once he does make
the case, that folks will turn out.  HUNT: Dan Balz, do you have a question?  QUESTION: Mr. Mayor, looking at it more broadly (OFF-MIKE)
speeches here have talked a lot about where we are heading on
the economy (OFF-MIKE) there’s been no actual talk of the
condition the country is in. None of the speakers have really
addressed, in a sense, the terrible state of the economy. It’s
almost accepted as a given and (OFF-MIKE) how serious it is
(OFF-MIKE) and I wonder why there hasn’t been more emphasis
coming from Democrats (OFF-MIKE) why there hasn’t been a more
explicit acknowledgment of the fact (OFF-MIKE) condition of so
many people in poverty, you know, the  poverty rate  (OFF-MIKE).  CASTRO: Well, you know, you all have probably seen more of
the speeches than I have at this point, and so I don’t profess
to know about all of the speeches, but I do believe that several
of the speeches, including mine, have spoken about -- it has
talked about the condition that we’re in now in comparison to
where we were when President Obama took office.  What you see is clearly a comparative analysis of where the
country was in January of 2009 and the months leading up to that
and where we are now. And, you know, we have talked about the
progress that has been made.  If your question is, why are we focusing on the progress
instead of the -- you know, what might be considered the
negative part of that, well, of course. I mean, you know, the
message is going to be about that we’re making forward progress.
And I believe that that case is clearly there.  QUESTION: And I guess part of the question is, should there
have been or should President Obama in his speech tonight
acknowledge in some way the stakes or things that he tried to do
that have not worked? In other words, it’s fine to say, yes, it
was really terrible when I came in, and everybody, you know,
would stipulate to that. But it’s also true that the kinds of
things that he said he was putting in place he said would
produce results much faster than they have.  And some acknowledgment of what he’s learned from that, why
you all think the next four years can be better -- in other
words, what are the lessons learned, as opposed to simply saying
we’ve done all the right things, it’s just taking a little time?  CASTRO: Well, and I imagine, you know, of course, I haven’t
seen - nobody’s seen the president’s remarks yet, but -- but I
do believe that he’ll speak to -- he’ll be frank with the
American people about where we are and what we need to do. You
know, the president has a good case to make for why we’re making
progress, but he has also said that this is not -- you know,
this is not where we need to end up, that nobody is -- is
satisfied with where we are now. We need to keep making
progress.  I mean, however you say it --  QUESTION: Let me -- let me just ask one last follow-up.
Yes, he says -- and everybody has said we’re not where we would
want to be now, but there is no suggestion that we are not where
we ought to be because some of the things we tried (OFF-MIKE) in
other words, is there -- is it -- is it the sense of all of you
that everything that’s been done has been successful?  CASTRO: No, I think it’s a sense that -- that there have
been the right investments that have been made and that progress
has not been as quick as folks would like it to be. Of course,
there were -- you know, it wasn’t just the president. It’s the
Congress, also. You know, so I think from what has been done or
what has been blocked in Congress, the end result of that is
that we haven’t made as much progress as folks would like, but
there has been progress.  And, you know, I believe that the president will be frank
with the American people about what we need to do, which is what
they’re wondering about most importantly, the future, what we
need to do to ensure that there’s even more progress in the
future.  But part of that is that it takes two to tango, as you
know, Dan. It’s not just the president or one party. You know,
it’s the entire D.C., you know, system.  QUESTION: Mr. Mayor, speaking of the future, I wondered
when you thought there would be the first Latino president. In
2004, the guy who’s president now made a keynote speech that got
a lot of attention and catapulted his career. And at the time,
many said that they would never see an African-American
president.  CASTRO: Yeah.  QUESTION: And there it was, four years later. And I wonder,
you know, in this moment now, as you’ve given your keynote
speech, what are you -- how does that feel for you? And when do
you think the country would be ready to elect a Latino
president?  CASTRO: Well, I think the country is ready now. I agree
with Jorge Ramos, who has said that the first Latino president
has been born. I don’t think that I’m that person, but I do
think that that person has been born.  And just like I believe that -- that the country is ready
for a female president, too. And President Obama has broken
barriers that will never be put back together. I think those
barriers are broken for folks in America now. And so I don’t
know, of course, when that’ll happen, but as you say, I mean, if
we were watching this speech in 2004, nobody thought that back
then that there would be an African-American president. I think
because of his success, that he’s opened up people’s minds in an
important way to others. I mean, he really has created a pathway
for others.  QUESTION: And is --  QUESTION: Why do you say -- if I could just ask, why do you
say that person, not you?  CASTRO: Because that’s not what I’m aiming for. You know, I
haven’t woken up a single day of my life and thought that - that
I was going to be president. I also live in  Texas . Texas has 29
statewide offices, and the count between Republicans and
Democrats is 29-0.  QUESTION: I’ve spent a lot of time in Texas.  CASTRO: Yeah, well, then you know it well. It’s a very
Republican state. And --  QUESTION: But will it always be?  CASTRO: Huh?  (CROSSTALK)  CASTRO: It won’t always be. Yeah, it won’t always be.  QUESTION: When do you think it’s going to change?  CASTRO: I think it’s going to change in between six to
eight years, and I’ll tell you three reasons -- three quick
reasons why. The growth of the Hispanic community, which has
been much written about.  A second factor that has been underreported, but is very
important. There was a Public Policy Polling poll about 10 days
ago on Virginia. And in the crosstabs of that poll, they did
something that was really interesting that usually you don’t
see. They didn’t just report on the breakdown of the results by
race or age or other -- and geographic residence. They reported
in the crosstabs on how long people had lived there, the
respondents in Virginia.  So overall, President Obama was ahead of Romney 50-45 in
the poll. That was the top-line number. For people who had lived
in Virginia 20 years or longer, he was -- Romney was ahead
51-45. For folks who had lived in Virginia 10 years or less, the
president was ahead 67-29.  So -- and this is the irony of Texas. Texas has had an
economic boom these last few years compared to other states.
People have been moving in from California, Nevada, Florida, any
number of other places that are more moderate than Texas, and
it’s become a more urbanized state.  So you have the urbanization. You have an infusion of folks
into Harris County, Dallas County, Travis County, Bexar County,
and that’s going to accelerate, just like it has here in North
Carolina, as well, this movement toward a purple and then a blue
state.  And the third part is also important, is what’s happened to
the Republican Party in Texas. I mean, these guys have run the
table so long for the last 20 years that now they’re about to
elect in  Ted Cruz  someone who is way far out there on the right.
I mean, all you’ve got to do is YouTube him and see how far out
he is to the right.  And they’re having fights -- this is an election cycle
where Ted Cruz ran an ad against David Dewhurst that everybody
considers a very conservative guy -- and effective -- pummeling
him for being a, quote, unquote, “moderate.”  That’s the third
factor.  Just like I grew up in a Texas where folks would say, “I
didn’t leave the  Democratic Party ; the Democratic Party left
me,” folks in the business community today are going through a
Texas where people are saying the Republican Party is leaving
me. I don’t see a place in the Republican Party anymore, when
we’re thinking about smart business decisions, thinking about
investing for the future.  The business community wants predictability. They want
rationality, and they want the right investments in
infrastructure, in knowledge, and so forth. And it’s not enough
to just say we’re going to have less regulation, you know, we’re
going to keep your taxes low. That’s only part of the equation.
That’s the big mistake that those folks are making.  And then adding into it the social issues that the business
Republicans are never -- that’s not their deal. And more and
more of them, I believe, are going to peel off and to be
independents and consider voting for pro-business Democrats in
the future.  QUESTION: Mr. Mayor, just in terms of outreach to the
Latino community, we see both parties do things very similarly.
They talk in Spanish in some TV ads. They parade out speakers
who are of the Latino community. And they talk about
immigration.  And so right now, we heard the Republicans take that menu
of outreach items, and they used it at their convention. We’ve
seen a similar package here at the Democratic convention. Is
that really it? I mean, is that really how you reach out to the
Latino community? Are either party missing things that they
should be doing that are more nuanced or textured?  CASTRO: Well, no. I guess I would -- I would challenge the
premise of that a little bit, is -- and in my speech, I didn’t
just -- I didn’t just speak to that. I think that the most
important issues for the Latino community are the most important
issues for the nation. And they see that the Democrats and the
Republicans have a different approach on those issues.  So everything from, for instance,  tax policy , I think even
if we disagree on the nuances of the tax policy, I think we
would agree that, as the two parties see it, generally the
Republican plan benefits a certain income group more just
generally than the Democratic plan. Well, if you think about who
makes more than $250,000 in this nation, the - first of all, the
vast majority of Americans don’t fall under that category, but
the vast, vast, vast, vast majority of Latinos don’t fall into
that category. And so when they hear that, I mean, there’s a
reaction there. That’s not their experience. They’re
aspirational. They want to get there.  On education, I think that’s -- that is the issue that
pulls most at the heartstrings of any community, but
particularly the Latino community, because for so many years,
many Latinos have been undereducated. And so I guess what I’m
saying is that I would expand that notion. It’s not just the
immigration and the American dream story. It’s the issue of
education. It’s the issue of tax policy. It’s the issue of
health care, where they can see that -- I mean, they don’t have
health care. I mean, that’s the reality for a lot of -- much --
many more Latinos than the general population. And if they see
that, OK, well, I’m going to have health care under this
Affordable Care Act, that makes a big difference.  My grandmother that I spoke -- that I spoke about, she
lived her life -- you know, when I growing up, I didn’t know a
time when she didn’t have diabetes. And you could replicate that
story over and over and over again in the Hispanic community. So
the idea that they’re going to have health care now, that
they’re not going to remain poor, because they just -- they have
to pay for that, that is a huge underreported aspect of that
entire act.  QUESTION: Mr. Mayor, can I ask you -- you said you think
President Obama will win at least 70 percent of the Latino vote.
 George Bush  won 41 -- according to exit polls, 40 percent, 41
percent in 2004. Republican strategists will say probably we
can’t -- this can’t become a 70-30 constituency for us. Do you
not believe that there is a path for Republicans to make inroads
with the Latino community? Do you believe this is a 70-30
community from now until time immemorial?  CASTRO: No, not necessarily. I take the example of George
Bush as an example of -- I think it says two good things. It
says something good about the Republican Party and a candidate
that was able to reach out. It also says something good about
the Latino community, because they’re considering the
candidates.  So I do think it’s possible for folks -- usually, you know,
if you look at who’s generally had some success, I would think
it’s probably folks who have been used to dealing with the
Latino community and their experience coming up, and that was
George Bush’s strong suit, I think, dealing in Texas,
understanding those issues. That helped. I can imagine, you
know, if you’re from California or Florida or Texas or  Arizona ,
New Mexico, that you might -- a border state, that you might
have more grounding in some of the issues, and that might help,
and if they take a more moderate stance.  George Bush also benefited from using -- I don’t know if it
was intentional or not -- but being a foil to Pete Wilson during
the ’90s, when you had Wilson going off the rails in California,
and Bush being more moderate, and specifically saying, we’re not
going to do that in Texas, it sort of Clinton’s Sister Souljah
moment that people talk about. Does another Republican get that
kind of moment? I don’t know. I don’t know.  QUESTION: Mr. Mayor, could a candidate such as  Jeb Bush 
reclaim a sizable share of that Republican vote -- the Latino
vote in 2016?  CASTRO: You know, certainly he has more of a claim than
anybody else. But I think you all would agree with me that --
that with regard to Bush, the country is in a different place
than we were in the year 2000.  QUESTION: How so?  CASTRO: There was a Bush presidency.  QUESTION: I mean, if you’d elaborate -- I mean, he’s
carrying too much baggage even then in 2016?  CASTRO: I just -- yeah, think we’re in a different place. I
think even with regard to the Hispanic community, not
necessarily because of what anything that President Bush did,
but because of all of the baggage that has been created by the
Kris Kobachs and the Jan Brewers of the world, in 2016, if they
keep it up, you know, you’re not -- when you elect a president,
you’re not just empowering an individual. You’re empowering a
set of ideas that the party also is involved in, and especially
if -- if at that time they do still have control over the House,
folks will, I think, give that consideration, too.  QUESTION: Speaking of those figures, were you surprised
that the Republicans at their convention had Pete Wilson
announce the California delegation votes? Or did people just not
notice that?  CASTRO: Yeah, I didn’t even notice it. You can imagine, I
wasn’t watching that gavel to gavel.  QUESTION: Right, right.  (LAUGHTER)  CASTRO: Yeah, but it does surprise me. Because look at -- I
saw this really interesting statistic a few -- a few weeks ago
that -- in California, that California Latinos were 10 percent
less likely than the mainstream to vote. In Texas, they’re 25
percent less likely. So that piece of information -- and then
stats on voter registration for Hispanics, for Latinos, between
2008 and 2011, in Texas, it had fallen by 4 percent. In Arizona,
it rose by 49 percent.  You take what happened, the experience that California had
under Wilson with 187 and 209 and 227, you know, if there was a
silver lining in that, is that people woke up. And the Hispanic
community, both on how they voted, clearly shifted Democrat --
more Democratic -- and I bet that you saw a spike in voter
registration and participation.  In Arizona, there’s -- they’re going to see that in this
election, I believe. We haven’t had that in Texas, because we
haven’t seen the worst of that type of policy. But to the
question of am I surprised, yeah, I’m surprised, because, you
know, this election can come down to states where Latinos make a
big difference, like Nevada and Colorado, New Mexico, and so
forth, Florida.  QUESTION: Mr. Mayor, to that point, when both campaigns are
trying to get out the Latino vote, is there -- are the methods
the same? Is there one method that’s better than another? Is it
peer to peer? Is it Spanish-language media? What’s the best way
to generate that turnout?  HUNT: You are allowed to eat while you answer.  (LAUGHTER)  CASTRO: It’s OK. It’s all right.  I mean, I would say, first, I mean, you know, people aren’t
that different, right? I mean, it’s all the regular things that
folks do, knocking on doors, establishing -- you know, not just
approaching people at the last minute to vote for a candidate,
but engaging in a conversation with folks about what’s important
in their lives and these voter mobilization programs, whether
they’re on the left or the right, that try and engage them in
their own community, everything from potholes that they want
fixed to local policy issues to, hey, now be a citizen, you
know, fully participate.  So with the Latino community, though, we’re very family-
based, you know, also people of faith, people that go to church.
So the churches that have -- you know, efforts that are centered
around faith and around family are, I believe, particularly
impactful, that engage people in their local community, because
that’s their hands-on experience.  But let me point out something that has been underreported,
I think, that is going to be very significant in the days to
come, and -- you know, this -- I know that Univision has a joint
venture with -- is it the Washington Post and others or somebody
-- National Journal, ABC --  (CROSSTALK)  CASTRO: All right. Yeah, maybe you guys have one, too. I
don’t know. Up to now, corporate America and the campaigns, when
they think about reaching out to Latinos, the first thing that
they’ve thought about -- and I think the Obama campaign is much
more savvy about this now -- at least from what I can tell --
but generally what they’ve done is they’ve thought, well, you
got to advertise in Spanish.  Well, actually, if we were to do an analysis of the voting
community in the United States among Latinos, it’s English-
dominant. The problem for them has been that for campaigns
generally -- I’m not speaking about anybody individually -- has
been that they think, I think campaigns in the past, let’s say,
have thought, wow, I’m not going to put on English-language
radio or TV, you know, a message that is segmented to a certain
market and risk alienating the mainstream market, right?  The new development is exactly that kind of joint venture
that those guys are doing. And it’s not just them -- I think Fox
and others are doing it -- that is now going to target what I
would -- what I’d call the  George Lopez  segment of the Latino
community. He’s the only one that I’ve seen exploit it really
well, of course, in a different environment, this English-
dominant and younger Latino, that now they will have these media
outlets, you know, on TV where they can advertise and not be as
afraid of alienating another segment.  Up to now, those types of stations have been literally on
the third tier of cable networks or satellite networks. Now
they’re -- I think, in the coming years, they’ll be more
primetime -- prime spot on the dial. That is an
underappreciated, underreported, under-analyzed asset to these
parties, and what they make of it, how they make use of it, is
still to be seen, but I think it’s going to be very significant
in the years to come.  QUESTION: Mr. Mayor, to take it a step further than that,
help the English-language media better understand what we’re
missing in coverage of the Latino community. You mentioned Jorge
Ramos and in your city and other cities across the country, he
gets better ratings than anyone else. So if Hispanics want to
watch the news in English, if they want to read it in English,
is there something that’s not being covered, perhaps, that isn’t
drawing that audience in?  CASTRO: Well, I mean, I think it’s -- you know, I still
subscribe to the idea that there’s a lot more commonality, but,
you know, I do think that -- that the cultural aspect, how you
grow up affects the -- you know, the flavor of the programs that
you like and what you’re attuned to in terms of how you digest
the news. I don’t think I have a great description of it or
nuance of it off the top of my head, but I do believe, of
course, there’s a difference. There’s a reason that people are
watching George Lopez. It relates to them.  But, you know -- I mean, if you look at television news
around the country and you look for diversity, you don’t find it
very much in significant ways. It does count who delivers it.
The Latino community is watching, also, those -- I mean, I
watched -- you know, 90 percent of what I watch is English-
language news, but I don’t -- to be frank, I don’t see that many
Latinos. It’s -- the investment has not been made there.  That -- you know, that’s not a -- I don’t think we should
approach it by complaining, you know? I think we should approach
it by saying, OK, well, how are we going to make sure that it
improves?  But these new networks, these joint ventures, they offer an
existing opportunity to sort of hit both of those angles. It’s
in English. Of course you’re going to have Hispanic talent that
is part of those networks. Also, I imagine that that’s going to
blossom more Hispanic talent to go into, you know, flip over and
go into other types of networks in the future. It’s sort of a
good proving ground. Yeah.  HUNT: Let me ask you this, Mr. Mayor. You noted a moment
ago how important family and faith is to the Hispanic community.
How much will the president’s support for gay marriage hurt him
with Latino voters?  CASTRO: It’s a great question. I -- you know, I haven’t
seen any polling on it yet, but I do think that it was very
encouraging that in the African-American community we’ve seen
the polls move significantly, I think, in terms of support for
the idea of gay marriage after the president’s announcement. And
I have a hunch that you’re probably going to see, to some
extent, movement in the Latino community in that direction,
also, not just because of the president, but, I mean, literally,
you all have seen the polls more than I have on this. The nation
has shifted its ideas around this.  And this is why -- and so I don’t -- I guess to answer your
question, I don’t believe that -- I don’t believe that he’s
going to be hurt by that position in the 2012 election. I’ve
seen the ads that I’m sure you guys have seen running on the TV
here in North Carolina with the wife and the husband talking
about, that’s not the change that I voted for. I don’t think
that it’s going to hurt him overall with the Latino community,
just like -- you know, there are many Latinos who are voting
Democratic who may be pro-life. They’re still voting as
Democrats.  You know, people are complicated. They hold one view, but
they also hold an umbrella view about -- oh.  (LAUGHTER)  Well, I can say this is a unique experience. I’ve never had
my meal changed in -- yeah.  Oh, but let -- oh, go ahead.  (CROSSTALK)  CASTRO: No, I was just going to say, very quickly, you
know, as I see it, we live in this society where -- especially
after President Obama’s election -- where it’s supposed to be
post-racial, and so the bar now is set kind of at this zero,
where everybody’s supposed to be -- supposedly and supposed to
be treated equally.  And so what you’re seeing is that that helps certain
issues. Less and less Americans can hold in their minds now the
idea that, if that’s the standard, that people who are gay or
lesbian shouldn’t be able to get married, because they’re
supposed to come up now to that standard.  At the same time, let’s take a flip issue, affirmative
action. Less and less people may be able to hold in their minds
the idea that, well, these preferences should be given to people
because of -- you know, they’re Latino or African-American. And
so you may see that support level come down.  But on gay marriage, you’re going to see it at least rise.
People can’t hold it less -- they can’t hold it in the same way
in their minds the way they used to, that they shouldn’t be able
to be married.  QUESTION: I wonder if you could just tell us the story of
getting that speech put together (OFF-MIKE) contacted by the
campaign?  CASTRO: I wrote it myself. I wrote it all. I did it all.  (LAUGHTER)  I’m just kidding.  QUESTION: I think (inaudible) as they say, Mr. Mayor.  QUESTION: When did the line, “Gee, why didn’t I think of
that?”, come to you? But tell us a little bit about (OFF-MIKE)
how that all unfolded.  CASTRO: Yeah. Yeah. Well, I got -- I got a call from  Jim
Messina , the campaign manager, I guess -- it was announced on
July 31st, so it must have been right the week before that, July
20-something, and said, you know, would you -- I called on
behalf of the president to ask if you would deliver the keynote
address. And, of course, I said yes right away, very honored to
do that.  As soon as I did that, you have two emotions, this
excitement that, hey, I have this opportunity, and also kind of,
oh, man, I have this opportunity.  This nervousness, sort of this guttural anxiety starts to
build toward that speech. And then the process of actually
putting it together was it -- I came up with ideas, and my
brother and I worked on some text, and then sent that over to
the speechwriters. And then they sent back a whole speech.  I took about 35 percent to 40 percent of that and -- and
then wrote a version of the rest of it. And then they came back
with revisions. So by the end of it, it was a collaborative
effort, you know, like any significant speech. I don’t remember
who came up with the “gee” -- that line. I think it was the --
going back and forth on how we would say things.  Of course, there were some turns of phrase that I wanted to
use that didn’t get in there, and some stuff they wanted me to
use that didn’t get in there, but at the end of the day, of
course, the speaker is the one that says, OK, well, I’m
comfortable with this. So that’s how we put --  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) joint sense, I mean, both from your
own perspective and their own perspective, what was it that they
wanted that speech to accomplish?  CASTRO: Well, I think they wanted it to resonate with the
American people on the American dream story, on -- and mostly on
the idea -- and which was the refrain of the speech -- that if
we invest in these opportunities that we -- that we have in
front of us today, that, you know, we’re going to create
prosperity tomorrow for the middle class. So that’s -- that is
what -- what they wanted the speech to convey, and I wanted --
that’s, you know, what I wanted the speech to convey, as well.
So in that sense, there was -- there was only agreement about
what the speech should say.  QUESTION: But it was also Mitt doesn’t get it, which, you
know, there were immediate comparisons with the president’s 2004
convention speech, but that was more of a speech of “here’s our
shared values,” and it does seem that your speech was more
“here’s the difference between our values.”  CASTRO: Yeah. Yeah. You know, the networks have cut these
things down to one hour of primetime. And so, of course, you see
it on both -- in both conventions, the umbrella message of the
campaigns is going to take up now -- because you only have an
hour -- it’s going to take up some part of everybody’s speech.
That’s just the reality, so that the -- the landscape in terms
of speech-making for these conventions has changed.  So what you saw, I think, was that although President Obama
was a much better speaker than I was a couple nights ago, I
think what you saw in my speech versus President Obama’s speech
was that the beginning and the end were sort of these
aspirational story-telling narrative parts of the speech, right,
and summoned the values that we all share, the future we all
want, and so forth. The middle of the speech was -- was more the
argument behind it.  QUESTION: What’s it been like since that speech? I saw you
-- I saw you in the box, the VIP box next to Mrs. Obama last
night, watching that, wondered what you -- what kind of
conversations you’d have, what other kind of feedback you’ve
gotten from different places, the president (inaudible) since
the speech.  CASTRO: No, I -- yeah, I’ve gotten great feedback from
folks, except from Ryan. Just kidding.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  CASTRO: Oh, you’re not? OK.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) exactly the same.  CASTRO: My apologies, except from Ryan Lizza. I’ve gotten
good feedback.  QUESTION: I liked it, just for the record.  (LAUGHTER)  CASTRO: Thank you.  QUESTION: That’s so Lizza.  CASTRO: Good. Then I like the Washington Post. You know, I
think, of course, back home what you’re always going to get is
you get into partisan politics is -- I’m in a nonpartisan
context as mayor. And so this is the biggest investment of time
and public energy that I’ve put into being partisan.  And, of course, when you do that in any position, then you
get some of the sniping that goes with partisan politics, so a
little bit of that. You know, I’d be lying if I didn’t say that,
you know, as a Republican -- a Republican in San Antonio who’s
watching it, I think for a lot of people, they’re very proud,
just that the San Antonio mayor is up there. For the people that
are really partisan in San Antonio, I imagine that it’s -- I can
imagine that it’s off-putting. And whether it’s on Twitter or
Facebook or wherever, of course you’re going to get some of
that.  QUESTION: And you follow all of that or some of that?  CASTRO: I follow all of it.  QUESTION: Are you a Twitter guy? You read Twitters about
yourself?  CASTRO: Yeah.  QUESTION: Can I ask you a more personal question, Mr.
Mayor?  CASTRO: Yeah. Yeah.  QUESTION: You know, what people know about you -- or most
people is that you’re an identical twin, but tell me some more.
What -- what was your political spark? You know, were you like
Clinton? Were you running for office in high school all the
time? Or did it come later? Did you and your brother always talk
politics as kids? And what lit the spark for you?  CASTRO: You know, one of the things that I joke about that
is actually true is that my brother and I, we did grow up in a
political household. My mother was very active. But we did not
like it when we were growing up, because she really would drag
us to places, and we would have to sit there through meetings
and other things, and that’s not what you want to do when you’re
a kid, you know?  And so I was skeptical of the process until I got to
college. When I got to college, it was the first time that I was
really away from San Antonio. And when I got there, I could
compare this place that I had grown up in with the Bay Area at
Stanford. And I saw, you know, the good and the bad. I saw in
the Bay Area -- I mean, I was amazed -- and you had a very well-
educated area, community. You had a high-income community. I got
there in 1992, at the beginning of this, you know, enormous tech
boom, Internet boom. So it was very entrepreneurial. It was
ready for the 21st century.  About San Antonio, what I love -- and for those of you all
who know San Antonio -- it’s a big city. It still feels in many
ways like a small town. There’s still a sense of community about
it. The way I describe it is that if two people are walking
downtown in San Antonio, that people still look each other in
the eye. Try walking down midtown Manhattan and doing that.
There’s a sense of community that still exists. And people are
hardworking, and it’s culturally rich.  And so my -- my interest in politics was born out of, how
could you create a community that was both of those things? You
know, like this great community that is a big city where people
are authentic and it’s culturally rich, and then also is well
educated, is taking on the jobs of the 21st century, the way
that the Bay Area I saw was in the 1990s?  And that’s basically what I’ve tried to do in San Antonio.
I mean, my vision for San Antonio is to create a brain-powered
community that is the liveliest city in the United States. And
that pre-K initiative that I have on the ballot, I’m asking
folks for an eighth of a cent sales tax increase. I’m telling
them, yes, I’m asking you for a sales tax increase, that taxes -
- has three letters, but it’s a four-letter word. But, you know,
$7.81 to the average household in San Antonio -- so that’s how I
first got interested in actually running for office.  And then by the time Joaquin and I got to law school, I
knew that I wanted to go back home to San Antonio. And because
we had term limits of two two-year terms, I could tell when
there would be an opening in 2001. And so I saw what the opening
would be, yeah, and I started campaigning when I was still at
Harvard.  QUESTION: What actually shaped your political philosophy?
Was it the kinds of events you were taken to by your mother? Was
it that Bay Area tech boom? And how would you -- you know, how
would you describe your own political beliefs?  CASTRO: I think, of course, you know, growing with my
mother and my dad, who had been active, too, influenced me, and
then going to college and getting away and seeing a different
environment, and seeing, you know, what America could be, you
know, the success that folks can have, and that - that the
sunnier side, I think of it, was very, very influential to me.  And I think that’s -- and then just the -- seeing that and
reflecting on the progress that we have made as a nation sort of
helped me end up where I’m at, which is having a very deep
respect for all the struggles that people had to go through --
and in some circumstances, still are -- you know, to get to
where we are now, but also having kind of a glass-half-full
mentality of knowing that, you know, we do the right things and
you make the right investments, that you can make progress.  So it was all of that stuff. I think just with anybody,
it’s several points in life.  QUESTION: And any politician other than your mom and dad
who was a particular inspiration, model?  CASTRO: I mean, growing up, I used to -- my brother and I
used to read a little bit and then watch like Bobby Kennedy and
Cesar Chavez of the United Farm Workers. And then Henry
Cisneros, of course, was the mayor of San Antonio in the 1980s
when we were growing up, which I think was important, because it
showed, well, look, you can do this, you know?  And Henry at that time, as you all remember -- I know you
used to write about him -- was just an amazing -- led the city
very well, made a lot of great improvements to San Antonio, so
that was inspirational back then.  QUESTION: Did you ever have a rebellious moment when you’d
think about becoming a Republican? Is your mother a Democrat?  CASTRO: Yeah. She is. No, not really.  (LAUGHTER)  QUESTION: Can I ask you one other quick political question?  CASTRO: You don’t mind if I get to eat a little bit of this
-  (CROSSTALK)  QUESTION:  --  real slow.  HUNT: Hold off for a minute, so he gets a little bit of
chance -- he hasn’t had a chance to eat at all.  QUESTION: It’ll be a slow question. I was wondering if Jan
Brewer, if her policies that you spoke of -- and you also spoke
of voter registration changes there -- is there any chance she’s
risking putting her state into play in the presidential? Or are
the economics so difficult in that that state, that that’s just
going to remain a bridge too far for the presidency?  CASTRO: I believe that Arizona has -- has become more in
play because of those policies. I don’t know, at the end of the
day -- I don’t believe right now it’s at the top tier of being
in play. But I do think that because of those policies, that
it’s moved along the scale closer to being winnable by a
Democrat. But maybe not -- probably will still go Republican
this year.  Because I do believe that she’s incited a lot of
frustration in the Latino community. And as I said, a 49 percent
jump in voter registration, those folks are -- look what
happened to -- what’s it, Russell Pearce, you have seen some
backlash. And once these folks start voting, I think that
they’re going to keep up a habit of voting, and so she may have
opened up a Pandora’s box vis-a-vis the Republican Party for the
long haul, just like Pete Wilson did in California.  HUNT: We got time for a couple more questions. Anybody from
this end of the table? I’ve neglected the right --  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Jump in.  QUESTION: On the left here, Mr. Mayor, sorry to pull you
back in this direction again. You could argue that last night
President Clinton in 48 minutes made a more compelling case,
defense of the Obama record than the president has been able to
do over a much longer period of time. You’re a pretty good
speaker yourself (OFF-MIKE) do you have any thoughts about why
(OFF-MIKE) so much difficulty breaking through (OFF-MIKE).  CASTRO: Well, first, I’d say that, you know, to be fair to
the president, folks are always going to be a little tougher on
the guy who’s actually in office versus someone who’s not in
office. I agree with you.  Bill Clinton  always delivers, and he
delivered last night, very, very well, as he always does. Was it
48 minutes?  (CROSSTALK)  (LAUGHTER)  CASTRO: OK, OK. But --  QUESTION: Of his assigned 25.  CASTRO:  --  this time --  (CROSSTALK)  QUESTION: Those of us on deadline, though --  CASTRO: This time, we were riveted for the 48 minutes.  HUNT: I will tell you, beforehand, I saw one of the persons
working on his speech, and I said, I’ve got the under, in the 33
minutes. And he said, you’re such a (inaudible).  (LAUGHTER)  CASTRO: I think it’s because, you know, folks are tougher,
of course, on the person who’s actually in office. I do believe
that President Obama has made a compelling case, but people are
also judging him as the president, and Bill Clinton is very
effective, but he’s also -- he’s not the one that’s being judged
right now. So it’s a little unfair to the president to make the
comparison.  I do think that, as  Michelle Obama  did so well in her
speech, I do think the president has an opportunity to
personalize it, you know? I mean, he can also speak to his
experience. She was right alongside there with him. The things
she was speaking about, in terms of how they struggled, the way
that many Americans struggle, I mean, that’s his experience. And
not only can he speak it, I mean, he’s written about that.  And -- and I believe that he has an opportunity tonight to
connect with people, to personalize it. Sometimes that’s more
difficult in the day-to-day sort of in-office kind of -- but
this is a great moment where it calls for exactly that, where
everybody’s stepping back and giving you the platform to, OK,
make the case. So if he personalizes it tonight, I think that’ll
help.  HUNT: Time for --  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) should be his emphasis, rather than
policy?  CASTRO: I think it’s -- it’s to weave those two things
together. And he can do it -- I think he has the opportunity to
do it in a more direct way than the first lady would do that, of
course.  HUNT: Time for one more very slow question, as the mayor
tries to get a little bit more of breakfast in.  QUESTION: Mr. Mayor, as you’ve watched this presidential
race unfold, given the state of the economy around the country,
do you think there’s ever been an opportunity for Republicans to
expand their support with Latino voters, in particular Mitt
Romney? And where have you seen (OFF-MIKE) I mean, where has he,
like, missed a chance to win over more Hispanic support along
the way? Is it a specific thing he said? Or is it more the
broader policies from the Republican Party dating back to the
Arizona law?  CASTRO: He -- he just has a great headwind because of the
immigration policy, but also that he had to run so far to the
right in the primary. It’s difficult to get back now. I mean,
talking about self-deportation, you know, it just rubbed the
Hispanic community the wrong way, I think.  You know, and I -- you know, nobody speaks for the entire
Hispanic community, and I -- I don’t pretend to, but it’s my
sense that it rubbed the Hispanic community that wrong way. That
-- and also the -- as I said before, the policies that he
actually embraces, you’re talking about eliminating funding for
education -- reducing it and doing away with the Affordable Care
Act, I mean, and then tax policy. I mean, people get what the
consequence would be in their own lives of that. And the
experience that Latinos are living by and large in the United
States is that the Affordable Care Act would make a difference
for them. You know, the Pell Grants and scholarships does make a
difference for their children. The tax policy that he would
embrace of favoring -- attending to (ph) favor folks who have --
who are more wealthy, I mean, they’re watching that, and so
that’s not -- that’s not me and my family, you know?  So, I mean, he had an opportunity -- an opportunity in
theory, but because of the primary and because of where he has
gone, you know, he hasn’t taken advantage of it.  And then I would just say, secondly, I don’t know that he
ever -- with George Bush, as I said before, he came up in Texas.
He was used to dealing with Latino issues. Mitt Romney, you
know, was in Michigan and then, of course, in Massachusetts -- I
just think it’s foreign to him. He doesn’t have a good feel for
it, doesn’t have the political nuance.  HUNT: Mr. Mayor, I wish we could have had a breakfast like
this in 2004 in Boston. It would have been -- it would have been
helpful to all of us. And we all look forward -- it was great to
meet you. We look forward --  CASTRO: Thank you very much.  HUNT:  --  to seeing you again in the years ahead. Thank
you for being here.  CASTRO: I appreciate it. Thank you.  HUNT: You can actually eat something --  CASTRO: Oh, it’s all right. It’s all right. Thank you all.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 