-- Castro Predicts Strong Obama Win With Latino Voters
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-09-06T17:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/castro-predicts-strong-obama-win-with-latino-voters.html
San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro
predicted  Barack Obama  will win at least 70 percent of the
Hispanic vote, describing Republican challenger Mitt Romney as
“the most conservative candidate that the Latino community has
ever seen.”  Romney has alienated Latino voters with his support of
“self-deportation” and his opposition to creating a path to
citizenship for law-abiding immigrants who came to the U.S. as
children, Castro said at a Bloomberg/Washington Post breakfast.  “He had to run so far to the right” to get the
nomination, “it’s difficult to get back now,” said Castro, a
Democrat who this week became the first Latino to give a keynote
address at a national party convention. “It just rubbed the
Hispanic community the wrong way.”  Unlike former President  George W. Bush , who worked closely
with the Latinos as governor of Texas, Romney was raised in
 Michigan  and governed in  Massachusetts , where he wasn’t as
familiar with the community.  “I just think it’s foreign to him,” Castro said. “He
doesn’t have the political nuance.”  Beyond opposition to Republican policy positions, Castro,
at the breakfast in  Charlotte , North Carolina, said the
president has made issues important to the Latino community a
priority in his administration.  Dream Act  Although Obama was unable to push through passage of
comprehensive immigration reform, he used executive authority to
implement the Dream Act, the legislation giving young immigrants
the ability to become citizens. The president expanded the Pell
grant tuition program for lower-income college students,
allowing more Hispanics to seek higher education. And the
health-care law also was critical, said Castro, for a community
that lacks insurance and suffers diabetes in higher rates than
the general population.  “ Mitt Romney ’s headwind is not the personalities, it’s the
policies,” said Castro.  Both parties have been working hard to woo Latino voters,
one of the country’s fastest-growing demographic groups, with
Spanish-language advertising, specially crafted political
messaging and Hispanic-America speakers highlighted at both
conventions.  Latinos may account for 8.9 percent of the U.S. electorate
in November, up from 7.4 percent in 2008, according to a report
last month by the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-
based research institute. They favor Obama over Romney, 61
percent to 29 percent, according to Gallup poll data compiled
Aug. 6-26, with 66 percent saying they would definitely vote.  Political Buzz  Similar to Obama, who’s 2004 convention address laid the
groundwork for his presidential victory four years later,
Castro’s prime-time speech increased the political buzz about a
future run for a higher office -- even the White House.  Castro shot down the speculation, saying that the dominance
of the Republican party in his home state of  Texas  makes it more
difficult for him to ascend politically.  “That’s not what I’m aiming for,” he said. “I also live
in Texas.”  Although Republican dominance in the lone star state today
might prohibit his political elevation, Castro said a growing
Latino population and an increasingly fiscal and socially
conservative Republican party in Texas could allow a Democratic
victory statewide in six to eight years.  Nationally, though, the country is ready for a Latino
president, he argued, saying that Obama paved the way for women
and other minorities to win the highest office in the country.  “President Obama has broken barriers that will never be
put back together,” he said. “He really has created a pathway
for others.”  The Obama campaign officials tapped Castro to do the
convention speech about a month ago. He worked with his
identical twin brother, Joaquin, to write the first draft and
then traded copy with campaign officials in  Chicago .  “They wanted it to resonate with the American people on
the American Dream story,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Charlotte,  North Carolina  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  