-- Central Falls, Rhode Island, Bankruptcy Exit Approved
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S t e v e   L u d s i n
-- 2012-09-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/central-falls-rhode-island-bankruptcy-exit-approved.html
--  Central Falls , the first city in
Rhode Island’s 222-year history to go bankrupt, won court
permission for an exit plan that fully repays bondholders while
cutting worker pensions.  Under the plan, bondholders also have the opportunity to
get back the money they spend on legal fees related to the case.  The city’s payroll will fall to 121 jobs from 174 in May,
according to Rosemary Booth Gallogly, the state’s revenue
director, who oversaw negotiations with creditors. Pensions will
be cut as much as 55 percent for 133 municipal retirees, while
none will get less than $10,000 a year, according to court
documents. They will also be required to pay 20 percent of their
health-care costs until they turn 65 and become eligible for the
federal Medicare program.  During its 13 months in bankruptcy, the city moved from
“pain to a sincere hope,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Frank Bailey
said yesterday at a court hearing in Providence,  Rhode Island .
The case was the quickest municipal debt adjustment for a city
in U.S. history, he said.  Retirees accepted the proposed cuts after the state
promised to supplement pensions for five years. General
unsecured creditors will be paid a maximum of 45 percent over
six years from a $600,000 fund. The city lacked revenue to pay
more “while maintaining an adequate level of municipal services
such as the provision of fire and police protection,” according
to its disclosure materials.  Bankruptcy Receiver  The city of 18,000 was guided through bankruptcy by a
receiver initially appointed before the Chapter 9 filing on Aug.
1, 2011. Bailey said it’s up to the state to decide whether the
receiver could be discharged on completion of the case.  Last year, Governor Lincoln Chafee, an independent, ensured
that investors holding $27 million of Central Falls debt would
be protected when he signed a law giving them a lien on tax and
general revenue.  Chafee yesterday praised the city’s bankruptcy-exit plan.  “None of this would have been possible without
collaboration on the part of the legislature, the unions, the
city employees and the retirees,” he said in a statement.  The case is In re City of Central Falls, 11-13105,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Rhode Island (Providence).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Ludsin in  New York  at 
 ludsin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  