-- Charter Schools Increase New Bonds Most Since 2007: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/charter-schools-increase-new-bonds-most-since-2007-muni-credit.html
U.S. charter schools are issuing
municipal debt at the fastest pace since 2007 as enrollment
grows, national networks expand and the  lowest yields  in a
generation spur construction and refinancing.  The independent public schools operate without many of the
rules governing traditional institutions in exchange for more
accountability for student achievement. They have sold about
$580 million of munis this year through August, the most since
$644 million in the same period of 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Issuance of the riskiest debt -- about half the
deals are unrated -- has climbed even as charter defaults are
set to be the most since 2009.  In May, six months after Atlanta-area schools run by
followers of a Turkish imam borrowed $19 million to build a new
campus, the organization defaulted. The local district refused
to renew its charter. Also in May, a Michigan school learned its
charter wouldn’t be renewed, according to a notice to
bondholders.  “The charter student population in this country is ever-
increasing as parents have become more comfortable with the
charter movement and as a lot of quality charter organizations
have proven themselves to be more permanent and not fly-by-night
as some parents may have feared,” said John Snider, head of  RBC
Capital Markets’ (RY)  charter-school finance group in Phoenix.  Enrollment Jump  This week, as 50 million U.S. public-school students return
to class, about 2 million will be attending charter schools.
That’s about six times more than a decade ago, according to the
nonprofit  National Alliance for Public Charter Schools .  Fewer than 8 percent of the 5,300 charter schools in the
U.S. have borrowed through the $3.7 trillion U.S. municipal
market, according to Wendy Berry, a consultant for the Local
Initiatives Support Corp., a nonprofit community development
organization established by the Ford Foundation in 1979.  A former Moody’s Investors Service analyst, she co-wrote a
 2011 survey  of the segment. There’s about $5.5 billion in
charter-school securities, according to Berry.  In this year’s biggest charter sale, Uplift Education, a
nonprofit that runs 26 schools in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, in
April priced about $81 million of debt, including a 30-year tax-
exempt part at 5.125 percent.  The yield was 1.66 percentage points more than AAA bonds,
down from a gap of 2.04 percentage points when Uplift sold in
2010, Bloomberg data show. The issues are rated BBB- by  Standard
& Poor’s , the lowest investment grade.  ‘Spreads Tighten’  “You have seen spreads tighten, but probably less than the
high-yield market,” said Lyle Fitterer, a managing director at
Wells Capital Management in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin . “They
tend to lag the broader high-yield market just because there
tends to be less liquidity.”  Wells Fargo’s $3 billion  Advantage Municipal Bond Fund 
owned debt issued by charter schools in  Colorado ,  Minnesota ,
 Utah ,  Idaho ,  Arizona  and Georgia as of July 31.  As investors have sought riskier debt to bolster returns
this year, high-yield munis have been the strongest part of the
U.S. local-bond market. The segment has returned 13.4 percent,
compared with 6 percent for the whole muni market, according to
S&P data.  In trading yesterday, yields on top-rated tax-exempts due
in 10 years fell 0.1 percentage point to 1.75 percent, close to
a one-month low, Bloomberg Valuation data show. The record low
was 1.63 percent in July.  Public Funding  Unlike public school districts, charters schools lack
taxing power. They receive public funding based on enrollment
and use the revenue to fund instruction and facilities.  Bondholders have less security because charter schools are
at risk of losing revenue if enrollment declines. The schools
have other risks: Charters can be revoked, state aid may be cut
and laws regarding charter schools can change. As a result,
borrowing costs exceed those of public schools that issue
general obligations.  The average interest cost for charter bonds is 2.04
percentage points more than top-rated debt, according to Berry’s
2011 survey.  For some investors, the risks outweigh the rewards.  “In certain cases, charter schools provide a viable
academic option and a valuable service,” said Jim Pass, a
managing director at Guggenheim Partners, which manages $9
billion of munis and has headquarters in  New York  and  Chicago .
“However, financial strength is still developing.”  Default Pace  Of the 478 charter school bond issues offered through 2010,
3.1 percent had a payment default, according to Berry. State and
local general obligations have a default rate of 0.01 percent,
according to Municipal Market Advisors in Concord,
 Massachusetts .  There have been three payment defaults this year by charter
schools and two more may follow, which would be the most since
2009, said Matt Fabian, a managing director at MMA.  In October, the Fulton Science Academy in Alpharetta,
 Georgia , borrowed $18.9 million to build a new campus. Leaders
of the academy have ties to a Turkish imam, Fethullah Gulen,
whose followers run 120 charter schools in the U.S.,  according
to the New York Times .  Two months after the issue, the Fulton County School
District denied a proposed 10-year charter renewal, saying the
length wasn’t acceptable. The state school board rejected an
appeal.  Information Lacking  In a May 15 notice, Wells Fargo, the bond trustee, said
Fulton Science Academy omitted material information in the
official statement for the issue about the county district’s
reservations about renewing the charter.  Holders of the debt, which is secured by land bought by the
school, got back about $9 million on an accelerated basis, the
trustee said in a July filing.  The remainder of the bonds traded in June at 73 cents on
the dollar, according to Bloomberg data.  A June  audit  by the Fulton County school district found the
academy approved $70,000 in no-bid contracts with a nonprofit
organization even though school officials sat on its board.  Kenan Senar, principal of the academy, which now operates
as a private school, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Another reason for the growing charter school issuance is
the emergence of multistate operators such as the  Knowledge Is
Power Program , which have established a reputation for managing
schools well and boosting achievement, said Thomas Stoeckmann, a
senior research analyst at Wells Capital Management.  Donating Millions  Foundations including the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
have donated hundreds of millions of dollars to charter schools
and are supporting the larger management groups, he said.  “Their concern and their desire is to grow this faster,”
Stoeckmann said. “A big push within the industry in
scalability.”  In  Texas , Uplift Education sold tax-exempt revenue bonds as
well as $20 million of Qualified School Construction Bonds in
April. Proceeds are going toward improving campuses and
refinancing higher-cost debt. Uplift opened its first school in
1997 and educates about 7,500 students. It has a waiting list of
more than 8,400, according to its 2012 bond offering statement.  Investors placed 2.5 times more orders than there were
securities available, allowing the network to lower yields, said
Bill Mays, its chief financial officer.  Mays said he’s considering refinancing debt issued in 2005
in December.  “The  bond market  is still looking good,” Mays said.  Following are pending sales:  SAN ANTONIO plans to sell $175 million on behalf of its
water system as soon as today, according to offering documents.
The proceeds will be used for construction and refunding.
(Updated Sept. 6)  ILLINOIS FINANCE AUTHORITY is set to issue $181 million of
revenue bonds on behalf of OSF Healthcare System as soon as
today. The proceeds will refinance debt and support capital
projects, according to bond documents. (Updated Sept. 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  