-- Chelsea Says Samsung Renewed Jersey Sponsorship Through 2015
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-06T23:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/chelsea-says-samsung-extended-jersey-sponsorship-through-2015.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  took up an
option to renew its 15 million pound ($23.9 million) jersey
sponsorship with Chelsea through 2015, the European soccer
champion said.  Chelsea, which won the  Champions League  for the first time
in May, signed a partnership agreement with the South Korean
electronics maker in 2005.  “Samsung have exercised their right to extend their deal
which will see them remain as a premium partner of the club
until the end of May 2015,” the London club said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  The contract started with Samsung paying 11 million pounds
per season as the company replaced Emirates airline on the front
of Chelsea’s blue jerseys. That agreement was extended at 15
million pounds five years later, and Samsung had until June 1 to
take up its option to renew for a further three seasons.  The shares of Samsung, which is also a sponsor of the
 Olympic Games , tumbled 7.5 percent on Aug. 27, a day after a
U.S. jury verdict found that it copied  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Sunny Hwang, Samsung’s vice president and head of worldwide
sports marketing, said in an interview in May that the world’s
largest mobile phone maker would wait until the outcome of
Chelsea’s Champions League final with  Bayern Munich  before
committing to a renewal.  Chelsea was a surprise winner of  Europe ’s elite club
competition, after finishing in its lowest Premier League
position since Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich  bought the
club in 2003. Abramovich fired manager Andre Villas-Boas eight
months after he joined from Porto and interim coach Roberto Di Matteo oversaw a sixth-place finish and victory in the F.A. Cup
before the penalty shootout victory over Bayern.  Rival Contracts  Chelsea’s contract with Samsung is among the biggest in
English soccer, though lower than the sums negotiated by Premier
League rivals Manchester United and Liverpool.  United in July announced it had signed a $559 million,
seven-year agreement with  General Motors Co. (GM)  for its Chevrolet
brand to replace Aon Corp as the team’s lead sponsor from 2014.  Liverpool’s sponsorship agreement with Standard Chartered
Plc is worth 80 million pounds over four years. Premier League
champion Manchester City last year announced a 10-year
partnership with Etihad that gave the Abu Dhabi-based airline
stadium naming rights and jersey sponsorship for $500 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  