-- China’s Goal of 10% Trade Growth Drifts Out of Reach
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-07T09:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/china-s-goal-of-10-trade-growth-drifts-out-of-reach.html
Chinese toy merchant  Pan  Junping
says this is usually among his busiest times as customers in the
U.S. and  Europe  load up on orders for Christmas. This year, he’s
quieter than ever.  “The situation is possibly worse than 2009, and confidence
is zero,” said Pan, 39, who’s frozen salaries and expects a 30
percent decline in annual sales for his trading company in Yiwu
city, in eastern Zhejiang province. “It’s not busy at all.”  Europe’s crisis is diminishing  China ’s prospects for
reaching a goal of 10 percent trade growth this year and
strengthening the case for more investment stimulus such as
roads and subways, monetary easing and tax relief for companies
such as Pan’s. A report due Sept. 10 may show a 2.9 percent gain
in  exports  in August from a year earlier, down from 18 percent
growth over the past two years, based on the median estimate in
a  Bloomberg News  survey.  The trade slowdown is weighing on companies such as
Tianjin-based  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , the country’s largest
listed shipper, after the European Union this year slipped
behind the U.S. as the nation’s biggest export market. The
company lost 4.87 billion yuan ($768 million) in the first half
and its top two executives have pledged to waive their salaries
until profits resume.  The National Development & Reform Commission yesterday said
it approved plans to build 2,018 kilometers (1,254 miles) of
roads, described by Bank of America Corp. as among “real
actions” by the government to arrest a slowdown. The bank also
cited subway projects and increased land supplies in cities
including Guangzhou, Hangzhou, Beijing and  Shanghai .  ‘Right Direction’  “We believe this new approach of policy stimulus is in the
right direction because adding home supply and improving urban
infrastructure are the two best ways to contain  home prices ,
speed up urbanization and increase social welfare,” said Lu Ting, Bank of America’s chief Greater China economist in  Hong
Kong .  Asian stocks were headed for the biggest gain since
December after the  European Central Bank  announced a bond-buying
plan and U.S. companies boosted hiring. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index advanced 2.2 percent at 6:06 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today,  Australia 
recorded a wider-than-estimated trade deficit in July. Malaysian
exports unexpectedly fell 1.9 percent in July from a year
earlier after a 5.4 percent gain the previous month.  In the U.S., the Labor Department may report the jobless
rate held at 8.3 percent and employers added fewer workers in
August.  Mexico ,  Latin America ’s second-largest economy, will
decide  interest rates  with Banco de Mexico board members
probably keeping the benchmark rate unchanged at 4.5 percent,
according to a survey.  Earnings Cut  China’s growth deceleration has cut corporate earnings,
helping send the Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks down 14
percent since this year’s March 2 high. The gauge is near the
levels immediately after 2008’s collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., which presaged a 16 percent drop in exports in
2009. The index rose 3.7 percent today, the most since January,
after the announcements of infrastructure investment and ECB
bond-buying.  The yuan has weakened about 0.7 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in 2012 after gaining 4.7 percent in 2011.  About a quarter of investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers surveyed Sept. 4 said they expect Chinese
markets to be among the worst performers over the next year, the
highest negative reading the country has received in the
quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll since January 2010.  Exporter Aid  China’s government may boost aid to exporters after growth
in overseas sales slid to 7.8 percent in the first seven months
of the year and imports gained 6.4 percent. The nation plans to
increase export tax rebates on products including shoes and
ceramics, according to three people with direct knowledge of the
plan, Bloomberg News reported Sept. 4.  Officials in China have refrained from easing monetary
policy since cutting  interest rates  in June and July and
lowering banks’ reserve requirements three times from November
to May. Authorities have shied away from stimulus near the scale
of the 4 trillion  yuan  ($586 billion at the time) package
announced in 2008, amid a global crisis when 20 million migrant
workers lost their jobs.  “There are mounting difficulties ahead for China to
achieve the trade-growth target,” said Li Jian, a researcher
with the Commerce Ministry’s Chinese Academy of International
Trade and Economic Cooperation. “The export situation proved
much more pessimistic than previously expected.”  Export Estimates  Estimates from 36 analysts for August exports range from a
year-over-year decline of 1.9 percent to an 8.2 percent increase,
following 1 percent growth in July and 11.3 percent in June.
Imports probably advanced 3.5 percent last month, compared with
July’s 4.7 percent pace, based on the median estimate of 35
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Data due Sept. 9 may show little rebound in the economy.
Industrial-production  growth  may have eased to 9 percent in
August from 9.2 percent in July, a Bloomberg News survey of 35
economists showed. Retail sales gains were probably little
changed at 13.2 percent from 13.1 percent.  Consumer-price  inflation  may have picked up to 2 percent in
August from a year earlier after a 1.8 percent gain in July as
food costs rose. The decline in producer prices probably
accelerated to 3.2 percent from 2.9 percent in July, according
to separate Bloomberg surveys.  The 2012 trade target isn’t the only one China is at risk
of missing. Odds are rising that Premier  Wen Jiabao  will fail to
reach 7.5 percent economic growth, while the nation’s industry
ministry this week forecast a 10 percent advance in factory
output, down from an 11 percent goal set in December.  Estimate Lowered  UBS AG today lowered its estimate for economic growth this
year to 7.5 percent from 8 percent, and its 2013 forecast to 7.8
percent from 8.3 percent. ING Groep NV also cut its 2012 growth
forecast to 7.5 percent from 8.1 percent and said expansion will
rebound to 9 percent in 2013 as incoming leaders ease policy
more aggressively.  The weakness signals that calls of a bottom in the
economy’s slowdown last quarter may prove premature. Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  said in June that the economy was “turning
for the better” that month, while Chen Yulu, an academic
adviser to the central bank, said the second quarter “should be
the lowest point” this year.  “It’s very likely for China’s trade to grow by just a
single-digit rate,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist
with Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. Zhang said his forecasts
for a 9.3 percent increase in exports this year and 10.3 percent
expansion in imports “are subject to review as downside risks
are growing.”  Guangdong Visit  Wen, in a visit last month to Guangdong, China’s biggest
exporting province, said the nation’s sales abroad will continue
to face “many difficulties and uncertainties” and the
government will improve policies to aid exports.  Even with the slowdown, merchant Pan, who last year
exported $10 million of products, said he doesn’t plan to fire
any of his seven sales representatives. “It’s hard to find a
good business representative, and I am also waiting for the good
days to come back,” he said.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from  Patrick Harrington  in Tokyo.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  