-- China’s Roads-to-Subways Construction Spurs Stocks Rally
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-09-07T09:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/china-approves-plan-to-build-new-roads-to-boost-economy.html
China  approved plans to build 2,018
kilometers (1,254 miles) of roads, spurring the biggest stock-
market rally in almost eight months on signs the government is
stepping up stimulus efforts to revive economic growth.  The government also backed nine sewage-treatment plants,
five port and warehouse projects, and two waterway upgrades,
according to  statements  on the website of the National
Development and Reform Commission yesterday. No investment
amounts were given.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index closed 3.7 percent higher, led
by construction stocks, on speculation infrastructure spending
will help bolster growth that’s cooled to the slowest pace in
three years. The announcements came a day after approvals for
subway projects in 18 cities, an earlier rise in the railway-
building budget and increases in land supplies in cities
including Guangzhou, Hangzhou, Beijing and Shanghai.  “They are clearly stepping up the infrastructure-
investment push to help boost confidence and revive growth,”
said Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief China economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s policy stance is
shifting “to a more proactive and significant easing.”  The government may boost infrastructure-spending growth to
an annual pace of more than 20 percent in the coming months from
15 percent to stimulate the economy, HSBC Holdings Plc
economists Qu Hongbin and Sun Junwei said in a note yesterday.  Announcement Timing  Growth in gross domestic product may rebound next quarter
as the investments filter through, Nomura’s Zhang said. The
timing of the announcements also shows that the government wants
to boost confidence as the projects had been accepted previously,
he said. The new road projects, which include highways in
Zhejiang and Xinjiang provinces, were approved as early as June.  “China’s central government finally took real actions to
arrest the worsening slowdown,” Bank of America Corp. economist
Lu Ting said in a note. “Adding home supply and improving urban
infrastructure are the two best ways to contain  home prices ,
speed up urbanization and increase social welfare.”  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (600585) , the nation’s biggest cement-maker
by market value, rose by the 10 percent limit in Shanghai, the
most since July 2010, to close at 15.07 yuan.  Sany Heavy
Industry Co. (600031) , China’s biggest construction-equipment maker, also
jumped 10 percent. Second-ranked Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science
& Technology Co. rose by the same amount in Shenzhen.  Lonking Holdings Ltd. (3339) , which makes wheel loaders and road
rollers, surged 20 percent in Hong Kong, the most in almost four
years, to close at HK$1.21. Builder China Communications
Construction Co. rose 6.1 percent.  Shanghai Disney  The approvals on Sept. 5 for a total of 25 new subway and
inter-city rail projects are worth more than 800 billion  yuan 
($126 billion), or 1.7 percent of 2011 gross domestic product,
according to HSBC. The spending will run from the second half of
the year to 2018, it said.  Among the approvals, Shanghai got the go-ahead for an
expansion of previously approved metro-line projects. About 16.8
billion yuan of new spending, including a 4.4 billion-yuan line
extension to the planned Disney theme park, was added to an
existing plan.  The NDRC backing may accelerate metro-rail developments,
most of which were already in local governments’ plans,
Citigroup Inc. analysts Jenny Zhen and Paul Gong said in a  note 
to clients yesterday.  “This sentiment is positive for the whole railway-
construction and equipment sector,” they said.  Rail Stocks  Rail stocks rose for a second day after the subway
approvals.  CSR Corp Ltd. (601766) , China’s biggest trainmaker by market
value, rose 3.7 percent in Hong Kong after surging 8.8 percent
yesterday. China Railway Construction Corp. gained 4.2 percent
and  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  climbed 1.6 percent. The benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  jumped 3.1 percent.  Reinforcing steel-bar futures gained 4.1 percent in
Shanghai to close at 3,406 yuan a metric ton.  The Chinese government also recently boosted plans for 2012
spending on railway construction to 496 billion yuan, according
to China Railway Group. It is at least the third increase since
the start of July when Premier Wen Jiabao said promoting
investment growth is key to stabilizing economic expansion.  China’s economy , the world’s second-biggest, expanded 7.6
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in three years. Manufacturing slowed in August, according
to surveys of  purchasing managers , with one gauge at the lowest
level since March 2009.  ‘Fine Tuning’  Premier Wen has pledged policy “fine tuning” to cope with
a deepening slowdown as export gains slumped to an annual
1 percent pace in July from 11 percent in June. The trade
deterioration escalated the risk that Wen will miss his full-
year  economic expansion  target for the first time since he took
office in 2003.  The construction push “seems to reflect that the economic
data in the second half won’t be great,” said Vivian Liu, a
Shanghai-based analyst with Sinopac Securities Asia Ltd. “The
government has to rely on increased fixed asset investment to
help economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  