-- Chocolate Mice Tossed Out With ‘Wholesome’ Wine by Court
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-09-06T09:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/chocolate-mice-tossed-out-with-wholesome-wine-by-court.html
The European Union’s highest court
refused to grant EU trademark rights to a chocolate mouse and
ordered that wine advertised as “wholesome” violates the
bloc’s rules to reduce the risks of alcohol abuse.  The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg upheld decisions by
the bloc’s trademark agency and a lower EU court rejecting
Berlin-based August Storck KG’s bid for trademark protection for
mouse-shaped chocolate. Previous shape trademark bids for
chocolate bunnies and reindeer by  Lindt & Spruengli AG (LISN)  also
failed.  In a separate case the court refused to allow the use of
the German term for “wholesome” or “easily digestible” to
describe a wine. A wine growers’ cooperative was told its use of
the German word “bekoemmlich” to describe its wine is a health
claim “that is prohibited in relation to alcoholic beverages.”  Deutsches Weintor, a cooperative in Rhineland-Palatinate,
had challenged the decision by the state authorities to reject
its use of the wholesome description on one of its wines. EU
nutrition and health rules prohibit any claims of beneficial
effects on drinks with more than 1.2 percent of alcohol, even if
true, to avoid encouraging consumption and the related risks of
abuse and alcoholism.  The labels on the wine at issue describe it as mild with
“gentle acidity/wholesome,” which authorities in charge of
monitoring alcoholic beverage marketing said was a health claim
in breach of the EU rules. Deutsches Weintor argued the
description referred to general wellbeing, not health.  Neither of today’s rulings can be appealed. The final
decision in the wine labeling case will be made by the Federal
Administrative Court in  Germany , which in 2010 sought the EU
court’s guidance on how to interpret the bloc’s health rules.  The cases are:  C-544/10 , Deutsches Weintor eG v. Land
Rheinland-Pfalz; T-13/09, August Storck KG v. Office for
Harmonisation in the Internal Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  