-- Hillary Clinton Cheered Husband’s Speech From Tiny East Timor
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-06T11:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/clinton-says-husband-read-her-parts-of-convention-speech-1-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
cheered her husband’s nominating speech for President  Barack Obama  at the Democratic National Convention from 10,000 miles
away, in the tiny Southeast Asian nation of  East Timor .  Clinton, the first secretary of state to visit the half-
island state adjoining Indonesia that won independence 10 years
ago, delayed her departure to watch a recording of her husband,
former President Bill Clinton, rouse the Democratic Party
faithful in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  “It was great,” she told reporters on her plane before
taking off for Brunei, smiling broadly and saying she loved
every minute. An aide who watched with her said Clinton was
riveted, cheering and almost leaping out of her seat when Obama
unexpectedly joined  Bill Clinton  onstage.  Clinton was asked earlier at a press conference in East
Timor’s capital, Dili, about missing the convention.  “Officially, let me say that for decades, secretaries of
state have not attended political conventions because of the
nonpartisan nature of our foreign policy,” Clinton said. “It
is a good rule, it is one that I certainly accepted.”  That said, it was the first convention she had missed in
“many, many years,” she said. Clinton took the stage in
support of Obama in 2008 after losing her own presidential bid,
and was alongside her husband in 1992 and 1996.  “Let me also say that my husband read parts of his speech
to me over the last several days. I received the ‘as prepared’
version,” she said. “I am anxious -- when I can -- to compare
it with the ‘as delivered’ version,” Clinton said with a laugh.  She eventually watched a recording of the speech at the
U.S. ambassador’s residence. Clinton called her husband on her
way to the airport to congratulate him before heading for the
oil-rich sultanate of Brunei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Brunei Darussalam  at   ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  