-- Clinton Nominates Obama for Re-Election at Democratic Convention
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-09-06T03:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/clinton-nominates-obama-for-re-election-at-democratic-convention.html
Former President  Bill Clinton 
formally nominated  Barack Obama  for re-election, telling a
cheering convention crowd that his policies are best for the  U.S.
economy .  President Obama “inherited a deeply damaged economy, put a
floor under the crash, began the long hard road to recovery, and
laid the foundation for a more modern, more well-balanced
economy that will produce millions of good new jobs,” Clinton
said in a speech tonight at the Democratic National Convention
in Charlotte, North Carolina.  No president could have repaired the damage to the U.S.
economy “in just four years,” Clinton said.  In their first order of business today, Democrats amended
the party’s platform to recognize  Jerusalem  as Israel’s capital.
Republicans had criticized Democrats after discovering the
language had been omitted, seeking to cast Obama as a weak
supporter of the U.S. ally.  Four years ago, Democrats’ platform stated that “Jerusalem
is and will remain the capital of Israel.” That language was
reinstated.  The convention also added a reference to God, which the
platform had lacked. The document now refers to the “God-given
potential” of “working people.”  Speakers preceding Clinton to the podium tonight included
 Elizabeth Warren , who is challenging Republican  Scott Brown  for
his Senate seat in Massachusetts.  Warren, a Harvard Law professor who helped set up the
federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau under Obama, is her
party’s hope to recapture the seat long held by  Ted Kennedy , who
died in office in 2009.  Warren on Romney  She highlighted what Romney’s plan to roll-back Wall Street
regulations would mean for consumers. Former employees of
companies bought by Romney’s private-equity firm Bain Capital
LLC also addressed delegates. Obama and allied political action
committees have attacked Romney over his work at Bain, linking
him to job layoffs and outsourcing by companies that the firm
invested in.  Romney, who is taking a break from campaigning this week to
huddle with top advisers on a Vermont estate preparing for next
month’s presidential debates, came out of seclusion briefly to
travel to a building supply store in nearby West Lebanon,  New
Hampshire  and to sit for several television interviews.  He also spoke briefly to reporters and criticized Obama’s
fiscal record, saying Democrats during their convention’s first
day avoided talking about the  U.S. debt  that has ballooned and
poverty that has deepened during Obama’s presidency.  “You heard no one stand up and say that people are better
off today than they were four years ago,” Romney said after
stopping at the Lui Lui restaurant to pick up pizza. “They
really can’t say that.”  He said news this week that the national debt has reached
$16 trillion -- up from $10 trillion when Obama became president
-- and that the number of food-stamp recipients has reached 47
million tell the story of Obama’s failed record.  “There’s just no way he can square those numbers with the
idea that America is doing better, because it’s not,” Romney
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Charlotte,  North Carolina  at 
Or  cdodge1@bloomberg.net 
Mark Niquette in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
Or  mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  