-- Clinton Visits East Timor for First Trip Since Independence
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-06T10:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/clinton-visits-east-timor-for-first-trip-since-independence-1-.html
Hillary Clinton  stopped in East
Timor today, lending her support to efforts to expand economic
opportunities in the tiny Southeast Asian nation that is lagging
behind its better-off neighbors 10 years after independence.  The first U.S. secretary of state to visit, Clinton
underscored American support for  Asia ’s newest democracy ahead
of the planned end of two peacekeeping missions led by the
 United Nations , Australia and  New Zealand , and the withdrawal of
two 1,600 international forces at the end of this year. East
Timor is still recovering from two decades of civil war under
Indonesian occupation.  “I was determined to get here before the year was out as a
very visible sign of our support for all that has been
accomplished by the people and the nation,” Clinton said in the
capital, Dili. The U.S. was proud to stand beside its people
during their struggle for independence, she said.  Clinton met with newly-elected President Taur Matan Ruak
and Prime Minister Xanana Gusmao, key figures in the former
Portuguese colony’s independence struggle. State Department
officials told reporters traveling with Clinton that the U.S.
wants to coordinate with  China  to provide development assistance
to  East Timor , a half-island state neighboring  Indonesia  that is
one of the least-developed countries in the world.  ‘Central Pillar’  The U.S. is standing by East Timor’s commitment to the rule
of law and protecting rights of all citizens, Clinton said.
“Advancing democracy and human rights is a central pillar of
our engagement throughout Asia.”  Gusmao thanked Clinton for her “relentless advocacy for
peace,” for her focus on the Asia-Pacific and her commitment to
the “peaceful development and prosperity” of the nations in
our region.  The U.S. last month praised East Timor’s third peaceful,
electoral transition and the formation of a coalition government
under Gusmao.  The U.S. is seeking to promote economic development to help
the country catch up with its more prosperous Southeast Asian
neighbors. A dozen U.S. agencies have contributed more than $350
million in assistance since 2000, according to the State
Department.  100,000 Deaths  While the economy is growing around 10 percent a year,
unemployment and underemployment hovers at 70 percent, according
to a 2010  survey  by the International Labor Organization and the
government. War and occupation by Indonesian forces resulted in
at least 100,000 deaths from extrajudicial killings and
starvation, according to a 2005 report by a UN commission.
Fighting destroyed infrastructure and left the country the
poorest in the region.  Gusmao’s government is seeking to diversify the economy,
and officials say there’s an urgent need for investment in
roads, ports, communications and electrical grids.  East Timor’s challenges included low English proficiency, a
40 percent poverty rate and a dearth of infrastructure. Last
year at a conference in Bali, Indonesia, Clinton and Chinese
officials announced a joint agricultural project to promote  food
security , though the plan isn’t yet under way.  China has invested in building projects in East Timor and
other small nations across the Asia-Pacific that are often
costly, energy-inefficient and difficult for local authorities
to maintain, U.S. officials said.  U.S. Grant  “We want Timor Leste to have as many friends and partners
as possible,” Clinton said today. “We are not here against any
other country, we are here on behalf of our partnerships and
relationships with other countries in the region. We happen to
believe that Asia and the Pacific are quite big enough for other
countries to participate.”  Clinton announced a $6.5 million grant to help young people
study at U.S. schools to boost English proficiency and expand
job opportunities, and visited a cooperative started with U.S.
funding that supports health clinics that officials said treat
100,000 people annually.  East Timor started earning oil and gas revenue in 2005 from
fields shared with  Australia , and petroleum revenues surpassed
$2.5 billion last year. The government established a sovereign
wealth fund aimed at ensuring the long-term sustainability of
oil revenues, whose assets now exceed $10 billion, according to
the State Department.  East Timor’s second-largest export after oil is coffee,
generating $10 million a year for local farmers, the State
Department said.  Private Industry  Clinton highlighted initiatives to boost private industry
with a visit to an organic coffee cooperative founded in 1992
with USAID support. Now, Cooperativa Cafe Timor is a self-
sustaining business that employs 4,000 workers during the
harvest season and has 23,000 farmer-members, making it the
largest private employer in East Timor, cooperative officials
said.  Clinton toured a coffee bean processing plant in Dili that
employs 300 workers, 85 percent of whom are women, cooperative
officials said. The employees are paid $8 a day -- twice the
minimum wage, officials said.  The jute bags stuffed with coffee beans had address labels
routing them to  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  in  Seattle , the cooperative’s
largest buyer. Clinton sampled the strong coffee, declaring it
“fabulous.”  Convention Speech  While the U.S. supports East Timor’s integration into the
regional  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , Asean members
have objected to its entry, saying the country’s lack of
development would deplete the body’s assistance funds, a State
Department official told reporters traveling with Clinton.  In response to high levels of violence, the U.S. has
contributed assistance to programs to improve the national
police, promote conflict prevention and increase engagement
between security forces and civil society, the State Department
said. The U.S. military is engaged in professional development
of East Timor’s armed forces and humanitarian assistance.  Clinton delayed her departure from Dili to watch a
recording of her husband’s nominating speech at the Democratic
National Convention at the U.S. ambassador’s residence. An aide
said she was riveted through the speech, cheering and almost
leaping out of her seat when President  Barack Obama  unexpectedly
joined Bill Clinton onstage in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . She
called her husband on her way to the airport to congratulate
him.  “It was great,” she told reporters enthusiastically on
her plane before taking off for Brunei, where she will have
dinner with the sultan tonight.  The oil-rich Southeast Asian sultanate will host next
year’s East Asia Summit, and is the only country among the 10-
nation Asean group that Clinton hadn’t yet visited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  