-- Clinton Exaggerates Obama’s Deficit Cutting Plan: Reality Check
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-09-06T21:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/clinton-exaggerates-obama-s-deficit-cutting-plan-reality-check.html
The presidential campaigns are
making statements about their opponents. Sometimes, they don’t
square with the facts.  Obama’s Deficit Plan  The Claim: President  Barack Obama  “has offered a
reasonable plan of $4 trillion in debt reduction over a
decade,” former President  Bill Clinton  said in his prime-time
speech at the Democratic National Convention in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , last night.  The Background: The  budget deficit  has taken a central role
in this year’s presidential campaign. The $4 trillion figure
mentioned by Clinton is politically significant because that’s
how much was recommended by the chairmen of Obama’s 2011
deficit-reduction commission. For some budget experts, the
panel’s proposal has become the standard of fiscal rectitude.  The Facts: Clinton was incorrect. Obama’s budget purports
to cut the deficit by more than $4 trillion. Some of the savings
are illusory, such as $700 billion that comes through an
accounting gimmick related to war spending -- counting as budget
cuts the money that won’t be used for wars that are ending. The
deficit-reduction figure also includes more than $1 trillion in
lower discretionary outlays that were already agreed to as part
of a deal last year to raise the government’s debt limit.  Ultimately, what matters with a budget is how it affects
 the debt , not how much it purports to cut. That’s because when
politicians claim to save a certain amount of money, they’re
comparing their proposed budget to what they say the government
would otherwise spend over the next decade.  Budget Assumptions  Those predictions can be unreliable because of changing
economic conditions, emergencies and other factors. What’s more,
politicians inflate purported savings by exaggerating how much
the government would spend in the absence of their budget. The
more they assume, the bigger the savings appears.  It’s more important to look at how a budget affects the
federal debt over the long term. Republican vice presidential
nominee  Paul Ryan ’s plan would leave the government with a $15.3
trillion debt in 2022, which would be about 62 percent of the
nation’s economy. Obama’s plan would results in an $18.8
trillion debt in 2022, or about 76 percent of the gross domestic
product.  Israel and the Democrats  The Claim: The Democrats amended their platform Wednesday
to say, “ Jerusalem  is and will remain the capital of Israel.”  The Background: Both political parties, courting Jewish
voters, have long adopted platform language supporting Israel’s
claim to Jerusalem as its capital, although the  United Nations 
has rejected annexation and said the city’s status should be
decided as part of a negotiated peace with Palestinians.  Such a plank initially was left out of this year’s draft
Democratic platform. After Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  assailed the missing pledge as evidence that
President Barack Obama was less committed to Israel, the
platform was amended to include the Democrats’ 2008 language.  The Facts: The platform language may be symbolic of support
for Israel, though U.S. policy is unlikely to change, no matter
who is elected in November. Presidents of both political parties
have promised to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and to
move the U.S. embassy from  Tel Aviv  to Jerusalem. None,
including Bill Clinton,  George W. Bush  and Obama, has acted on
that pledge once in office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Lerer in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net  