-- Coene Says Start of ECB Bond Purchases Out of Bank’s Hands
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-09-06T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/coene-says-start-of-ecb-bond-purchases-out-of-bank-s-hands.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Luc Coene said the timing of the new ECB bond-
purchase plan is out of its control, as aid requests need to be
first “approved by a lot” of people.  “It’s not depending on us how fast we will react,” Coene
told reporters in Luxembourg late yesterday when asked how
quickly the ECB would intervene in government bond markets. “It
will depend on all the other instances that have to approve
these things and then we will intervene.”  ECB policy makers yesterday agreed to an unlimited bond-
purchase program to regain control of  interest rates  in the euro
area and fight speculation of a currency breakup. This would
work in tandem with the region’s rescue fund, and it is now up
to the governments in Spain and  Italy  to trigger ECB bond
purchases by requesting aid from the fund and signing up to
conditions.  “Conditionality is essential,” Coene said. “We cannot
unclog the monetary transmission mechanism if these fundamental
structural imbalances are not addressed.”  Coene said it’s “foreseen right now” that all other euro-
area members will have to agree to a rescue fund aid request. So
far Spain and Italy have not asked for help.  The ECB’s program, called Outright Monetary Transactions,
will target  government bonds  with maturities of one to three
years, including longer-dated debt that has a residual maturity
of that length.  Coene said the Governing Council will decide on how to
activate, run and suspend any bond buying. The  International
Monetary Fund  will be asked to help design and monitor country-
specific plans.  Since the ECB and the national central banks aren’t in
charge of structural or fiscal policies in euro-area countries,
they can “neither solve nor be held responsible for problems in
this domain,” Coene said.  At the same time, “ we will also remain attentive to
economic and institutional developments in the  euro zone  and we
won’t hesitate to share our reflections,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  