-- Coking Coal Benchmark to Fall on Lower Use, Davenport Says
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-09-06T14:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/coking-coal-benchmark-to-fall-on-lower-use-davenport-says-1-.html
The global coking coal benchmark for
the fourth quarter may fall to $175 a ton on lower demand for
the steelmaking component, Davenport & Co. LLC said today.  The investment bank lowered its estimate by 17 percent and
said that prices will average $205 a ton for 2013 and $215 for
2014 as global steel production slows, down from earlier
forecasts of $218 and $225.  Davenport is at least the third investment bank this week
to lower metallurgical coal projections, citing soft demand in
 Europe  and  China  as well as recovering production in  Australia ,
the world’s biggest exporter of the component.  “Met market conditions are very challenging currently and
we do not anticipate a significant rebound in the near term,”
J. Christopher Haberlin, an analyst at Davenport in Richmond,
 Virginia , said in the report.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest coking coal
exporter, in July lifted a force majeure on its Queensland,
Australia, operations after navigating rolling work stoppages.  “However, other producers are responding by idling mines
and reducing production,” Haberlin said. “We expect softer
demand to trump the supply response in the near term, keeping
the global met market muted through the end of the year.”  Walter Energy Inc. (WLT) , a U.S. producer of metallurgical coal,
said Sept. 4 that it would cut production by a “small amount”
at its operation in Wales. The same day  Consol Energy Inc. (CNX) , the
largest U.S. coal company by market value, said it would idle
its Buchanan mine in Virginia and at least part of its Amonate
complex in  West Virginia .  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF) , in  St. Petersburg , Florida,
and Dahlman Rose & Co., in  New York , both lowered their
metallurgical coal price projections this week.  The benchmark contract for the third quarter is $225 a ton,
down 29 percent from a year earlier, when the market wrestled
with supply disruptions in Queensland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 