-- Cole Ready to Leave Chelsea After Contract Offer: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-06T06:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/cole-ready-to-leave-chelsea-after-contract-offer-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Cole’s Contract  Ashley Cole  is ready to leave Chelsea after being offered
only a one-year contract to stay at the club, the  Sun reported .  The England left-back, 31, is in the final 12 months of his
agreement and in January could join another team as a free
agent, the Sun reported.  Malouda Banished  Chelsea winger Florent Malouda will see out the final year
of his 80,000 pounds ($127,200) a week contract training with
the under-21 squad after failing to secure a move to another
team, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Malouda, who was omitted from Chelsea’s roster for its
Champions League defense, announced his exile on his Twitter
account by posting a picture of the under-21 block at Chelsea’s
training ground with the message: “This is where I’ll train for
my last season with the Blues!!!” the Mirror added.  Spending Controls  Manchester United  and Liverpool will today press the
Premier League board to introduce financial controls that would
force all 20 teams to break even each year or face sanctions,
the  Independent reported .  “Some clubs are spending way more than they can afford and
get into trouble,” the newspaper cited Wigan Chairman Dave Whelan as saying. “The Premier League is so big and powerful
and there is so much money around that the clubs try and chase
it. Something has to be done, so we support these measures.”  Adebayor’s Fitness  Tottenham Hotspur manager Andre Villas-Boas put striker
Emmanuel Adebayor on an intensive fitness regime to try to help
end his team’s winless start to season, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Togolese forward has made two substitute appearances
for Spurs since his permanent signing from  Manchester City  last
month because the club’s coaching staff don’t consider him fit
enough to start, the newspaper added.  Bendtner’s Fatness  Denmark striker Nicklas Bendtner, who signed for Juventus
on a season-long loan from Arsenal last week, has been told that
he’s carrying too much weight to play in  Italy ’s Serie A, the
 same newspaper reported .  Medical Center  Manchester United is trying to address the club’s recent
injury problems by opening a 13 million-pound medical center at
its training ground in November, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The facility, which will be supplied with equipment
including CT and MRI scanners as part of a five-year agreement
with  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , will aim to fast-track players back to
fitness and ensure quicker injury diagnosis on site rather than
rely on nearby hospitals, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  