-- Congress Still Waiting for Obama’s Report on Automatic Cuts
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-09-06T22:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/congress-still-waiting-for-obama-s-report-on-automatic-cuts.html
The Obama administration hasn’t told
congressional leaders when they’ll get a report spelling out how
billions of dollars in automatic spending cuts will be carried
out beginning Jan. 2.  Today is the deadline set in legislation signed by
President  Barack Obama  on Aug. 7 that required the Office of
Management and Budget to issue a detailed report on how it would
comply with last year’s budget-control law.  “Despite repeated inquires, the White House has yet to
tell us when they are sending up the report,” John Ashbrook, a
spokesman for Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell , said.
“They’ve missed their budget deadlines in the past, so it
wouldn’t be a surprise if they missed this deadline that has
also been written into law.”  The White House press office didn’t respond to e-mailed
requests for comment.  The automatic  spending cuts  totaling about $1.2 trillion
through 2021 were part of a deal between the White House and
Congress after talks failed last year on a bipartisan plan to
curb the nation’s increasing  debt . They are set to take effect
Jan. 2 unless Congress acts.  The budget office report is supposed to outline what how
the cuts would affect government programs, expressed in both
dollars and percentages.  Exempt Programs  It’s also supposed to list which programs are exempt.
Lawmakers put mandatory programs such as  Social Security  off
limits, and the administration has said military pay and
veterans’ health care programs should be left alone. Other
programs, such as  student loans , are subject to special rules
for determining how the budget ax would fall.  The cuts would amount to $109 billion next year, coming
equally out of defense and nondefense spending. Democrats are
insisting that Republicans accept some tax increases in exchange
for altering the defense cuts. No proposal to avoid the
reductions has gained support.  A Bloomberg Government analysis estimates estimated that
sequestration would cut 9.6 percent from non-exempt Pentagon
accounts, including for the war in  Afghanistan , and 9.1 percent
from nondefense discretionary spending.  Kevin Smith , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an
 Ohio Republican , said Obama should “follow the law he signed
and tell the American people how he plans to implement, or
replace, these devastating cuts.”  The automatic cuts, known as sequestration in Washington,
were designed last year to make Jan. 2 cuts so politically
painful that both sides would want to avoid them. So far, that’s
not happened.  “Sequestration is bad policy, was never meant to be
implemented and should be avoided through the enactment of
bipartisan balanced deficit legislation,” Jeffrey Zients, the
White House budget director, told Congress Aug. 1. “That is why
the president believes that enacting a balanced deficit-
reduction package that would avoid sequestration should be the
focus of Congress’s efforts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  