-- Consumer Comfort Gauge Signals Severe Discontent for Fifth Week
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-09-06T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/consumer-comfort-gauge-signals-severe-discontent-for-fifth-week.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S. was
little changed last week, hovering near an eight-month low, as
Americans struggled with rising gasoline prices and elevated
unemployment.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was at minus 46.5 in
the period ended Sept. 2 compared with minus 47.3 in the prior
week. It was the fifth consecutive week the index has registered
a reading lower than minus 40, a level typically associated with
severe economic discontent.  A ninth consecutive weekly advance brought gasoline prices
to the highest level in four months, giving households reason to
be concerned about their finances. The dreary views are
prompting retailers and manufacturers such as  General Motors Co. (GM) 
to use promotions to entice customers.  “Despite very aggressive discounting from retailers and
General Motors that have bolstered retail sales, households
remain quite pessimistic on the state of the economy and their
own personal finances,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist with Bloomberg LP in  New York .  Two reports today contained some encouraging news on the
jobs front. Fewer Americans than forecast filed  applications  for
 unemployment benefits  last week, figures from the Labor
Department showed. Jobless claims decreased by 12,000 to 365,000
in the week ended Sept. 1, the fewest in a month. The  median 
estimate of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
drop to 370,000.  Employment Gain  Companies added more workers than forecast in August, data
from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer Service showed.
Employment increased by 201,000, the biggest gain in five
months. The median forecast of 41 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for an advance of 140,000.  Stocks advanced on the jobs data and as European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers agreed to an
unlimited bond-purchase program as they try to regain control of
 interest rates  in the euro area. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 1.1 percent to 1,419.37 at 9:40 a.m. in New York.  The Consumer Comfort Index is based upon Americans’ ratings
of the national economy, the buying climate and their own
finances. The gauge was at minus 47.4 in the week ended Aug. 19,
the lowest level since mid-January.  The  personal finances  gauge dropped to minus 13.5 last week
from minus 12.7. The number of consumers who say their budgets
were in “poor” shape, the most negative rating, climbed to 23
percent, its highest since November.  Gasoline Prices  The average cost of a gallon of regular gasoline climbed to
$3.83 last week, up 50 cents since July 1 and the highest since
late April, according to figures from AAA, the largest U.S. auto
group.  The other two components of the comfort gauge showed some
improvement last week. The index of Americans’ views on the
current state of the  economy  rose to minus 75.4 from minus 76.8
the prior week, and the buying climate barometer advanced to
minus 50.6 from minus 52.4.  The comfort index rose in all regions except the South,
where the index was its lowest since January.  The slump in confidence has yet to derail  consumer
spending , the biggest part of the economy.  Chrysler Group LLC,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , General Motors,  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. this week reported U.S. sales in
August that beat analysts’ estimates. Light-vehicle deliveries
last month were at the fastest pace since the government’s 2009
“cash for clunkers” program.  Extended Joblessness  While unemployment remains high, the number of Americans in
July out of work for 27 weeks or longer was down 1.5 million
from the April 2010 peak, according to the Labor Department. The
total represented 41 percent of all jobless, the lowest share
since 2009. The department will release August employment data
tomorrow.  Retailers including Gap Inc. and Macy’s Inc. posted August
same-store sales that also topped analysts’ estimates as
consumers took advantage of back-to-school promotions, according
to reports last week.  Americans are in a sour mood as Democrats gather in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , this week for their nominating
convention. The November election might turn on whether
President  Barack Obama  can convince voters that they’re better
off than they were when he first was elected four years ago.
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  is trying to make the case
that they’re not.  After declining from mid-April, the consumer comfort index
is near the level it was when Obama was elected in 2008,
according to  Gary Langer  of Langer and Associates in New York,
which compiles the index for Bloomberg.  ‘Stern Crowd’  “Barack Obama faces a stern crowd as he prepares to accept
the Democratic presidential nomination with a request for more
time to fix the troubled economy,” Langer said in a statement.  Republicans are particularly downbeat, reporting a more
glum outlook this year than in 2008, averaging minus 39.4
compared with minus 15.7 four years ago. The comfort index for
Republicans was minus 52.9 last week, the lowest since November.  Democrats say they’re doing better. A measure of their
confidence is up 22 points from its 2008 average of minus 56.3.
Democratic voters are on track to end the year with a higher
average comfort index than Republicans for the first time in
records going back to 1991.  The gauge for political independents, a key swing voting
group, improved to minus 49.7 last week from an eight-month low
of 52.2 a week earlier.  Survey Sampling  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  