-- Copper Trade Most Bullish Since October on Stimulus: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-09-07T16:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/copper-trade-most-bullish-since-october-on-stimulus-commodities.html
Copper traders are the most bullish
in almost 11 months on mounting speculation central banks will
do more to bolster growth, strengthening demand for metals.  Twenty-one analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect
prices to gain next week and five were bearish. A further four
were neutral, making the proportion of bulls the highest since
Oct. 14.  Hedge funds  are betting on higher prices for the first
time since May and stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the
London Metal Exchange, the largest metals bourse, dropped to the
lowest level in almost four years.  Commodities, which entered a bull market last month, may
rise another 10 percent,  Jeffrey Currie , the head of commodities
research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in an interview. The
European Central Bank yesterday held  interest rates  at a record
low and President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers agreed to an
unlimited bond-purchase program. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  pledged in an Aug. 31 speech to promote growth with
“additional policy accommodation as needed.”  “It’s really expectations of what the next round of
initiatives will do for global growth,” said Carole Ferguson,
an analyst at Fairfax IS in London. “It’s a good indicator of
industrial activity. If there’s any recovery in demand, copper
should go up quite a lot.”  Copper Prices  Copper rose 4.8 percent to $7,967 a metric ton this year on
the LME after a 21 percent slump last year. Prices tripled as
the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of
quantitative easing from December 2008 through June 2011. The
MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 10 percent since
the start of January and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities added 4.8 percent. Treasuries returned 2.1 percent,
a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Speculators held a net-long position, or bet on higher
prices, of 3,260 futures and options as of Aug. 28, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. They had wagered
on price declines for the previous 14 weeks. Inventories tracked
by the LME plunged 42 percent this year, sliding to 213,225 tons
yesterday, the lowest since October 2008. They were at 215,950
tons today, bourse data show.  Prices will advance to $9,000 by the end of this year,
Goldman’s Currie said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
 Singapore  yesterday. The bank told investors to increase
commodities holdings in June and a month later forecast a 27
percent gain in 12 months.  Central Banks  Bernanke said at the Kansas City Fed’s annual symposium in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming that “nontraditional policies” shouldn’t
be ruled out to boost growth and reduce unemployment. Policy
makers next meet Sept. 12-13. Draghi pledged more than a month
ago to do what’s needed to preserve the single currency.  Barclays Plc expects demand to outpace supply in the first
half of next year before a glut emerges in the second half as
output climbs and consumption growth weakens.  China ’s government lowered its 2012 industrial output
growth target to 10 percent on Sept. 5 from a December goal of
11 percent. The nation’s economy has slowed for six quarters. It
consumes about 40 percent of all copper,  Europe  accounts for 18
percent and  North America  11 percent, Barclays estimates.  Central bank action may not be enough to stave off slowing
global growth that will crimp demand for commodities including
copper, according to James Dailey, who manages $215 million at
TEAM Financial Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .
The 17-nation euro area is contracting, and  consumer confidence 
in the U.S. fell the most in 10 months in August.  Gold Holdings  Copper rallied 20 percent since reaching a 14-month low of
$6,635 in October. Prices probably won’t fall below $3 a pound,
or $6,614 a ton, as Chinese demand grows and mine expansions are
delayed, according to  Thomas Keller , the chief executive officer
of Codelco, the world’s biggest producer. Demand will match or
exceed supply, he said in an Aug. 31 presentation in Santiago.  In other commodities, 21 of 31 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg said gold would climb next week and seven
were bearish. Futures on the Comex exchange in  New York  rose 11
percent to $1,739 an ounce since the start of January, extending
11 consecutive annual gains. Holdings in gold-backed exchange-
traded products reached a record 2,472 tons yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Seven of 11 people surveyed expect raw sugar to drop next
week and two predicted gains. The sweetener slid 16 percent to
19.60 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York this year.  Crop Prices  Twelve of 27 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week and the same amount said the grain will decline, while
17 of 27 said soybeans will rally and eight expect lower prices.
Corn rose 24 percent to $8.01 a bushel this year as soybeans
advanced 45 percent to $17.48 a bushel in  Chicago . Both crops
surged to records in the past month as the U.S. endured its
worst drought in more than 50 years.  Global food prices were little changed last month after the
biggest jump since 2009 in July, according to a  United Nations ’
Food & Agriculture Organization index. The S&P GSCI gauge of raw
materials entered a  bull market  on Aug. 21, climbing more than
20 percent from this year’s lowest close on June 21.  “We could move marginally higher for most of the
commodities on the back of monetary easing that we are likely to
see in Europe and the U.S.,” Walter de Wet, head of commodities
research at Standard Bank Plc, said from Johannesburg. “Gold
and silver will be the biggest beneficiaries.  Brent crude  might
benefit from it, too, and, to a lesser extent, base metals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  