-- Costco Founder Says Obama Better for Business Than Romney
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-09-06T02:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/costco-founder-says-obama-better-for-business-than-romney.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
will be better for businesses than a country led by Mitt Romney,
Jim Sinegal, co-founder of  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , said during a
speech at the Democratic National Convention.  Companies need “a president who takes the long view and
makes the tough decisions,” said Sinegal, who remained on the
board of the largest U.S. warehouse-club chain after retiring as
its chief executive officer in January. “That’s why I am here
tonight supporting President Obama, a president making an
economy built to last.”  Creating an environment to spur job creation has been a key
issue in the campaign as the president’s supporters criticize
Bain Capital Partners LLC, the private-equity firm founded by
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , for investing in
companies that cut jobs or went bankrupt. Republicans have
blamed Obama for an  unemployment rate  above 8 percent since
2009.  Sinegal’s comments came after Tom Stemberg, co-founder of
retailer  Staples Inc. (SPLS) , lauded Romney last week at the Republican
National Convention for helping start the largest U.S. office-
supply chain when he was chief executive officer of Bain
Capital. He also criticized an Obama administration “that can’t
create any jobs.”  “When it comes to jobs, new businesses, and economic
growth, they just don’t get it,” Stemberg said in a speech on
Aug. 30. The White House is “demonizing” Romney and Bain
Capital, the private-equity firm that was an early investor in
Staples, he said.  Romney, who also served on Staples’  board , has said that he
helped create more than 100,000 jobs while he worked at Bain
Capital. Staples, founded in 1985, employs about 88,000 people
today.  Carmax Co-Founder  Austin Ligon, the co-founder and former CEO of  Carmax Inc. (KMX) ,
also pledged his support for Obama in a speech.  “President Obama understands what it takes to spark
economic growth, because I have seen him in action,” said
Ligon, who left Carmax, operator of more than 100 used-car
outlets, in 2006. “He inherited a massive structural deficit
from his Republican predecessor, an economy in free-fall, and,
most important for me personally, an auto industry on the verge
of collapse. The president’s decisive action led to the rapid
and successful restructuring of two of America’s largest
companies,  GM (GM)  and Chrysler.”  Obama will help businesses succeed by investing in
education, transportation and affordable energy while pursuing
“sensible immigration laws,” said Sinegal, who hosted a
fundraiser for Obama in July.  “In Tampa last week, we heard all about job creators, but
at our company, we recognize that  job creation  requires time and
investment and commitment to the long term,” Sinegal said. “It
requires companies that plant and grow, not executives who reap
and run. That’s how we do our part to build an economy that
lasts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  