-- Djokovic Defeats Del Potro, Joins Ferrer in U.S. Open Semifinals
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-07T04:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/david-ferrer-reaches-u-s-open-semifinal-by-defeating-tipsarevic.html
Defending champion Novak Djokovic
reached his 10th straight Grand Slam semifinal at the U.S. Open
and will play  David Ferrer  for a spot in the final.  The other men’s semifinal tomorrow will be between No. 3
 Andy Murray  of Britain and No. 6 Tomas Berdych of the  Czech
Republic , who upset top-seeded  Roger Federer  of Switzerland in
the quarterfinals.  Djokovic, 25, the second seed from Serbia, advanced to the
final four at the U.S. Open for the sixth straight year with a
6-2, 7-6 (7-3), 6-4 win last night against No. 7 Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina that featured an 84-minute second set --
including one game that lasted 17 minutes.  “That second set was crucial, it could have gone either
way,” Djokovic said in a news conference. “There were a lot of
important and exciting rallies. It was a lot of fun in a way to
be a part of this match.”  Ferrer, 30, the fourth seed from Spain, reached his second
U.S. Open semifinal, outlasting No. 8 Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia
in a fifth-set tiebreaker to end a match that took 4 hours, 31
minutes to complete.  “My opponent, he deserve also to win this match,” Ferrer
told reporters. “In one tiebreak it’s a lottery, and I was
lucky in important moments.”  The women’s semifinals at the National Tennis Center in New
York are set for this afternoon, with three-time champion  Serena Williams  facing  Sara Errani  and 2006 champion  Maria Sharapova 
playing top-seeded  Victoria Azarenka .  Williams Favored  Williams, 30, the fourth seed from the U.S., entered the
tournament as the even-money favorite of Las Vegas oddsmakers
and has won 36 of her 38 service games so far. Errani, 25, the
10th seed from Italy, had never gotten past the third round of
the U.S. Open until this year.  Sharapova, 25, the third seed from Russia, has won each of
the four major tournaments once. Azarenka, 23, from Belarus, won
this year’s Australian Open in her first Grand Slam final.  Djokovic now is tied with  Rod Laver  and  Ivan Lendl  for
second place by making 10 straight Grand Slam semifinals.
Federer holds the record of 23. All six of Djokovic’s semifinals
at the U.S. Open have been against  Ferrer or Federer .  Djokovic lifted his career record to 6-2 against  Del Potro 
and is undefeated in 17 U.S. Open matches against lower seeds.  22-Point Game  After winning the first set, Djokovic lost his serve at
love in the opening game of the second set and trailed 5-3
before battling back to even the set. Del Potro, 23, the 2009
U.S. Open champion, forced the tiebreaker by holding his serve
in a 22-point game in which he saved three set points.  Djokovic then took the tiebreaker to grab a two-set lead.  “I had the chance to win that set, but he played really
well in the important moments,” Del Potro said in a news
conference. “He was too much for me.”  Ferrer beat Tipsarevic 6-3, 6-7 (5-7), 2-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-4)
in Arthur Ashe Stadium. Momentum shifted several times during
the match, with Tipsarevic hitting 60 winners compared with 49
for Ferrer.  Tipsarevic, who held a 4-1 fifth-set lead, lost his footing
and fell hard on his left hip as he lost the sixth game of the
set. Ferrer then broke Tipsarevic’s serve and followed that by
evening the match, eventually forcing the decisive tiebreaker.  Tipsarevic, 28, took an injury timeout in the middle of the
ninth game of the final set to have his right leg taped after
grabbing his thigh during the previous point.  “Even though it’s really painful, I don’t want to blame
that for the loss,” he said in a news conference. “My legs are
definitely feeling pain right now.”  Ferrer also reached the 2007  U.S. Open  semifinals, losing
to Djokovic, and was among the final four at the  French Open 
this year and Australian Open in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  