-- Davis Polk, Baker Botts, Seyfarth, Dewey: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-06T12:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/davis-polk-baker-botts-dla-piper-kirkland-business-of-law.html
Two days after U.S. lawmakers
negotiated all night to finish rules that would reshape the
business of  Wall Street , Annette Nazareth weighed in. That
Sunday morning, she e-mailed a dozen Securities and Exchange
Commission officials about the bill that would become the 2,300-
page Dodd-Frank Act,  Bloomberg News ’s Robert Schmidt and Jesse
Hamilton report.  Nazareth, herself a former SEC commissioner, represents the
biggest banks and securities firms as a partner in the
 Washington  office of  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP. She attached an
annotated copy of the measure to her June 27, 2010, e-mail,
marking changes made during the wee hours. It could be an
invaluable tool for an agency hard-pressed to analyze the bill
on a tight deadline.  “In case you would find it helpful,” Nazareth wrote to
the group, many of them ex-colleagues.  Two hours later, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  responded:
“Thanks. We have our work cut out for us.”  Dodd-Frank, which took effect in July 2010, would shape the
SEC’s agenda for the next two years as it labored to write some
100 regulations the law required. It also opened opportunities
for Nazareth. With her connections and longtime SEC experience,
she emerged as the preeminent legal advocate for financial
services firms as they sought to scale back the new rules.  With Nazareth on board, Davis Polk was hired as outside
counsel on Dodd-Frank by the six largest U.S. banks and the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, the Wall
Street trade group, according to the law firm’s website. The
firm also performed work for foreign lenders including  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CS)  and Deutsche Bank AG.  Nazareth’s e-mails to Schapiro and then-SEC General Counsel
and Senior Policy Director  David Becker , obtained through a
Freedom of Information Act request filed by Bloomberg News,
demonstrate how lobbyists and lawyers draw on bonds they formed
in government service to gain access for clients, and how they
work to maintain those ties.  Officials routinely leave federal agencies, Congress and
the White House to work for the industries they once supervised.
While that path is well-trod and legal -- with some time
restrictions -- it still provokes handwringing in Washington.
Nazareth’s communications provide an inside look at what happens
when the revolving door spins.  Nazareth, 56, declined to discuss specific e-mails. She
said that people like herself who have worked for both sides are
valuable because they can “better translate to their clients”
what the SEC is trying to achieve.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said those who used to work
at the commission don’t get special access to the chairman.
Schapiro “knows a lot of people in government, law, academia
and consumer advocacy” and it’s not surprising that she e-mails
and meets with some of them, he said.  “In the end, whether she or anyone in the agency agrees
with a particular viewpoint or a specific request depends on
whether it furthers the mission of the agency,” Nester said.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Baker Botts Opens Brussels Office With Hogan Lovells Hire  Baker Botts LLP announced the opening of a Brussels office
yesterday that will enhance the firm’s global antitrust and
competition law practice.  Catriona Hatton, former managing partner of Hogan Lovells
LLP’s Brussels office, has joined the firm and will be the
partner in charge of the Brussels office. Paul Lugard, a
competition lawyer and the former  Global Head  of competition law
at Royal Philips Electronics, has also joined the firm as a
partner in the office.  “Adding Brussels reinforces a strategic decision we made
last year to expand our antitrust practice internationally,”
said  Baker Botts  managing partner Andrew M. Baker. “Catriona
and Paul bring to the firm decades of experience working at the
highest levels of European competition law and policy. They join
our highly regarded group of antitrust lawyers who have a strong
record of involvement in international antitrust and competition
law matters.”  Hatton advises clients on EC and member state competition
law aspects of major mergers in all sectors of the economy.  At Royal Philips, Lugard managed antitrust matters for the
company, securing merger clearances and advising on competition
law, including where  intellectual property  and antitrust matters
intersected, the firm said.  Brussels is the 14th office for Baker Botts and its eighth
international location. The firm has more than 725 lawyers.  DLA Piper Announces New U.S. Co-Managing Partners  Anastasia “Stasia” Kelly and Michael Poulos will become
DLA Piper LLP’s new U.S. co-managing partners on Jan. 1.  Kelly is a partner in DLA Piper’s corporate and finance and
public company and corporate governance practices, as well as
the firm’s white-collar corporate crime and investigations
group. She joined DLA Piper in 2010 after 15 years as general
counsel at four public companies: American International Group;
MCI/WorldCom; Sears, Roebuck and Co.; and  Fannie Mae .  Poulos is co-managing partner of DLA Piper’s Chicago
office, regional chairman of the firm’s U.S. litigation practice
and a member of the firm’s U.S. executive committee. Poulos, a
senior partner in DLA Piper’s litigation practice, has first-
chair trial experience in state and federal courts. He
concentrates his practice in areas of complex litigation
relating to consumer fraud, securities, insurance and
professional malpractice litigation, as well as governmental
investigations.  “Stasia and Mike are excellent lawyers, problem solvers,
client relationship managers and business developers,” said
Terry O’Malley, U.S. co-chairman of DLA Piper. “Their
prospective appointment is the next step in our leadership
transition process, which will formally take effect in
January.”  Kelly and Poulos will join the incoming leadership team of
Roger Meltzer and Cameron “Jay” Rains, who will become the
firm’s U.S. co-heads for a four-year term, also on Jan. 1.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in 31 countries and 77 offices
throughout the Americas,  Europe ,  Middle East ,  Asia  and
Australia.  Moves  U.K. Serious Fraud Office Bribery Head Tumani Joins Kirkland  Kirkland & Ellis International LLP announced that Satnam
Tumani, the head of the U.K. Serious Fraud Office’s Bribery and
Corruption and International Assistance Departments, will join
the litigation and dispute resolution practice of the firm’s
 London  office on Sept. 24.  Tumani, who has more than 17 years of experience at the
SFO, has been involved there in international and domestic
corruption, investment fraud, company fraud, insider dealing,
sanctions offenses and market manipulation matters, the firm
said.  He was responsible for dealing with concurrent jurisdiction
cases pursuant to the protocol between the U.K. and U.S.
attorneys general and with European and Australian enforcement
agencies. He also has been the joint SFO lead in the U.K.’s
criminal investigations into the alleged manipulation of Libor
and related  interest rates .  “With the addition of Satnam, we will have former senior
government enforcement officials and prosecutors across our
offices in Europe, Asia and the U.S.; regions that are
increasingly active and coordinated in global corruption and
bribery investigations that may impact our clients,” said
Jeffrey C. Hammes, chairman of Kirkland’s global management
executive committee.  Kirkland is a 1,500-attorney law firm with 10 offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Skadden Hires Corporate Lawyer Graham Robinson in Boston  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP hired corporate
lawyer Graham Robinson as a partner in the Boston office.
Robinson joins Skadden from Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and
Dorr LLP, where he was a partner and chairman of its corporate
practice.  He focuses on mergers, acquisitions and other transactions
in the health care and technology industries in the U.S. and
internationally. He also represents both private equity funds
and  hedge funds .  “Graham will be a terrific asset to our firm and the
Boston office,” said Peggy Brown, head of Skadden’s Boston
office and its Boston Mergers & Acquisitions Group. “His
breadth of knowledge and experience in the health care and
technology sectors will be of tremendous value to our clients.”  Skadden has 1,800 attorneys at 23 offices worldwide.  Seyfarth Shaw Adds Aptoex Global Head of Intellectual Property  Seyfarth Shaw LLP hired Shashank Upadhye as a litigation
partner in the intellectual property practice in Chicago.
Upadhye joins from Apotex Inc., a Toronto-based pharmaceutical
company, where he was vice president and global head of
intellectual property.  Upadhye’s practice includes pharmaceutical patent
litigation, Hatch-Waxman law as it relates to generic and
branded pharmaceutical companies and Federal Drug Administration
regulatory law, the firm said. He has experience working on both
the brand and generic sides at pharmaceutical companies, and he
has advised and served as a consultant to businesses, financiers
and government agencies.  Seyfarth Shaw has more than 800 attorneys in 10 offices
throughout the U.S. and in London.  Mayer Brown Hires Dodd From Linklaters in Singapore  Mayer Brown LLP announced that Nathan Dodd has joined the
firm’s global projects group as a partner in Singapore. Dodd has
more than 13 years’ experience in the Asian legal market, with
an emphasis on the energy, natural resources and infrastructure
sectors. He joins the firm from Linklaters LLP, where he worked
in London from 1997 until March 1999, when he transferred to
Singapore.  “We are pleased to have Nathan join this growing team. A
talented and seasoned practitioner, he will spearhead our
projects group in Singapore, with a primary focus on the power,
mining and infrastructure sectors in Asia, which are the areas
with great potential in this part of the world,” Kevin Owen,
partner-in-charge of the Singapore office, said.  Mayer Brown has 20 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Litigation  Mengele Analogy Gets Judge Removed From Philip Morris Case  A Florida judge was disqualified from a wrongful-death
lawsuit after he compared a former chief executive officer of
 Philip Morris  Cos. to Josef Mengele, the Nazi war criminal who
performed medical experiments on concentration-camp prisoners.  Senior Judge A.C. Soud of the Duval County Circuit Court in
Jacksonville made the remarks at a June 19 hearing on the
admissibility of a 1971 videotape which shows Joseph Cullman,
then head of cigarette maker Philip Morris, suggesting that
lower birth weight caused by smoking during pregnancy may be
desirable to some women who “might prefer having smaller
babies.” Cullman died in 2004.  The lawsuit, brought by the surviving spouse of Rayfield
Brown, a deceased smoker, will be reassigned, according to the
office of Chief Judge Donald Moran of the Duval County Circuit
Court. Soud is out of the office until Sept. 10 and unavailable
for comment, according to Rose D’Amour, Moran’s judicial
assistant.  Soud rejected an immediate motion by attorneys for Phillip
Morris to disqualify him from the case. After a written motion
for disqualification was denied on July 20, the attorneys
petitioned the First District of Court of Appeal in Tallahassee.  Kenneth J. Reilly of Shook, Hardy & Bacon LLP in Miami, who
represented Philip Morris in the appeal, declined to comment on
the ruling.  The case is Brown v.  Philip Morris USA , 16-2007-CA-011175
BX, Fourth Judicial Circuit Court, Florida (Jacksonville).  For more, click here.  Deals  ING to Sell Entire Capital One Stake After Online Bank Deal  ING Groep NV (INGA)  will sell a stake of more than 9 percent in
 Capital One (COF)  Financial Corp. that the biggest Dutch financial-
services firm acquired in the sale of its U.S. online bank this
year.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
will jointly manage the public offering of about 54 million
shares, McLean, Virginia-based Capital One said in a statement
yesterday. Pricing is expected before regular trading opens
today in  New York , with settlement on Sept. 10, ING said in a
separate statement.  ING acquired the stake, valued at about $3 billion as of
Sept. 4, when Capital One bought ING Direct USA for  $9.1 billion 
of cash and stock in February. The deal made Amsterdam-based ING
the largest shareholder and entitled it to name a director to
Capital One’s board. It prevented the Dutch lender from selling
the holding until the lock-up ended, according to a June 2011
statement announcing the sale.  The Dutch bank and insurer was ordered by the European
Union to sell its U.S. online bank as a condition of its
government bailout during the financial crisis. The company,
which received 10 billion euros in aid from the Netherlands in
2008, has returned 7 billion euros, plus 2 billion euros in
interest and premiums.  For more, click here.  Bankruptcy  Judges Split on Crucial Issue for Defunct Law Firms  Two federal district judges sitting in the same Manhattan
courthouse disagree on whether a defunct law firm is entitled to
recover hourly fees clients pay to law firms that take over
unfinished business. The outcome may affect the pending
settlement with partners of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.  This week U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley III ruled
in a case involving Thelan LLP that hourly fees earned on
unfinished business by a new law firm are not property of the
defunct firm. Pauley disagreed with a decision in May by U.S.
District Judge  Colleen McMahon  who ruled in the liquidation of
Coudert Brothers LLP that fees earned on unfinished business
belong to the liquidated firm.  Because the case involves unresolved New York and
California law, Pauley is allowing the parties to take an
immediate appeal to the Court of Appeals without waiting for a
final ruling in the lawsuits. The appeals court in turn may ask
the highest state courts in New York and California to rule on
the controlling state law issues.  Pauley’s case involved Thelen, a firm that filed for
Chapter 7 liquidation in 2009. Beforehand, the Thelen partners
signed a so-called Jewel waiver where they agreed not to invoke
a California state court decision saying that fees earned at the
new law firm on unfinished business must be paid to the defunct
firm.  The trustee filed lawsuits against two firms who took in
Thelen partners. The trustee contended that the Jewel waiver was
a fraudulent transfer of firm property. Pauley disagreed in
large part.  With regard to a New York firm, Seyfarth Shaw LLP, Pauley
concluded that New York, not California, law governed. He
proceeded to rule that Jewel is not law in New York with regard
to unfinished business billed at hourly rates. He said that
compelling lawyers at the new firm to turn over hourly fees
would be an “expansion” of New York law and would violate
“public policy against restrictions on the practice of law.”  If unfinished business were property of the defunct law
firm, pending matters could be sold by a bankruptcy trustee.
Selling cases, in Pauley’s view, would violate New York ethics
rules for lawyers.  The case involving Robinson & Cole LLP presented a somewhat
different picture. The Robinson firm agreed that California law
applied.  Pauley concluded that the Jewel decision is no longer good
law in California because the state adopted amended partnership
law in 1994. The new law, Pauley said, means that the Robinson
firm can retain “reasonable compensation” for completing
unfinished matters. Pauley didn’t dismiss the suit, as he did
with the Seyfarth case, because it would be necessary under
California law to decide if Robinson received more than
“reasonable compensation.”  In July, McMahon allowed parties in the Coudert case to go
immediately to the appeals court. Presumably, the appeals court
will hear the Thelen and Coudert cases together. To read about
McMahon’s opinion in May, click here for the May 29, 2012,
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Pauley’s case is Geron v. Robinson & Cole LLP, 11-cv-8967,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 