-- Delta Chases Bakken Crude to Boost Refinery Fuel Savings
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-09-06T20:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/delta-chases-bakken-crude-to-boost-refinery-fuel-savings.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the only major
U.S. carrier that owns a refinery, is trying to buy cheaper
domestic Bakken crude oil to boost savings on making  jet fuel .  Bakken crude can be purchased at a price similar to or
lower than West Texas Intermediate, President Ed Bastian said
today at a Deutsche Bank AG Aviation & Transportation Conference
in  New York . Delta’s refinery in suburban Philadelphia now is
supplied with more expensive imported crude from  BP Plc. (BP/)   Delta is joining oil exploration and production companies
working to tap new North Dakota crude supplies released through
so-called hydraulic fracturing.  Hess Corp. (HES)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
are among drillers in a region that had 4,141 producing wells
through June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is likely still a fair amount of skepticism
surrounding this,” said Fred Lowrance, an Avondale Partners LLC
analyst who has a market outperform rating on Delta.
“Refineries have been shutting down in recent years due to an
inability to make money.”  Securing lower-cost North Dakota crude would boost Delta’s
expected $300 million annual benefit from the facility, Bastian
said. Spending for fuel, Delta’s largest expense, rose 15
percent in the first half of this year to $5.54 billion.  “It’s a big opportunity,” Bastian said. “It’s huge.
We’re working on it actively.”  Fuel Costs  Jet fuel  for immediate delivery in New York Harbor closed
at $3.25 a gallon today, 53 percent more than in 2010. The crack
spread, or the difference in the cost of crude and refined
products, has seen 73 percent compounded growth over the past
two years, Bastian said.  “We don’t see that necessarily abating anytime soon,” he
said. Delta, the world’s second-largest airline, purchased the
idled plant in June from  ConocoPhillips (COP)  for $150 million to help
reduce those bills.  Delta’s Monroe Energy LLC subsidiary will start some units
this weekend. Most of the facility’s operations are expected to
be running by the end of September, Lynda Rebarchak, a
spokeswoman for Pennsylvania’s Department of Environmental
Protection, said in an e-mail.  Jet fuel produced by the refinery will cover more than 80
percent of Delta’s domestic fuel needs, and the airline will
exchange gasoline and other refined products for more jet fuel
through multiyear agreements with BP and  Phillips 66. (PSX)   New Sources  Delta believes it can outperform savings estimates by
exploring alternative sources of crude, Bastian said today.  “We are looking to bring in crude from the Dakotas at net
prices of WTI or lower,” he said. “It’s very early to draw
conclusions, but this could lead to larger savings.”  Delta rose 3.6 percent to $9.20 at the close in New York to
lead gains in the 10-carrier Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index. That
extended the stock’s advance this year to 14 percent.  “Some of today’s relative upside could be tied to the
refinery and oil-sourcing talk,” Avondale’s Lowrance, who is
based in Nashville,  Tennessee , said by e-mail. “They’ve
mentioned in the past that a different mix of oil sources could
improve the economics.”  East Coast refiners have traditionally processed more
expensive North Sea and West African grades priced versus  Brent
crude , which has traded at a record $27.88 a barrel over U.S.
West Texas Intermediate.  Rail Shipments  Refiners including  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF)  are shipping cheaper
crude by train from the Midwest and  Canada  to plants on the East
Coast. PBF is upgrading its Delaware City, Delaware, plant to be
able to handle rail deliveries of 110,000 barrels a day by
January, more than a fivefold increase, according to an Aug. 24
e-mailed statement.  Delta is talking with railroads about transporting the
crude, Bastian said, without offering specifics.  Plains All
American Pipeline LP (PAA)  will complete a rail terminal in Yorktown,
Virginia, next year that can handle 60,000 barrels a day.  For the airline, lower costs for Bakken crude may be a
“short-term fix” for higher jet-fuel bills,  Chris Barber , a
senior analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview.  Building and rerouting pipelines in the next four to five
years may expand the flow of Bakken oil to the Gulf and East
Coasts, erasing the discount, he said.  Production of Bakken crude oil has almost doubled in the
last year, surging to 594,000 barrels a day in June, according
to the North Dakota Industrial Commission. The Bakken grade
gained $4 to a $6 premium over WTI today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  