-- Democrats Fundraise With Scorned Super-PACS, Lobbyists
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-09-06T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/democrats-fundraise-with-scorned-super-pacs-lobbyists.html
Lobbyists, corporate donors and
super-political action committees are routinely the subject of
scorn by Democrats. All three featured prominently this week
during the party’s national convention.  “The Democrats are walking a tight rope at the convention
and, more broadly, in their campaigns,” said  Sheila Krumholz ,
director of the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based research group. “They’ve had to eat their words.”  The center’s researchers visited Tampa, Florida last week
for the  Republican National Convention  and are in Charlotte,
North Carolina with the Democrats this week. Krumholz’s
conclusion: “The money is absolutely on display.”  Companies including  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Bank of America 
Corp., based in Charlotte, have contributed $20 million toward
the cost of the convention, likely through a separate host
committee called New American City Inc. That’s after Democratic
leaders said last year they wouldn’t allow companies to help the
party pay for the estimated $52 million event.  Apart from underwriting the three-day convention that will
culminate tonight in President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
nomination, there were plenty of ways for companies to
participate.  Corporate Events  Real Clear Politics, a political news and polling
aggregator, and  Research in Motion ’s BlackBerry co-sponsored a
party on Sept. 4. A charity baseball event the same day for
delegates and other convention-goers, held at the ballpark of
the minor-league Charlotte Knights, displayed prominently its
corporate and union sponsors. They included  Archer-Daniels-
Midland Co. (ADM) , which is based in Illinois; the National Air
Traffic Controllers Association; and the  National Association of
Broadcasters .  Even as the Democratic plank calls for curbs on “the
influence of lobbyists and special interests on our political
institutions,” corporate and issue advocates mingled with
elected officials at some of Charlotte’s finer establishments.  The husband-and-wife lobbying team of Heather and Tony Podesta held two brunches within walking distance of the
convention’s main venues. Heather Podesta said the brunches are
“a great way to host friends, colleagues and make new
acquaintances.”  Unlimited Donations  Meanwhile, Democrats who have been squeamish about super-
PACs because they can take unlimited donations from corporations,
unions and individuals, cast aside those reservations when they
had opportunities to rub elbows with the groups’ mega-donors.  Priorities USA Action, which backs Obama, joined with
super-PACs involved in U.S. House and Senate races to fete their
donors. Those groups held a welcome cocktail reception Sept. 4
that included a money pitch from former Bill Clinton adviser
 Paul Begala  and a brunch yesterday at which Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , Obama’s former chief of staff, appeared.  The donors will go out with a bang tonight after Obama’s
speech. They’ll mingle with the rock band Scissor Sisters and
actress  Jessica Alba  during a private party scheduled for the
North Carolina Music Factory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
Or  jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Charlotte, North Carolina at
   jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  