-- Euro Strengthens Above $1.27 Amid Europe Optimism; Dollar Falls
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-07T11:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/dollar-yen-hold-drops-against-majors-as-ecb-plan-boosts-stocks.html
The  euro  strengthened above $1.27
for the first time since June amid optimism a bond-purchase
program announced by the  European Central Bank  will help contain
the region’s debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency climbed to a two-month high versus
the yen after German exports and industrial production for July
beat economists’ forecasts. The dollar fell against most of its
major counterparts before a U.S. monthly payroll report, after
industry data yesterday showed American companies hired more
workers last month than analysts predicted. The Swiss franc fell
to the weakest since January against the euro.  “There’s increased positivity in Europe,” said  Paul Robson , a senior currency strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  in London. If payrolls are “a good number, the market
will reduce its expectation of QE and we get a more positive
dollar,” he said, referring to the  Federal Reserve ’s bond
purchases known as quantitative easing.  The euro climbed 0.6 percent to $1.2712 at 7:37 a.m. New
York time, rising above $1.27 for the first time since June 21.
The common currency advanced 0.8 percent to 100.36 yen after
appreciating to 100.43, the most since July 4. The dollar gained
0.5 percent to 79.35 yen.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday the central bank
will target  government bonds  with maturities of between one and
three years through its Outright Monetary Transaction scheme.
The purchases will be fully sterilized, meaning the impact on
 money supply  will be neutral, and the ECB will not have
seniority, he said.  ‘Bolster Perceptions’  “The ECB’s Outright Monetary Transaction scheme has
continued to bolster perceptions that officials are moving to
reduce tail risk,” strategists at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co., led by  Marc Chandler  in New York, wrote in a note to
clients. “The dollar is broadly weaker on the day as positive
risk sentiment continues to grip markets.”  German exports rose 0.5 percent from June, when they fell
1.4 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a 0.5 percent decline. Industrial
production in Europe’s largest economy climbed 1.3 percent from
June, when it dropped 0.4 percent, the Economy Ministry said.  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  of shares advanced for a third
day, gaining 0.5 percent. Spanish and Italian bonds advanced,
with Spain’s 10-year yield dropping below 6 percent for the
first time in four months.  The euro strengthened 1 percent in the past week, the best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen declined 0.9
percent, and the dollar dropped 0.1 percent.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  declined for a third day before today’s
U.S. payrolls report.  American employers hired 130,000 workers last month, after
adding 163,000 in July, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before the Labor Department data. Companies created 201,000 jobs
in August, ADP Employer Services said yesterday, exceeding the
140,000 gain forecast by economists in another Bloomberg survey.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  meets
Sept. 12-13. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 at a
conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, that the costs of
“nontraditional policies” appeared manageable when considered
carefully. He said he wouldn’t rule out steps to lower a jobless
rate he described as a “grave concern.”  “There’s a good chance the Fed will announce QE3 this
month,” said Noriaki Murao, a managing director in New York at
 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. , a unit of Japan’s biggest
financial group by market value. “With lingering expectations
of Fed stimulus, the dollar would be on the back foot.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against those of six U.S. trading
partners, dropped 0.3 percent to 80.78.  Switzerland’s franc declined for a fifth day against the
euro as demand for safer investments waned.  The currency dropped 0.8 percent to 1.2148 per euro after
depreciating to 1.2155, the weakest level since Jan. 9.  The  Swiss National Bank  put a cap of 1.20 per euro on the
franc in September 2011 to limit its strength after investors
sought the currency as a haven from the euro-area’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  