-- Dominion Rises on Plans to Sell Coal-Fired Plants: Dallas Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-09-06T21:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/dominion-rises-on-plans-to-sell-coal-fired-plants-dallas-mover.html
Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  gained the
most in almost nine months after announcing it was selling its
fleet of merchant coal-fired power plants and focusing on its
less-volatile regulated businesses.  The utility owner, based in Richmond, Virginia, rose 2.4
percent to $53.77 at the close in New York, the biggest increase
since Dec. 20.  “We are glad to see the decision to downsize the merchant
power exposure as it reconciles with our bearish view on PJM
power prices,”  Angie Storozynski , utilities analyst with
Macquarie Capital USA Inc., wrote in a note to clients today.
Wholesale electricity prices for PJM Interconnection LLC, the
largest competitive U.S. power market, “seem to be testing
historical lows,” Storozynski said in a Sept. 4 note.  After the plant sales, which are expected to close early
next year, Dominion will be an almost fully regulated energy
company with more than 80 percent of its earnings derived from
operations where rates and returns on investment are dictated by
state and federal regulators, Thomas Farrell, Dominion’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said at a  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
conference today.  Dominion would exit PJM’s western region with the sales of
its 1,158-megawatt plant in Kincaid,  Illinois , and 50 percent
interest in a 1,424-megawatt plant outside Chicago. Virginia’s
largest utility owner is also divesting a 1,536-megawatt power
station in Somerset, Massachusetts.  Dominion’s plants are expected to sell for a total of $600
million to $800 million, or about $175 to $230 per kilowatt of
generating capacity, Julien Dumoulin-Smith, utilities analyst
with UBS Securities LLC, wrote in a research note today.  The fleet will probably collect more than the $150-per-
kilowatt price that  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  received last month for three
Maryland plants because the Dominion plants comply with pending
environmental rules and “are higher quality and generate more
cash flow” per kilowatt, Dumoulin-Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in  Chicago  at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  