-- Draghi’s Introductory Remarks at ECB Press Conference: Text
-- B y
-- 2012-09-06T12:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/draghi-s-introductory-remarks-at-ecb-press-conference-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the introductory remarks of European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today.
The text does not include related statements on new ECB
measures.  Mario Draghi, President of the ECB,
Vitor Constancio, Vice-President of the ECB,
Frankfurt am Main, 6 September 2012  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on
the outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council, which
was also attended by the President of the Eurogroup, Prime
Minister Juncker, and by the Commission Vice-President, Mr Rehn.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided
to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Owing to high
energy prices and increases in indirect taxes in some euro area
countries, inflation rates are expected to remain above 2%
throughout 2012, to fall below that level again in the course of
next year and to remain in line with  price stability  over the
policy-relevant horizon.  Consistent with this picture, the underlying pace of monetary
expansion remains subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro
area economy continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim
of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. Economic growth in the euro area is expected to
remain weak, with the ongoing tensions in financial markets and
heightened uncertainty weighing on confidence and sentiment. A
renewed intensification of financial market tensions would have
the potential to affect the balance of risks for both growth and
inflation.  It is against this background that the Governing Council today
decided on the modalities for undertaking Outright Monetary
Transactions (OMTs) in secondary markets for sovereign bonds in
the euro area. As we said a month ago, we need to be in the
position to safeguard the monetary policy transmission mechanism
in all countries of the euro area.  We aim to preserve the singleness of our monetary policy and to
ensure the proper transmission of our policy stance to the real
economy throughout the area. OMTs will enable us to address
severe distortions in government bond markets which originate
from, in particular, unfounded fears on the part of investors of
the reversibility of the euro.  Hence, under appropriate conditions, we will have a fully
effective backstop to avoid destructive scenarios with
potentially severe challenges for price stability in the euro
area. Let me repeat what I said last month: we act strictly
within our mandate to maintain price stability over the medium
term; we act independently in determining monetary policy; and
the euro is irreversible.  In order to restore confidence, policy-makers in the euro area
need to push ahead with great determination with fiscal
consolidation, structural reforms to enhance competitiveness and
European institution-building.  At the same time, governments must stand ready to activate the
EFSF/ESM in the  bond market  when exceptional financial market
circumstances and risks to financial stability exist - with
strict and effective conditionality in line with the established
guidelines. The adherence of governments to their commitments
and the fulfilment by the EFSF/ESM of their role are necessary
conditions for our outright transactions to be conducted and to
be effective. Details of the Outright Monetary Transactions are
described in a separate press release.  Furthermore, the Governing Council took decisions with a view to
ensuring the availability of adequate collateral in Eurosystem
refinancing operations. The details of these measures are also
elaborated in a separate press release.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis. Recently published statistics
indicate that euro area real GDP contracted by 0.2%, quarter on
quarter, in the second quarter of 2012, following zero growth in
the previous quarter. Economic indicators point to continued
weak economic activity in the remainder of 2012, in an
environment of heightened uncertainty.  Looking beyond the short term, we expect the euro area economy
to recover only very gradually. The growth momentum is expected
to remain dampened by the necessary process of balance sheet
adjustment in the financial and non-financial sectors, the
existence of high unemployment and an uneven global recovery.  The September 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the
euro area foresee annual real GDP growth in a range between -
0.6% and -0.2% for 2012 and between -0.4% and 1.4% for 2013.
Compared with the June 2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic
projections, the ranges for 2012 and 2013 have been revised
downwards.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area are
assessed to be on the downside. They relate, in particular, to
the tensions in several euro area financial markets and their
potential spillover to the euro area real economy. These risks
should be contained by effective action by all euro area policy-
makers.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.6% in August 2012,
according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, compared with 2.4% in
the previous month. This increase is mainly due to renewed
increases in euro-denominated energy prices. On the basis of
current futures prices for oil, inflation rates could turn out
somewhat higher than expected a few months ago, but they should
decline to below 2% again in the course of next year.  Over the policy-relevant horizon, in an environment of modest
growth in the euro area and well-anchored long-term inflation
expectations, underlying price pressures should remain moderate.  The September 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the
euro area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 2.4%
and 2.6% for 2012 and between 1.3% and 2.5% for 2013. These
projection ranges are somewhat higher than those contained in
the June 2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be
broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks pertain to
further increases in indirect taxes owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation. The main downside risks relate to the impact of
weaker than expected growth in the euro area, particularly
resulting from a further intensification of financial market
tensions, and its effects on the domestic components of
inflation. If not contained by effective action by all euro area
policy-makers, such intensification has the potential to affect
the balance of risks on the downside.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remained subdued. The annual growth rate of
M3 increased to 3.8% in July 2012, up from 3.2% in June. The
rise in M3 growth was mainly attributable to a higher preference
for liquidity, as reflected in the further increase in the
annual growth rate of the narrow monetary aggregate M1 to 4.5%
in July, from 3.5% in June.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector (adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation) remained weak at 0.5% in July
(after 0.3% in June). Annual growth in MFI loans to both non-
financial corporations and households remained subdued, at -0.2%
and 1.1% respectively (both adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation). To a large extent, subdued loan growth reflects
a weak outlook for GDP, heightened  risk aversion  and the ongoing
adjustment in the balance sheets of households and enterprises,
all of which weigh on credit demand. Furthermore, in a number of
euro area countries, the segmentation of financial markets and
capital constraints for banks continue to weigh on credit
supply.  Looking ahead, it is essential for banks to continue to
strengthen their resilience where this is needed. The soundness
of banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor in facilitating
both an appropriate provision of credit to the economy and the
normalisation of all funding channels.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  Although good progress is being made, the need for structural
and fiscal adjustment remains significant in many European
countries. On the structural side, further swift and decisive
product and labour market reforms are required across the euro
area to improve competitiveness, increase adjustment capacities
and achieve higher sustainable growth rates. These structural
reforms will also complement and support fiscal consolidation
and debt sustainability. On the fiscal front, it is crucial that
governments undertake all measures necessary to achieve their
targets for the current and coming years. In this respect, the
expected rapid implementation of the fiscal compact should be a
main element to help strengthen confidence in the soundness of
public finances. Finally, pushing ahead with European
institution-building with great determination is essential.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  #<505319.2583362.3.1.0.0.25>#
 