-- Draghi’s Statement on ECB Outright Monetary Transactions: Text
-- B y
-- 2012-09-06T13:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/draghi-s-statement-on-ecb-outright-monetary-transactions-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi ’s
statement at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today.  6 September 2012 - Technical features of Outright Monetary
Transactions  As announced on 2 August 2012, the Governing Council of the
European Central Bank (ECB) has today taken decisions on a
number of technical features regarding the Eurosystem’s outright
transactions in secondary sovereign bond markets that aim at
safeguarding an appropriate monetary policy transmission and the
singleness of the monetary policy. These will be known as
Outright Monetary Transactions (OMTs) and will be conducted
within the following framework:  Conditionality
A necessary condition for Outright Monetary Transactions is
strict and effective conditionality attached to an appropriate
European Financial Stability Facility/European Stability
Mechanism (EFSF/ESM) programme. Such programmes can take the
form of a full EFSF/ESM macroeconomic adjustment programme or a
precautionary programme (Enhanced Conditions Credit Line),
provided that they include the possibility of EFSF/ESM primary
market purchases. The involvement of the IMF shall also be
sought for the design of the country-specific conditionality and
the monitoring of such a programme.  The Governing Council will consider Outright Monetary
Transactions to the extent that they are warranted from a
monetary policy perspective as long as programme conditionality
is fully respected, and terminate them once their objectives are
achieved or when there is non-compliance with the macroeconomic
adjustment or precautionary programme.  Following a thorough assessment, the Governing Council will
decide on the start, continuation and suspension of Outright
Monetary Transactions in full discretion and acting in
accordance with its monetary policy mandate.  Coverage
Outright Monetary Transactions will be considered for future
cases of EFSF/ESM macroeconomic adjustment programmes or
precautionary programmes as specified above. They may also be
considered for  Member States  currently under a macroeconomic
adjustment programme when they will be regaining bond market
access.  Transactions will be focused on the shorter part of the yield
curve, and in particular on sovereign bonds with a maturity of
between one and three years.  No ex ante quantitative limits are set on the size of Outright
Monetary Transactions.  Creditor treatment
The Eurosystem intends to clarify in the legal act concerning
Outright Monetary Transactions that it accepts the same (pari
passu) treatment as private or other creditors with respect to
bonds issued by euro area countries and purchased by the
Eurosystem through Outright Monetary Transactions, in accordance
with the terms of such bonds.  Sterilisation
The liquidity created through Outright Monetary Transactions
will be fully sterilised.  Transparency
Aggregate Outright Monetary Transaction holdings and their
market values will be published on a weekly basis. Publication
of the average duration of Outright Monetary Transaction
holdings and the breakdown by country will take place on a
monthly basis.  Securities Markets Programme
Following today’s decision on Outright Monetary Transactions,
the Securities Markets Programme (SMP) is herewith terminated.
The liquidity injected through the SMP will continue to be
absorbed as in the past, and the existing securities in the SMP
portfolio will be held to maturity.  #<505319.2583362.3.1.0.0.25>#
 