-- Durbin Urges Plan to Delay Fiscal Cliff 6 Months With Savings
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-06T16:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/durbin-urges-plan-to-delay-fiscal-cliff-6-months-with-savings.html
The Senate’s No. 2 Democrat said
lawmakers should avert a fiscal crisis at year-end and allow
Congress to “buy” a six-month delay in scheduled tax increases
and spending cuts by finding other ways to reduce the  deficit .  Assistant Senate Majority Leader  Dick Durbin , an Illinois
Democrat, offered the strategy, which he dubbed “the Dick
Durbin Plan” at a breakfast today co-sponsored by Bloomberg LP,
owner of  Bloomberg News , and the Peter G. Peterson Foundation
held at the Democratic National Convention in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina .  “We put a six-month timetable together to reach this
goal,” Durbin said, later adding, “The notion is that we have
to come up with the savings to show we’re serious.”  The deficit-reduction agreement reached last year by
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans helped
create a $607 billion “fiscal cliff” of spending cuts and tax
increases starting in January unless Congress acts to stop it.
The  Congressional Budget Office  forecast that if Congress does
nothing, the fiscal changes would trigger another recession.  Durbin suggested the “payment” for an extension in an
interim agreement be deficit savings amounting to the pro-rated
equivalent of the fiscal cliff. Many of the changes occur
gradually, such as higher taxes paid through increased paycheck
withholding and automatic spending cuts over the course of the
year.  Parties Deadlocked  The parties have been deadlocked over how to approach the
expiring provisions. Democrats want to let the tax cuts end for
top earners. Republicans who control the U.S. House say the tax
cuts for people of all income levels should be extended and that
they won’t budge from this stance.  “We can create a force that will bring the House around,”
Durbin said.  Lawmakers of both parties say they don’t expect to reach a
resolution before the Nov. 6 election, and the policy outcome,
Durbin said, will depend largely on who wins the presidency and
controls Congress. If Republican  Mitt Romney  wins, he said, the
entire process will need to be restarted while Romney gets his
economic team in place.  With less than two months between the election and the
deadline, Durbin said it would be difficult for congressional
committees to hammer out complex tax legislation and changes in
entitlement programs that probably would be part of a broad
bargain between the two parties.  Early 2013  During the first half of 2013, Durbin said, Congress and
the president should reach an agreement that would reduce
projected deficits by $4 trillion over the next decade, using a
ratio that includes $2 of spending cuts for every $1 of tax
increases.  The tax overhaul President  Ronald Reagan  and then-House
Ways and Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat,
achieved after the 1984 election followed lengthy negotiations,
Durbin said.  “There’s a limited window in that lame duck to get
anything achieved,” he said, using the term for the session of
Congress held after the election before new members take office
at the beginning of the year.  “This is a big lift,” he said. The demand to pay for an
extension with deficit savings “puts pressure on everybody.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .
Richard Rubin in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 