-- EADS Boosts Airbus Power in Leadership Committee Realignment
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-09-06T08:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/eads-boosts-airbus-power-in-leadership-committee-realignment.html
European Aeronautic, Space & Defence
Co. Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  added two Airbus SAS
managers to the senior committee, signaling an effort to tie the
most prominent unit closer to the parent company.  John Leahy , the 62 year-old American who has headed Airbus
sales for almost two decades, and Airbus Chief Operating Officer
Guenter Butschek will join the group, EADS said in a statement
today. Enders also promoted Bernard Gerwert, who took over as
head of the Cassidian defense unit this week.  Since his appointment as CEO in May, Enders, 53, has worked
to bring greater cohesion to EADS and link it more tightly to
Airbus, which contributes two thirds of group revenue. Leahy,
who has outlived eight sales chiefs at  Boeing Co. (BA)  and is most
closely associated with Airbus’s ascent to industry leader, will
now be in a position to help advance EADS’s other units,
including helicopters, defense and space.  “Leahy, who’s been so strong for Airbus sales, will likely
be asked to boost the other divisions by helping them with best
practices in marketing and sales,” said  Yan Derocles , an
analyst at Paris-based Oddo. EADS may move toward further
integration by allowing sales teams across different divisions
to make global offers, he said.  The group of 13 now has six Airbus executives including
Leahy and Butschek. The others are Fabrice Bregier, the 51 year-
old Airbus CEO, as well as Thierry Baril, head of human
resources, and Harald Wilhelm, chief financial officer. Domingo Urena-Raso, head of  Airbus Military , remains in the committee.
Baril and Wilhelm hold the same posts at EADS and Airbus.  Enders is bringing the mother ship physically closer to its
biggest division by moving the EADS headquarters to Toulouse, in
southwestern France, where Airbus is based. EADS’s operational
headquarters in the past were split between Paris and Munich, a
legacy of efforts to finding a balance between  France  and
 Germany  and reflect the shareholder structure.  Leahy’s move to the corporate vehicle signals that even at
an age when many French executives retire, he will be sticking
around for a few years, Oddo’s Derocles said. Leahy said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television this week that he’ll stay
put for several years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net 
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  