-- ECB Will Still Cut Rates to Boost Economy, Money Markets Signal
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-09-06T12:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/ecb-will-still-cut-rates-to-boost-economy-money-markets-signal.html
The  European Central Bank  will still
cut  interest rates  in months to come to kick start the
continent’s flagging economy, a money-markets gauge  signaled 
after policy makers left borrowing costs unchanged.  The euro interbank offered rate for three-month loans fell
to a record  48 basis points  below the ECB’s main refinancing
rate today, pointing to a possible reduction. The Frankfurt-
based central bank kept its benchmark at an all-time low of 0.75
percent after economists were  split  on whether today’s monthly
meeting would result in a cut.  Euribor, the rate banks say they charge each other for
loans, has tumbled to the lowest ever because of previous
central bank cuts and expectations ECB President  Mario Draghi 
would announce a program of bond buying to cap sovereign
borrowing costs.  “Euribor is certainly moving to price in a good chance of
a cut in the refinancing rate,” said  Chris Clark , an interest-
rate strategist at ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer
broker. “Euribor has also been falling partly due to an easing
credit outlook for the banking sector, brought about by the
prospect of a robust ECB bond-buying program.”  Stymied Economy  The economy of the 17-member euro area is still shrinking
after Draghi’s pledge in late July to do whatever’s necessary to
contain the crisis sent government bond yields tumbling.  Gross
domestic product  fell 0.2 percent in the second quarter, the
European Union’s statistics office said today, confirming an
initial estimate published on Aug. 14.  Three-month Euribor has declined to 0.266 percent, from
1.534 percent a year ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark, derived from a daily survey of lenders
for the European Banking Federation, will continue to slide to
0.22 percent, according to the implied rate on the futures
contract expiring in December.  Other money-market measures also showed greater confidence,
with a gauge of European banks’ reluctance to lend to one
another at the lowest in more than a year.  The difference between  Euribor and overnight indexed swaps ,
or the Euribor-OIS spread, narrowed to 18.1 basis points at
12:55 p.m. in  London . That’s the lowest since June 14, 2011, and
down from 19.4 basis points yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  