-- ECB Holds Rates as Draghi Stakes Credibility on Bond-Buys
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-09-06T12:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/ecb-holds-rates-as-draghi-stakes-credibility-on-bond-buys.html
The  European Central Bank  refrained
from cutting  interest rates  today as President  Mario Draghi 
prepares to unveil a bond-purchase plan to save the euro.  Policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  left the  benchmark rate 
at a record low of 0.75 percent, as predicted by 28 of 58
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The remainder forecast a
quarter-point cut. Investors are focused on Draghi’s press
conference at 2:30 p.m., when he may announce details of a plan
to intervene in bond markets to help restore transmission of ECB
interest rates.  “The ECB is keeping its powder dry for now and will
probably cut rates next month,” Jens Kramer, an economist at
NordLB in Hanover, said before the decision. “All eyes are on
the bond plan today. Cutting rates won’t really have an impact,
but it would be an additional signal that the ECB will throw its
full arsenal at saving the euro.”  Draghi pledged more than a month ago to do what’s needed to
preserve the single currency. Now he’s under pressure to follow
through with details of a bond-purchase plan to lower borrowing
costs in Spain and Italy and prevent a breakup of Europe’s
monetary union. Expectations have built to such an extent that
Draghi risks losing credibility unless he delivers, economists
and investors said.  Credibility at Stake  The ECB holding rates suggests policy makers may have
reached agreement on the bond-purchase plan. The euro rose to
the highest since July 2, climbing 0.3 percent to $1.2642.
German two-year yields added four basis points to 0.02 percent
at 12:49 p.m.  London  time. The 10-year bund yield rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.50 percent.  “Draghi has put his credibility squarely on the line,”
said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at Barclays in
London. “He has made it his business to save the euro, so he is
going to be called on that.”  Draghi told the European Parliament this week that the ECB
needs to intervene in bond markets to wrest back control of
interest rates in a fragmented euro-area economy and save the
currency, according to a recording of a closed-door session
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Blueprint  His blueprint, sent to council members just two days ago
and opposed by  Germany ’s Bundesbank, proposes unlimited buying
of government debt with maturities of up to about three years,
two central bank officials said yesterday on condition of
anonymity.  Separately, the  Bank of England  kept its key rate at 0.5
percent today and maintained its bond purchase target at 375
billion pounds ($597 billion). Sweden’s Riksbank unexpectedly
cut its key rate by a quarter point to 1.25 percent, caving in
to calls from exporters to stem the rise of the krona.  The ECB’s 23 council members had a full agenda today. In
addition to discussing rates and the modalities of Draghi’s
asset-purchase plan, they also considered new economic
projections and decided whether to loosen rules on the
collateral banks can submit in return for central bank loans.  Still, the focus is on the bond purchases and Draghi “has
set the bar very high for market expectations,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , head of Pacific Investment Management Co. in
Germany. “To not disappoint, the ECB will have to make its
reaction function transparent and at least spell out the
maturities it is going to buy.”  Draghi’s Plan  Draghi’s plan involves the ECB buying short-dated bonds on
the secondary market of countries that ask Europe’s bailout fund
to purchase their debt on the primary market, which would
require them to sign up to conditions. Neither Spain nor Italy
has made such a request yet.  Draghi’s rationale for the purchases is that ECB interest
rates are not being transmitted in most euro-area countries
because investors are pricing in the risk of a breakup,
something he considers unacceptable. The ECB must regain control
of rates in order to fulfill its primary mandate of  price
stability , he told lawmakers in Brussels on Sept. 3.  The ECB will sterilize its purchases to soothe concerns
about printing money, two officials said yesterday. The ECB
won’t have seniority on any bonds it buys, and no yield-spread
targets or bands will be set publicly, they said.  Draghi will stress the conditionality of the program, with
the ECB likely to stop buying the bonds of any government that
fails to meet the terms it agrees to when it signs up for aid
from Europe’s rescue fund, the people said.  Diplomacy  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet in Madrid today to discuss the euro crisis and are
due to hold a joint news conference at about 2:30 p.m., the same
time Draghi speaks.  French President  Francois Hollande  also meets with U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  in London and Italian Premier  Mario Monti  hosts European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  in
Florence.  Draghi is walking a tightrope, said  Ken Wattret , chief
euro-area economist at BNP Paribas SA in London.  Because Italian and Spanish bond yields have dropped in
anticipation of ECB action, there’s a risk that the two
countries won’t see the need to ask for help, Wattret said. On
the other hand, disappointment with Draghi’s plan today may
trigger a market selloff that “could be the circuit breaker
that forces Spain at least to ask for aid,” he said.  Spanish Yields  Spain’s two-year yields dropped to as low as 2.99 percent
today from a euro-era high of 7.15 percent on July 25. Italy’s
two-year yields have dropped almost three percentage points over
the same period.  Spain today sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.4 billion) of bonds,
meeting its maximum target for the sale. The average yield for
debt maturing in 2016 fell to 4.603 percent from 5.971 percent
on Aug. 2. The rate on notes due in 2015 declined to 3.676
percent from 5.086 percent in July and 2014 securities were sold
at 2.798 percent, compared with 4.706 percent in June.  The ECB has been at the forefront of fighting the debt
crisis, which has so far pushed five countries into bailouts and
driven the 17-nation euro economy to the brink of recession.  In addition to governments dragging their heels, Draghi’s
bond-purchase plan faces opposition from German policy makers,
politicians and executives.  Mandate Breach?  “An unlimited and far-reaching intervention by the central
bank by buying sovereign debt is beyond the mandate of the
ECB,” Commerzbank AG Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing 
said at a banking conference in Frankfurt yesterday. “I cannot
image how one can build trust and a strong currency union by
violating the law. There is the danger that we keep on buying
time while the pressure to reform is declining.”  Germany’s Constitutional Court could also throw a spanner
in the works when it rules on the legality of Europe’s permanent
bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, on Sept. 12.  “The ECB is taking a leap of faith that governments will
pursue and implement the reform agenda,” Bosomworth said.
Still, unlike in the past, “there is more of an awareness among
governments about how important this is,” he said.  Draghi’s bond-purchase plan won’t solve Europe’s debt
crisis, said  Erik Nielsen , global chief economist at UniCredit
Bank AG in London. “But he’s fed up with markets pricing in
euro-area breakups, and I wouldn’t mess with him if I were a
trader.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  