-- Economist Sinn Rattles Merkel Laboring to Save Euro
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-09-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/economist-sinn-rattles-merkel-laboring-to-save-euro.html
Dressed in his customary gray three-piece suit at a conference in  Frankfurt  on June 15, Hans-Werner Sinn folds his hands and listens without expression as a series
of speakers criticize his economic theories.  Willem Buiter ,
chief economist at Citigroup Inc., goes so far as to decry them
as “nonsense.”  Taking his turn at the microphone shortly afterward, the
64-year-old president of the Munich-based  Ifo Institute for
Economic Research  says he regrets it when investment bankers
such as Buiter “lose their composure.” He then lays out once
more his argument that  Germany  is paying more than it thinks for
 Greece ’s fiscal recklessness and that the struggling southern
European nation should long ago have left the  euro zone ,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its October special issue
on  the 50 Most Influential people in global finance .  Since the 17-member euro area’s debt crisis erupted in
2010, Sinn has been center stage in the public debate. In
speeches, television interviews and testimony before parliament,
he has argued for a stricter stance on handing out German
taxpayers’ money. The European Union should have let Greece
default when it first ran into trouble at the end of 2009, he
says.  In July, Sinn testified before Germany’s Constitutional
Court that  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s efforts to rescue the euro
through vehicles such as the $600 billion European Stability
Mechanism fund make fixing the euro even harder.  ‘Road to Catastrophe’  “Now that the budgets have been overstretched, one tries
to find other pots of money to loosen the constraints,” Sinn
says in an interview at the elegant villa that serves as the
institute’s branch office in Dresden. “This is a road to
catastrophe.”  Sinn, who teaches at the University of Munich and is easily
identified by his luxurious Captain Ahab beard, has been a thorn
in the side of German governments for decades.  “Sinn’s much more influential than any other private-sector economist in Germany,” says Fredrik Erixon, head of the
European Centre for International Political Economy in Brussels.
“His views reflect those of traditional Germans, whose anxieties
about the flawed structure of the euro have been exacerbated by
the crisis. He gets listened to by the cognoscenti of German
policy making.”  Flaming Rhetoric  Sinn’s critique of German government initiatives has been
wide ranging. In the early 2000s, he  slammed  the country’s
social safety net as producing only unemployment. He later
warned that Germany’s dependence on exports was turning it into
a “bazaar economy.” He most recently denounced the green
 energy policy  that will result in the shutdown of nuclear  power
plants .  Sometimes Sinn lets his rhetoric get the better of him. In
2008, he apologized to leaders of Germany’s Jewish community
after comparing what he called the demonization of financial
executives to the scapegoating of Jews in a 1929 German
financial crisis.  “He makes up his mind and then argues very strongly and in
public,” says Clemens Fuest, a former student of Sinn’s who
teaches at the University of Oxford and advises Germany’s
Finance Ministry. “He’s not someone who comes up with arguments
of the ‘on the one hand, on the other hand’ type.”  Jean Pisani-Ferry, director of research group  Bruegel  in
Brussels, says Sinn’s rhetoric at times risks veering into
jingoism.  “As an economist, in this tense situation, we have a
responsibility to maintain a certain quality of debate and not
to pander to populism,” he says.  Most Influential  An opinion poll by German business weekly Wirtschaftswoche
in December 2011 named Sinn the country’s most influential
economist. That means Merkel and her fellow policy makers are
forced to pay heed to his remarks. In a July interview with the
newspaper Welt am Sonntag, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
accused Sinn of making irresponsible statements about the amount
of money Germany has at stake if the euro falls apart.  Sinn revels in his role as government gadfly.  “Ten years ago, I was an enemy of the left,” he says.
“Now, others don’t like us. This is our destiny.”  Sinn’s latest campaign -- and the topic of his latest book,
“The Target Trap” (Carl Hanser, 2012) -- is to condemn
imbalances in the euro zone’s money management system, which, he
says, leaves German taxpayers unfairly exposed to the woes of
Greece and other cash-strapped euro members.  The subject of his ire is the Trans-European Automated
Real-time Gross Settlement System, known as Target2. It’s an
electronic payments system, designed by the  European Central
Bank , that stitches together the euro area’s patchwork of
national banking systems.  Targeting Target2  Target2 funnels euros from one bank to another across
borders -- such as when a Greek executive orders a Mercedes from
Germany -- via each country’s central bank. In accounting terms,
the flows of money show up on each central bank’s ledger as
either a surplus or a deficit.  In the course of the credit crisis, the Target2 deficits of
countries such as Greece and  Spain  have risen to unprecedented
levels, boosted by hundreds of billions in emergency funds
loaned to their banks by the ECB. Core countries have accrued
surpluses, with the system netting out to zero.  Germany had a 730 billion-euro ($910 billion) surplus as of
July 31.  In Sinn’s view, Target2’s balances describe actual loans
from core euro countries like Germany to southern  Europe , and
they’re a bailout by stealth that has never been approved by any
parliament.  Flawed Analysis?  “It is as if you go to the shop, and the shopkeeper has an
account and just writes down the numbers,” Sinn says. “If the
debts are redeemed, it is fine. If not, we have a problem.”  Officials at the ECB and Germany’s Bundesbank say that
Sinn’s analysis is flawed and that Target2 is simply a system of
double-entry bookkeeping. Germany and other surplus nations
would be at risk only if the euro disappeared, they say, and
even then, any losses would be settled or shared throughout the
euro area.  “There is absolutely no relationship, logically or
quantitatively, between Germany’s risk exposure and Target2,”
Citigroup’s Buiter says. To use the accounting system in such a
way, he adds, “is completely incorrect.”  Sinn’s assertion that Germany is being taken for a ride by
its euro-area neighbors has political resonance, says Simon Tilford, chief economist at the Centre for European Reform in
 London . It’s one reason, he says, that Merkel has refused to
endorse the issuance of bonds backed by all of the euro-area
countries and continues to demand a euro-zone-wide fiscal pact
to bind the hands of future governments.  Constrained Climate  “Economists like Hans-Werner Sinn have contributed to a
climate in which the German government has felt constrained in
what it can agree at a euro-zone level,” Tilford says.  The German economist’s controversial pronouncements have
made their way across the Atlantic. Nobel economics laureate and
 New York  Times columnist  Paul Krugman  attacked Sinn and his
backers -- he called them Sinners -- on his  blog  in July, saying
they’re only accelerating the euro’s demise.  “The Sinners clearly have the upper hand in German public
opinion,” Krugman wrote.  Unbowed, Sinn is opening up new fronts. In July, he co-authored a letter entitled “Economists’ Appeal to the
Citizens,” in which more than 200 German-speaking researchers
condemned Merkel’s willingness to back a more integrated
regulatory system for  European banks .  “I do get listened to,” Sinn says.  Klaus-Peter Willsch, a lawmaker from Merkel’s own  Christian
Democratic Union , says Sinn’s ideas influenced parliamentarians
who voted against ratifying the ESM. His ideas on Target2 “can
no longer be dismissed as the opinion of the lunatic from
Munich,” Willsch says. “His position has become part of a
serious discussion.”  -- With assistance from Rainer Buergin in Berlin. Editors:
Michael Serrill, Robert Dieterich  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net .
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 