-- EDF Completes Cable Needed for Tidal-Energy Farm Set for 2014
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-06T22:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/edf-completes-cable-needed-for-tidal-energy-farm-set-for-2014.html
Electricite de France SA  completed
installing an underwater cable that will connect to seabed
turbines off Brittany’s coast, putting the utility’s tidal
energy farm on schedule for power production in 2014.  The Paimpol-Brehat project, located in the northwestern
region of  France , which has historically rejected nuclear power,
may be among the biggest commercial-scale installations of its
kind in the world when it is completed, the utility said.  “It’s a symbol of our ambition in marine energy,” EDF
Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said yesterday at the port
of Brest, where the utility displayed one of the four turbines
designed to capture half a megawatt each of tidal energy. “This
will be the first time there will be four turbines making power
at the same time.”  Energy from the waves and tides has the potential to
produce 15,000 megawatts in  Europe , with about a fifth of the
total in France, according to Paris-based EDF. The utility is
using technology developed by OpenHydro Group Ltd., an Irish
turbine maker. France is planning to install 6,000 megawatts of
offshore wind, wave and tidal energy by 2020.  In the U.K., the government has estimated as much as 20
percent of current domestic electricity demand could be met by
the sea.  Scotland  alone is estimated to have as much as a
quarter of Europe’s tidal resources and 10 percent of its wave
potential. No commercial-scale projects are currently operating
as the technology is still in its infancy and expensive to
develop.  “The potential of marine energy is very large, but it’s
not technically mature,” Bernard Salha, director of research
and development at EDF, said yesterday.  Pilot Project  EDF’s 2-megawatt pilot project, located in a region which
currently meets just a 10th of its electricity demand, will
undergo a new round of tests in the coming months to determine
whether the turbines can be kept as long as four years under
water before maintenance is needed, according to the utility.
They will be placed in a waters near Ile-de-Brehat at a depth of
about 35 meters.  In addition to the Paimpol-Brehat project, EDF plans to
invest 100 million euros ($126 million) to renovate an existing
tidal power station at La Rance, also in Brittany, which was
inaugurated in 1966.  “We want to prolong the life of this unique site,”
Proglio said. “It wasn’t profitable when it was first built but
has become relevant today.”  French utility  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA is also studying the possibility
of installing turbines at two sites off the French coast.  The Raz Blanchard site in the northwest represents half the
nation’s potential for power from ocean currents, GDF Suez said
in June. The company plans to install a pilot plant of three to
six turbines from 2015 with a capacity of 3 megawatts to 12
megawatts and could develop a commercial plant of as many as 100
turbines. It has another project planned at the Passage du
Fromveur site from 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  