-- Eighty Percent of U.S. Asia Policy Is Just Showing Up
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-06T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/eighty-percent-of-u-s-asia-policy-is-just-showing-up.html
With China throwing its weight
around the  South China Sea , and snapping at Japan for its plans
to buy disputed islands, the waters of the Pacific are looking a
little choppy these days.  Time for a little high-level diplomacy, you might think --
something that not only eases tensions but also refocuses the
nations of the Asia-Pacific on the enormous economic stakes they
have in regional peace and stability.  If the administration of President  Barack Obama  is taking
seriously this week’s meetings of the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation bloc, however, it has a funny way of showing it.
Granted, President Obama has a good excuse for not attending the
APEC leaders meeting in Vladivostok,  Russia . But why did
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  not attend the earlier
meeting of his fellow finance ministers in Moscow?  More egregiously, why did U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk , the ostensible point person for the administration’s lofty
goal of  doubling  U.S.  exports  by 2015, skip both the APEC
meeting and the latest Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks to
attend the Democratic National Convention in his “personal
capacity.” His choice fails the crucial Woody Allen test for
effective job performance -- the one that says “80 percent of
life is just showing up.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has taken Obama’s place
at the APEC leaders’ summit; Undersecretary of State  Robert Hormats  is filling in at APEC’s foreign ministers table; and
Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis has filled
in for Kirk, as Undersecretary of Treasury Lael Brainard did for
her boss. So at least there are no empty U.S. chairs at what has
been, for the past 30 years, the chief Asia-Pacific venue for
economic talks. But as diplomatic signals go, this one doesn’t
exactly affirm the administration’s so-called pivot to Asia.  Since its founding in 1989, APEC has done a  remarkable job 
of promoting growth and integration among economies that account
for nearly half the world’s trade. The average tariff rate among
its members has dropped from 16 percent to 5 percent, in part
because of the liberalization measures put forward in APEC’s
voluntary Individual Action Plans. The 1994 Bogor Declaration
for “free and open trade and investment in the Asia-Pacific”
created the consensus and underpinnings for the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, which was launched in 2005.  Yes, APEC meetings can be long on set pieces and short on
concrete results and the forum has lost some prominence and
clout to groupings such as the East  Asia  Summit. And yes, the
incipient Trans-Pacific Partnership offers the prospect of
binding commitments to spur trade, not consensus-driven,
voluntary measures.  Yet APEC not only remains an invaluable  incubator  for
ideas, it is also the one forum that brings together leaders
from both sides of the Pacific. As former Australian Prime
Minister  Paul Keating , one of APEC’s founding fathers, has
pointed out, such gatherings have been particularly useful in
breaking the ice between Japan’s and China’s leaders. And just
as at the  United Nations General Assembly , side meetings have
loosened numerous logjams, whether on U.S.-China trade or on
getting Indonesia to agree to an international peacekeeping
force in  East Timor . Even the goofy photo-ops in over-the-top
local garb -- a tradition begun by President  Bill Clinton  that
President Obama nixed last year -- can help bridge gaps. That’s
not to mention what APEC does at the working level to encourage
informal contacts and habits of cooperation.  Perhaps because so many U.S. diplomats are lawyers, or
perhaps because the habits of a hegemon are hard to break, U.S.
 diplomacy  often takes on a cold, transactional cast. Still,
schmoozing and shoulder-rubbing carry added importance at a time
of increased regional tension. Even as Asia’s constellation of
regional groupings grows, APEC’s talk shop remains central and
deserves more attention from the U.S. than it seems to be
getting. As  Winston Churchill  once said in another context, “To
jaw-jaw is always better than to war-war.”  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  European Central Bank’s
new bond-buying plan  and on why the  U.S. needs to pay more
attention to APEC ; Stephen L. Carter on “hopefully” and other
 desecrations of the English language ; William Pesek on a  Romney
presidency causing no worries in China ;  Jonathan Weil  on how low
can  Facebook shares go ;  Steven Greenhut  on why  California is
broken , not broke.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 