-- Election Forecast Models Clouded by Economy’s Slow Growth
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-09-06T15:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/election-forecast-models-clouded-by-economy-s-middling-growth.html
Moody’s Analytics says its economic-
forecasting model shows President  Barack Obama  winning re-
election with 303 electoral votes. Economist Douglas Hibbs Jr.,
pointing to slow income growth, predicts a  Mitt Romney  victory.
To Yale University’s  Ray Fair , the race is simply “too close to
call.”  While the state of the  U.S. economy  is the No. 1 issue in
the election, even nonpartisan forecasters who crunch data and
claim to have predicted the results in past presidential races
can’t agree on what impact it will have on the outcome.  Sophisticated models in the past have bolstered arguments
that presidential elections are mostly predetermined by the
economy. This time, some concede that the plodding recovery may
not tilt the balance toward either candidate. Instead, the
costly, cross-country political campaign, which these
forecasters have dismissed as irrelevant, may tip the balance.  “When you get down to that point, where I’m saying that
it’s going to be decided by less than one percentage point, then
it’s possible that the campaigns really do matter,” said Alan
Abramowitz, a political science professor at  Emory University  in
Atlanta who developed one of the most-followed forecasting
models.  U.S. companies added more workers than forecast in August,
a private payroll services company reported this morning a day
ahead of an official government report, offering hope that the
labor market is improving. Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services reported a 201,000 rise in jobs, exceeding the
140,000 median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Economy’s Movement  The economy’s condition heading into the election is clear
right now: a slow recovery from the worst U.S. downturn since
the Great Depression.  Economic growth this year is below normal for the post-
World War II era, though stronger than when Dwight Eisenhower
was re-elected in a 1956 landslide. Even with unemployment at
its  highest  in any election year since the war, joblessness has
declined more over the past 12 months than during the same
period of any postwar election year except 1984 and 1976.  What matters most to voters isn’t the absolute state of the
economy, it’s the trajectory, said Christopher Wlezien, a
professor at Temple University in Philadelphia and co-author of
the forthcoming book “The Timeline of Presidential Elections.”  The election models point in different directions based on
what their developers say influences voters the most.  Battleground States  The Moody’s electoral vote projection, which assesses
economic performance state by state, gives Obama the advantage,
reflecting better circumstances in many of this year’s
battlegrounds.  Obama wins Ohio, where the  unemployment rate  was 7.2
percent in July, below the 8.3 percent national average that
month, and Virginia, where joblessness was at 5.9 percent, under
the Moody’s projection. Romney picks up  Florida , where
unemployment was 8.8 percent in July.  The Republican challenger can expect victory under the
“Bread and Peace” model developed by Hibbs, a retired
professor who taught at  Sweden ’s University of Gothenburg. He
says the drivers of voter opinion are war casualties and income
growth. He forecasts Obama will receive 47.5 percent of the two-
party vote to Romney’s 52.5 percent. The Afghanistan war has
produced few casualties relative to the Vietnam and Korean wars.  Too Close  Yale’s Fair, who developed one of the first models to
forecast elections based solely on economic indicators, projects
Obama will win 49.5 percent of the two-party vote to Romney’s
50.5 percent, based on gross domestic product growth and
inflation under the incumbent. That amounts to “too close to
call” given an error margin of three percentage points, he
said.  Two models that weigh public opinion polls as well as
economic data give Obama the advantage.  Abramowitz’s “Time for Change,” based on GDP growth
during the April-to-June quarter and presidential job approval
in the Gallup Poll for the last three days of June, anticipates
an Obama win with 50.5 percent of the two-party vote, with a 1.5
percentage-point margin of error.  While some of the election modelers say polling data
detracts from the goal of capturing how fundamental forces shape
the vote, Abramowitz said he includes public opinion because
“you get a much better forecast.”  Leading Indicators  Wlezien and Robert Erikson, a political science professor
at  Columbia University , look to leading economic indicators
through the first three months of the election year and an
average of all polls of voter preferences. Based on polling data
for July, they predict a bigger Obama win, with 52.6 percent of
the two-party vote and a 3.1 percentage-point margin of error.  Poll results move closer to the outcome suggested by the
economy’s condition as the election year progresses and “voters
increasingly take stock of things,” Wlezien said.  The forecasters have an imperfect record. Most of the major
forecast models predicted the election of Democrat  Al Gore  in
2000. In most cases, developers say, the models are designed to
predict the popular vote, which Gore won with 48.4 percent to
George W. Bush’s 47.9 percent.  Alec Phillips , a political analyst and economist for
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said the economics-based forecasting
models that include poll results typically perform better.  Limited Record  Designing models to forecast elections is challenging
because of the limited record, Phillips said. There have been
only 16 presidential elections since World War II. Seven of 10
incumbents have been returned to office. While economic growth
on average has been higher than normal during the years in which
incumbents won re-election, strong growth hasn’t necessarily
translated to re-election nor weak growth to defeat.  Eisenhower and  George W. Bush  were re-elected with below-
normal growth;  Gerald Ford  and  George H.W. Bush  were defeated
with above-average growth.  GDP, which has grown at an average 3.2 percent annual rate
since 1947, expanded 0.3 percent during the first nine months of
1956, when Eisenhower was re-elected with 57 percent of the
vote. George W. Bush won in 2004, following average 2.8 percent
growth in GDP during the first three quarters of the year. It
has averaged 1.85 percent during the first half of 2012.  ‘Groundhog Day’  Skeptics of election models that rely on economic
indicators say the issues that excite voters are constantly in
transition, be it war, terrorism, cultural division or fear of
crime.  “It’s not Groundhog Day,” said  Gary Langer , a pollster
whose clients include  Bloomberg News . “We are living in a world
with a number of factors that change constantly.”  Some models make projections based on more than just the
economy. An Obama win is forecast by the “13 Keys” developed
by Allan Lichtman, a history professor at American University in
Washington, and journalist Ken DeCell. The keys include economic
growth and control of Congress, as well as domestic and foreign-
policy achievements and the lack of scandal or social unrest.
Nine of the 13 keys have turned in favor of re-election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  