-- Telfer Doesn’t Expect Goldcorp to Be Chinese Takeover Target
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-09-07T03:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/telfer-doesn-t-expect-goldcorp-to-be-china-acquisition-target.html
Goldcorp Inc. (G)  Chairman Ian Telfer
doesn’t expect the Canadian company, the world’s second-biggest
producer of the metal by market value, to become an acquisition
target for companies in China or elsewhere in Asia.  “The Chinese up to now have been most interested in
commodities that get consumed in the development of their
economy,” Telfer said yesterday at the Bloomberg Canada-Asia
Conference in Vancouver. “Gold is mined, it gets fabricated,
but it is never actually consumed.”  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the biggest producer of the metal, said
Aug. 16 that China National Gold Group Corp. is in talks about
acquiring its 74 percent stake in  African Barrick Gold Plc. (ABG) 
Toronto-based Barrick’s African arm trades in  London  and is
valued at 1.84 billion pounds ($2.93 billion) based on
yesterday’s closing price.  Telfer said he expects Asian buyers of natural resources to
be more interested in Canada’s petroleum assets rather than its
metal reserves.  “The number of large ore deposits in Canada is quite
small,” he said. “Whereas the potential for oil and gas is
quite large.”  While gold futures have risen 8.9 percent in New York this
year, Goldcorp, which is based in Vancouver, has dropped 9.3
percent. Gold-mining companies have been outpaced by the price
of the precious metal as they contend with rising production
costs and investors increasingly buy physical bullion and gold-
backed exchange-traded funds.  Telfer, 66, said he expects  China’s economy  to grow “as
far as the eye can see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  