-- Emanuel Says Obama’s Speech Sould Set Big Goals, Roadmap
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-06T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/emanuel-says-obama-s-speech-sould-set-big-goals-roadmap.html
President  Barack Obama  shouldn’t
give an acceptance speech tonight that sounds like a  State of
the Union  address or “tutorial,” his former White House chief
of staff said.  “It’s a visionary piece with big goals set out for the
country, somewhat of the roadmap we will take, but not the 10-
point plan,” Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  said yesterday at a
Bloomberg-Washington Post event at the Democratic National
Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina.  Emanuel, 52, also said the president should avoid talking
too much about the role of government in American society.  “I would not give a speech about the role of government,”
he said. “I think you can talk about the goals you have for the
country, define those, without having to define government. I
think that would be a mistake. This is not a political science
class.”  Emanuel declined to predict odds for an Obama victory over
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , as he highlighted
the closeness of the race and the “consequential” importance
of three, October debates.  The undecided voters, typically less than 10 percent of 
the electorate in polls, “are going to hold out to the very 
end to make a decision,” he said.  Romney’s missteps in recent months amounted to missed
opportunities, he said, adding that the former Massachusetts
governor's gaffe-plagued foreign trip in late July was a 
“disaster” that weakened his standing and credibility on global 
issues.  Obama Economy  “Middle-class Americans have been crushed in the Obama 
economy," Amanda Henneberg, a Romney spokeswoman, said in a 
statement. "President Obama has put in place big-government 
policies that have led to record high unemployment, record high 
debt and declining incomes."  Emanuel said the Democratic convention has already 
displayed “more energy” than the  Republican National Convention  
last week in Tampa, Florida.  Republicans aren’t “too happy with their nominee” and are
already looking toward the 2016 presidential campaign, including
the potential presence then of Romney’s running mate,
Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, on a future ticket,
Emanuel said.  The growth of the U.S. Hispanic population is helpful to
the  Democratic Party , Emanuel said, although he said his party
can’t solely rely on demographics.  “I’d rather be us than them,” he said. “I think they’re
making a fundamental mistake. An exclusive party is not the
future. You have to be an inclusive party. It’s just a big
mistake. And the smart ones in their own party know it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  