-- Emerging Stocks Climb Most in Four Weeks on ECB Bond Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-06T21:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/emerging-stocks-swing-between-gains-and-losses-on-ecb.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in four weeks after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said policy makers agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program,
easing concern the region’s debt crisis will curb exports from
developing nations.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 1.2 percent to
950.45 in  New York , the biggest gain since Aug. 6.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa climbed 2.6 percent to a one-week high as oil companies
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
followed crude higher.  Russia ’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  jumped 2.4 percent
and  Mexico ’s  IPC (MEXBOL)  index added 1 percent as  Industrias CH SAB (ICHB) , the
country’s largest steelmaker, rose to an all-time high.  The ECB needs to be in a position to ensure the
transmission of its  interest rates  in all euro-area countries,
Draghi said after the bank held the benchmark at a record low of
0.75 percent. The central bank forecast a deeper economic
contraction for 2012 than three months ago. Nations in the MSCI
index send about 30 percent of their exports to the European
Union, according to the  World Trade Organization .  “The markets generally believe the ECB stands ready to do
whatever it takes,”Gavin Redknap, an  emerging-markets 
strategist at Nikko Asset Management, said by phone from  London .
“While the bond buying is good news, the fact that they did not
cut rates despite lower growth forecast is not so good.”  Currencies Strengthen  U.S. economic reports today showed fewer Americans than
forecast filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week,
while non-manufacturing businesses expanded faster than
economists projected.  Poland’s zloty appreciated 1.5 percent against the dollar
to lead gains among emerging-market currencies.  South Africa ’s
rand strengthened 1.4 percent. Brazil’s real climbed 0.3 percent
against the euro.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries declined 13 basis points to 304,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The ECB’s program “will enable us to address severe
distortions in government bond markets which originate from, in
particular, unfounded fears on the part of investors of the
reversibility of the euro,” Draghi told reporters in  Frankfurt .
“Under appropriate conditions, we will have a fully effective
backstop to avoid destructive scenarios with potentially severe
challenges for  price stability  in the euro area.”  Euro-area gross domestic product will decline 0.4 percent
this year instead of an earlier forecast of a 0.1 percent drop,
he said.  Energy  The  MSCI Brazil/Materials Index (MXBR)  gained the most among 10
industry groups as Petrobras rose 2 percent and OGX added 2.8
percent. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s largest coal producer for
steelmakers, jumped 5.5 percent while Mexico’s Industrias CH
advanced 2.4 percent. Crude oil for October delivery gained 0.2
percent to settle at $95.53 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  after a U.S. government report showed a bigger-than-
expected decline in inventories.  Mexican production of cars and light trucks rose 12.3
percent in August from the year-earlier period, the nation’s
Automobile Industry Association, known as AMIA, reported.
Exports of vehicles climbed 10.8 percent over the same period.  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  erased an earlier decline, gaining 0.6
percent after Prime MinisterViktor Orban said the country
rejects aid conditions set by the  International Monetary Fund .
The IMF conditions, including a cut in pensions and the
scrapping of an extraordinary bank tax, aren’t in the national
interest, Orban said in a video message posted on his Facebook
page.  Trains and Railways  Asian shares climbed before Draghi’s announcement.  CSR
Corp. (1766) ,  China ’s biggest trainmaker by market value, rallied 8.8
percent and led rail stocks to three of the top four in the MSCI
index after the government approved plans for subways in 18
cities including Shenzhen.  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  surged 7.1 percent, while  China
Railway Construction Corp. (1186)  jumped 6.5 percent. China’s National
Development and Reform Commission approved development plans for
subways in cities including Suzhou, Hangzhou, Guangzhou and
Tianjin, the agency said on its website yesterday.  “The subway development plan boosts investors’
expectations of more spending by the government,” Xu Shengjun,
an analyst at Jianghai Securities Co. in  Shanghai , said by phone
today.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.7 percent after
closing yesterday at the lowest level since February 2009. South
Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  increased 0.4 percent and the BSE India
Sensitive Index gained 0.2 percent. The Jakarta Composite Index
added 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  