-- Emirates-Qantas Pact Shows Gulf Carriers Shaking Up Order
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-09-07T16:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/emirates-qantas-pact-shows-gulf-carriers-shaking-up-order.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s decision to
drop a 17-year pact with British Airways in favor of a deal with
Dubai-based Emirates reveals the potential for fast-growing Gulf
carriers to shatter the established airline order.  The 10-year accord, announced yesterday, will lead Qantas
to scrap its revenue-sharing pact with British Airways to gain
access to 70 Emirates destinations. While the Australian carrier
will carry on code-sharing with BA, the move puts in doubt the
standing of the Oneworld global alliance the pair helped forge.  Emirates, Qatar Airways Ltd. and Etihad Airways are
exploiting the Gulf’s position at the heart of inter-continental
flight paths to build hubs served by waves of departures using
the world’s biggest wide-body planes. That’s won them a higher
share of lucrative long-haul traffic and is pressuring earnings
at network operators including British Airways and Qantas.  “Things are changing,” Emirates president  Tim Clark  told
reporters in Sydney. “The international airline community needs
to align itself to what is going on in the 21st century, not
what was going on in the back end of the 20th century.”  ‘New Thinking’  Groups such as Oneworld, which also includes  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
 American Airlines , and the rival Star and SkyTeam combinations,
are an “anachronism,” better suited to the aviation industry
of a previous generation, according to Emirates, which began
flying in 1985 and has disavowed any interest in alliances.  “This is the beginnings of perhaps a new thinking into how
we should be organizing and understanding traffic flows, and how
they have changed over the last 15 to 20 years,” Clark said.  Revenue-sharing accords like those London-based British
Airways has had with Qantas and began with American Airlines in
2010 are the deepest form of airline cooperation short of full
mergers, allowing carriers to split sales receipts and expenses,
coordinate prices and operate integrated timetables.  Global alliances, looser relationships which allow members
to align frequent-flier programs, share lounges and better align
schedules and ticketing, are “weakening” because the major Gulf
carriers aren’t members, Neil Hansford of consultants Strategic
Aviation Solutions said by phone from Salamander Bay, Australia.  Ownership Curbs  Alliances have also failed to deliver in areas such as
joint aircraft purchasing and negotiation of airport access and
are essentially a response to curbs on ownership, according to
 John Strickland , director of JLS Consulting in London. Foreign
companies are restricted to 25 percent stakes in U.S. carriers,
while the Europe Union has a 49 percent limit.  Still, the three worldwide groupings control about 60
percent of air traffic, according to Airline Business magazine.  Star, led by  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) , is largest with about 25 percent and annual
revenue of $202 billion, while SkyTeam, which includes  Air
France-KLM Group (AF)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , has 20 percent and
Oneworld about 15 percent, the trade title estimates.  Qantas will remain in Oneworld and continue joint sales
with British Airways via code-shares, which allow carriers to
sell tickets on each other’s flights as if they were their own.  In scrapping the  British Airways (IAG)  pact Qantas will shift its
European transfer hub from Singapore to Dubai. Whereas onward
trips from the Asian city-state with it or BA reach only London
and Frankfurt, where passengers must change plane for other
cities, Emirates directly serves 30 European locations with 55
daily departures, “meaning one less potential stop on a journey
from Australia,” according to flight-schedule data provider OAG.  Seeking Options  The deal with Emirates marks “a positive development,”
though benefits will take time to materialize because of the
size of deficits at Qantas, which had a A$450 million ($465
million) loss in the 12 months through June,  Standard & Poor’s 
said today. S&P, which was already reviewing Qantas, cut the
 credit rating  one level to BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  Qantas shares closed 5 percent higher at A$1.26 before the
rating announcement, after adding 6.7 percent yesterday.  BA, which formed International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA via a merger with Spain’s Iberia last year, is meanwhile
talking with a number of airlines about “alternative options”
after the Qantas split, IAG CEO Willie Walsh said yesterday.  The U.K. company, whose stock rose 3.5 percent yesterday
and was unchanged at 9:06 a.m. today, said the Qantas venture is
a small part of its network and that “the world has changed”
since the tie-up began in 1995, with any new arrangement likely
to more squarely address the wider Asian market.  Etihad Links  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  of  Hong Kong , Oneworld’s only
member in southeast Asia, has fought shy of deepening its
relationship with British Airways, analysts at the Sydney-based
CAPA Centre for Aviation said in a June 6  note .  Sitting outside the worldwide groupings hasn’t held back
Etihad, CEO  James Hogan  said in an interview Aug. 16, citing 36
code-share agreements and investments in carriers including
Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd., Aer Lingus Group Plc and Air
Berlin Plc that have buoyed feeder traffic to its Abu Dhabi hub.  “Initially they didn’t want Gulf airlines in the club,”
Hogan said of senior alliance members. “We’ve been able to
generate more business from a non-aligned perspective and build
stronger relationships than trying to go through a committee.”  Mergers and acquisitions in the global industry are further
straining alignments built up over the past decade and a half.  US Air Conflict  Latam Airlines Group SA (LFL) , the world’s top carrier by market
value, straddles two groups following its formation on June 22
from a merger of Chile’s  LAN Airlines SA (LAN) , a Oneworld member
since 2000, and TAM SA of Brazil, recruited to Star in 2010.  The group will make a decision on its alliance strategy by
the end of the year, Chief Financial Officer Alejandro de la Fuente said on a conference call Aug. 13.  A similar conflict may arise if Star member  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  goes ahead with a mooted merger with AMR, which filed
for  bankruptcy protection  in November last year.  All the same, Gulf carriers may find that there’s more to
be gained from helping to bolster alliances than rending them
asunder, at least for as long as ownership limits persist.  Hogan said last month that Etihad remains in talks about a
code-share agreement with Air France, where former CEO Pierre- Henri Gourgeon said in 2010 that Gulf carriers were unfairly
benefiting from lower taxes, airport charges, social levies and
fuel bills because of their state ownership.  Air France’s code-share deal with Qantas will be another
victim of the Emirates tie-up, terminating April 1 and leaving
it, too, seeking “alternative solutions,” spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand said. While BA is maintaining its code-shares, Air
France, which links with Qantas in Singapore and Hong Kong,
won’t be doing so as it’s not a Oneworld member.  Potential Recruit  Etihad’s stake in Air Berlin also gives it a foothold in
Oneworld, which the German carrier joined in March, while Qatar
Airways may be a potential recruit and close partner for British
Airways given the friendly relationship between its CEO Akbar  Al Baker  and IAG’s Walsh, according to JLS’s Strickland.  “IAG is probably more focused than anyone on doing things
not just through alliances but through partnerships,” he said.  Walsh himself said in an interview on April 26 that Qatar
Air was a strong candidate to join Oneworld, given its growth
under Al Baker and the development of a new airport at Doha.  “The industry has matured to a point where we’ll see
Mideast carriers join the alliances this year,” Walsh said at
conference in Barcelona. “Within Oneworld, we’ve been debating
it. To my mind, they’re key players in the industry.”  Such a realignment, coupled with the Emirates-Qantas deal,
would transform the global industry, according to CAPA.  “Ramifications of these respective moves are far-reaching,
almost to the extent of a redirection of global aviation
strategy,” it said. “Global alliances will never be the same.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  