-- Leonard Cohen’s Rasping Sleaze Captivates Berlin: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-09-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/leonard-cohen-s-rasping-sleaze-captivates-berlin-review.html
Leonard Cohen  skips onto the open-
air stage with a sparkle in his eyes.  The 77-year-old singer-songwriter has just spent more than
two hours in the chill of the Berlin night traversing a catalog
of songs steeped in sex and religion, death and depression.  It’s life-affirming. And, judging by his smile on coming
back for the encore, it works wonders for Cohen too.  He’s touring in support of “Old Ideas,” released this
year. The tour will grace  London ’s Wembley Arena for two nights
this weekend. If you are in London, go. Twice.  On record, Cohen has tended toward more Spartan sounds,
stripped back to just his voice and an acoustic guitar. Live, he
has assembled an immaculate band. It plays with a manicured
sweetness: A mandolin and violin add spice and color, a Hammond
organ richness and depth. The Webb Sisters and Sharon Robinson
provide luminous backing, careful arrangements making full use
of each singer’s tone.  It’s a perfect backdrop for Cohen. He’s dressed in his
trademark dark suit and a hat that is frequently raised to his
band in thanks for good solos. His singing style is
conversational, every syllable crystal clear.  His deep bass, occasional cracks rasping at the edges of
its limited range, is like a prize cigar that has been out of
the humidor slightly too long. If the lyrics it is used to
express might well have been rolled on female thighs, it is
unlikely they were those of virgins.  Seedy Revelry  Cohen’s observations reveal, and often revel in, a
seediness both physical and emotional. Sometimes such bleak
assertions are leavened with compassion. The devastation retold
in “Suzanne” is wrapped in the warmth of friendship, the
tragedies of “Famous Blue Raincoat” are bathed with empathy.
Both are riveting live.  At other times, Cohen deploys a sharp streak of humor.
“I’m Your Man” has an easy sleaze (“And if you want a doctor,
I’ll examine every inch of you”). “Take This Waltz” is a
melodrama of decay. The bold assertions of fact of “My Secret
Life” are gleefully twisted with doubt and wordplay. Don’t let
the gloom and the deadpan delivery deceive you: At times Cohen
is a funny man.  It’s even there in “Hallelujah” -- a song, at least in
its opening lines, ostensibly about the writing of itself.
Cursed with a multitude of cover versions, it is one of Cohen’s
best-known numbers. It certainly gained the biggest applause.  Inner Busker  The lyric is unbearable in the hands of others, bringing
out their inner busker in a rash of emoting and desperate
imposition of their own supposed musicality. (And yes, that
includes Jeff Buckley.)  Returned to Cohen, it regains its genius. It’s delivered
straight, no preening, no ostentation. Left to its own devices,
and with that killer third line to deflate its pretenses (“but
you don’t really care for music, do you?”) it’s once again a
song you cannot live without.  Some humor crept outside the songs. Cohen is notorious for
excessively thanking his band. After barely an hour onstage, he
praises all and sundry, from his musical director to a guy
apparently called Pants who was involved with the staging.
Expressing gratitude to the audience for coming, Cohen teases
with a typical end-of-show spiel placing a judicious pause
between “We’ll be back” and “in a few moments for part two.”  Ninety minutes later, the disco beat of “First We Take
 Manhattan ” kicks into the encore at the Waldbuehne, sending the
crowd into raptures. Cohen well and truly took Berlin.  Rating: *****.  Leonard Cohen’s Old Ideas World Tour continues in the U.K.,
Ireland,  Turkey ,  Romania ,  Italy  and  France  this month. Cohen
plays Spain and  Portugal  in October before moving to the U.S.
and  Canada  including  Los Angeles ,  Seattle  and  New York  on Dec.
18 and 20. Information:  http://www.leonardcohen.com/us/home   Cohen’s “Old Ideas” is on Columbia priced from about $12
in the U.S. and 9 pounds in the U.K. Download fees vary across
services. For a review of the CD, click  here .  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Zinta
Lundborg’s  New York weekend and  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in Berlin at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 