-- Euro Calm Spurs Fastest Bond Sales Since March: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-09-06T16:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/euro-calm-spurs-fastest-bond-sales-since-march-credit-markets.html
Borrowers taking advantage of
relative calm in financial markets have issued $72.2 billion of
corporate debt in the fastest start to a month since March as
the  euro zone  enters one of the most pivotal periods in its 13-
year history.  Issuance, which follows the busiest August on record, is
being “turbo-charged by people trying to get ahead of  Europe ,
in case something unexpectedly bad happens,” Jason Rosiak, the
head of  portfolio management  at Pacific Asset Management, the
 Newport Beach , California-based affiliate of Pacific Life
Insurance Co., said in a telephone interview.  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest U.S. health insurer,
raised $3.25 billion for its acquisition of Amerigroup Corp.,
leading the most  issuance  since $83.4 billion of bonds were sold
in the period ended March 6, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA (VALE5)  raised $1.5 billion in
its first sale of 30-year securities since 2009.  Borrowers are obtaining record-low yields during a lull in
the European crisis that’s roiled markets for more than two
years. While European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
bolsters confidence in the euro with an agreement for unlimited
bond purchases, Germany’s  Constitutional Court  is poised to rule
on the legality of a bailout fund,  Greece ’s institutional
creditors are to decide if the country merits access to aid that
would help it stay in the European Union and Dutch citizens will
vote on parties including a group that wants to exit the 17-
nation bloc.  Euribor-OIS  Yields on bonds from the most creditworthy to the riskiest
borrowers reached a record low 3.695 percent on Sept. 3, before
rising to 3.697 percent, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Broad Market Corporate & High Yield index shows.  “This is kind of the home stretch for the end of the
year,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview. “Companies don’t want to wait until the last
minute.”  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, reached a 16-month low on Sept. 4. The
Euribor-OIS spread, a measure of European banks’ reluctance to
lend to one another, held near the lowest level in more than 14
months yesterday.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell the most in more
than a month, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreasing 4.7 basis points to a
mid-price of 95.9 basis points as of 11:51 a.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the lowest level on an intra-day basis since May 4
for the measure, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The market for corporate borrowing through commercial paper
contracted for the first time in four weeks. The seasonally
adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper  fell  $9.9 billion to
$1.022 trillion outstanding in the week ended yesterday, the
 Federal Reserve  said on its website. That’s the first decline
since the market shrank $20.8 billion in the period ended Aug. 8
and the lowest level since Aug. 15.  WellPoint Bonds  Bonds of WellPoint are the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with 122
trades of $1 million or more as of 11:53 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Corporate bond  sales  from the U.S. to Europe and  Asia  in
September compare with $33 billion from Sept. 1-6 of last year,
Bloomberg data show. Companies issued $251.8 billion of debt in
August, the most on record for the month. Sales soared in March
amid signs of an improving economy, including U.S. household
confidence at the highest level in almost four years as measured
by the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  index .  ‘Exceptional’ Conditions  Yields on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad
Market Corporate & High Yield index have fallen from this year’s
high of 4.822 percent on Jan. 3. The extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds rather than government debentures
has declined from a 2012 peak of 345 basis points, also on Jan.
3, to 263 basis points.  “Circumstances in the financial markets are exceptional,”
Edward Marrinan, macro credit strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “Investors have a strong demand for spread product,
risk-free rates are near historic lows and central banks seem
poised to keep these conditions in place.”  Offerings in the U.S. reached $31 billion this week, the
most since $31.2 billion was raised in the two-day period ended
Nov. 8, 2011, Bloomberg data show. Issuers rushed to market on
Sept. 4, following the nation’s Labor Day holiday, sending sales
to $17.1 billion.  “This new-issue volume in investment grade and high yield
is unheard of for this week,” Pacific Asset Management’s Rosiak
said.  Vale Bonds  The offering from Wellpoint included $1 billion each of 3.3
percent notes due January 2023 that yielded 175 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries and 4.65 percent bonds
maturing in 2043 at a spread of 200 basis points, Bloomberg data
show. The Indianapolis-based operator of Blue Cross and Blue
Shield insurance plans also sold $625 million each of 1.25
percent, three-year notes at 95 basis points and 1.875 percent
securities due January 2018 at 130.  Vale, the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, sold 5.625
percent debt achieving its lowest coupon on record for similar-
maturity debt, Bloomberg data show. The company last sold 30-
year debt in November 2009, issuing $1.75 billion of 6.875
percent securities.  Issuance of investment-grade bonds maturing in 30 years or
more in the U.S. already exceed the annual totals in 2010 and
2011 as companies lock in borrowing costs at record lows,
Bloomberg data show.  European companies raised about 16.7 billion euros ($21
billion) of debt this week, making it the busiest since the
period ended March 18, Bloomberg data show. Electricite de
France SA and German carmaker Daimler AG led 9.6 billion euros
of corporate debt sales on Sept. 4, the region’s most active day
in 18 months.  Telefonica Debt  Average yields on investment-grade securities dropped to
2.59 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporate
Index shows, compared with 4.4 percent at the start of the year.  Borrowers from the region’s peripheral nations aren’t
benefiting from lower borrowing costs.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s
biggest phone operator, paid 485 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate to sell 750 million euros of five-year bonds
yesterday, Bloomberg data show. That compares with a spread of
300 basis points when the Madrid-based company raised 1.5
billion euros of six-year notes on Feb. 7.  “There’s a lot of issuance for opportunistic reasons given
financing is very cheap,” said Oliver Woyda, a  money manager  at
Deka Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt . “The peripheral companies
have started issuance as well, even though it’s still expensive
for them. These companies are fearing that markets might be
closed for them suddenly if Draghi doesn’t deliver.”  ‘Severe Distortions’  The ECB’s bond-buying program “will enable us to address
severe distortions in government bond markets which originate
from, in particular, unfounded fears on the part of investors of
the reversibility of the euro,” Draghi said at a news
conference in Frankfurt. “Under appropriate conditions, we will
have a fully effective backstop to avoid destructive scenarios
with potentially severe challenges for  price stability  in the
euro area.”  Germany’s Constitutional Court rules on the legality of
Europe’s permanent bailout fund on Sept. 12. That day, the
Netherlands also holds elections where voters will decide among
parties including the Socialists, who oppose spending cuts, and
the  Freedom Party , which is seeking an exit from the EU. Greece
is negotiating for more-lenient terms for its 240 billion-euro
bailout with the ECB, European Commission, and the  International
Monetary Fund .  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread narrowed to
16.25 basis points on Sept. 4, the lowest level since April
2011, before climbing to 16.63 yesterday. The measure shrinks
when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and expands
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  The  Euribor-OIS spread , the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, was at 19
basis points yesterday, the lowest since June 2011, from 95
basis points at the start of the year.  “It’s an issuers’ market, but, if they wait too long, it
might not be the best possible time to issue,” Lurie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  