-- Euro Region’s Contraction Led by Consumers, Investment: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-06T11:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/euro-area-gdp-fell-in-second-quarter-on-investment-consumption.html
Europe ’s economy was pushed into a
contraction in the second quarter as consumers cut spending and
corporate investment slumped.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-member euro area fell 0.2
percent from the first quarter, the European Union’s statistics
office said, confirming an initial estimate published on Aug.
14. Gross fixed capital formation dropped 0.8 percent from the
previous three months, when it fell 1.3 percent, while  consumer
spending  was down 0.2 percent. Government-spending growth slowed
to 0.1 percent from 0.2 percent.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
called today on officials to do more to tackle the region’s debt
crisis, which will continue to weigh on growth and confidence.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may unveil details
of a plan later today to purchase  government bonds  to lower
borrowing costs of Italy and  Spain  and prevent a euro breakup.  “The slowdown will persist if leaders fail to address the
main cause of this deterioration, which is the continuing crisis
in the euro area,” said OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan.
“Resolving the euro area’s banking, fiscal and competitiveness
problems is still the key to recovery.”  Weak Confidence  Europe’s economy has probably slipped into a recession as
the worsening fiscal crisis undermines sentiment among companies
and consumers.  Economic confidence  dropped more than economists
forecast in August and German unemployment increased.  Euro-region exports rose 1.3 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, when they advanced 0.7 percent,
today’s report showed. Imports increased 0.9 percent in that
period after declining 0.2 percent.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, GDP rose 0.3 percent
in the second quarter, down from 0.5 percent in the previous
three months.  France ’s economy stalled, while  Italy ’s GDP
dropped for a fourth straight quarter. In Spain, which locked in
a bank bailout earlier this year, GDP fell 0.4 percent. The
economies of Cyprus, Belgium and  Portugal  also contracted.  Moody’s Investors Service said on Aug. 30 that downside
risks to the global recovery this year and next have increased.
Growth in 2012 will be “materially lower” than last year, with
the euro region’s fiscal crisis posing the biggest risk to the
outlook, the ratings company said.  ‘More Challenging’  Europe’s economy may have continued to shrink in the third
quarter, putting it back into its first recession in three
years. French unemployment rose to a 13-year high of 10.2
percent in the second quarter, according to a report today.
Excluding France’s overseas territories, it 9.7 percent.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company based in
Munich, on Aug. 27 announced 500 further jobs cuts to counter
waning demand. Commerzbank AG Chief Executive Officer Martin Blessing yesterday forecast a “more challenging” second half.  “We will feel the ripple effects of the sovereign debt
crisis for many years,” he said. “We will see a decline in
profitability. Cost cutting and constant process improvement is
gaining importance.”  The OECD, which advises its 34 member governments on
economic policy, today cut its GDP forecasts for the main euro-
area economies. Germany will expand 0.8 percent this year
instead of the 1.2 percent predicted in May, while France will
expand 0.1 percent instead of 0.6 percent and Italy will shrink
2.4 percent instead of 1.7 percent, it said.  “The loss of momentum at the G-7 level may persist
throughout the latter half of this year,” the OECD said in the
report. “With the euro-area crisis still the most important
risk for the global economy, further policy action is needed to
instill more confidence in monetary union.”  Interest Rates  The ECB left its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged at 0.75
percent today. Draghi will hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m.
in  Frankfurt . The ECB’s plan involved purchasing short-dated
bonds on the secondary market of countries that ask Europe’s
bailout fund to buy their debt on the primary market. Neither
Spain nor Italy have made such a request.  “I really compliment the ECB leadership for recognizing
six weeks ago the scale of the challenge that they have to
address,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management said on Bloomberg Television yesterday. “It’s a
pretty strong sign that the ECB is telling us all they’re going
to do what is necessary to make sure people don’t think the euro
is coming to an end.”  Riksbank Cuts  Earlier today,  Sweden ’s Riksbank cut its benchmark rate for
the first time since February, caving in to calls from
exporters, as the krona’s strength and deepening euro crisis
threaten the nation’s trade competitiveness. The repo rate was
lowered by a quarter point to 1.25 percent. The  Bank of England 
left its  bond-purchase target  at 375 billion pounds and its key
rate at 0.5 percent.  Elsewhere, the economic committee of  Vietnam ’s National
Assembly said in a report published yesterday that the country
risks “prolonged stagnation” unless it acts quickly to clean
up bad debt, and it may need International Monetary Fund aid to
recapitalize its banks. The financial system needs an injection
of 250 trillion dong ($12 billion) to 300 trillion dong,
according to the 298-page report that included recommendations
to address economic risks.  In the Asia-Pacific region,  Australia ’s jobless rate
unexpectedly declined in August and in  South Korea  the central
bank said the economy expanded 0.3 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, less than initially estimated.  U.S.  unemployment claims  probably fell to 370,000 in the
week ended Sept. 1, according to the median forecast of 48
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The Labor Department will
publish the data at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  