-- Euro Reaches 2-Month High Versus Yen as Draghi Sets Bond Buying
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-06T21:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/euro-erases-gain-versus-dollar-after-ecb-cuts-2012-gdp-forecast.html
The euro rose to the strongest in
two months against the yen after the European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  announced a bond-purchase plan to cap
borrowing costs in the area’s most-indebted nations.  The dollar fell against higher-yielding currencies before a
report tomorrow that may show the pace of hiring in the U.S.
slowed in August, adding to evidence the  Federal Reserve  will
initiate a third round of bond purchases. The 17-nation euro
weakened earlier against the U.S. currency after the ECB
forecast a deeper economic contraction this year. Sweden’s krona
weakened after the central bank cut interest rates.  “The clarification today is helping to reduce the tail
risk that we will have another intensification of the crisis,”
said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York. “That means that we’ve probably seen
the worst in the short-term for the euro dollar. That doesn’t
mean that it won’t continue to fall over time because we still
have a lot more event risk coming up.”  The euro rose 0.8 percent to 99.60 yen at 5 p.m. in  New
York , after touching 99.81, the strongest since July 5. The
shared currency gained 0.2 percent to $1.2631. The yen fell 0.6
percent to 78.86 per dollar.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2 percent.  Risk Sentiment  The dollar fell against currencies linked to risk sentiment
amid speculation the jobs report may show slowing labor market
strength last month, bolstering the case for the central bank to
undertake further monetary easing. A third round of bond
purchases, or quantitative easing, by the Fed may debase the
dollar.  A gauge of indicators used to measure market expectations
for additional U.S. central bank stimulus in August rose to 99
percent, the highest ever, according to Citigroup Inc. The level
indicates the market is heavily pricing in another round of
stimulus.  Canada’s dollar rose 0.8 percent to 98.27 cents per  U.S.
dollar ,  Australia ’s dollar rallied 0.9 percent to $1.0284 and
South Africa’s rand surged 1.4 percent to 8.3045 per dollar.
Benchmark interest rates in those countries are 1 percent, 3.5
percent and 5 percent compared to near zero in the U.S.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell 0.2 percent to 81.103. The gauge,
which tracks the greenback against six major currencies, is
weighted 57.6 percent to movements in the euro.  Fed Concern  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the lack of jobs
growth is a “grave concern” for U.S. policy makers. The
jobless rate has held above 8 percent since February 2009.  U.S. employers added 130,000 jobs last month, down from
163,000 in July, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 91
economists.  “Above 200,000 kills QE in September, without a doubt,”
said  Greg Anderson , the North American head of G-10 currency
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “Below 100,000 QE odds
are higher, but that doesn’t look that good for the economy so
that will mean risk-off. A nice sweet spot is between 120,000 to
160,000, which means risk-on scenario.”  The euro has fallen 3.7 percent this year, the worst
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen fell 3.6 percent, and the
dollar declined 0.9 percent.  Draghi said the ECB will target  government bonds  with
maturities of one to three years, including longer-dated debt
that has a residual maturity of that length. Purchases will be
fully sterilized, meaning the overall impact on the  money supply 
will be neutral, and the ECB will not have seniority, he said.  Merk View  ECB action today will provide further support to euro as it
removes “tail risk” of currency break-up,  Axel Merk , founder
and president of Merk Investments LLC in  Palo Alto ,  California ,
wrote to clients today. The policy actions put the euro on equal
footing with other major currencies, he said.  The central bank forecast a deeper economic contraction for
2012 than it did three months ago. Euro-area gross domestic
product will drop 0.4 percent this year instead of 0.1 percent,
it said.  “The mix of growth downward revision and inflation upward
revision is not going to be good for the euro,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .
“It’s going to make it tough for the ECB as it constrains their
ability to resolve this problem.”  The shared currency will end the year at $1.22, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Sweden’s krona dropped against 14 its 16 major counterparts
after the central bank unexpectedly lowered its benchmark
 interest rate  for the first time since February.  “During the summer the krona has appreciated faster than
expected and productivity has also been unexpectedly high,” the
Riksbank said. “Inflationary pressures are therefore expected
to be lower than was forecast in July.”  The krona fell 0.3 percent to 6.7465 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  