-- Euro-Area Bond-Buying Plan Is Progress
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-06T17:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/euro-area-bond-buying-is-progress-despite-flaws-view.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  has announced his much-anticipated  bond-buying
plan . The short version: The bank will purchase sovereign bonds
on the open market in unlimited quantities, but only after
troubled countries request the aid and agree to fiscal
conditions that other euro-area governments would impose.  It’s not the shock and awe we  called for , but it is an
important move and could relieve the financial pressure on
 Spain ,  Italy  and other distressed euro-area governments.
However, we have a few reservations.  Before we get to them, give Draghi some credit for pressing
on with his plan over the opposition of  Germany ’s Bundesbank.
Give Draghi credit, too, for the fact that his diagnosis of the
problem is mostly correct.  The price of Spanish and Italian debt had begun to reflect
not just solvency concerns but also the fear that the euro
system might unravel. Guaranteeing the integrity of the currency
system -- which is how Draghi rationalizes his plan -- is a
proper and reasonable role for the ECB.  Draghi was also right to say that the ECB’s interventions
would be “unlimited.” An arbitrary ceiling would have given the
markets a target to shoot down. A similar logic applies to his
decision not to announce a formal cap on borrowing costs for
countries whose bonds the ECB will buy. That would have failed
the credibility test and been one more hostage to fortune.  Damaging Concessions  Unfortunately, the plan, forthrightly named Outright
Monetary Transactions, makes two damaging concessions to the
Bundesbank and its allies. One is that the ECB will sterilize
its bond purchases -- meaning that it will offset any effects
they might have on the euro-area  money supply . This is meant to
reassure inflation hawks. At the moment, it would be better to
ignore them.  The ECB’s new forecasts point to a continuing euro-area
recession. The immediate risk of higher inflation comes from
planned increases in indirect taxes, part of  Europe ’s
overzealous austerity drive, not excess demand. Monetary
stimulus through unsterilized bond-buying -- quantitative
easing, as it’s called -- is warranted for the euro area just as
it is for the U.S. It’s a shame the ECB ruled it out.  Granted, sterilization shouldn’t stop ECB bond purchases
from doing what Draghi wants them to do: lowering the cost of
borrowing for countries thought to be at risk of insolvency or
of being ejected from the euro system.  His other concession to orthodox central banking is his
promise that the ECB won’t buy bonds unless the countries
concerned have a policy-adjustment program with the temporary
bailout fund or its permanent successor, the European Stability
Mechanism. Moreover, Draghi said, the ECB would suspend its bond
purchases if a borrower fell out of compliance.  To serve effectively as a lender of last resort to
governments -- the role Draghi is reluctantly assuming -- the
ECB needs to act instantly and on its own initiative. Complex
loan conditionality managed by other agencies introduces further
delay and uncertainty into a situation already plagued by both.
Rather than outsource the job, the ECB should have its own
process to determine whether governments are acting responsibly.  Conditionality also creates the opportunity to game the
rules. Once a country has a fiscal disciplinary program and the
ECB is buying its bonds, could the bank credibly promise to stop
the purchases and risk bringing the ceiling down on the entire
euro system? We doubt it.  All this assumes, of course, that the German constitutional
court doesn’t simply strike down the ESM next week when it gives
a provisional ruling on the program.  Draghi’s plan is flawed, as it was bound to be, given
Europe’s tangled politics, opaque constitutional arrangements
and opposing economic philosophies. It’s progress nonetheless.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether  we’re better off  than
four years ago and on why  Quebec’s separatism  is a dead end;
 Susan Antilla  on checking if your  broker is a crook ;  Caroline
Baum  on why Americans  should like Mitt Romney ;  Margaret Carlson 
on the impossible  politics of abortion ; Jonathan Mahler on
 Stephen Strasburg’s false choice ; Phillip Swagel on why some
banks need to be big.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 