-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-09-06T15:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is the text of  European
Central Bank  President Mario Draghi’s comments from his monthly
news conference in Frankfurt today:  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK: Ladies and
gentlemen, the vice president and I are very pleased to welcome
you to our press conference. We will now report on the outcome
of today’s meeting of the Governing Council, which was also
attended by the president of the Eurogroup, Prime Minister
Juncker, and by the commission vice president, Mr. Rehn.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Owing to
high energy prices and increases in indirect taxes in some euro
area countries, inflation rates are expected to remain above 2
percent throughout 2012, to fall below that level again in the
course of next year and to remain in line with  price stability 
over the policy-relevant horizon.  Consistent with this picture, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remains subdued. Inflation expectations for
the euro area economy continue to be firmly anchored in line
with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to,
2 percent over the medium term.  Economic growth in the euro area is expected to remain
weak, with the ongoing tensions in financial markets and
heightened uncertainty weighing on confidence and sentiment. A
renewed intensification of financial market tensions would have
the potential to affect the balance of risks for both growth and
inflation.  It is against this background that the Governing Council
today decided on the modalities for undertaking outright
monetary transactions in secondary markets for sovereign bonds
in the euro area.  As we said a month ago, we need to be in a position - in
the position to safeguard the monetary policy transmission
mechanism in all countries of the euro area. We aim to preserve
the singleness of our monetary policy and to ensure the proper
transmission of our policy stance to the real economy throughout
the euro area.  OMTs will be - will enable us to address severe distortions
in government bond markets, which originate from, in particular,
unfounded fears on the part of investors of the reversibility of
the euro. Hence, under appropriate conditions, we will have a
fully effective backstop to avoid destructive scenarios with
potentially severe challenges for price stability in the euro
area.  Let me repeat what I said last month. We act strictly
within our mandate to maintain price stability over the medium
term. We act independently in determining monetary policy. And
the euro is irreversible.  In order to restore confidence, policymakers in the euro
area need to push ahead with great determination with fiscal
consolidation, structural reforms to enhance competitiveness and
European institution-building. At the same time, governments
must stand ready to activate the EFSF/ESM in the  bond market 
when exceptional financial circumstances and risks to financial
stability exist, with strict and effective conditionality in
line with the established guidelines.  The adherence of governments to their commitments and the
fulfillment by the EFSF/ESM of their role are necessary
conditions for our outright transactions to be conducted and to
be effective. Details of the outright monetary transactions are
described in a separate press release, which I’m going to read
shortly.  Furthermore, the Governing Council took decisions with a
view to ensuring the availability of adequate collateral in
Eurosystem refinancing operations. The details of these measures
are also elaborated in a separate press release, which I’m going
to read shortly - I’m going to read shortly.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis. Recently published
statistics indicate that euro area real GDP contracted by 0.2
percent, quarter on quarter, in the second quarter of 2012,
following zero growth in the previous quarter. Economic
indicators point to a continued weak economic activity in the
remainder of 2012 in an environment of heightened uncertainty.  Looking beyond the short term, we expect the euro area
economy to recover only very gradually. The growth momentum is
expected to remain dampened by the necessary process of balance
sheet adjustment in the financial and non-financial sectors, by
the existence of high unemployment, and by an uneven global
recovery.  The September 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for
the euro area foresee annual real GDP growth in a range between
minus 0.6 percent and minus 0.2 percent for 2012 and between
minus 0.4 percent and 1.4 percent for 2013. Compared with June
2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections, the ranges for
2012 and 2013 have been revised downwards.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area are assessed to be on the downside. They relate, in
particular, to the tensions in several euro area financial
markets and their potential spillover to the euro area real
economy. These risks should be contained by effective action by
all euro area policymakers.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.6 percent in August
2012, according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, compared with 2.4
percent in the previous month. This increase is mainly due to
renewed increases in euro-denominated energy prices.  On the basis of current figures - or current futures prices
for oil, inflation rates could turn out somewhat higher than
expected a few months ago, but they should decline to below 2
percent again in the course of next year. Over the policy-
relevant horizon, in an environment of modest growth in the euro
area and well-anchored long-term inflation expectations,
underlying price pressures should remain moderate.  The September 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for
the euro area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between
2.4 percent and 2.6 percent for 2012 and between 1.3 percent and
2.5 percent for 2013. These projection ranges are somewhat
higher than those contained in the June 2012 Eurosystem staff
macroeconomic projections.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be
broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks pertain to
further increases in indirect taxes owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation. The main downside risks relate to the impact of
weaker than expected growth in the Euro Area, particularly
resulting from a further intensification of financial market
tensions, and its effects on the domestic components of
inflation. If not contained by effective action by all Euro Area
policymakers, such intensification has the potential to affect
the balance of risks on the downside.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remained subdued. The annual growth rate of
M3 increased to 3.8 percent in July 2012, up from 3.2 percent in
June. The rise in M3 growth was mainly attributable to a higher
preference for liquidity, as reflected in the further increase
in the annual growth rate of the narrow monetary aggregate M1 to
4.5 percent in July, from 3.5 percent in June.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector
remained weak at 0.5 percent in July. Annual growth in MFI loans
to both non-financial corporations and households remained
subdued, at minus 0.2 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively, for
financial corporations and households.  To a large extent, subdued loan growth reflects a weak
outlook for GDP, heightened  risk aversion , and the ongoing
adjustment in the balance sheets of households and enterprises,
all of which weigh on credit demand. Furthermore, in a number of
Euro Area countries, the segmentation of financial markets and
capital constraints for banks continue to weigh on credit
supply.  Looking ahead, it is essential for banks to continue to
strengthen their resilience where this is needed. The soundness
of banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor in facilitating
both an appropriate provision of credit to the economy and the
normalization of all funding channels.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  Although good progress is being made, the need for
structural and fiscal adjustments remains significant in many
European countries. On the structural side, further swift and
decisive product and labor market reforms are required across
the Euro Area to improve competitiveness, increase adjustment
capacities, and achieve higher sustainable growth rates. These
structural reforms will also complement and support fiscal
consolidation and debt sustainability.  On the fiscal front, it is crucial that governments
undertake all measures necessary to achieve their targets for
the current and coming years. In this respect, the expected
rapid implementation of the fiscal compact should be a main
element to help strengthen confidence in the soundness of public
finances. Finally, pushing ahead with European institution-
building with great determination is essential.  Now, I will now read the technical features of outright
monetary transactions.  As announced on the 2nd of August, 2012, the Governing
Council of the European Central Bank has today taken decisions
on a number of technical features regarding the Eurosystem
outright transactions in the secondary sovereign bond markets
that aim at safeguarding an appropriate monetary policy
transmission and the singleness of the monetary policy. These
transactions will be known as outright monetary transactions and
will be conducted within the following framework.  First, conditionality. A necessary condition for outright
monetary transactions is strict and effective conditionality
attached to an appropriate European Financial Stability
Facility-European Stability Mechanism - so EFSF-ESM - program.
Such programs can take the form of a full EFSF/ESM macroeconomic
adjustment program or a precautionary program called Enhanced
Conditions Credit Line, ECCL, provided that they include the
possibility of primary market purchases by the EFSF and,
possibly later, the ESM.  The involvement of the IMF shall be sought, also for the
design of country-specific conditionality and the monitoring of
such programs. The Governing Council will consider outright
monetary transactions to the extent that they are warranted from
a monetary policy perspective, as long as program conditionality
is fully respected, and terminate them once their objectives are
achieved on or when there is a non-compliance with the
macroeconomic adjustment or the precautionary program.  Following a thorough assessment, the Governing Council will
decide on the start, continuation, and the suspension of
outright monetary transactions, in full discretion and acting in
accordance with its monetary policy mandate. And this is for
conditionality.  Now, the coverage. Outright monetary transactions will be
considered for future cases of EFSF/ESM macroeconomic adjustment
programs or precautionary programs, as specified above. They may
also be considered for  member-states  currently under a
macroeconomic adjustment program when they will be regaining
bond market access.  Transactions will be focused on the shorter part of the
yield curve and in particular on sovereign bonds, with a
maturity of between one and three years. No ex ante (ph)
quantitative limits are set on the size of outright monetary
transactions.  The third part considers the creditor treatment. The
Eurosystem intends to clarify in the legal act concerning
outright monetary transactions that it accepts the same IE pari
passu (ph) treatment as private or other creditors with respect
to bonds issued by Euro Area countries and purchased by the
Eurosystem through outright monetary transactions in accordance
with the terms of such bonds.  (inaudible) the liquidity created through the outright
monetary transactions will be fully sterilized.  Then we have transparency. Aggregate outright monetary
transactions holdings and their market values will be published
on a weekly basis. Publication of the average duration of the
outright monetary transactions holdings and the breakdown by
country will take place on a monthly basis.  Finally, following today’s decisions - a decision on
outright monetary transactions, the Securities Market Programme
- otherwise called SMP - is herewith terminated. The liquidity
injected through the SMP will continue to be absorbed as in the
past, and the existing securities in the SMP portfolio will be
held to maturity.  I’m sorry. But I’m going to read the third press statement
-  (LAUGHTER)  -  about measures to preserve collateral availability.  So we - we had changed in eligibility for central
government assets. The Governing Council of the ECB decided to
suspend the application of the minimum credit rating threshold
in the collateral eligibility requirements for the purposes of
the Eurosystem’s credit operations in the case of marketable
debt instruments issued by - issued or guaranteed by the central
government, and credit claims granted to or guaranteed by the
central government, of countries that are eligible for outright
monetary transactions or are under an E.U.-IMF program and
comply with the attached conditionality as assessed by the
Governing Council.  The suspension applies to all outstanding and new assets of
the type described above.  We’ve also decided that marketable debt instruments
denominated in currencies other than the euro, namely the  U.S.
dollar , pound sterling, Japanese yen, and issued and held in the
Euro Area, are eligible to be used as collateral in Eurosystem
credit operations until further notice. This measure
reintroduces a similar decision that was applicable between
October 2008 and December 2010, obviously with appropriate
valuation markdowns. And these measures will come into force
with the relevant legal acts.  I’ve finished.  (LAUGHTER)  STAFF: OK, we will start with the questions. Just tell you
before that the schedule of the president is very tight, and we
need to finish at 3:30. No more than two questions per media,
and present yourself, please. First question, yes, block one,
first row? Yeah.  QUESTION: Hi (inaudible) from the EU Observer. My question
regards the vote today. Was it unanimous? And if not, what does
it mean? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, it - it was not unanimous. It doesn’t mean
that it was not unanimous. There was one dissenting view. You -
we don’t - we don’t disclose the details of our workings. It’s
up to you to guess.  STAFF: OK, thank you. Next question, please, yes, on the
second row.  QUESTION: (inaudible) Mr. Draghi, you repeated that the
euro is irreversible. So - yeah, thank you. What (inaudible)
democratic (inaudible) to say that? I’ve looked it up in the
treaties.  DRAGHI: Sorry, what?  QUESTION: What gives you the democratic legitimation, the
authority to say that? Because I have looked it up in the
treaty. It doesn’t say anything that it’s - the role of the ECB
to decide what kind of currency the European countries have.
Yeah. So, thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, the - what I said exactly is that we will do
- and I’ll repeat what I said in  London  the first time - we will
do whatever it takes within our mandate - within our mandate to
have a single monetary policy in the Euro Area and to maintain
price stability in the Euro Area and to preserve the euro. And
we say - we say that the euro is irreversible. So unfounded
fears of reversibility are just what they are, unfounded fears.
And this - we think this falls squarely within our mandate.
Thank you.  STAFF: OK, block two, please, the first row.  QUESTION: Silvia Wadhwa, CNBC (inaudible) warned the other
day about the - what they call - pardon me - the lira-zation of
the euro, moving away from a deutschmark culture to a lira
culture. The FDP wants to protest the decisions you’ve taken
today, because they say they’re in breach with Article 123 of
the E.U. treaty of financing governments. Can you explain to us
why they’re wrong?  DRAGHI: Well, as far as the lira-zation or whatever, I
think that the voting today shows a - I would say - shows it by
itself. It shows it’s not only the lira or the former lira
members or other, but it’s basically the almost unanimous
decision of the Governing Council.  So it’s - first of all, I would not identify this with this
caricature of being a southern cabal (ph) or an Italian thing
(ph) just no (ph). It’s not. It’s the Governing Council that -
in its almost unanimous decision has taken this - this measure.  Second, no, we don’t - we are sure that we are acting
within our mandate, that we are not violating Article 123. It’s
pretty explicit. It says for purchase on the primary market,
this is a violation, not for purchase on the secondary market,
as I’ve stated this program will work.  And just incidentally, outright purchases of bonds are -
are conceived - are identified in the Article 18 of our statute,
of the ECB, amongst the various possible tools that our monetary
policy has and can use. So we are not - we’re not creating here
any new thing. Thank you.  STAFF: OK. The same block, first row still, other
questions, please.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) hello? (inaudible) with newspaper. Mr.
Draghi, how can you be sure that the fact that the monetary
(inaudible) of the ECB seems to be not - to not be reaching big
part of the  euro zone  is really a problem of monetary
transmission and not maybe a problem of liquidity trap?  DRAGHI: Well, we have - we have substantial, significant,
important evidence that the monetary - the European monetary
area now is fragmented. We have - we see this from a variety of
indicators, not only the level of yields, the yield spreads, but
also volatility, liquidity conditions especially, I would say,
in many parts of the Euro Area.  So the actions that we’ve decided today are geared to
repairing monetary policy transmission channels in a way that
our standard monetary policy can address what their primary
objective is, that is to say, maintaining price stability. A way
of saying it is that these decisions are necessary to restore
our capacity to pursue the objective of price stability in the
Euro Area, are necessary to restore the singleness of monetary
policy in the Euro Area. Thank you.  STAFF: OK, second - second row, block two, Jeff, yeah, Jeff
and then -  QUESTION: Thank you.  Jeff Black  from  Bloomberg News . Mr.
Draghi, on the -  DRAGHI: You know everything in advance, so there’s no point
for me to answer, no?  (LAUGHTER)  QUESTION: There are many things I don’t know. On the
maturity of the assets that you would intend to purchase under
the OMT, you said up to three years, between one and three
years. Could you explain, does that involve assets, bonds that
have a residual maturity of that amount of time, i.e., a 10-year
bond that has two or three years left to run, as well as ones
with safe maturity (ph)? Is that time?  And then my second question is about the conditionality
aspect. Now, you mentioned that the OMT would be suspended if
countries -  DRAGHI: No (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION: - didn’t fulfill the necessary condition set out
in the MOU. Now, given that these purchases are explicitly for
monetary policy purposes, does this mean that you will suspend
the ECB’s independence if the countries don’t fulfill the
conditions? I don’t quite understand this - this contradiction.
Maybe you could elaborate there for me. Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, on the first - on the first question, the
three is - yes, it’s to be understood in this - in the way you
mentioned. And it’s three years, because it seemed to us the
most effective maturity to sort of extent (ph) to target the
maximum, most effective maturity. It’s close to our short-term
policy rates. It affects also the medium-term yield curve. It’s
close to the rates that are being used to lend to the private
sector.  It’s, in a certain sense, similar to the - to the maturity
we’ve used for the LTROs. So it has a lot of - also, in a sense,
it - in a very indirect way, it decreases concerns about our
seniority over the bondholding, so there are many good reasons
for choosing - choosing the three years.  On conditionality, I think this deserves a - just two
words. The assessment of the Governing Council is that we are in
a situation now where you have large parts of the Euro Area in
what we call a bad equilibrium, namely an equilibrium where you
have self-fulfilling expectations - you may have self-fulfilling
expectations that generate, that feed upon themselves, and - and
generate adverse, very adverse scenarios.  So there is a case for intervening to, in a sense, break
these expectations, which, by the way, don’t concern only the
countries, the specific countries, but the whole Euro Area as
such. But then - and this would justify the intervention of the
central bank. But then we should not forget why countries have
found themselves in a bad equilibrium to start with. And this is
because of policy mistakes.  That’s why we need both legs to fix, in a sense, this
situation, to move from a bad equilibrium into a good
equilibrium. If the central bank were to intervene without any
action on the government side, without any conditionality, it
would not be effective. It would not be effective. And it would
lose its independence.  At the same time, we see that we are in a bad equilibrium,
and therefore, policy action (inaudible) doesn’t seem to produce
(inaudible) to produce in a relatively medium time, medium term,
the results for which it is - it is geared. So that’s why we
need both legs for this action. And I think hope this answers
his question.  Please?  STAFF: OK, your neighbor (inaudible) please.  QUESTION: Johanna Treeck, MNI. In your statement - I’ve got
also a question on the conditionality - you say that involvement
of the IMF shall be sought. Does that mean it’s a firm condition
or just the preferred scenario, that the IMF will be involved?
My second question is, do I understand you correctly that you
will retain your senior status (inaudible) under the SMP and all
other bonds held by the Eurosystem? And finally, did you discuss
interest rate changes at your meeting today? Thank you.  DRAGHI: OK. The IMF - the IMF involvement is sought. We
cannot dictate to the IMF what they should do. They are an
independent institution. So they are sought, and their
involvement is sought, and it’s sought for the policy - for the
design of the policy conditionality, but also if the board of
the IMF in its independence and the management of the IMF, the
MD (ph), in its independence want to participate with the
program, they will also be more than welcome.  So this is definitely the preferred scenario. Let me say
one thing, however, because I can read the question you have in
your mind. Is this a condition sine qua non? Let me just say one
thing, which is actually quite important, in defining, in saying
why the ECB’s retaining its independence all throughout this.  We have given a framework for conditionality to
governments. This framework has been defined in a broad - in
broad lines, but it’s very much up to the governments themselves
and to the union - to the European Union, the commission, and
the IMF, to decide exactly about the precise shape of this
conditionality, and the Governing Council will retain its full
discretion and its full independence in deciding about
considerations that have to do with monetary policy. That’s very
important.  This, what we have in place today is an effective backstop
to remove tail risk from the Euro Area. We should understand
this. But the ECB will retain its independence throughout this.  The second point was the seniority. This statement about
outright monetary purchases does not apply to the SMP holdings.  And finally, on the rates, we discussed rates, but I would
say the decision was that it was not the right time. And the
reason is, in a sense, given in an introductory statement we -
when we decided last time to lower rates, we had anticipated
this weakening of the - of the business cycle, so in a sense,
the monetary policy decision we took last time already reflected
our anticipation of this. Thank you.  STAFF: OK, the third row, please, the same block, yes.  QUESTION: Eva Kuehnen from Reuters. Mr. Draghi, will the
purchases be unlimited in - in amount and time? And my second
question is,  Spain  is facing a huge refinancing hump at the end
of October. And will the ECB’s new program be up and running in
time for this?  DRAGHI: Well, the first question is - there are no example
limits (ph) for the amount of outright monetary transactions.
And the size is what I said in my, I think, second speech or
first speech. I said it is going to be adequate to reach our
objectives.  On Spain, on Spain, it’s really - I mean, we designed now
(inaudible) a road, and it’s in the hands of the government and
the hands of the euro group and the hands of the government of
Spain and the governments of  Europe , of the Euro Area, actually.  STAFF: OK, your neighbor, please.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) Scott Solano, dpa-AFX. Mr. Draghi, do
you foresee the ECB possibly buying Spanish bank debt in the
near future and maybe even corporate debt?  DRAGHI: Frankly, we - we’ve just taken a very important
decision for - for - I think for the moment for coping with the
crisis. I said it’s a fully effective backstop for removing the
tail risk of Europe, and I think I wouldn’t want to speculate on
other measures as - as up to now, at least. Thank you.  STAFF: OK, just in front of you, the lady. Yeah.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) CNBC  Turkey . And I have two questions,
Mr. Draghi. First of all, has there been a discussion in today’s
meeting for any other liquidity program, like an LTRO? And the
second question is, all the global markets are waiting - were
waiting for this today, like today’s decision, and even the
Turkish central bank was waiting for that. So does this make,
like, pressure on you in deciding these kind of things? Thank
you.  DRAGHI: Well, thank you. No, there was no discussion on
LTRO. And obviously, we all feel - we all have our under
pressures, not only me, but the Governing Council. We’ve taken
very important decisions today for - also for (inaudible) for
the ECB as an institution, so we’re fully aware of this. Thank
you.  STAFF: Let’s go to block three, third row, please
(inaudible)  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) Financial Times. Mr. Draghi, I think
I’m right in saying in the statement there that you’re
explicitly not providing any kind of level at which you think a
bond yield of a country that applies to this is excessive. In
fact, the language seems to basically say you’ll know when it’s
there and then you’ll do it and then you’ll tell us about it
afterwards. Is that broadly it? And is there any more detail you
can give us in terms of the work that the experts were doing
over the last few weeks to try and figure out how you decide
when - when a bond is - is suffering from that market, sorry,
that convertibility risk?  And a second question. Since this is all designed to
protect the transmission mechanism or repair it, would you say
that the transmission mechanism is also broken in a sense in
 Germany , where perhaps the bonds have - are suffering from a
sort of convertibility premium? And will you be doing anything
to fix that? Thanks.  DRAGHI: The answer in your last question is, it’s a general
- bond markets are distorted in the Euro Area. They are
distorted in all directions. And this is one of the causes of
the impairment of monetary policy transmission.  And that’s really the objective of this program. It’s
repairing monetary policy transmission and recreate the
singleness of monetary policy for the Euro Area.  Now, the specific question you had, whether we had in mind
a specific yield target. The answer is no. No. Just because the
- repairing monetary policy transmission is a complex concept,
so we’ll be looking at a variety of issues. The level of yield
still (ph) is one, but also spreads, CDS spreads, BDAS spreads
(ph), condition - more generally, the conditions of liquidity.  So we have - we have a variety of indicator - volatility is
also very important in - as far as the indicators that we - we
plan to take into consideration in planning our interventions.  STAFF: Same block, first row, Brian, please, Brian
Blackstone.  QUESTION: Brian Blackstone with the Wall Street Journal.
Under the new OMT, will the purchases continue to be conducted
by the national central banks according to the capital key? And
will they take the risks associated with these purchases
according to the capital share that they have of the ECB?  And my second question is, this is kind of the third - this
is kind of the third attempt at making a bond purchase program
work. This is kind of a third attempt to make a bond purchase
program work. You did it in May 2010. You did it again in August
of 2011. They didn’t seem to work. What makes you think or why
should people be convinced that this third attempt will - will
work? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, yeah, the answer to the first question is
yes. And the second question is - is actually - is actually
very, very important. I mean, we certainly discussed that.  I would - by the way, I would disagree that the other two
programs have not worked in such a kind of decisive way, but
that’s - let me talk about the present. The present program’s
very different, very, very different from the - from any other
program we had in the past.  First of all, we have this conditionality element. That’s -
that’s - I would say that’s the most important difference.
That’s the most important difference, because it - it really
puts together our intervention with an ownership of the economic
program that a certain country has by the country’s government,
but also by the other governments that have to vote in favor of
an EFSF intervention. That is one of the differences, and I
think it’s probably the most important.  The second one is that there is going to be much greater
transparency. As I’ve read before, we publish - we publish the
holdings of the - of the OTM, the duration, the issuer, the
market value, so there’s going to be much more transparency.  The third is the duration is different. And the fourth is
the explicit statement that we will accept pari passu treatment
with the other creditors. So it’s - there are very many
differences from the previous ones, which lead us to think that
it will - it will actually work.  STAFF: OK, block two, the fourth row, please, fourth row,
yeah.  QUESTION: Yes (inaudible) two questions, please. Some
analysts thought that you will remain (inaudible) today, not
giving (inaudible) because there are some important issues
during the month to come, the first one is the expected decision
of the constitution accord (ph) (inaudible) regarding the claim
against ESM. To what extent this topic or this issue influenced
the decision today? Thank you.  And the second one, unlimited bond purchases is something
very new regarding SMP in the past, now we have unlimited
purchase. What’s this rationality of this? Is it to say, look,
guys, we spend more than 200 billion euros to buy these bonds
and still the monetary policy is not transmitted, I mean, the
measures? Is it to a better functioning of the monetary policy
transmission that you decided this, which is a big step? Thank
you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. Thank you. No, the - on the first
question, really, we - we - we go on - we’ve decided in total
independence, and we will be processing the requests when they -
when they will come. There was no discussion at all of other
institutions taking decisions which they will take, obviously
(inaudible) in complete independence.  On the second point is, yes, we think - we think that to
have an ex ante - an ex ante unlimited - ex ante unlimited size
is actually adequate to reach our objectives. Thank you.  STAFF: OK, thank you (inaudible) your neighbor, and then
the first row, and then (inaudible)  QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Draghi. Arthur Beesley from the
Irish Times. I have a question in relationship to Ireland. Are
you in any way concerned about the tensions and in-fighting in
the Irish coalition over the forthcoming budget? And, secondly,
what remains to be done for Ireland to secure a debt relief
deal? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. I think you’re asking me too much. The -
I think so far - I mean, the Irish government has been an
exemplar model of compliance with the macroeconomic adjustment
program. And I’m confident that whatever the tensions, this will
continue to be so.  On - on the second question, I - I have no news to give
you, really. Thank you.  STAFF: OK, thank you. The first row, please, yes, on the
same block (inaudible) thank you.  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi, I’m (inaudible) when I listen to your
words, your speech, I thought that is quite much (inaudible) in
it. I’m quite surprised. But outside, there is much (inaudible)
on you to put less (inaudible) into your statements in the
future. I fear that that will happen. What do you think?  DRAGHI: Oh, I mean, I am what I am, really. And -  (LAUGHTER)  If - I think - no, I think, really, it’s - there is no -
one - one thing that I think is required for this job for me and
my colleagues in the Governing Council is that you have to think
with your head. And external pressures really don’t have a role
in your decision-making.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) I mean (inaudible) Mr. Draghi -  (LAUGHTER)  All the - all the conditionality, you talked about
conditionality all the time. Second word was conditionality. I’m
a German. I think this is really great, great approach you make,
but you know the markets, you know all these markets putting
pressure on you and your colleagues, and (inaudible) from other
countries are sitting here. I fear that in the coming weeks and
you will sit again in four weeks - we’re sitting again, we will
have the press conference. I hope that this conditionality will
stay and you don’t go down (inaudible) this point of
conditionality.  DRAGHI: No, I think my response is certainly, certainly.
And as I said before, you know, all of us are convinced that -
all the Governing Council is convinced that - that, really, you
need two legs for making it work. We’re all convinced that just
one leg - and we - and as you said - as you said, Brian, before,
we had the experience, the previous experience, and it was one
leg, basically, and that didn’t work. So we need - we need both
for to make it work.  And I think this is a general conviction. Again, I - I
think there is - unfortunately, a mistaken caricature,
especially, I would say, in this country, about what the
Governing Council - how the Governing Council works. But it’s
not - it’s not correct. So -  STAFF: Your neighbor, please.  QUESTION: (inaudible) Mr. President, the SMP was of
temporary nature. I didn’t understand quite well if this new OMT
is there to stay forever? Or is it - or you have a limit on it?
This is first question.  And second question, yesterday, there was - there were some
voices in the market that there was a north-south discussion
inside the ECB. Somebody wanted to - would like to have very
severe conditions and somebody else would like to have light
conditionalities. Could you explain this, please, if it’s true?
And what does it mean, even if it’s not true?  DRAGHI: Well, no, I think -  (LAUGHTER)  It’s very - I mean, that’s very difficult to explain if
it’s not true. But -  (LAUGHTER)  But if I can, first, the - the - about the size. I said
there is no ex ante quantitative limit to these interventions
because we want this to be perceived as a fully effective
backstop that removes tail risks from the Euro Area. We want
this.  But at the same time, could it - I mean, if we reach our
objectives, why should we continue doing so? If governments or
countries do not comply, why should we continue doing so? So
these are the two conditions for exiting. So that’s pretty clear
now. And - and as I said, we go back always to the reasoning
that we have to have two components for this - for this backstop
to work.  Now, on this north-south, I think it really was - again, an
unfair characterization of this. There are discussions about
conditionality. They were not absolutely - perhaps I have a low
sense of drama, but they were not dramatic. People had
differences of views, but in the end, we converged. And it was,
as I said, I mean, a very, very massive majority of the
Governing Council on this concept that I’ve just described to
you.  STAFF: OK, your neighbor, and then back to block one for
the last question.  QUESTION: Alessandro (inaudible) from  Italy . I wonder if
this - it’s a cause of discomfort, the fact that systemically
you have this one opposition to most of the decisions you’ve
taken lately, and if you think it’s appropriate that the same
opposition is then expressed publicly, sometimes almost
simultaneously or immediately after the decisions are announced
by this party.  DRAGHI: Well, thank you. I think in my - in my job as
president, I’ve been blessed by this almost unanimity that
really the ECB and the very important and fundamental decisions
that we have taken in the recent - in the last few months, as a
matter of fact, because - so the - and there is nothing I would
wish more than having a total unanimity, of course. So I’m
looking forward to having that. Thank you.  STAFF: OK, block one, please, the fourth row.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) from German television (inaudible) Mr.
Draghi, would you agree to the statement that the ECB can only
buy time with your OMT actions in order that politicians solve
the crisis? And are you confident that political leaders in the
euro zone use this time effectively?  Second question, polls show a lack of trust in German
public in you as the president of the ECB. How would you - how
do you want to regain this confidence? Thank you.  DRAGHI: On the first point is - as I said it several times
today - governments have to undertake the policy reforms. We are
convinced that there is no intervention by the central bank, by
any central bank that is actually effective without the
concurrent policy action by the government. And, frankly, if we
look elsewhere in the world, we see exactly the same. We see
that if there is no concurring action by the government, the
effects of these interventions are not - are not very strong.  On the other thing, well, I think the - in the end, the
proof is in the pudding. And if - if the - really, if the action
of the European Central Bank under my presidency will maintain
price stability, as it has done so far, and as my predecessor
has done for his eight years, I think the trust will be
regained. Now (inaudible) only one year, of course, so it’s too
early.  STAFF: Your neighbor, please?  QUESTION: (inaudible) newspaper. Mr. Draghi, I want to ask
if the inclusion of the figure of the precautionary program was
made (inaudible) countries like Spain or Italy who has
(inaudible) idea to go under a full macroeconomic adjustment
program.  DRAGHI: No. No. The answer is no. It was - it was basically
the common view that that provides - that together (inaudible)
not only that, of course. You also have the possibility
(inaudible) program, full macroeconomic adjustment program, and
they were (ph) considered the two forms of broad conditionality
and involvement of all the other Euro Area governments.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: (inaudible) yes.  QUESTION: Yes, but, Mr. Draghi, that doesn’t mean a soft
bailout fear (ph)?  DRAGHI: It’s what does it mean?  QUESTION: A soft bailout fear (ph).  DRAGHI: Oh, no, not at all. You should look at the
conditionality of the ECCL. Not at all. It’s a full
macroeconomic conditionality. And it would also see the very
light involvement (ph) of the IMF.  STAFF: The row behind, please, Jack Ewing.  QUESTION: Jack Ewing from the International Herald Tribune
and  New York  Times. Mr. Draghi, I just wondered if I could ask
you about what you see as the long-term implications for
European Monetary Union of the steps that you have taken -  DRAGHI: Sorry, the long term -  QUESTION: The long-term implications for EMU, for European
Monetary Union, as a result of the steps that you’ve taken
today. You wrote a week or so ago about the future structure of
EMU. Are you, in effect, pushing governments in that direction
with this step, in the sense to - to get relief from the ECB,
they really have to push in a federalist direction towards a
more integrated European Union? If that’s (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: Well, I - I think - I think that would be a very
ambitious objective. We are trying to do something which we
believe is very important for the Euro Area and for price
stability, which is to repair monetary policy transmission
channels in the Euro Area. I think that’s our job.  We are trying to undertake this job in the best of our
capacities. And whether this will have implications on the
broader political destinies of the Euro Area, this is, in a
sense, very much in the hands of our leaders and much less in
the hands of central bankers.  STAFF: (inaudible) please.  QUESTION: I wonder if you could possibly comment on when -  STAFF: Could you please introduce yourself, please?  QUESTION: From Citywire. Wondering whether you could
comment when the OMT purchases may be ready to start. For
example, in Portugal and Ireland, are you ready to start buying
under the OMT program today? And do you anticipate that you’ll
be in the position to buy bonds in Spain before the end of the
month so that we can avoid a Moody’s downgrade?  DRAGHI: Well, I mean, the answer is - to what I said
before, it’s in the hands of governments. And also - but as far
as Portugal and Ireland are concerned, there is a sentence in
the - in the press statement that I read that says they - being
the outright monetary transactions - they may also be considered
for member states currently under macroeconomic adjustment
program when they will be regaining bond market access. Thank
you.  STAFF: Thank you. The last row, please. The last row, yeah.
Yeah, this - you, with the glasses, yeah.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) Bill Watson with Market Watch (ph).  DRAGHI: Sorry?  QUESTION: (inaudible) just wondering if the - since you
talked about a pretty downbeat economic outlook, do you see any
impact from the OMT - an immediate impact in terms of what it
would do for credit growth and having an impact on the real
economy, in terms of borrowing rates that businesses are paying
in the periphery and the contraction in the lending growth that
we’ve seen there?  And sort of on a related note, given that situation, was
there any talk of not sterilizing purchases, given that that
would have an impact on credit?  DRAGHI: The answer to the second question is, no, there
wasn’t. On the first - on the first point is - well, the - the
objective of this program is to repair monetary policy
transmission channels, which today are hampered, and to recreate
a single monetary area, which today is fragmented.  So from this, we would see - we should see - we should see
some better developments on the credit front, although we should
not forget that credit flows are sluggish for, I think, several
reasons, where one of which is low demand. Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. The very last row on the right, yes. One
of the last questions.  QUESTION: Yes, my name is Ashley Webster with Fox Business.
Mr. Draghi -  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. Where are you?  QUESTION: Right at the back. Hello there. The ECB already
has a lot of sovereign bonds on its balance sheet, by some
estimates some 33 percent of the euro zone GDP. Once you start
throwing in the OMT bonds, are you starting to get concerned
that the market will start questioning the integrity of the
balance sheet of the ECB?  Secondly, you say that the high yields are based on
unfounded fears, but there’s a lot of economic data there that
suggests that these yields may, indeed, reflect that poor data.  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. Could you say again -  (CROSSTALK)  QUESTION: You say that the high yields on  government bonds ,
in particular Spain and Italy, are based on unfounded fears.
It’s almost like a self-fulfilling prophecy. But you have to
admit, wouldn’t you, that the economic data suggests that some
of these high yields could, in fact, reflect reality.  DRAGHI: First of all, the figure you quoted about our SMP
holdings, it’s way off mark. We’re talking about maybe - I mean,
we’re talking about 3 percent of total Euro Area GDP, around 3
percent. So not 33 percent, but 3 percent.  On - on the yields, certainly - certainly, what I said at
the beginning, you are absolutely right - what I said at the
beginning was that we need two legs. We shouldn’t forget how
these countries found themselves in a bad equilibrium to begin
with, namely because of their wrong policies and policy
mistakes.  So this extent, the yields are currently in the market,
reflect this fact. They don’t reflect only unfounded fears of a
possible reversibility. They also reflect the quality of the
outstanding credit of these countries. Thank you.  STAFF: OK, thank you. And the very last question to Mr.
(inaudible) please.  DRAGHI: No, I think - I’m sorry. I just have to answer
(inaudible)  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) Mr. Draghi (inaudible) from the
Netherlands. My first question is, I just missed the answer, I
think, of Brian Blackstone’s question. Do all national central
banks participate in the purchases in the OMT? And my second
question would be, if the OMT is operational, could -  DRAGHI: (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION: If - if the OMT is operational, could it create
an incentive for countries to issue short-term debts instead of
long-term debts? And what are the kinds of measures to - to
address that?  DRAGHI: On the second - I mean, the first question, I’ve
answered. And the second question is certainly. There could be
such an incentive. We will monitor the situation very carefully.
And - but I - at the same time, I - one assumes that countries
would like to keep a structure of debt issuance, which is
balanced across all maturities.  So there is - there is a danger. There is a risk. It’s not
at all clear that actually the debt issuers will move towards
this direction, because it has a cost, it has a cost of
unbalancing a maturity structure which was probably balanced to
begin with, and it’s taken many years to get there.  Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you for your attention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  