-- Euro Survives 2012 Intact in Global Poll Seeing Spain Rescue
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-09-06T14:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/euro-survives-2012-intact-in-global-poll-seeing-spain-rescued.html
Spain will request a sovereign
rescue within a year, while  Italy  will avoid that fate, as the
euro-area’s debt crisis looks set to enter a fourth year,
according to the Bloomberg Global Poll.  Almost three years since  Greece  revised its deficit
numbers, triggering financial market turmoil across Europe, 85
percent of 847 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers said Spain will seek aid in the next 12 months.
Fifty-nine percent said Italy will skirt a rescue over the same
timeframe.  Speculation over the financial health of the euro-area’s
fourth-largest economy today led European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  to flesh-out his plan to tame borrowing costs by
buying bonds. In a sign his July vow to do “whatever it takes”
to defend the euro is working, the poll signaled growing
optimism the 17-nation euro area would stay intact through the
rest of this year.  “The need of Spain to tap the fund is significantly larger
than Italy,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt  and a poll participant. “Spain
is missing its budget targets by a much wider degree.”  Spanish Default  The victim of a bursting real estate bubble, Spain’s
economy is in its second recession since 2009 and the
 unemployment rate  is at a European record 25 percent. Fiscal
weakness in some regions and slumping tax revenue will leave the
government’s budget shortfall this year at more than twice the
European Union limit of 3 percent of economic output.  Forty-seven percent of those surveyed said the country will
default on its debt, the same amount as in May.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is already negotiating as much
as 100 billion euros ($130 billion) for the nation’s ailing
banks, and he’s said he would consider asking for EU and ECB
bond buying if it’s in the best interest of Spaniards.  Spain sold 3.5 billion euros of securities maturing in
2014, 2015 and 2016 today. The two-year note initially declined
as demand fell at the auction. It later rebounded. Ten-year debt
yields 6.09 percent. Rajoy may decide to seek aid in the coming
weeks to bring down financing costs as the Treasury faces 20
billion euros of bond redemptions at the end of next month.  Draghi’s Plan  Draghi announced today that the ECB is willing to make
unlimited purchases of short-term debt without setting a
specific cap on desired yield levels. The buying will be fully
sterilized and may be terminated if a country falls shorts of
its commitments, he said in Frankfurt.  While Draghi said only countries who agree to the austerity
and monitoring demands of  Europe ’s rescue fund will get ECB
support, Rajoy is holding off on a request until the ECB
president lays out conditions for the ECB’s involvement. He met
German Chancellor Angela Merkel today in  Madrid .  “Draghi’s announcement of intervention shows the robust
will of the ECB to solve the problem,” Rajoy told three
European newspapers last week. “I will await the results of the
ECB and then make a decision that’s good for Spain and for the
euro.”  Italy, where the  budget deficit  was forecast by the
European Commission in May to run only about 2 percent of GDP
this year compared to Spain’s 6.4 percent shortfall, is better
placed, according to those surveyed. Just a quarter see the euro
area’s third-biggest economy defaulting, about the same as in
previous polls.  Lagging Growth  Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who raised taxes and cut
spending to improve Italy’s finances, has shifted his focus to
stimulating the stagnant economy, which has  lagged  the euro-
region in terms of growth for more than a decade. He said in an
interview with  Il Sole 24 Ore  published Aug. 29 that his
government’s austerity measures are starting to offset market
concerns and the country doesn’t need to tap European rescue
funds at the moment.  “The adjustment Italy’s government has done will prove
more effective than what the Spanish government is doing,” said
Tatu Paasimaa, a portfolio manager at Nordea Investment
Management in Helsinki who replied to the survey. “Spain will
need a bailout in the next six months, but I can’t see Italy
needing one at the moment.”  Risk Premium  The divergent opinions on  Spain  and Italy are also
reflected in the  widening spread  between the countries’ bond
yields. Investors demand 89 basis points more to hold Spanish
10-year bonds than similar maturity Italian debt. At the start
of the year, Italy yielded 180 basis points more than Spain.  Fifty percent of respondents said  Portugal  will go
bankrupt, the smallest response since January 2011, and 21
percent said the same of Ireland, the lowest since June 2010.  By contrast, 92 percent anticipate Greece will default and
56 percent say the country will have left the single currency by
the end of next year. Sixty-nine percent Greece will be outside
the euro by the end of 2014.  Ninety-eight percent said  Germany  will keep paying its
bills and 89 percent anticipate  France  to do so. Outside the
euro-area, 96 percent said it is unlikely the U.K. will default
and 95 percent said the same of the U.S.  Even as the crisis boils away, there were some signs of
greater confidence in the outlook, with 27 percent saying the
worst of the turmoil is over, a 10 percentage point jump since
May. Sixty nine percent still said any evidence of stabilization
is temporary, down from 80 percent in May.  Exiting Euro  With 2012 drawing to a close, 32 percent said one or more
countries will leave the euro area by January, the first time
this year a majority hadn’t anticipated an exit. Fifty-seven
percent forecast a departure this year as recently as May.  Only 6 percent predict the collapse of the  euro zone  this
year and the number anticipating a meltdown in the region’s
banking sector retreated to 16 percent from 53 percent a year
ago. Only about a 10th said the euro area’s pain will prompt a
collapse in the global economy.  Seventy-nine percent said the euro zone economy is
deteriorating, down from 84 percent in May. Most respondents
still worry economic trouble in Europe will fan social
instability such as riots this year although the number declined
to 56 percent from 84 percent in May.  The survey was conducted by  West Des Moines , Iowa-based
Selzer & Co. and had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.4
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  