-- Teva Sues Perrigo Over Patents for ProAir Asthma Inhaler
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-09-06T20:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/teva-sues-perrigo-over-patents-for-proair-asthma-inhaler.html
A unit of  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest maker of generic drugs,
sued rival  Perrigo Co. (PRGO)  over patents for the ProAir asthma
inhaler.  Teva Branded Pharmaceutical Products R&D Inc. of Horsham,
 Pennsylvania , contends that Allegan, Michigan-based Perrigo is
planning to market its version of the  albuterol sulfate  aerosol
inhaler before the patents expire in 2017 and 2023, according to
federal court papers filed yesterday in Wilmington, Delaware.  “Teva will be irreparably harmed” if a jury doesn’t stop
the alleged infringement, according to the complaint.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , reported $436 million
in ProAir sales last year, 2.4 percent of its revenue, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Teva and manufacturer Norton Ltd. of Waterford, Ireland,
also named Somerset, New Jersey-based Catalent Pharma Solutions
LLC as a defendant. Catalent plans to make the generic product
for Perrigo to market, according to court papers.  The lawsuit “formally initiates the litigation process”
that could lead to 180 days of generic exclusivity, Perrigo said
in a statement through spokesman Arthur J. Shannon.  “Perrigo is committed to making quality health care more
affordable for our customers,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Joseph C. Papa said in the statement.  An estimated 18.7 million U.S. adults and 7 million
children have asthma, which restricts breathing, according to
U.S. Centers for Disease Control  statistics.   Kristian Klein, a Catalent spokesman, didn’t immediately
reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
allegations.  The case is Teva v. Perrigo, 12-cv-1101, U.S. District
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To see the patents, click: 7,566,445 and 7,105,152.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  