-- Ex-Citic Pacific’s Chui Doesn’t Testify in Insider Trial
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-09-06T10:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/ex-citic-pacific-s-chui-doesn-t-testify-in-insider-trial.html
Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) ’s former deputy
head of finance Chui Wing Nin declined to take the stand in his
Hong Kong trial on charges of  insider trading  ahead of the
company’s 2008 profit warning.  Chui’s lawyer Joseph Tse told Hong Kong’s Eastern
Magistrates’ Court today there would be no defense witnesses.
Chui has pleaded not guilty to two counts of selling a total of
81,000 Citic Pacific shares after, according to the Securities
and Futures Commission, becoming aware of losses from foreign
exchange bets before the company announced them.  Citic Pacific, controlled by China’s biggest state-owned
investment company, fell 55 percent on Oct. 22, 2008, after the
steelmaker and property developer disclosed that it may have
incurred losses of as much as HK$15.5 billion ($2 billion) from
wrong-way currency bets. Chui, who sold the shares on Sept. 9
and Sept. 12 after getting the confidential information, avoided
losses of as much as HK$1.36 million, the SFC said.  Chui faces a sentence as long as two years in prison, the
maximum penalty for a case in the magistrates court. His lawyer
today submitted facts to the court including instructions from
Chui’s wife to sell an apartment they co-owned and Chui’s
immigration record.  The prosecution’s case had been presented over at least six
days. Magistrate Li Kwok-wai scheduled closing submissions for
Sept. 21.  Bailout  Citic Pacific’s bets on the Australian dollar prompted a
bailout from its parent Citic Group, which is backed by  China ’s
cabinet, and the resignation of its then chairman Larry Yung.  Hong Kong’s Department of Justice said last year, during a
trial over disputed documents, that there was “clear evidence”
Citic Pacific defrauded four banks before Oct. 20, 2008, when it
sought financing without disclosing the losses.  Citic Pacific directors acted properly, a lawyer for the
company has said.  The company entered into the currency contracts to hedge
its exposure to the Australian dollar as it was developing an
iron ore mine in  Australia ’s Pilbara region.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Chui Wing
Nin, ESS27729/2011 in Hong Kong’s Eastern Magistrates’ Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  