-- Ex-UBS Trader’s $2.3 Billion Trading-Loss Trial to Begin
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-09-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/ex-ubs-trader-s-2-3-billion-trading-loss-trial-to-begin.html
Kweku Adoboli, accused of
unauthorized trades that cost  UBS AG (UBSN)  $2.3 billion, will go on
trial next week charged with fraud and false accounting in one
of the highest-profile banking cases ever heard in London.  Since being released on bail three months ago, Adoboli, 32,
has worked on his defense at the office of his  law firm , Bark &
Co. He is facing an eight-week trial in criminal court to decide
whether he caused the largest unauthorized trading loss in
British history at UBS’s investment bank a year ago.  He is charged with falsifying records on exchange-traded
fund transactions and other documents needed for accounting
purposes as early as October 2008, according to his indictment.
Prosecutors also charged him with fraud for abusing his senior
trader position “by causing or exposing UBS Bank to losses
intending thereby to make a gain for himself.”  The trial comes on the heels of a series of scandals for
London’s finance industry.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the country’s second-
largest lender by assets, settled with regulators in June for a
record 290 million pounds ($461 million) for rigging  interest
rates . Standard Chartered Plc paid $340 million last month to
settle allegations by  New York ’s banking regulator that it
laundered $250 billion for  Iran  and HSBC Holdings Plc is also
being probed over handling cash for sanctioned nations.  In the U.K., fraud charges carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in jail, and seven years for false accounting. Adoboli is
facing two counts of each.  Delta One  Tim Harris , Adoboli’s lawyer, said he was unable to comment
on the case before trial, which is scheduled to start Sept. 10.  “The U.K. criminal process is ongoing and will run its
course,” UBS spokesman  Richard Morton  said in an e-mailed
statement. “UBS is not a party to the case and therefore has no
further comment.”  Adoboli worked for the Zurich-based investment bank’s Delta
One desk, which handles trades for clients -- or risks the
bank’s own money -- typically by speculating on a basket of
securities. The loss, which came from trading in Standard &
Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures, didn’t affect any
client positions, according to UBS.  Held in Wandsworth prison in southwest  London  after his
arrest on Sept. 15, Adoboli was granted bail and released June
13. He is staying with a friend in the British capital, Harris
has said. As part of his bail conditions, he has a curfew and
has surrendered his Ghanaian passport.  Internal Controls  In May, UBS said it had fixed weaknesses found in its
internal controls in the aftermath of the unauthorized trades,
without referring to Adoboli. Ten people have left UBS after the
discovery of the unauthorized trades, according to the bank.
 Oswald Gruebel , the former chief executive officer at the bank,
also left last year after the loss.  In a memo this week, Gruebel’s successor  Sergio Ermotti 
said the bank has been “embarrassed by this episode” and
reminded UBS staff that misconduct is “unacceptable.”  “Amidst all the progress that we have made since this
incident, we must never forget that our reputation is more
important than anything else,” Ermotti said.  Adoboli was born in  Ghana  to a former United Nations
official and attended a Quaker boarding school in West
Yorkshire,  England , until 1998. He graduated with honors from
the University of Nottingham in July 2003 with a degree in e-
commerce and digital business. Photography, cycling and wine are
among his interests, according to his LinkedIn profile.  Prior to his arrest, Adoboli lived in a luxury apartment in
east London, a five-minute walk from UBS’s London offices. His
lawyers have disclosed in court hearings that he is now in debt
and needs government assistance to pay his legal bills.  Judge Brian Keith ordered UBS and City of London Police in
June to provide evidence to defense lawyers and prosecutors,
including results from searches of Adoboli’s computer and mobile
phones, records of personal trading done through London-based
spread-betting firm IG Index Plc, and details of disciplinary
hearings with three of his co-workers on the Delta One desk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  