-- Texas Wins Stay on Decision to Bar Voter Registration Law
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/texas-wins-stay-on-bar-on-enforcement-of-voter-registration-law.html
Texas can enforce its law regulating
third-party voter registration activities while an appeals panel
reviews a lower-court ruling blocking the measure.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  yesterday granted
a request by Texas to put on hold last month’s court order
barring enforcement of several provisions of the 2011 law. U.S.
District Judge  Gregg Costa  determined that the law probably
conflicted with federal rules and the U.S. Constitution.  The stay will allow enforcement of the law pending the
appeal, Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said.  “This ruling is a victory for voter integrity and helps
Texas prevent fraud in the voter-registration process,” Abbott
said in an e-mailed statement. The appeals court yesterday also
granted the state’s motion to expedite the appeal.  In a separate lawsuit, two civil rights organizations asked
a state court judge in  Des Moines  yesterday to stop  Iowa 
Secretary of State Matt Schultz from implementing a rule change
using lists of foreign nationals to purge non-citizens from
voter rolls. The American Civil Liberties Union and a Latino
rights group claim the new rules, which Schultz announced in
July, would unfairly affect new citizens.  Multiple court battles over U.S. voting rules are under
way, particularly in so-called swing states such as  Florida ,
Ohio, Pennsylvania and  Wisconsin , where both the Republican and
Democratic presidential campaigns see possible victories.  At least two lawsuits challenging a proposed voter purge
are pending in Florida, and a federal judge last month blocked
implementation in that state of a new law restricting voter
registration activities. Voter cases are also under way in
 Alabama , Texas,  Tennessee  and  South Carolina .  In the Texas voter registration case, the stay request was
considered at a hearing yesterday before three judges, James L. Dennis, who was appointed by Democratic President  Bill Clinton ;
Catharina Haynes, appointed by Republican  George W. Bush ; and
Jerry E. Smith, appointed by Republican  Ronald Reagan .  Dennis dissented from the stay decision, with the other
judges voting for it.  “The majority will assign reasons as soon as possible,”
the appellate judges said yesterday.  Chad Dunn, a lawyer for Project Vote and its affiliate,
Voting for America Inc., which challenged the law, didn’t return
a call yesterday for comment on the stay.  The Republican-dominated Texas Legislature passed several
revisions in its election code in 2011, imposing new
requirements for third-party voter registration.  This included barring non-Texans from becoming volunteer
deputy registrars, or VDRs, prohibiting them from accepting
applications for residents outside the county in which they were
appointed, requiring them to personally deliver rather than mail
applications to election officials and restricting their
compensation. The rules were passed to prevent voter
registration fraud, attorneys for the state argued in court
papers.  Project Vote and Voting for America sued  Texas  Secretary of
State  Hope Andrade  in February, seeking an injunction barring
the state from enforcing provisions of the law. Registration
drives conducted by third-party organizations are critical to
increasing the number of voters in the state, particularly
racial minorities, the plaintiffs argued in court filings.  Costa granted the injunction Aug. 2, finding that the
plaintiffs were likely to succeed in proving that certain
provisions either conflicted with the federal Voting Rights Act
or violated the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  “The in-state requirement excludes millions of Americans
from serving as VDRs in Texas,” Costa said. “The county
limitation substantially restricts the number of potential
voters a VDR can help register. And the compensation prohibition
reduces the number of people willing to hire VDRs or to work as
VDRs because it criminalizes performance-based pay.”  He also found no pressing need for stricter rules on voter
registration.  “The state has not produced evidence showing that rampant
fraud by out-of-state VDRs existed in pre-2011 Texas elections
or continues to exist in those states that permit all Americans
to engage in the voter registration activities protected by the
First Amendment,” Costa said.  On Aug. 14, Costa, appointed by President  Barack Obama ,
denied the state’s request for a stay pending appeal. The state
appealed the order to the court in New Orleans.  “The state will be irreparably injured if the district
court’s order remains in effect between now and the upcoming
November elections,” lawyers for the state argued in an Aug. 16
filing.  In the Iowa case, Jeffrey Thompson, a state deputy attorney
general, argued at yesterday’s hearing that the purge rules
don’t harm Iowa voters and the organizations and the
organizations challenging them don’t have standing.  “The rules are actually intended to provide protection to
the very individuals” the organizations say they represent,
Thompson told Polk County District Court Judge Mary Pat
Gunderson. “They run the risk if they get what they’re asking
for of doing harm to the people they’re trying to protect.”  Gunderson, an appointee of Republican Governor Terry
Branstad, didn’t immediately issue a ruling.  The ACLU and the League of United Latin American Citizens
of Iowa claim that Schultz, a Republican, instituted a new
administrative rule in July that would require his office to
periodically obtain lists of foreign nationals “from
unspecified state and federal agencies and attempt to match
those names to voter registration records,” as part of an
effort to purge non-citizens from the voting rolls.  The secretary of state would then send notices to
registered voters whose names appeared on one of these lists
that they may not be citizens and may be illegally registered to
vote, according to the lawsuit. The voter would have to respond
within 14 days to dispute this information, or face being
stricken from the eligible voters list, the ACLU lawyers said.  “The public has no way to be sure he’s using accurate, up-
to-date voters from Iowa’s voter lists,” Ben Stone, executive
director of the ACLU of Iowa, said in a statement.  The rules don’t provide obstacles to legitimate voters,
lawyers for the state said in court papers.  “Ironically, the emergency rules challenged by the
petitioners were promulgated by Secretary Schultz to protect the
voting rights of Iowans whose immigration status in the state’s
drivers’ license database might be incorrect or out of date,”
Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller  and Thompson said in a filing
last month. Miller is a Democrat.  The rules would “ensure that any affected individual
receive notice and a hearing before his/her name is removed from
the voter registration records,” the state’s lawyers said. The
state also contends the district court has no jurisdiction to
order a temporary injunction barring the rules.  “There’s no such injury alleged or at issue in this
case,” Thompson said yesterday. “This is about whether the
secretary of state had the authority to do what he did.”  The Texas case is Voting for America Inc. v. Andrade,
12-40914, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans). The Iowa case is  American Civil Liberties Union  of
Iowa Foundation v. Iowa Secretary of State Matt Schultz, CV
9311, District Court, Polk County, Iowa (Des Moines).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  