-- Facebook Investors Know Exactly Whom to Blame
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-09-06T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/facebook-investors-know-exactly-whom-to-blame.html
Who is to blame for  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
initial public offering? Is it  Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook’s
founder and chief executive officer? Someone else at the social-
networking website?  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the bank that led the deal?
 Nasdaq , which botched the stock’s early trading?  If you lost money on Facebook  shares , which have given up
about half their value since the company’s IPO, the answer is:
none of these.  Ever since Facebook debuted in May, only to begin plunging
in value within a few days, I  hoped  somebody of note would speak
out publicly to take personal responsibility for losing money on
this stock, rather than pointing fingers at others. A few days
ago, it happened.  Mark Cuban , owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team,
wrote a post on his  blog  in response to a  column  in which  Andrew Ross Sorkin  of the  New York  Times pinned the blame on  David Ebersman , Facebook’s chief financial officer. Cuban said:  “I bought and sold FB shares as a TRADE, not an
investment. I lost money. When the stock didn’t bounce as I
thought/hoped it would, I realized I was wrong and got out. It
wasn’t the fault of the FB CFO that I lost money. It was my
fault. I know that no one sells me shares of stock because they
expect the price of the stock to go up. So someone saw me coming
and they sold me the stock. That is the way the stock market
works. When you sit at the trading terminal you look for the
sucker. When you don’t see one, it’s you. In this case it was
me.”  Ringing True  Bless that man. Cuban may be a sophisticated fellow, in the
sense that he’s very wealthy and knows the  Wall Street  game,
having once run and sold a public company. But his comments ring
even more true for individuals of much lesser means.  As the financial journalist John Brooks wrote in his epic
1973 book, “ The Go-Go Years ,” about Wall Street during the
1960s: “In the nature of things, the amateur investor remains
and probably will remain at a certain disadvantage in relation
to the professional. Perhaps his best protection lies in
knowledge of that fact itself.”  In spite of the shareholder lawsuits filed against
Facebook, I have seen no indication that the company’s
executives lied to the public about its performance or
prospects. Facebook’s  prospectus  warned about the risks. The
decline in Facebook’s rate of  revenue  growth shouldn’t have
surprised anyone. In 2010, sales grew 154 percent. In 2011, they
rose 88 percent. By the first quarter of this year, the year-
over-year rate was 45 percent. Last quarter, Facebook’s first as
a public company, it was down to 32 percent.  So where might be the bottom for Facebook’s shares? The
stock recently was selling for about $19, giving the company a
$46 billion market value. Facebook isn’t going broke, or at
least not anytime soon. Thanks to the money it raised through
its IPO, the company had $10.2 billion, or about $4 a share, of
 cash and marketable securities  as of June 30. Even in a worst-
case scenario, the stock shouldn’t drop that low, assuming
Facebook doesn’t blow all the money. The company’s $13.3 billion
of shareholder equity, or assets minus liabilities, works out to
a little more than $5 a share.  Last year, Facebook reported $1 billion of  net income .
Let’s say, for argument’s sake, that Facebook deserves to trade
for 14 times that much, or $14 billion, using the earnings
multiple for a typical stock in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
as a guide. That’s less than one-third of the market
capitalization now. And that may be generous, considering
Facebook reported a net loss last quarter.  Long Way  While these are simplistic gauges, they do illustrate that
the stock could still have a long way to fall. My guess is a
price in the single digits might be worth a flier, and that
there is still a huge amount of risk in the shares now. But what
do I know? Trying to predict Facebook’s stock price is like
trying to guess from a distance what a helium balloon might do
next after it’s already way up in the air.  In an e-mail, Cuban said he wrote his blog post because “I
just get annoyed by talking heads in media throwing punches
without any real substance.” Asked why he bought the stock, he
said: “I thought that there would be traders who would trade
the psychology and hype of the stock. Turns out I was the only
one trading that way.” Pointing fingers at others, he said, is
“the easy way out.”  As for investing advice for the masses, particularly on
newly minted stocks, Cuban said: “You don’t know enough to
invest in individual stocks. You are gambling. If that suits
you, great. Go for it. You might win. But realize that no one
sells stocks expecting you to make money on the deal.”  So who is to blame if you lost money on Facebook? The fault
is entirely your own. This isn’t a game for crybabies.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  European Central Bank’s
new bond-buying plan  and on why the  U.S. needs to pay more
attention to APEC ; Stephen L. Carter on “hopefully” and other
 desecrations of the English language ; William Pesek on a  Romney
presidency causing no worries in China ;  Steven Greenhut  on why
 California is broken , not broke.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  