-- Federer’s ‘Amazing Summer’ Ends With U.S. Open Loss to Berdych
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-06T05:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/federer-s-amazing-summer-ends-with-u-s-open-loss-to-berdych.html
Top-seeded  Roger Federer  was knocked
out of the  U.S. Open  by  Tomas Berdych , ending a summer run that
included a Wimbledon title, an Olympic silver medal and a return
to the No. 1 world ranking in tennis.  The 7-6 (7-1), 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 loss last night ended a streak
of eight consecutive U.S. Open semifinal appearances by the 31-
year-old Federer, who had his serve broken five times -- after
losing it only once in his previous three matches.  Federer, of  Switzerland , entered the tournament as the 9-4
second favorite at the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book behind
defending champion Novak Djokovic, who yesterday reached the
quarterfinals at the National Tennis Center in New York.  “Such an amazing summer I had, I really thought I was
going to come out and play a solid match,” Federer said in a
news conference. “Obviously, there is a bit of a letdown now.”  On the same day that Federer fell,  Andy Roddick  played the
last match of his career, losing in four sets to Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina. The 30-year-old American lost a rain-delayed
match 6-7 (1-7), 7-6 (7-4), 6-2, 6-4, and fought back tears as
he thanked the crowd.  “I don’t know what the emotions are,” Roddick later told
reporters. “I’m a little overwhelmed right now.”  Three-time champion  Serena Williams , third-seeded Andy Murray and Djokovic also won as players with a combined 12 U.S.
Open titles took the court yesterday.  Williams Wins  Williams, who entered the tournament as the even-money
favorite of Las Vegas oddsmakers, beat Ana Ivanovic 6-1, 6-3 in
58 minutes. She is yet to lose a set this tournament, and has
lost two of her 38 service games.  “I feel like I’m going to get more focused and serious and
start playing Serena tennis in the next couple of rounds,”
Williams, 30, said after the match. “I didn’t think I came into
this tournament playing my best, but I definitely played better
in the last two matches.”  Sixth-seeded Berdych of the  Czech Republic , playing his
first night match in Arthur Ashe Stadium, took control early and
converted his only break point of the fourth set to seal the
win. The 26-year-old faces Murray for a spot in the final.  Federer made 40 unforced errors -- 16 more than the
previous high in the tournament by the record 17-time Grand Slam
champion.  “There is something in my game that he doesn’t like and it
makes him struggle a bit and maybe bring him out of his comfort
zone,” Berdych said.  Unexpected Layoff  Federer, who had not played since Sept. 1 because American
Mardy Fish withdrew before their fourth-round match, said the
unexpected layoff did not hurt him against Berdych.  “I wish I could have played better,” Federer told
reporters. “So many moments I thought, ‘Man, it’s just not
happening for me.’ It was just a very disappointing match.”  Djokovic, the 3-2 favorite heading into the tournament, was
leading Switzerland’s Stanislas Wawrinka 6-4, 6-1, 3-1 when his
opponent quit their fourth-round match because of flu-like
symptoms. Djokovic has not yet dropped a set in the tournament.  Play resumes today with the second half of the men’s
quarterfinals, featuring a matchup of two past champions and a
showdown between two players who have combined for one semifinal
appearance.  Fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  of  Spain , a semifinalist in
2007, will play Janko Tipsarevic of  Serbia . Tipsarevic, who
yesterday beat 19th-seeded Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany 6-3,
7-6 (7-5), 6-2, has never gone beyond the quarterfinals.  Djokovic Frustrated  Del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion, will face Djokovic
in the final match of the evening. The two have met twice this
year, with Del Potro winning in straight sets at the London
Olympics and Djokovic winning last month in Cincinnati.  Following his fourth-round victory, Djokovic expressed
frustration with the tournament scheduling and the rainy
weather, which pushed his match against Wawrinka into yesterday.
Should Djokovic advance to the Sept. 9 final, he will end up
playing four matches in five days.  “You know in the back of your mind that if you win the
match you are going to have to play the next day,” Djokovic
said. “That’s my case right now.”  Sharapova Advances  Maria Sharapova , the women’s No. 3 seed from  Russia , beat
 Marion Bartoli  of France, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4, to advance to the
semifinals for the first time since her 2006 U.S. Open title.
The match started Sept. 4, but was postponed due to rain with
Bartoli leading 4-0.  Sharapova will face top-seeded  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus
in the semifinals tomorrow. Williams will play  Sara Errani , who
beat her countrywoman and doubles partner  Roberta Vinci , 6-2,
6-4, to become the first Italian woman in the U.S. Open
semifinals since Baroness Maude Giacomo Levi in 1930.  Murray, 25, lost the first set and was down two breaks in
the second before coming back to defeat Marin Cilic of Croatia,
3-6, 7-6 (7-4), 6-2, 6-0.  -- With assistance from Mason Levinson and Rob Gloster in  New
York . Editors: Rob Gloster, Dan Baynes  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at the National Tennis Center at 
4014 or  enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  