-- Federer Ousted by Berdych; Roddick’s Career Ends at U.S. Open
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-06T03:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/federer-ousted-by-berdych-roddick-s-career-ends-at-u-s-open.html
Five-time champion and top seed
 Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  was knocked out of the U.S. Open in
the quarterfinals tonight by sixth seed Tomas Berdych, who will
play No. 3  Andy Murray  for a place in the final.  Federer’s departure came on the same day that  Andy Roddick 
bid farewell to professional tennis on the court that yielded
his biggest win.  Berdych’s 7-6 (7-1), 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 win ended a streak of
eight consecutive U.S. Open semifinal appearances by the 31-
year-old Federer, a run second only to the 12 straight by  Jimmy Connors  in 1974-85.  “There’s no better feeling than to play my first night
match here, play it against Roger and in the end to be able to
beat him,” Berdych, 26, said in an on-court interview.  Berdych, whose only previous semifinal appearances were at
the French Open and Wimbledon in 2010, had never advanced beyond
the fourth round of the  U.S. Open  in nine previous years.  Berdych was the Wimbledon runner-up in 2010, defeating
Federer in the quarterfinals. Federer, though, held an 11-4
record against the Czech entering tonight’s match.  Federer, who won the U.S. Open every year from 2004 to 2008
and captured his record-extending 17th Grand Slam title in July
at Wimbledon, entered the tournament as the 9-4 second choice in
odds at the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book.  Roddick, who revealed his retirement plans six days ago
during the first week of the U.S. Open, lost 6-7 (1-7), 7-6 (7-
4), 6-2, 6-4 today in the fourth round of the tennis season’s
final Grand Slam to Juan Martin  Del Potro , the No. 7 seed from
Argentina, in a rain-delayed match in Arthur Ashe Stadium.  Roddick’s Goodbye  Given the microphone at center court to speak to fans after
fighting back tears following the loss, 2003 U.S. Open champion
Roddick, 30, said: “For the first time in my career I’m not
sure what to say.”  “I loved every minute of it,” he said of his time at the
National Tennis Center in  New York , both as a fan and player.
“A lot of ups, a lot of downs, a lot of great moments. I’ve
appreciated your support along the way.”  Djokovic Advances  No. 2 seed Novak Djokovic also advanced to the
quarterfinals. Women’s No. 3 Maria Sharapova and No. 4 Serena Williams reached the semifinals.  After rain kept all but two matches yesterday from being
completed, the players again had to wait again before returning
to action today.  Roddick and Del Potro, 23, resumed their match tied 6-6 in
the first set and Roddick leading the tiebreaker 1-0. He quickly
seized the set, winning six of seven points. After Del Potro
took the next set in a tiebreaker, Roddick struggled to keep
pace. The match ended in 3 hours, 15 minutes on a Roddick
forehand attempt that went wide and long, nonetheless yielding
Roddick a standing ovation.  Defending champion Djokovic won a fourth-round match
against Stanislas Wawrinka. Djokovic, who was leading 6-4, 6-1,
3-1 when Wawrinka quit the match, will face Del Potro in the
quarterfinals. Another Serbian player, eighth-seeded  Janko Tipsarevic , defeated Philipp Kohlschreiber, the 19th seed from
 Germany , in straight sets to move into the quarterfinals against
fourth seed  David Ferrer  of Spain.  Murray was down a set and 5-1 in the second set against No.
12 Marin Cilic of Croatia before winning a tiebreaker and going
on to a 3-6, 7-6 (7-4), 6-2, 6-0 victory in three hours.  Sharapova Recovers  Sharapova beat  Marion Bartoli  in three sets to return to
the women’s semifinals for the first time since she won the
tournament in 2006.  Sharapova, the No. 3 seed from  Russia , beat Bartoli, the No.
11 seed from  France , 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. Sharapova went to sleep last
night trailing 4-0 in the first set to Bartoli after their match
was suspended because of rain. After dropping that set she came
back, extending her three-set record this year to 12-0.  “That rain break gave me a few hours to think about
things,” Sharapova said in a courtside interview. “I came out
so flat yesterday and she was on fire. She’s so tough, I’m so
happy to get through this one. It’s been so long since I’ve been
at this stage of the U.S. Open.”  Sharapova, 25, next will take on top seed  Victoria Azarenka .
The 23-year-old from Belarus, who knocked off defending champion
Samantha Stosur of Australia yesterday, defeated Sharapova to
win the Australian Open in January.  “She’s a tough one,” Sharapova said. “She beat me in
Australia quite easily and I’d love to get my revenge at a Grand
Slam.”  Sara Errani became the first Italian woman to reach the
semifinals in 82 years when she beat her doubles partner,
 Roberta Vinci , in straight sets in a rain-delayed match.  Errani, 25, the No. 10 seed, won 6-2, 6-4 against the No.
20-seeded Vinci in a match that already had guaranteed the first
Italian semifinalist at the Grand Slam event since Baroness
Maude Giacomo Levi in 1930.  Errani next will play Williams, 30, of the U.S., a 6-1, 6-3
winner against  Ana Ivanovic , 24, the 12th seed from  Serbia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  