-- Finmeccanica, EADS Helicopter Venture Risks Losing Norway Deal
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-09-06T16:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/finmeccanica-eads-helicopter-venture-risks-losing-norway-deal.html
Eurocopter SAS and Agusta SpA,
 Europe ’s largest helicopter makers, risk losing an order for
NH90 maritime choppers because of delivery delays that is
prompting  Norway  to consider  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s
Sikorsky rotorcraft instead.  The Norwegian government has told NH Industries it may buy
Sikorsky Seahawk helicopters unless delivery issues on the NH90
are resolved, the defense ministry said today in a statement to
parliament. The country also is considering extending the life
of two Lynx helicopters as a stop-gap measure, Defense Minister
Espen Barth Eide said in the statement.  Development and delivery delays for years have plagued NH
Industries, the consortium of  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s AgustaWestland,
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) ’s Eurocopter and Fokker
in the Netherlands. Sweden already opted to buy Sikorsky UH-60
Black Hawks for  Afghanistan  operations because NH90s were not
ready.  Norway will decide in the next six months one how to
proceed, Eide told parliament. The government is assessing the
operational impact of a helicopter change, since the navy’s
frigates and coast guard vessels have prepared for NH90 use.  The Scandinavian country, which has contracted to buy 14
NH90s for coast guard and navy use, got its first unit last
year. The armed forces are satisfied with the performance of the
NH90 they have received and put through trials, Eide said.  NH Industries representatives were not immediately
available for comment. Norwegian government officials have
already met with Sikorsky to discuss a possible Seahawk
purchase, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  