-- Fordham Finance Major Studies Roger Federer After UBS Internship
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-06T04:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/fordham-finance-major-studies-roger-federer-after-ubs-internship.html
Kuba Kowalski’s 3.8 grade-point
average as a  Fordham University  finance major has earned him
inroads on  Wall Street . Most of his recent lessons have come
from  Roger Federer , Novak Djokovic and Agnieszka Radwanska.  Kowalski, the Rams’ top singles tennis player, is a friend
and occasional hitting partner of Radwanska, and was her guest
at the  U.S. Open  in  New York  last week. He spent time after
matches with the second-seed from  Poland , saw the defending-
champion Djokovic prepare to take the court, and followed the
top-seeded Federer through interviews in the halls of Arthur
Ashe Stadium.  The 22-year-old junior returned to academics two days ago.
He worked an internship with  UBS AG (UBS) ’s wealth-management group a
year ago and will spend a couple of days this semester observing
a financial adviser at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “As a tennis player, there is a lot to learn here from
just observing the best in the world,” Kowalski said in an
interview at the Open after Radwanska’s fourth-round loss to
Roberta Vinci on Sept. 3. “I’ve had a chance to see the process
from beginning to end, and it’s definitely motivating.”  Kowalski, Poland’s second-ranked junior when he was in high
school, said he chose Fordham in the Bronx in part because it’s
about 45 minutes to Times Square by public transportation. He’s
not the first player to choose the Rams because of the city’s
business opportunities, according to Fordham coach Cory Hubbard,
who said the location is “the No. 1 thing I push” when
recruiting.  ‘Internship Gateway’  “Our competitive advantage is the gateway to  New York
City , and the gateway to internships in the world of business
and finance,” Hubbard said in a telephone interview.  Between trips to see Radwanska at the Open, Kowalski hit
with Pablo Salame, global co-head of the securities division at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “Kuba can certainly hit with plenty of people who are
better tennis players than me, so he is definitely using his
tennis abilities to network,” Salame said in an e-mail.  Kowalski’s schedule for the new semester includes three to
four hours of tennis a day, morning runs or gym workouts, and
the brief stint at JPMorgan. He is taking his full slate of five
classes mostly at night, the only time he said he could fit them
into his schedule.  “Once you’re motivated, you don’t get tired as quickly,”
Kowalski said. “I want to perform as well as I can, that’s the
pressure I put on myself.”  Same Rigors  Howard Endelman, associate head coach at  Columbia
University  in  Manhattan , recognizes that drive. A former
investment banker in Merrill Lynch’s industrials group and a
doubles player at the 1988 U.S. Open, Endelman said competitive
tennis prepares people for the rigors of a career in finance.  “Discipline, self-reliance, delayed gratification,
preparation and hard work -- there are a lot of transferable
skills,” Endelman, 47, said in a telephone interview.  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman, confirmed in an e-mail
that Kowalski worked an internship last year in the company’s
wealth-management department. Darin Oduyoye, a spokesman for
JPMorgan, confirmed in an e-mail that Kowalski will be shadowing
a company financial adviser for a day or two.  Kowalski grew up in a Krakow apartment adjacent to a row of
tennis courts, and started playing at 7 when he was diagnosed
with Type 1 diabetes. He met Radwanska, another Krakow native,
five years ago on the tennis court.  Krakow Cohorts  The two keep in touch during the year and hit together when
they’re both in Poland. He credits her with improving his game,
both on the court and in his mental approach.  “He’s studying nearby now so it’s great to see him and
it’s great that he’s able to watch,” Radwanska, 23, said in an
interview.  Kowalski taught himself English after high school and
enrolled in 2010 at  San Diego State University , a Top 50 tennis
program, but transferred to Fordham in search of a more-rigorous
academic environment. He sat out his first semester in the Bronx
and joined the tennis team last year.  During Kowalski’s first season at Fordham, the Rams
finished 17-10, their highest win total in 16 years, and pulled
in the nation’s No. 27 recruiting class, according to the  Tennis
Recruiting Network . Hubbard said Kowalski could become the
school’s first nationally ranked singles player this year.  “He demands perfection from us the same way he does for
himself, and it pushes all of us beyond our limits,” J.J.
Tauil, Kowalski’s sophomore doubles partner, said in an e-mail.  Kowalski spent four weeks this summer in Poland, where his
15-year-old sister Marta plays on the junior circuit. Two days
after he returned to America, Kowalski was sitting courtside in
the Grandstand with Radwanska’s sister, 43rd-ranked Urszula, and
her coach, Tomasz Wiktorowski, watching second-round play.  Later that day he stood next to  Andy Roddick  in the locker
room as the 2003 U.S. Open champion prepared to announce his
retirement.  “If he’s spending a little less time on the court this
week, that’s all right because just being in that environment
will help him,” Hubbard said. “He’s learning through
osmosis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at the National Tennis Center   enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  