-- French Unemployment Jumps, Increasing Pressure for Growth Push
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-09-06T05:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/french-unemployment-jumps-increasing-pressure-for-growth-push.html
French unemployment rose to a 
13-year high in the second quarter as companies cut staff to 
cope with a stalled economy, adding pressure on President 
 Francois Hollande  to fulfil a campaign pledge to revive growth.  The  jobless rate  based on International Labor Organization
standards climbed to 10.2 percent of the population from 10
percent in the previous three months, national statistics office
Insee in Paris said today. Excluding  France ’s overseas
territories, the rate was 9.7 percent, compared with a median
forecast of 9.8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  With neighboring Spain and  Italy  in recession, the French
economy has failed to expand for three quarters, and companies
from  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  to Air France-KLM Group are eliminating
thousands of jobs. Labor Minister Michel Sapin said this week
that jobless claims have already surpassed 3 million, a level
last reached in August 1999, and will increase further.  “The increase in unemployment in France since the spring
of 2011 is very worrying,” Natixis economists Patrick Artus and
Jean-Christophe Caffet said in a note to clients before the
release of the latest numbers. “The labor market hasn’t stopped
deteriorating.”  The malaise is forcing Hollande to weigh business calls for
a cut in social charges and promises to cut the  budget deficit 
against labor union demands that he keep campaign pledges to
avoid austerity.  Reviving Growth  So far Hollande has concentrated his effort at the European
level, seeking to end a debt crisis approaching its third
anniversary to revive growth in France’s main export markets.  Labor Minister Sapin said the government is considering
revamping regulation to make the workforce more flexible and
help companies cope with economic shocks.  France needs rules that “allow companies to adapt,” Sapin
told Bloomberg Television last week. It’s about the “ability of
companies to adapt to a changing world, changing technology and
economic shocks.”  The government is also aiming to implement any tax
increases needed to balance the budget in 2013 so that the
burden is shared between consumers and businesses without
driving investment abroad. “It needs to be done
intelligently,” he said.  Hollande’s government is due to present its 2013 budget the
week of Sept. 24. The  finance ministry  needs to find at least 33
billion euros in savings to meet its commitment to reduce the
deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product, according to the
national auditor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  