-- German Stocks Climb as ECB’s Draghi Outlines Bond Plan
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-09-06T15:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/german-stocks-rise-as-investors-await-ecb-meeting-outcome.html
German stocks  climbed as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers agreed to
an unlimited bond-purchase program to regain control of  interest
rates  in the euro region and stem the debt crisis.  Drugmakers advanced, led by Bayer AG, which rose 4.2
percent. Merck KGaA gained 3.4 percent after it agreed to buy
the global rights to a cancer drug developed by Symphogen A/S.
Deutsche Bank AG climbed 7.1 percent.  The DAX added 2.9 percent to 7,167.33 at the close in
 Frankfurt , its biggest gain in a month. The gauge has  rallied 20
percent  from this year’s low on June 5 as Draghi said he will
preserve the euro and amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
announce a third round of bond purchases. The broader HDAX Index
rose 2.8 percent today.  “Draghi took a huge gamble and managed not to disappoint
on the most important point,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior
strategist at PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen, where he helps
oversee $55 billion. “He committed the central bank to backing
up the euro area, while doing it in a way that doesn’t make the
ECB too vulnerable to speculation.”  The ECB will target  government bonds  with maturities of one
to three years, including longer-dated debt that has a residual
maturity of that length, Draghi said. Purchases will be fully
sterilized, meaning that the overall impact on the  money supply 
will be neutral, and the ECB will not have seniority.  ECB Purchases  “Governments must stand ready to activate the EFSF/ESM in
the  bond market  when exceptional financial-market circumstances
and risks to financial stability exist -- with strict and
effective conditionality,” Draghi said. The ECB reserves the
right to terminate bond purchases if governments don’t fulfil
their part of the bargain, he said.  The ECB needs to be in a position to ensure the
transmission of its rates in all euro-area countries, Draghi
said after the central bank held its benchmark rate at a record
low of 0.75 percent.  “We will have a fully effective backstop to avoid
destructive scenarios with potentially severe challenges for
 price stability ,” Draghi said at a press conference in
Frankfurt today.  German factory orders increased in July as domestic demand
for investment goods such as machines helped offset a decline in
sales to fellow euro-area countries.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, gained
0.5 percent from June, when they fell a revised 1.6 percent, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a 0.3
percent increase, according to the median of 38 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. Jobs  Companies in the U.S. added 201,000 workers in August,
according to figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
called for an advance of 140,000.  A separate report showed  service industries  in the U.S.
expanded in August at a faster pace than forecast. The  Institute
for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing  index climbed to a
three-month high of 53.7 from 52.6 in July, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said today. Readings above 50 signal expansion, and
economists projected 52.5 for August, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Drugmakers Gain  Bayer,  Germany ’s largest drugmaker, advanced 4.2 percent to
65.53 euros.  Merck (MRK)  rose 3.4 percent to 95 euros after agreeing to pay as
much as 495 million euros ($625 million) for global rights to a
cancer drug developed by Symphogen, a Danish biotechnology
company.  Symphogen will receive 20 million euros now, and as much as
225 million euros if the drug passes certain regulatory and
clinical steps, the Darmstadt, Germany-based company said in a
statement today. Merck will also pay the Copenhagen,  Denmark 
based company as much as 250 million euros on reaching certain
levels of sales.  Deutsche Bank, the biggest German lender, rose 7.1 percent
to 29.79 euros. Commerzbank AG, the second largest, gained 5.3
percent to 1.30 euros.  Lanxess AG (LXS)  advanced 3.3 percent to 61.99 euros as the
specialty chemicals maker, which was spun off from Bayer almost
eight years ago, is poised to join the  DAX (DAX)  index on Sept. 24.,
according to a statement from Deutsche Boerse AG.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the third biggest European cement
maker, rose 4.8 percent to 42.17 euros. A gauge of construction
stocks was among the best performers of the 19 industry groups
on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  