-- German Factory Orders Rose in July as Domestic Demand Rebounded
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-09-06T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/german-factory-orders-rose-in-july-as-domestic-demand-rebounded.html
German factory orders increased in
July as domestic demand for investment goods such as machines
helped offset a decline in sales to fellow euro-area countries.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, gained
0.5 percent from June, when they fell a revised 1.6 percent, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a 0.3
percent increase, according to the median of 38 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey . From a year earlier, orders dropped 4.5
percent when adjusted for work days.  Domestic spending is helping  Germany ’s economy,  Europe ’s
largest, to weather a sovereign debt crisis that’s pushed at
least five euro-area nations into recession. Still, business
confidence fell for a fourth month in August as companies, which
have tapped faster-growing Asian markets to offset declining
demand in Europe, begin to feel the effects of weaker global
trade.  “An increase in orders would merely be a payback for the
previous month and not a trend reversal,” Christian Melzer, an
economist at Dekabank in  Frankfurt , said before today’s data
were published. “Germany is beginning to feel the economic
slump in the periphery and weaker global growth. But we’re not
forecasting a German recession. We’ll see a stronger slowdown
and nothing worse than stagnation.”  ‘Stable’ Development  Domestic orders rose 1 percent from June, when they fell
1.8 percent, today’s report showed. Orders from the euro area
dropped 0.6 percent after a 3.9 percent decrease in June. Demand
from non-euro nations rose 0.5 percent in that period.  Orders for intermediate goods rose 0.5 percent from June,
when they fell 3 percent. Orders for investment goods were also
up 0.5 percent after a 0.8 percent drop in June. Orders for
 consumer goods  slipped 1.2 percent in July.  The ministry said orders continue to show a “stable”
development and demand from the euro region “seems to have
stabilized.” There were very few bulk orders in July, it said.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, last month reported its first drop in quarterly
profit in almost three years and warned that Europe’s debt
crisis could cast further clouds on the global growth outlook.  MAN SE (MAN) , the German truckmaker that lowered its 2012
earnings forecast in July, said on Aug. 31 it may cut production
shifts and eliminate additional temporary staff after already
announcing plans to cut half of its non-permanent workforce.  German Unemployment  German unemployment edged higher for a fifth month in
August, even as the jobless rate held at a two-decade low of 6.8
percent. Manufacturing contracted last month and exports dropped
in June.  The Bundesbank, which in June predicted German growth of 1
percent this year, said on Aug. 20 that uncertainty in the euro
area “could have a more negative impact on economic activity in
Germany in the second half of the year.” At the same time, the
outlook for private consumption remains “favorable,” the
Bundesbank said.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who is
expected to present details today of a bond-purchase plan
designed to ensure the survival of the euro, will also unveil
new economic forecasts for the 17-nation euro area, Germany’s
largest export market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  