-- Germany Urged to Ban Shale Gas Fracking Near Water Reservoirs
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-09-06T13:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/germany-urged-to-ban-shale-gas-fracking-near-water-reservoirs.html
Germany is considering tighter
regulation of a technique to unlock natural gas from impermeable
rocks because of concerns it’s harmful to the environment.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government should ban hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, near drinking water reservoirs and
mineral springs and require developers to conduct environmental
impact studies, according to a  report  commissioned by the German
Environment Ministry.  “The study’s results and recommendations are a major step
forward in the discussion about fracking,” Environment Minister
Peter Altmaier said today in an e-mailed statement. “All
concerns must be alleviated before fracking is used.”  Companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  have in the past
drilled test wells into unconventional gas reservoirs in Germany
in an attempt to emulate the U.S. shale gas boom. While a
successful drilling campaign would redraw the energy map across
Europe, a continent reliant on  Russia  for about a quarter of its
gas, little headway has been made in  Germany  mainly because of
public opposition on environmental grounds.  Fracking involves drilling hundreds of wells and cracking
shale rocks with a high-pressure missile of water mixed with
sand and chemicals, to unlock natural gas from the impermeable
stone. The method has been used in Germany since the 1960s, with
at least 275 fracks linked to conventional gas and oil wells in
 Lower Saxony , according to the study. Fracking was outlawed in
France last year and the practice is also banned in  Bulgaria .  No Moratorium  “It’s good that no moratorium was proposed,” said Ingo
Kapp, a physicist at the GFZ German Research Center for
Geosciences in Potsdam. “While Germany won’t match  Poland ’s
shale gas ambitions, a limited exploration that takes
environmental concerns seriously will be possible.”  Environmental assessment studies have already been carried
out in some cases, and drilling near mineral springs was never
an option anyway, he said.  Germany sits atop an estimated 8 trillion cubic feet of
technically recoverable shale gas resources, according to the
U.S. Energy Information Administration. While that’s a low
number compared with the 83 trillion cubic feet for Norway and
187 trillion cubic feet for Poland, the EIA said in a 2011 study
that Germany has a large “additional, still undefined shale
potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  