-- German Stock Ownership Highest Since 2007 as Yields Fall
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-07T15:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/german-stock-ownership-highest-since-2007-as-bond-yields-tumble.html
More Germans have bought equities
than any time in five years, boosting ownership from one of the
lowest levels in the developed world as near-zero bond yields
increase the attraction of riskier assets.  About 10.2 million Germans owned stocks in the first half
of 2012, the most since the financial crisis began in 2007 and
up from 8.3 million in the first half of 2011, according to the
Deutsches Aktien-Institut, a shareholder lobby. The gains
brought the investment level to about 6.3 percent of the
population, compared with 23 percent in the U.K. and 56 percent
in the U.S., according to the DAI.  Germans are turning to equities for appreciation and income
as policy makers take steps to tackle the euro-area debt crisis.
The DAX Index has surged 22 percent in 2012, the second-best
performance among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.
Henkel AG, the Dusseldorf-based maker of Persil detergent, and
SAP AG, the largest maker of business-management software, led
the gains as yields on government 10-year notes dropped to 1.127
percent on June 1, the lowest level since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1989.  “Germans traditionally loved government bonds, but now
inflation is rising and there is less security and stability in
bonds because of the concerns surrounding  Portugal ,  Italy ,
 Greece  and  Spain ,” said  Robert Halver , head of capital markets
research at Baader Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “Now, Germans are more
willing to buy equities.”  Confidence Grows  German stocks are surging as economist forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg predict the world’s fourth-biggest economy will
avoid the euro-area recession and European Central Bank policy
makers agree to unlimited bond purchases to fight speculation of
a euro breakup. As the nation’s retail investors grow in
confidence, they are seeking alternative investments a decade
after their last foray into riskier assets ended in the failure
of the Neuer Markt gauge of technology companies.  The DAX advanced 0.7 percent to 7,214.5 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt today, the highest in more than a year.  Inflation in  Germany  rose to 2.2 percent in August from 1.9
percent the previous month, pushing the so-called real rate on
10-year bunds further below zero. The yield on the two-year
notes is 0.04 percent. Low payouts on  government bonds  are
prompting Germans to risk more speculative investments,
according to DAI Director Franz-Josef Leven.  ‘Additional Income’  “More and more people see that they have to act on their
own and that they have to invest part of their income to have
some additional income when they are old,” Leven said. “When
the  bond market  is down and you earn for German state bonds just
zero percent, people look for some sort of opportunity to make
some performance.”  Investing in real estate is discouraged in Germany, with
buy-to-let investors who sell a property within 10 years of the
purchase date facing punitive taxes.  Volume in German stocks is climbing, bucking a three-year
trend of reduction around the world. About 231 million shares
have changed hands in  DAX Index (DAX)  shares each day this year, up 38
percent from 2010. By contrast, daily trading on American
exchanges has averaged about 6.5 billion shares a day in 2012,
down 23 percent from two years earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The increase in German equity ownership is being led by
younger investors who are more comfortable taking risks on
stocks. About 1.5 million Germans in their 30s held equities in
the first half of this year, compared with 1.1 million in 2010,
DAI data show.  New Generation  Philipp Koock, a 30-year-old freelance software consultant
in Frankfurt, is one of the new generation prepared to gamble
more than their parents.  “I use spare money to try to make a quick profit,” Koock
said in an interview. “A good friend introduced me to it when I
was in my mid-20s. He was making huge money on company stocks.
My father is more safety conscious and holds investments which
protect his money.”  Koock owns 2,000 euros ($2,500) of shares in Walldorf,
Germany-based SAP and usually holds stocks for between two and
three months while his father invests over three to five years,
he said. He also has a retirement fund linked to the performance
of Germany’s benchmark DAX.  SAP shares have surged 32 percent in 2012 as the maker of
business-management software reported a 13 percent increase in
second-quarter profit. Henkel has rallied 40 percent for the
biggest gain in the DAX after second-quarter adjusted earnings
before interest and taxes rose to 609 million euros from 514
million euros a year earlier, exceeding analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Crash  Germans’ historically cautious attitude to investing was
exacerbated by the crash of the Neuer Markt, an exchange for
startups that was created in 1997 as an answer to the Nasdaq
Stock Market in the U.S. and closed five years later. Share
ownership declined almost every year in the decade through 2011,
having peaked at 12.9 million in 2001, DAI data show.  “When the Neuer Markt broke down, the confidence and
euphoria for share ownership was completely destroyed,” said
DAI’s Leven.  As appetite for risk among Germans returns, companies
hoping to attract their money are offering new trading products.  Stoxx Ltd., a joint venture between  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and
SIX Group, in partnership with  Barclays Plc (BARC) , introduced a
selection of products in 2009 that enable investors to bet on
the levels of implied volatility on pan-European and German
stock indexes.  ‘High Sophistication’  “These products require a high level of sophistication and
affinity with the stock market because they do require the
investor to closely follow developments in stock prices,” said
Konrad Sippel, global head of product development at Stoxx.  The number of structured products traded on the five-year-
old Scoach market, which includes securitized derivatives such
as certificates, warrants or reverse convertibles, jumped to
912,775 in June 2012 from 180,337 in April 2007. The venue is a
joint venture between SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd. and  Deutsche
Boerse , operator of the Frankfurt stock exchange.  Comdirect Bank AG (COM) , the retail brokerage arm of  Commerzbank
AG (CBK) , started offering contracts for difference in September 2011
and now has 4,000 customers trading the securities, which enable
investors to make leveraged bets on price movements without
buying the underlying securities.  “Our customers are becoming much more active in using
products which provide them with an opportunity to take
advantage of volatility in the market,” said Stefan Wiese,
trading product manager at Comdirect in Quickborn, Germany.  Social Investments  Some German investors are also trading on social network-
driven websites, where users copy investment decisions made by
the best-performing users. These so-called gurus attract
thousands of followers, in a way similar to those on micro-
blogging website Twitter.  EToro , a New York-based social investment market, said
customers in Germany have more than tripled over the past year,
with 10 percent trading on the DAX.  “When the stock market plummeted during the high-tech
bubble, many German investors got burned and it took over a
decade to reassure them that  stock trading  and online trading is
a valid investment opportunity,” said Yoni Assia, chief
executive officer and founder of EToro.  Still, as investment in the stock market becomes more
common, investors are being warned to ensure they understand the
products they are buying.  ‘Risky Investment’  “The real problem of the past few years was mainly that
people were investing in things that they were told were safe
and turned out not to be safe,” according to Hermann-Josef
Tenhagen, editor-in-chief of Finanztest, the magazine of
Stiftung Warentest, Germany’s consumer body. “The real question
is if people understand if it is a risky investment, and what
sorts of risks are involved.”  For Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder
Equities GmbH in Munich, continuing affluence and relatively low
unemployment mean Germans will keep taking more risks with their
investments. The jobless rate in Germany stands at 6.8 percent,
compared with a  record 11.3 percent  in the euro region as a
whole and 8.3 percent in the U.S., according to Bloomberg data.  Germany’s economy will grow 0.5 percent this quarter and
0.9 percent in the final three months of 2012, according to the
median of 17 economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The euro
area is projected to shrink 0.8 percent and 0.5 percent in the
corresponding periods.  “Despite the uncertainty in the euro, Germans have
generally not lost wealth in the real estate market, and
employment is still strong compared to the periphery,” said
Weston, who helps manage 70 million euros. “The confidence in
Germans’ personal finances has created an opportunity to take
greater risk in stocks to earn returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  