-- Giants Follow Super Bowl Title With Opening-Game Loss to Cowboys
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-06T05:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/giants-follow-super-bowl-title-with-opening-game-loss-to-cowboys.html
New York  Giants coach  Tom Coughlin 
said his team’s 24-17 loss to the  Dallas  Cowboys provided clear
proof that a new National Football League season is here.  In the nine years the NFL has had its defending Super Bowl
champion host a season-opening game in prime time, the Giants
became the first reigning champion to start the year with a loss.
 Tony Romo  threw three touchdown passes for the Cowboys, two to
Kevin Ogletree, as the visitors opened a 24-10 lead and held on
for the win at MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  “It’s a bite out of humble pie is what it is,” Coughlin
said last night at his postgame news conference. “It brings you
right back down to earth. Last year was last year.”  The Giants beat the Cowboys twice in the final four weeks
of the 2011 season to clinch the National Football Conference
East division title and make the playoffs at 9-7. New York then
won four straight postseason games, including its second  Super
Bowl  in five seasons and fourth overall.  The Giants celebrated those titles in a pregame ceremony
last night, as former players carried the three previous Super
Bowl trophies onto the field. Phil Simms, the Most Valuable
Player of the 1986 championship game, walked onto the field
first with the Lombardi trophy held over his head. Simms was
followed by Ottis Anderson, the MVP of the Super Bowl after the
1990 season, while Michael Strahan, captain of the 2007
championship team, brought out the third trophy.  Manning, the MVP of the Giants’ past two Super Bowl
victories, then ran out onto the field with the rest of his
teammates before a MetLife Stadium Giants-record crowd of 82,287.  Ogletree’s Big Night  The night’s biggest star turned out to be Ogletree, a 25-
year-old undrafted receiver who grew up in Queens, New York, who
finished with eight catches for 114 yards. He caught scoring
passes of 10 and 40 yards from Romo, and then helped seal the
victory with a 15-yard reception on a 3rd-and-10 play with two
minutes remaining.  “As a team we didn’t give all our effort, period,” Giants
defensive end  Jason Pierre-Paul  said in the locker room. “We
can do better and we know that as a team. We’re going to go over
film and see what we did wrong.”  The Giants were outgained 433-269 in total yards.  Romo finished with 307 passing yards, completing 22 of 29
passes, while running back DeMarco Murray rushed for 131 yards
on 22 carries for the Cowboys (1-0). Manning passed for 213
yards and a score for the Giants (0-1), who also got 78 rushing
yards and a touchdown from  Ahmad Bradshaw .  “We’ll get better,” Coughlin said. “Hopefully the
competitive nature of our guys will come out swinging.”  Giants Strike First  After a scoreless first quarter, the Giants took a 3-0 lead
on a 22-yard field goal by  Lawrence Tynes  with 9:10 left in the
second quarter. The kick came three plays after an interception
by Michael Boley gave New York the ball on the Cowboys’ 1-yard
line, however, the Giants’ offense wasn’t able to punch the ball
in the end zone.  “With three opportunities to score, we have to get it in
on one of them,” Manning said.  The Cowboys took a 7-3 lead on Ogletree’s first career
touchdown catch with 1:01 left in the opening half. Two plays
after Romo connected with Dez Bryant on a 38-yard pass into
Giants’ territory, he escaped pressure from the Giants’
defenders and lofted a pass into the end zone to Ogletree.  The two would hook up again on the Cowboys’ opening drive
of the second half, as Ogletree, who entered the NFL as an
undrafted free agent from the University of Virginia, beat
Giants cornerback Corey Webster for a 40-yard touchdown catch.  Giants Respond  The Giants responded on their opening possession of the
second half, capping an 89-yard drive with a 10-yard touchdown
by Bradshaw. The score came one play after Domenik Hixon hauled
in a 39-yard pass from Manning.  Dallas settled for a 33-yard field goal from Dan Bailey on
its next possession, when a third-down pass from Romo was thrown
behind Ogletree in the end zone.  The Cowboys, who lost 86 yards due to penalties, pushed
their lead to 24-10 with 5:57 left when  Miles Austin  outjumped
Justin Tryon on a 1st-down-and-30 play for a 34-yard touchdown.  New York answered with a 9-yard touchdown pass from Manning
to Martellus Bennett with 2:42 remaining. The Giants wouldn’t
get the ball back again, as Ogletree and the Cowboys converted a
3rd-and-12 pass play with two minutes left and ran out the
remaining time on the clock.  This year’s opening game was moved to Wednesday from
Thursday to avoid a conflict with President  Barack Obama ’s
speech at the Democratic National Convention. The NFL, which
opened its season on a Thursday night the past 10 years, said
this was the league’s first Wednesday game since Sept. 22, 1948,
when the Los Angeles Rams routed the Detroit Lions 44-7.  The Giants next face the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  at home on
Sept. 16, while the Cowboys visit the  Seattle  Seahawks the same
day.  Only one of the eight teams to successfully defend Super
Bowl titles lost the season opener, the 1993  Dallas Cowboys .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford,
New Jersey, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  