-- Goodbye to All That: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-09-06T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/goodbye-to-all-that-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
While the typical Ron Paul speech is
shot through with paranoia, grandiosity, and omnibus weirdness,
America’s No. 1 libertarian extremist moves in from the margins
when he talks about the country’s current aversion to foreign
entanglements.  “Somebody said the other day on the Internet, if those
Paul people had been in charge,  Osama bin Laden  would still be
alive,” Paul told an adoring crowd of fringe Republicans in
late August, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 10
issue. “But you know what I think the answer is? So would the
3,000 people on 9/11 be alive!”  The statement is, of course, historically clueless. The
attacks of Sept. 11 were set in motion by Islamism’s sense of
theological supremacy, by its loathing of modernity, and also by
revulsion at the American presence on the Arabian Peninsula. It
was a presence deemed by U.S. policy makers, correctly, to be
vital to a functioning world economy. And yet Paul’s simplistic
isolationism also reflects a broad desire for a clean break from
the  Middle East .  When Americans look at the belt of countries stretching
from Libya and Egypt to  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan , they see a
scarlet red landscape of tribalism, autocracy, upheaval, and
religious fundamentalism.  It’s unbroken by anything except Israel, which for years
has played the role of America’s neurotic, if plucky, Jewish
friend, but which has now become a source of anxiety for
Americans who would prefer to avoid a war with  Iran . Americans
are also cold to the idea of intervention in  Syria , they are
happy to have already forgotten about  Iraq , and they would like
to begin to forget about Afghanistan as soon as humanly
possible.  Candidate Weariness  This weariness has reached the top of both parties’
tickets.  Mitt Romney  was the first Republican candidate for
president since 1952 to make no mention of war in his convention
acceptance speech. (He didn’t even mention the tens of thousands
of U.S. troops currently in harm’s way.) And  Barack Obama ’s
approach to the Middle East is mainly to ignore it and hope that
the next catastrophe, whatever it may be, erupts no sooner than
Nov. 7.  To some extent, this desire to be rid of the nation’s
commitments in the region reflects a strain of isolationism that
dates back to America’s founding.  Recent trends, too, have made the Mideast seem less
relevant to the U.S.’s national security: The boom in domestic
energy production and the prospect of America weaning itself
from foreign oil; the killing of bin Laden and the apparent
decline of al-Qaeda; and the argument that the U.S.’s attentions
and resources would be far better spent dealing with a rising
 China  in the Pacific.  Dangerous Fantasy  More than a decade since Sept. 11, the logic of putting the
Middle East and all its dysfunction behind us may seem
irresistible. But it’s a dangerous fantasy. There are compelling
reasons why the region matters to the U.S., and these reasons
will stay compelling for decades to come.  When Obama took office in 2009, the U.S. was unhealthily
obsessed with the Arab world.  “When we came in we thought we were overweighted in the
Middle East, particularly in Iraq,” the deputy national
security adviser, Benjamin Rhodes, said in an interview. “While
the U.S. was preoccupied in Iraq, we had the dramatic rise of
China and other Asian powers and we weren’t paying sufficient
attention. If you looked at the resources, and at the time and
attention of senior policy makers, it was overwhelmingly Middle
East.”  The president and his secretary of state,  Hillary Clinton ,
began to shape a policy meant to contain China (though the
administration would never frame it in so confrontational a
way), a “pivot” toward Asia.  Ringing China  The Obama administration has firmed up its alliances across
the Asian continent: Thailand, Vietnam, the Philippines,
Singapore, South Korea, and Japan all comprise a  united front 
ringing China, which, by contrast, has only North Korea in its
camp.  Since the end of World War II, 60 percent or so of American
naval assets have been based in the Atlantic, 40 percent in the
Pacific. Now it’s an even 50-50 split. And in a highly symbolic
move, the U.S. initiated a plan to base as many as 2,500 U.S.
Marines in Darwin in northernmost Australia as a means of
projecting American influence into the  South China Sea .  When I asked Rhodes if the administration’s pivot toward
Asia explains, at least in part, the U.S.’s unwillingness to
take the lead in resolving the crisis in Syria, he said, “It is
certainly the case that we don’t want developments in these
countries to cause us to significantly raise the amount of
resources we devote to them.” Rhodes also argued that direct
American intervention in the Middle East “is often not the best
way to respond to the Arab Spring.”  China’s Significance  It’s inarguable that Asia is crucial to America’s economic
future. “China already represents the most important national
security issue we face,” says R. Nicholas Burns, a former under
secretary of state for political affairs. Yet Burns, like
others, regrets the Obama team’s use of the term “pivot,”
which “implies a turn away, that we were going to leave NATO
and Europe and our Middle East allies behind.”  The U.S. has turned away. The Obama administration has put
no emphasis on Mideast peacemaking; America’s allies in the
region see its position on Iran’s nuclear ambitions as
ambiguous; and in Afghanistan, the administration is looking for
the exit at a hurried pace.  Obama “led from behind” in Libya and has resisted calls
to push more actively for the ouster of Syria’s Bashar al-Assad.
This effort to de-emphasize the region represents a significant
departure in U.S. strategy, according to Robert Kagan of the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  Taking Responsibility  “After the entire collapse of international order and
security 70 years ago, the way we established order and security
was to take responsibility for three regions: Asia, Europe, and
the Middle East,” Kagan says. “That is what the definition of
a superpower is. We consciously adopted a global role.”  And that’s why the U.S.’s current retreat from the Mideast
will only be temporary, which is a good thing. America has at
least four core interests across the greater Middle East, and
each one requires constant monitoring and a readiness to
intervene. The first is energy. The notion that America will
ever be truly energy-independent is chimerical.  Even if the U.S. soon manages to produce all the fossil-
fuel energy it needs for itself, the world economy would be
devastated if South Korea, Japan and China were suddenly cut off
from Mideast oil.  Unlikely Development  So the U.S. will need to continue safeguarding the security
of the Persian Gulf, barring one unlikely development: “The
only thing that could change this would be burden-sharing with
China with respect to keeping open the  Strait of Hormuz ,” says
Andrew Exum, a Middle East scholar at the Center for a New
American Security in Washington. “When you see Chinese ships
protecting trade routes through the Strait, maybe we can stop
worrying as much.”  The second interest is the security of Israel. “There are
broad domestic constituencies for support for Israel, and no
politician can ignore that,” Exum says. Nothing on the horizon
suggests that America will be radically scaling back its
relationship with Israel. Quite the opposite: Next year could be
the year the crisis over  Iran’s nuclear program  reaches a
boiling point (if it doesn’t before November).  Which brings us to the third concern: nuclear
proliferation. Israel is a nuclear power; Iran is seeking to
become a nuclear power; and Pakistan, at the edge of the greater
Middle East, is a particularly unstable nuclear power (and one
that could easily transfer nuclear technology to other states in
the region that are fearful of Iran’s nuclear ambitions, or
could simply lose control of its nuclear arsenal).  Mass Destruction  The primary foreign policy task of an American president in
the post-Sept. 11 era is to prevent jihadist organizations from
obtaining weapons of mass destruction. It’s therefore impossible
to ignore a region in which this acquisition would most likely
take place.  As for terrorism, the threat to the U.S. posed by the
central al-Qaeda organization (currently headquartered in
territory controlled by our ostensible ally, Pakistan) is
dramatically lower than it was 11 years ago. Yet contrary to
what  Ron Paul  might claim, no counter-terrorism expert believes
a comprehensive American withdrawal from the Mideast would bring
about an end to anti-American jihadist terrorism.  Radical Ideologues  There will be no ground invasions of  Muslim countries  in
the near future; Iraq and Afghanistan have immunized the U.S. --
its people and its government -— against that level of
interventionism. Yet it’s naive to think that abandoning
American responsibilities in the region would lead to anything
but the further empowerment of radical ideologues.  The Middle East is a continual source of woe. There is
something seductive about the notion of pivoting away from it
toward … well, anything, really. Yet it will be a terrible
mistake for the U.S. to avert its eyes simply because what it
sees constitutes nothing but trouble.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a national correspondent for The
Atlantic and a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  