-- Google, Louboutin, Pinterest, Cengage: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-06T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/google-louboutin-pinterest-cengage-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , creator of the world’s
most-used Internet search engine, received a patent on a
technology that could provide a new level of security for
computers and mobile device.  Patent 8,261,090, which was issued Sept. 4, covers a login
to a computing device based on facial recognition. According to
the patent, a camera is coupled to a computing device. As it
receives an image of a potential user, the device compares that
image to a predetermined identity.  If the user matched the identity, log-in will occur.  Mountain View, California-based Google applied for the
patent in September 2011, with the assistance of  Brake Hughes
Bellermann LLP  of  Washington .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Louboutin Wins Right to Red-Sole Shoe Trademark Protection  Christian Louboutin  Sarl won trademark protection for its
women’s shoes with red soles, while an appeals court also ruled
the company can’t trademark a design that is simply all red.  Louboutin had sought a preliminary injunction that would
have prevented Yves Saint Laurent America Inc. from selling all-
red shoes that Louboutin claimed were identical to some of its
own. U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in August 2011 rejected
Louboutin’s bid for an injunction and indicated it would
probably lose the trademark case against Yves Saint Laurent.  The U.S. appeals court in Manhattan ruled yesterday that
Louboutin’s red sole is entitled to limited trademark
protection, extending only to a red lacquered outer sole that
contrasts with the color of the rest of the shoe and not to
shoes that are monochromatically red. The judges affirmed the
lower court’s denial of the injunction against  Yves Saint
Laurent  and sent the case back to the trial judge.  “We are pleased that our central premise, that color on
the red sole, can be a trademark,” Harley Lewin, a lawyer
representing Louboutin at McCarter & English LLP, said in an e-
mail. “We consider this a significant win, not only for
Louboutin, but for the fashion industry in general.  “We are happy to have achieved a victory in defending
against Louboutin’s lawsuit,” David Bernstein, a lawyer for
 Debevoise & Plimpton LLP , who represents Yves Saint Laurent,
said in an e-mail. “YSL will continue to produce monochromatic
shoes with red outsoles, as it has done since the 1970s.”  Yves Saint Laurent, the company named for the designer who
died in 2008, began selling shoes with red outsoles “long
before Mr. Louboutin began using them,”  David Bernstein , a
lawyer at Debevoise, told Marrero at a hearing in July. He told
the appeals court that the designer’s monochromatic shoe is
“the DNA of the brand.”  Christian Louboutin, the designer for whom the company is
named, said he got the idea for the red soles when he painted
red nail polish on the black soles of a pair of women’s shoes.  On the website of high-fashion department store  Barneys New
York Inc. , Louboutin’s red-soled high-heeled shoes are priced
from $625 to $3,995 a pair. In court papers Louboutin projected
U.S. retail sales of shoes for 2011 at $135 million.  The U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  awarded Louboutin a
trademark for the red sole in 2008, according to court filings.  The appeal is Christian Louboutin SA v.  Yves Saint Laurent
America Inc. (PP) , 11-3303,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court case is Christian Louboutin
SA v. Yves Saint Laurent America Inc., 1:11-cv-02381, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Pinterest Seeks to Bar Chinese Applicant’s ‘Pinterest’ Trademark  Pinterest Inc., the San Francisco operator of a social
network site that allows  Internet users  to create, bookmark,
annotate, and publicly share data, sued a Chinese trademark
applicant for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed Aug. 31 in federal court
in San Francisco, Pinterest objects to several applications
filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office by Qian Jin of
Nanjing City,  China . Pinterest’s trademark for the “pinterest”
term was registered in May 2012, with the company claiming it
first used the term in March 2010.  Jin’s applications, filed in March 2012, are for the use of
“Pinterest” and “Pinterests” for hotel and food services and
for advertising and marketing. Jin says his first use of the
term was made in March 2011.  Raj V. Abhyanker of Mountain View, California’s LegalForce
RAPC Worldwide P.C. filed Jin’s applications. He didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  Pinterest also claims that 100 Internet domain names
registered to Jin and using variations of “pinterest”
infringe, deceive the public, and attempt to piggyback on the
 San Francisco  company’s fame and reputation.  It asked the court to bar Jin’s use of the “pinterest”
name, to be transferred all of the allegedly infringing domain
names. Pinterest also seeks a court order directing the patent
office to refuse to register the marks for which Jin applied.  Additionally, Pinterest asked for awards of litigation
costs, attorney fees, money damages as much as $2 million per
infringed mark and an award of Jin’s profits derived from the
alleged infringement, and extra damages to punish Jin for his
actions.  The case is Pinterest Inc. v. Jin, 3:12-04586-MEJ, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Ben & Jerry’s Sues Film-Makers Saying Porn Titles Mock Flavors  Unilever NV (UNA) ’s Ben & Jerry’s Homemade unit sued producers
and distributors of adult films for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court
in Manhattan, allegedly pornographic films are sold under titles
that closely resemble titles used for flavors of Ben & Jerry’s
ice cream.  Among the marks they claim are infringed are “Cherry
Garcia,” which was devised originally in 1987 to honor the late
member of the Grateful Dead, Jerry Garcia. Some of the other
infringed marks are those for “Everything But,” “New York
Super Fudge Chunk” and “Banana Split.”  The ice cream maker claims that its trademarks are
infringed because the films are sold in packaging that feature
graphics imitating those used on its ice cream cartons. Ben &
Jerry’s said it is harmed by the film companies’ actions, and
that its trademarks values are diminished.  It asked the court to bar the film companies’ use of any
name and packaging design that is confusingly similar to what is
used for the ice cream. Additionally, it seeks the recall and
destruction of all infringing products and promotional material,
and awards of profits derived from the alleged infringement.  The ice cream company also asked for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Defendant Caballero Video, when contacted through its
 Bestdvdz.com  website, didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Inc., v. Rodax
Distributors Inc., 1:12-cv-06734, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Cengage, Four Others Settle Cases Against Textbook Distributors  Cengage Learning Inc., together with  John Wiley & Sons
Inc. (JW/A) , Pearson Education Inc., and McGraw-Hill Education has
settled five copyright and trademark infringement cases related
to the sale of counterfeit textbooks, the companies said in a
joint statement.  The settlement is with five book distributors accused of
acquiring counterfeit textbooks oversea. The publishers said
they will receive $2.6 million in the settlement and the
distributors have agreed not to bring in infringing books in the
future.  According to the statement, the publishers are continuing
to pursue similar claims against other individuals and companies
also accused of importing counterfeit texts.  One of the cases is Cengage Learning Inc. v. Roland E. Lau,
2:11-cv-03738-GHK-PJW, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Two From China Charged With Plot for Pittsburgh Corning Secrets  Two Chinese citizens were charged in Kansas City, Missouri,
with trying to buy  trade secrets  stolen from Pittsburgh Corning
Corp. so they could open a competing plant in China.  Ji Li Huang, 45, and Xiao Guang Qi, 31, attempted to buy
what they were told were documents revealing Pittsburgh
Corning’s processes for making cellular-glass insulation, U.S.
prosecutors in Kansas City said in a Sept. 4  statement .  The two brought $25,000 to a Sept. 2 meeting in Kansas City
with an individual who was cooperating with federal agents, and
were shown documents purported to be company trade secrets,
prosecutors said. Both were arrested at their hotel afterward,
appeared in court yesterday and remained in federal custody
pending a detention hearing, prosecutors said.  Pittsburgh Corning, an affiliate of  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)  and
 Corning Inc. (GLW) , manufactures Foamglas cellular glass used by
energy and petrochemical companies to insulate piping systems
and storage-tank bases. The company announced plans three months
ago to open a plant in China, prosecutors said.  Huang and an uncharged co-conspirator allegedly trespassed
in June at the company’s flagship plant in Sedalia, Missouri.  Attorneys for Huang and Qi weren’t disclosed in court
filings. Matt Dobransky, a spokesman for Pittsburgh-based
Pittsburgh Corning, didn’t immediately answer a voice-mail
message seeking comment on the charges left after regular
business hours.  The case is U.S. v Huang, 12-156, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Missouri (Kansas City).  IP Moves  King & Spalding Hires Bingham McCutchen Litigator for IP Group  King & Spalding LLP hired Boyd Cloern for its IP practice
group, the Atlanta-based firm said in a  statement .  Cloern, who joins from Boston’s Bingham McCutchen LLP, is a
litigator. He has represented clients in the automotive,
defense, telecommunications, consumer products, semiconductor
and medical device industries in disputes involving patents,
trade secrets and copyrights.  He has both and undergraduate and a law degree from the
 University of Kentucky .  Mayer Brown Hires Patent Litigator Amr Aly From Kirkpatrick Firm  Mayer Brown LLP hired Amr Aly for its IP practice, the
Chicago-based firm said in a statement.  Aly, who joins from Atlanta’s Kilpatrick Townsend &
Stockton LLP, does patent litigation. He has represented clients
whose technologies have included telecommunications, networking,
data encryption and security, the Internet, biotechnology,
banking, chemicals and pharmaceuticals.  He is also a named inventor on U.S. patent 4,999,225.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from
 Columbia University , a master’s degree in business from Hofstra
University, and a law degree from  Seton Hall University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  