-- Group Asks High Court to Stay Texas Elections to Congress
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/group-asks-high-court-to-stay-texas-elections-to-congress.html
Texas ’s congressional elections
should be postponed to stop the use of voter maps that are
illegal, a Hispanic civil rights organization said in asking the
U.S. Supreme Court to block the state’s election plans.  The League of United Latin American Citizens, known as
 LULAC , asked the court yesterday for an emergency order halting
the congressional vote and urged the justices to order new maps
that comply with a lower-court ruling to “ensure a lawfully
elected congressional delegation is seated in January 2013.”  A panel of U.S. judges in San Antonio ruled Aug. 31 that
the elections would proceed using interim maps they created by
modifying districts the Republican-controlled Legislature drew
up last year. Texas gained four congressional seats after the
state’s population grew 4.3 million since 2000, according to the
U.S Census.  The Legislature’s maps were ruled intentionally
discriminatory and denied approval under the U.S. Voting Rights
Act by a separate judicial panel in  Washington  last week. LULAC
contends the interim maps incorporate too much of the original
redistricting and are unenforceable.  The  San Antonio  court “has both a constitutional
responsibility and the time to adopt its own alternative to
govern the 2012 elections” and protect minority voting rights,
Luis Roberto Vera Jr., a LULAC attorney, wrote in the Supreme
Court filing.  ‘New Districts’  The group also asked the San Antonio judges who created the
maps to put the congressional election on hold. Texas could hold
elections in all other races, including for U.S. president, as
planned in November while the  high court  reviews the
congressional maps, Vera said.  “The November elections should and will proceed as planned
under the interim maps,” Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for the
Texas Attorney General’s office, said in an e-mail. “Nearly all
parties, including many adverse to the state, agreed that
elections would proceed using the interim maps. The state is
confident that the U.S.  Supreme Court  will quickly deny LULAC’s
request.”  In January, the Supreme Court, in an expedited appeal by
Texas, ordered the San Antonio judges to use the Legislature’s
districts as the starting point for any interim maps as long as
they didn’t incorporate “any legal defects in the state plan.”  The case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-0360, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 