-- Microsoft Plans to Boost China Employee Numbers by 22%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-06T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/microsoft-plans-to-boost-china-employee-numbers-by-22-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest
software maker, plans to increase its number of workers in China
by 22 percent in the next year to support the release of new
products such as Windows 8.  The company will add 1,000 employees in China, where it now
has 4,500 workers, Ralph Haupter, Microsoft’s chief executive
officer for the greater China region, said at a press conference
in Beijing today. It was his first meeting with media since he
was named to the post in April.  “If you look at the industry and market dynamics, there’s
no doubt that the opportunity in China is kind of incredible,”
Haupter said. “The pure volume dynamic and scale is incredible
here in  China .” The new workers will fill positions in sales,
marketing, services and research.  Research funding in China will increase 15 percent from
$500 million previously, Zhang Yaqin, Microsoft vice president
and chairman of Asia-Pacific research, said at the briefing.  China, the world’s largest market for personal computers
and mobile phones, is crucial to Microsoft as it prepares to
release Windows 8 next month. The update of the Redmond,
Washington-based company’s flagship software will run on PCs and
tablets, including its own machine, Surface. It’s designed to
combat  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s lead in the tablet market and boost sales of
the Surface device when it goes on sale later this year.  During a visit to Beijing in May, Microsoft’s Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said intellectual property
protection in China is “still weak,” making it difficult to
sell legitimate software in the country.  The country’s illegal software market was worth almost $9
billion last year, compared with a legal market of less than $3
billion, according to the annual report of the  Business Software
Alliance , released in May.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  