-- LightSquared Lenders Oppose Extending Falcone’s Control
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-09-06T21:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/lightsquared-lenders-oppose-extending-falcone-s-control.html
A group of LightSquared Inc.’s
lenders said they oppose extending Philip A. Falcone’s control
of the wireless broadband venture because his strategy to revive
the bankrupt company is too risky.  LightSquared has asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman for a 150-day extension of its exclusive right to
control the bankruptcy case. The lenders, who say they own about
$1.1 billion of the $1.7 billion in secured debt of the
company’s LP unit, objected in a filing today in  Manhattan .  “Having nothing to lose, Mr. Falcone wants to pursue a
high-risk, high-return strategy” of trying to get regulators to
reverse their stance on LightSquared’s technology, the lenders
said. They favor a “more conservative approach that would
realize value through a third-party transaction or otherwise
force Mr. Falcone to put his money where his mouth is,”
according to the filing.  LightSquared, which is backed by billionaire Falcone’s
Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund, has the exclusive right
to file its own Chapter 11 plan until Sept. 11, with a Nov. 10
deadline to solicit creditor approval, according to court
papers. LightSquared has said it needs extra time because the
company and its affiliates are “large and complex,” with some
units located in  Canada , and it faces regulatory issues over its
broadband network.  Bonus Plan  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , filed for
bankruptcy in May with plans to try to resolve concerns of U.S.
regulators who thwarted the company’s attempt to deliver high-
speed wireless service to as many as 260 million people.  Separately, the lenders also objected to LightSquared’s
proposed $6 million bonus plan for key executives. The plan
would pay four “insiders” as much as 285 percent of their base
salaries as cash bonuses if LightSquared exits bankruptcy by
2013, and at least 235 percent of their salaries regardless of
how long it takes to leave court protection, according to court
papers.  The executives would also get restricted stock units, paid
in shares of current common stock in the company.  The bonus plan offers “little, if any, incentive to
swiftly move these cases along,” while the company will
probably use up $100 million in cash by the end of the first
quarter of next year, the lenders said.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  