-- India Seen Luring $40 Billion as Access to Equities Widen
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-09-06T10:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/india-seen-luring-40-billion-as-access-to-equities-widen.html
India  may attract as much as $40
billion in two years from individual investors overseas after
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government allowed them to
directly access  Asia ’s fifth-biggest stock market.  “Money which will come from this route will stay invested
for longer periods of time” than that from foreign
institutions, Thomas Mathew, who took over as the joint
secretary to President  Pranab Mukherjee  this week, said in a
phone interview yesterday. Investors from U.S. and  Europe  have
already started opening accounts and trading under the new
program, he said.  The finance ministry on Jan. 1 allowed qualified foreign
investors, including individuals and groups or associations, to
invest in local equity markets. Previously, only overseas
institutions, their sub-accounts, and non-resident Indians were
allowed to buy shares.  India plans to attract $75 billion into its capital  markets 
from foreign asset managers and rich investors, Mathew, a former
joint secretary in the Ministry of Finance’s  capital markets 
division, said on May 10, as the nation tackles economic growth
near a three year low and a record current account deficit.  The current-account shortfall widened to $78.2 billion, or
4.2 percent of gross domestic product, in the year ended March,
from $46 billion, or 2.7 percent, in the previous 12-month
period, central bank data shows.  ‘Ambitious Target’  Singh is also grappling with corruption allegations and
missed budget targets. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings this
year cut the sovereign credit outlook to negative, a step closer
to non-investment grade rating.  India’s policy environment is not conducive to achieving
“such an ambitious target,” said C.J. George, managing
director of Geojit BNP Paribas Ltd. in Kochi, who had
accompanied  finance ministry  officials to meet overseas
investors earlier this year. “We can’t ascertain the
sustainability of the current foreign investments.”  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has risen 12 percent this
year, helped by the highest foreign flows among 10 Asian
markets, excluding  China , tracked by Bloomberg.  The country’s equity markets have received “unprecedented
inflows” this year, he said. “India will continue to see this
level of investment” for the remainder of the year.  Retail Investors  Foreign institutions have invested $12.3 billion in India
in 2012, compared with a net outflow in the previous period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Qualified depository
participants provided the $40 billion estimate, Mathew said.  The government also plans to attract domestic retail
investors through the Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, which
is awaiting final approval from the finance minister, said
Mathew, who oversaw capital markets for over two years.  “What we want to do is at least increase the depth of the
Indian market,” he said. “It will also act as a counter to FII
inflows and outflows and help check volatility.”  The plan gives new retail investors, with an annual income
below 1 million rupees ($17,900), a tax rebate of 50 percent if
they invest as much as 50,000 rupees in equities. The investment
is locked in for three years with early exit, albeit without the
tax benefit, allowed in the second and third year. The proposal
may attract 150 billion rupees from investors in the year ending
March, Mathew said.  Investors will be allowed to invest in companies that are
part of the BSE 100 and  Nifty (NIFTY)  100 indexes and initial share
sales of “large companies,” he said.  ‘Woefully Inadequate’  About 25 million Indian households invest directly or
indirectly in the capital markets, according to a survey in July
2011 by the  National Council of Applied Economic Research ,
compared with a population of over 1.2 billion. That is
“woefully inadequate,” Mathew said.  Retail participation in India is only 1.3 percent of the
total population in comparison with 41 percent in  Australia , 18
percent in U.K. and 9.4 percent in China, he said.  India, which has a target of raising 300 billion rupees
from stake sales in state-owned companies during the year ending
March 31, will meet the goal, Mathew said. The government has
raised 12.5 billion rupees so far from a sale of stake in
 National Buildings Construction Corp. (NBCC)   Mathew said he has recommended to the finance ministry that
a portion of such asset sales be set aside for individual
foreign investors. The government is also working on creating an
exchange-traded disinvestment fund to attract investor interest,
he said, without elaborating. The idea in at an “embryonic
stage,” Mathew said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  