-- Indian Rupee Rises Most in 2 Weeks on Europe Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-09-06T12:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/indian-rupee-rises-most-in-2-weeks-on-europe-stimulus-optimism.html
India ’s rupee strengthened the most
in two weeks, erasing earlier losses, on speculation European
Central Bank officials will today confirm measures to contain
their region’s debt crisis.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  favors unlimited purchases of
government debt that will be sterilized to assuage concerns
about printing money, two central bank officials briefed on the
plan said. Draghi will speak at a press briefing after the ECB’s
Governing Council decides on  interest rates  and his plan that
aims to lower borrowing costs in indebted countries and prevent
a breakup of the euro. The rupee fell earlier on speculation
importers stepped up dollar purchases.  “The market has priced in, by various degrees, policy
support” from the ECB, Andy Ji, a Singapore-based foreign-
exchange strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said in
an e-mail. “The rupee could get a small lift but the
contentious issue remains domestic conditions, namely growth and
inflation outlook.”  The rupee advanced 0.5 percent to 55.6500 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest increase since Aug. 23, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 56.0350 earlier, the weakest
level since Aug. 16. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 9.40 percent, the lowest
level since May 2.  India’s gross domestic product increased 5.5 percent last
quarter, a government report showed Aug. 31. That compares with
a 5.3 percent gain in the previous three months, which was the
slowest pace since March 2009.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said on Aug. 28 that policy makers need to
reduce the nation’s inflation rate by about 2 percentage points,
underscoring limited scope to address weakening growth through
interest-rate cuts.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 56.70 per
dollar, compared with 56.85 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.72 from 56.86. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  