-- Minnesota City Rating Cut 8 Steps After Ending Arena Payment
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-09-06T17:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/minnesota-city-rating-cut-8-steps-after-ending-arena-payment-1-.html
Vadnais Heights, a Minneapolis
suburb, had its general-obligation rating cut to junk by Moody’s
Investors Service after the City Council voted to stop
allocating payments to a sports center financed by bonds.  The eight-step downgrade to Ba1, one step below investment
grade, follows similar action by  Standard & Poor’s , which
lowered the rating a total of 12 levels in July and August.  The council voted to end the city’s lease agreement and
stop appropriating funds for the 200,000-square-foot sports
center, whose construction was financed by proceeds of a bond
sale. Revenue from the complex fell short of expectations, and
Vadnais Heights, a community of 12,453, was responsible for
making up the difference.  “The city’s failure to appropriate represents a
significant lack of willingness to pay on a lease obligation
that supported debt issued in the  capital markets ,” Moody’s
analysts said in a report.  The city’s Economic Development Authority sold debt on
behalf of  Community Facility Partners Vadnais Heights LLC , a
private, nonprofit corporation, to finance the sports center.
S&P on Aug. 21 cut the $25 million of lease-revenue bonds by 13
steps to CC from A-. Moody’s doesn’t rate the debt.  Vadnais Heights is still obligated to cover the sports
center’s revenue shortfalls through Dec. 31. The amount the city
will have to pay through year-end may be from $500,000 to
$900,000, said Joe Murphy, a council member since 2007.  On Hook  Including those payments, the city will have paid from $1.3
million to $1.9 million to the sports center since it opened in
2010, according to Murphy. Vadnais Heights proposed a $4.9
million 2012  budget , according to the city’s website.  The downgrade is “not fair and it’s not reflective of the
overall financial condition of our city,” Mayor Marc Johannsen
said in a telephone interview. “We’ve never missed a bond
payment in the history of the city, and we’ll never miss a bond
payment that we’re obligated to do.”  The city has no plans to change its decision about
appropriating funds, Johannsen said. A reversal could raise the
city’s general-obligation rating, according to Moody’s.  “The lease agreement expressly provides the right to
terminate the lease upon non-appropriation of funds,” according
to a statement issued by Vadnais Heights. “The city’s actions
will not impact the current operation of the center or its
current use agreements. It remains open and welcomes all
existing and future users.”  The  sports center  offers two National Hockey League-size
ice rinks, 1.5 soccer fields, three batting cages, two
volleyball courts and a 100-meter track, according to its
website.  Vadnais Heights general-obligation bonds haven’t traded
since the rating cuts. A bond sold by the development authority
maturing in 2036 traded Aug. 31 at an average yield of 15.2
percent, up from 5.3 percent on Aug. 20, the day before the S&P
rating cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  