-- Israel Land Energy Slumps as Well Yields No Gas: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-09-06T14:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/israel-land-energy-slumps-as-well-yields-no-gas-tel-aviv-mover.html
Israel Land Development Co. Energy
Ltd. (IE)  plunged the most on record and  Modiin-LP (MDINL)  slumped after the
natural gas exploration companies said they found “no
significant signs” of petroleum at the Myra 1 well.  Israel  Land Energy, which owns a stake in the drilling
rights to the offshore well, tumbled 50 percent, the most since
the shares started trading in Israel in 2010, to 0.168 shekel at
the close in Tel Aviv. Modiin LP, also a partner, fell 24
percent to 0.139 shekel, the lowest close since September 2009.
 IPC Oil and Gas Holdings Ltd. , another partner, plunged 40
percent to 0.12 shekel.  The companies found high-quality sands at the drill but
with water at the point of drilling, they said in a filing with
the  Tel-Aviv  Stock Exchange today. The announcement “may put
pressure on export quotas allowed,” said Richard Gussow, senior
analyst at DS Securities & Investments Ltd. A government panel
recommended on Aug. 29 that Israel allow as much as 500 billion
cubic meters (18 trillion cubic feet) of natural gas for export.  “The export recommendations were based on new
discoveries,” Tel Aviv-based Gussow said by phone. “They were
hoping to find natural gas. This is bad news for the companies
but also a negative for other players, partners in the Tamar and
Leviathan fields.”  ‘Disappointed’  A series of natural gas discoveries off Israel’s
Mediterranean coast over the past three years has given the
country an opportunity to become a gas exporter. No drilling for
oil has happened at the Myra site, the companies said today,
adding the rig would move to the adjacent Sara 1 well for
drilling to commence there.  The  TA-Oil and Gas Index  dropped 2.9 percent, while the
TA-25 benchmark index retreated 0.1 percent.  Israel Land Energy is “disappointed with the results, but
that is part of the business,”  Chief Executive Officer Ohad Marani said today in a phone interview. “The first well is
always the hardest.” The company may revisit the Myra well in
future, also for oil exploration purposes, but that focus has
now moved on to the Sara well, he said.  Marani said drilling will start at Sara next week, and that
data from Myra will help with the drilling at the Sara site.
“The well has a simpler and easier to reach target,” he said.  An agreement for an investment by Mikhail Mirilshavili in
the company isn’t at risk, the CEO added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  