-- Israel Bond Yield Rises on Iran Risk, ECB; Shekel Little Changed
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a k i n
-- 2012-09-06T15:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/israel-bond-yield-rises-on-ecb-iran-strike-risk-correct-.html
Israeli government bonds fell,
pushing the yield to the highest in more than two months, amid
concern the country may strike Iran and as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers agreed to an unlimited
bond-purchase program.  The yield on the benchmark 5.5 Mimshal Shiklit bond due
January 2022 climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 4.3 percent, the highest since July 1, at the 4:30
p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The yield rose eight basis points this
week. The shekel was little changed at 4.025 a dollar, near the
lowest in a week, at 5:50 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said yesterday he broke
up a meeting of his Security Cabinet in Jerusalem because of a
leak that led to a newspaper report on secret deliberations
about a possible attack on Iran. Netanyahu and Defense Minister
 Ehud Barak  have been engaged in a debate with the U.S. over the
need for an air strike against the nuclear facilities in which
Iran is enriching uranium.  U.S. treasuries and German bunds extended declines after
Draghi announced the program to regain control of  interest rates 
in the euro area and fight speculation of a currency breakup.
The yield on Israel’s benchmark bond reached as much as 4.33
percent during Draghi’s speech, before returning to levels seen
earlier in the day.  Rate Expectations  One-year  interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, rose two basis points,
or 0.02 of a percentage point, to 2.16 percent. The two-year
break-even rate, the yield difference between the inflation-
linked bonds and fixed-rate  government bonds  of similar
maturity, declined four basis points to 277, implying an average
annual inflation rate of 2.77 percent.  The Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index, which measures inflation-linked
and fixed-rate corporate bonds, lost 0.4 percent to 264.41.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Lakin in Tel Aviv at 
 rlakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  