-- It Is to Be Hoped That Proper Grammar Can Endure
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-09-06T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/it-is-to-be-hoped-that-proper-grammar-can-endure.html
These are sad times for grammatical
purists.  One can forgive the usual assaults on the language that
characterize political debate across the spectrum: Those are to
be expected. But I have been stewing for months -- months! --
over the decision by the  Associated Press , for a century the
vaunted exemplar of proper journalistic usage,  to amend  its
style guide to allow its dwindling stable of reporters to use
the adverb “hopefully” as a synonym for “it is to be hoped
that.”  The decision has provoked  outrage  and  mockery  among
grammarians. Defenders, some rather  influential  in the world of
letters, have argued that the AP has merely adjusted its
editorial policy to the way nearly everyone who speaks English
seems to talk anyway. This is mere sloth. We are rewarding those
whom the wondrous wordsmith William Safire used to call “the
fuzzy-uppers of our language” for no reason other than that we
find it too much trouble to learn our own language.  During my undergraduate term as managing editor of the
Stanford Daily, I enforced the style guide with a will.
Reporters complained, wanting to know what difference
consistency made. My answer, then as now: If we can’t agree
about the small things, we’ll never agree about the big ones.  Precisely Right  Rules of grammar and usage assist us in expressing
ourselves with precision. Precision in language leads to
precision in thought. If we tend to be sloppy nowadays in our
arguments -- and we do -- one reason is surely the growing
sloppiness of our language.  When opponents mock a politician’s struggles with grammar,
they are appealing implicitly to a shared understanding that
this sloppiness is wrong. And they’re right. The rules define
not only our language but also ourselves. That’s why so many
parents over the years -- including my own -- have insisted that
their children speak English correctly. Proper grammar, to
borrow from Arthur Schlesinger, serves as our passport.  Enforcing the rules of grammar is one of the ways we teach
the young that rules exist -- and that their existence must be
cherished and protected. That’s why, for example, so many
observers have drawn analogies to the rules of grammar in
proposing rules for the moral calculus.  The most famous proponent of the analogy was  Adam Smith . In
“The Theory of the Moral Sentiments,” Smith wrote: “The rules of
justice may be compared to the rules of grammar; the rules of
the other virtues, to the rules which critics lay down for the
attainment of what is sublime and elegant in composition.” His
point was that the rules of grammar “are precise, accurate, and
indispensable,” and the rules of composition “loose, vague, and
indeterminate.” Morality should be modeled on grammar, he
argued, so that we may have “certain and infallible directions
for acquiring it.”  The theory works only if our rules are indeed “precise,
accurate, and indispensable.” One way of keeping our expression
precise and accurate is to keep our adverbs, adverbs. This is a
point grammarians should remember.  Alas, the editors of the Oxford English Dictionary long ago
caved on “hopefully,” although the earliest example they have
been able to dig up is from 1932. The editors add primly that
the usage they approve is “avoided by many writers.” Webster’s
Unabridged concedes that “some strongly object” to the use of
hopefully “as a sentence modifier.” The editors might have left
off at that point, but they preferred to argue back, assuring us
that the misuse dates to the 1930s, and lecturing us dissenters:
“This use of HOPEFULLY is parallel to that of certainly,
curiously, frankly, regrettably, and other sentence modifiers.”  Greatly Helpful  Ah. That certainly clears matters up. Curiously, the
editors do not list any adverbs that haven’t become sentence
modifiers. Frankly, the list would include nearly all of them.
Regrettably, the editors seem to confuse analogy with identity.
Ferociously, battles over misuse are likely to continue.
Placidly, compromise might be possible. Radically, the more
probable course is that the shrinking core of traditionalists
will continue to dissent.  Safire, although he yielded on “hopefully,” nevertheless
wished for a better word. He suggested “hopably,” but the word
has never existed. (The Google Ngram Viewer  yields  a perfectly
flat line.) According to Merriam-Webster’s Dictionary of English
Usage, the word “hopingly” is attested as a sentence modifier
from 1755, but no exemplars appear later than 1883. “Hopingly”
has lately cropped up in a few  online  dictionaries, and appears
to be acceptable in Scrabble.  Like last year’s kerfuffle over the reported  demise  of the
“Oxford comma,” the battle over “hopefully” is part of a larger
problem. Linguists and philologists have long debated exactly
how language changes; right now, the language is changing for no
good reason.  Edwin Newman, a great among crusty grammarians -- he never
yielded on “hopefully” -- sets out in his book “Strictly
Speaking” a long list of errors replacing traditional
constructions no less simple: “importantly” for “important,”
“convince” for “persuade,” “troop” for “soldier,” “different
than” for “different from.”  Pondering the process through which one simple word long
regarded as wrong replaces another long regarded as right,
Newman cites Gresham’s Law, that bad money drives out good. He
adds dryly: “That, however, does not explain the case; it merely
states it.” The best he is able to offer by way of actual theory
is that people want, as he puts it, “the latest in thing.” He
adds: “But that leaves the question of how the latest in thing
came to be.”  Even if one finds “the latest in thing” too precious,
notice that Newman quite properly doesn’t write “begs the
question,” another atrocious but popular misusage. To beg a
question is to evade it or take the answer for granted. A
question that arises from the answer to another hasn’t been
begged, although it may have been raised.  The question that much of the debate over the use of
“hopefully” prompts is whether proper grammar and usage matter
in what we are wont to call the larger scheme of things. I think
they do. We live in complicated times, and our constant desire
for simplicity and change can only weaken our ability to cope.
Already we are replacing subtlety and evidence with slogans and
applause lines. In  George Orwell ’s “1984,” it was the state that
constructed a language incapable of complexity. In 2012, we are
doing it ourselves.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
most recent novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 