-- Mitsui’s 200% Copper Mine Premium Signals More Codelco Deals
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-09-06T23:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/mitsui-s-200-copper-mine-premium-signals-more-codelco-deals.html
Mitsui & Co. (8031) ,  Japan ’s second-largest
trading house, paid three times as much as Codelco for a stake
in a Chilean copper asset last month as it seeks to build a
foundation for future deals with the largest copper producer.  A joint venture between Codelco and Tokyo-based Mitsui
agreed to buy a 29.5 percent stake in Anglo American Sur SA,
which owns the world’s fifth-largest copper mine, for $2.8
billion last month. Codelco’s 24.5 percent stake was priced at
$73 million per 1 percent, compared with Mitsui’s at $220
million per 1 percent, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on the terms of the deal.  Mitsui, which has the most cash of the Japanese traders, is
seeking to benefit as state-owned Codelco plans to spend $20
billion to almost double copper output, expand abroad and into
other metals. Codelco has 132 million metric tons of copper
resources valued at $1 trillion based on today’s prices.  “We’d like to be co-investor, to be jointly involved in
the upstream” with Codelco, Daiki Sato, head of projects at
Mitsui’s base metals division, said in an interview in  Tokyo .
Codelco has mining rights across South America and attractive
lithium and molybdenum assets, he said.  The move mirrors investments Mitsui made in  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ’s iron ore mines in the 1960s, which propelled it to become
Japan’s biggest importer of the material.  A 2003 purchase of shares in  Vale SA (VALE3) ’s holding company for
$830 million the last fiscal year alone accounted for 75 billion
yen ($958 million) of profit. The stake, equivalent to 5 percent
of Vale, the world’s largest iron ore miner, is worth about
$4.25 billion today.  Mitsui ’Overpaid’  Codelco and Mitsui agreed to buy the stake in Anglo
American Sur to help the Chilean company end a 10-month dispute
with  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , which retains control of the asset.
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Japan’s biggest trader, owns 20.4 percent.  Eight analysts including Yuji Nishiyama from Credit Suisse
Group AG in Tokyo and Toshiyuki Johno of BNP Paribas SA  cut
their net income  forecast for Mitsui for this fiscal year after
the venture with Codelco was announced last month. Mitsui’s
portion was “overpriced”, UBS AG said in an Aug. 24 report.  Mitsui’s copper production will rise to 160,000 tons in the
fiscal year ending March 31, 2015, from 63,000 tons last year,
following the Codelco deal, Sato said in the interview on Sept.
5. Codelco, which mined 1.73 million tons of copper last year
according to a regulatory filing, will also allow Mitsui to
market the Sur output on behalf of the two partners, he said.  “With copper, we’re focusing on meeting supply for Japan
and the rest of  Asia ,” Sato said. “Our aim is to become a
steady, global supplier” of commodities, he said.  Declining Iron Ore  The Codelco venture will help Mitsui diversify earnings
away from bulk commodities as iron ore prices decline to a
three-year low, said Akira Kishimoto, an analyst with JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co. Iron ore accounted for about half of
Mitsui’s profit,  Barclay’s Plc said in a Feb. 21 report.  “Copper will be the standout even in the broader metals
space” in the next few years, Kishimoto said by phone from
Tokyo. “Long-term, there is an opportunity for Mitsui to
establish a closer relationship with Codelco and get into their
aggressive expansion plan, even outside  South America .”  Copper traded in  London  is little changed this year and the
best-performing metal after gold over the last 12 months,
according to the UBS Bloomberg CMCI Index of 26 commodities.  Metals Spending  Codelco, which reported profit of $2.06 billion last year,
is spending $2.2 billion this year developing 13 new projects of
about 30 in its portfolio, according to its website.  Mitsui said last month it plans to spend 200 billion yen
this year on its metals units. That’s about 16 percent more than
Codelco’s planned spending on new projects.  Mitsui has  spent  more than $43 billion on its existing
businesses and acquisitions in the 10 years to 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is the most reliant of Japan’s
six major trading houses on resources for profit. Mitsui
reported $17.3 billion in cash and near-cash items as of June.
30, close to the highest since at least 1993.  Codelco is negotiating access to a “world-class” copper
and molybdenum deposit in  Ecuador , which would be its first
outside  Chile , Santiago Yepez, president of Ecuador’s Mining
Chamber, said in an interview in  Quito  on July 12. The Chilean
company has also spent about a decade exploring sites in
northern  Brazil  and  Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  