-- Mitt Romney Doesn’t Scare Billionaires in China
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-09-06T21:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/mitt-romney-doesn-t-scare-billionaires-in-china.html
China tends to like Republicans in
the White House because it’s clear what they want: free trade,
low taxes and strong national security. Democrats are more
capricious and delve into messy issues like human rights and the
environment.  In the case of Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ,
though, you would be forgiven for thinking officials in Beijing
are losing sleep. He favors a more combative posture, including
a bigger U.S. naval presence in Asia, stepped-up arms sales to
 Taiwan  and labeling China a currency manipulator. Romney’s
running mate,  Paul Ryan , complains that China treats U.S.
President  Barack Obama  “like a doormat.”  But China isn’t fazed. Sure, its media lash out from time
to time, dismissing Romney’s ideas as “pugnacious” and an
“outdated manifestation of a Cold War mentality.” His clumsy
trip to  Europe  spawned countless ugly American cartoons in Asia.
Mostly, though, China views a potential Romney presidency with a
big shrug. Here are five reasons why.  One,  Robert Zoellick . The former World Bank president is a
Romney adviser and a natural choice for a top Cabinet position,
perhaps even secretary of State. He’s a respected champion of
free trade and, by all appearances, an avid Sinophile. Zoellick
would surely steer Romney away from alienating an economy that
could surpass the U.S.’s by the time his boss might be wrapping
up a second term.  Zoellick’s Counsel  Zoellick would counsel Romney that, yes, China holds down
its currency, but so does the U.S. An obvious element of Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s quantitative-easing efforts is a
weaker dollar. Really, if any country should label another a
manipulator, it is Japan in its dealings with America. The
bottom line is that Zoellick will keep businessman Romney
focused on doing business with his country’s main customer.  Two, China knows it is ascendant. There’s a reason China is
tossing its weight around in the  South China Sea , much to
Obama’s consternation: It understands that a militarily and
financially strapped America isn’t the force it once was. Look
no further than European officials tripping over themselves to
get at China’s $3.2 trillion of currency reserves. They aren’t
going hat-in-hand to  Washington .  China has huge challenges, not to mention its own
leadership transition. First and foremost is sustaining growth
when the rest of the world, which  China  has relied on to absorb
its exports, is struggling with debt and economic stagnation.
This may well aggravate the social tensions that have been
papered over by China’s breakneck expansion. Yet that’s also the
point: China has so much going on at home that it will have
little time to fret over machinations in the Oval Office.  Three, the Romney-Ryan vision would be positive for China,
mostly by way of contrast. China’s leaders may be communists,
but they are also devoted Keynesians. If anything, China has
gone too far with the idea that public spending can drive growth
in the absence of consumer demand. The state overwhelms all
else.  Yet America might make a more serious mistake if austerity
enthusiasts Romney and Ryan get their way. Although it would be
a short-term negative for Chinese growth if the U.S.
aggressively tightened fiscal policy, the exercise might yield
long-term benefits. It isn’t too hard to imagine the U.S.
falling further behind on education league tables and America’s
infrastructure crumbling while the White House obsesses over
events in  Iran  and Russia rather than China.  Four, Chinese billionaires understand a guy who has had a
Swiss bank account. Thanks to rampant corruption and zero
transparency, many Communist Party bigwigs are enriching
themselves and their families. Few things matter more to these
plutocrats than finding ways to spirit their money out of China
into opaque tax jurisdictions overseas.  Get Rich  The Bo Xilai scandal threw a spotlight on the murky
mechanisms by which the ruling elite gets rich and hides that
wealth from China’s 1.3 billion people. It also showed how the
woeful lack of disclosure in the West enables politicians to do
so, as well. It is unlikely that Romney, an investor in Cayman
Islands funds, would clamp down on these practices. The man from
 Bain Capital  will have no difficulty doing business with China’s
capitalist communists.  Five, U.S. leaders are full of hot air. Presidents often
come to office pledging to crack down on China --  Bill Clinton 
and  George W. Bush  were two such examples. Then reality sets in
about just how much  U.S. foreign policy  runs through China --
everything from North Korea’s provocations and Iran’s nuclear
ambitions to  climate change  and intellectual-property rights.  Obama’s team faced a changing world. Although the U.S.
built a huge and dynamic economy, China holds the  mortgage . Its
$1.2 trillion of U.S. Treasury holdings gives China
unprecedented leverage over America. That’s why, for better or
worse,  Hillary Clinton  in her first trip to China as secretary
of State in 2009 spent more time hawking  U.S. debt  than carping
about China’s political prisoners.  China will come up often as Romney and Obama duke it out
between now and the Nov. 6 election. Officials in Beijing won’t
like it and the rhetoric may get ugly; China tends to sound like
 North Korea  when it overreacts to the things U.S. politicians
say. But if you think China is quaking over the prospect of a
President Romney, think again.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  