-- Most Japanese Stocks Decline on ECB Plan, China Outlook
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-06T07:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/japan-stocks-swing-from-gains-losses-on-ecb-plan-china.html
Most Japanese  stocks  declined after
growth estimates for  China’s economy  were cut by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and amid speculation European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  will today announce unlimited bond purchases to
tame the region’s debt crisis.  Daikin Industries Ltd., an air-conditioning equipment maker
that gets 18 percent of its revenue in  China , dropped 1.8
percent. Makita Corp., the power-tools maker that relies on
 Europe  for more than 40 percent of its sales, gained 0.8
percent. Yamaha Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest motorcycle
manufacturer, surged the most in more than three years after the
chief executive officer said sales in  Indonesia  will most likely
exceed its target.  Almost two shares fell for every one that rose on the Topix
index, the country’s broader stock gauge, which gained 0.1
percent to 719 at the close in  Tokyo . The  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  increased less than 0.1 percent to 8,680.57. Draghi will
propose that the ECB buy government debt while refraining from a
public cap on yields, according to two central bank officials
briefed on the plan before the meeting today.  The bond plan “may be a constructive development for the
markets,”  Stephen Roach , Yale University professor and former
non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley in  Asia , said in a
Bloomberg TV interview. “But the jury is out on whether these
types of unconventional actions really make a meaningful
difference for the real economy. The action on Thursday in
Europe is probably going to be quite close to the expectations
that have already been discounted in the market.”  The Topix dropped 18 percent from this year’s peak on March
27 on concern Europe’s debt crisis is deepening and growth is
slowing in China and the U.S. The gauge trades at 0.9 times book
value, compared with 2.2 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
1.5 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. A number less than one means
companies can be bought for less than the value of their assets.  Euro Contraction  Futures on the  S&P 500  rose 0.3 percent today. The index
fell 0.1 percent in  New York  yesterday after FedEx Corp., a
delivery company viewed as a bellwether for the  U.S. economy ,
projected its first drop in quarterly earnings in three years.
U.S. shares also fell on London-based Markit Economics’ report
that euro-area services and manufacturing contracted more than
initially estimated in August.  Companies that do business in Europe gained. Makita
advanced 0.8 percent to 2,677 yen. Shimano rose 0.5 percent to
5,640 yen. Toshiba Tec Corp., the maker of scanners and bar-code
machines that gets 20 percent of revenue from Europe, gained 4.4
percent to 332 yen.  Sterilizing  Draghi’s ECB bond-buying proposal involves unlimited
purchases of government debt that will be sterilized to assuage
concerns about printing money, two central bank officials
briefed on the plan said. To sterilize the bond purchases, the
ECB will remove from the system elsewhere the same amount of
money it spends, ensuring the program has a neutral impact on
the  money supply . The  central bank  convenes today.  Stocks linked to China fell after estimates for the
nation’s 2012 economic growth were cut to 7.6 percent from 7.9
percent, Goldman Sachs economists Li Cui,  Yu Song , MK Tang and
Yin Zhang wrote in a note to clients. Shares also fell after the
government cut its target for industrial output to 10 percent
from 11 percent, citing weakening demand at home and abroad.  Daikin Industries declined 1.8 percent to 1,994 yen. Toyota
Tsusho Corp., that makes 15 percent of sales in China, slid 0.5
percent to 1,563 yen.  Unemployment  Investors are also awaiting U.S. unemployment data
tomorrow. Payrolls are expected to have grown at a weaker pace
in August with unemployment topping 8 percent for a 43rd month,
economists estimated before the Labor Department report on Sept.
7. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week he
wouldn’t rule out more stimulus to revive growth.  Sharp Corp., the loss-making electronics company
renegotiating a stake sale to Foxconn Technology Group, fell 4.3
percent to 200 yen to lead declines on the Nikkei 225. Sharp’s
short-term credit ratings were cut by Moody’s Investors Service
and the company put up properties as debt collateral.  Yamaha Motor soared 11 percent to 727 yen. President and
CEO Hiroyuki Yanagi said today the Iwata City, Japan-based
company expects sales in Indonesia to “slightly outperform”
its target of 2.4 million units in the year to Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  