-- Japan Axing Nuclear for Renewables Means Missing Carbon Goal
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-09-07T04:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/japan-axing-nuclear-for-renewables-means-missing-carbon-targets.html
Phasing out nuclear power in  Japan 
will cost the country the equivalent of $622 billion to build a
power grid around renewable energy and means it will fail to
meet a target to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.  That’s an  estimate  from the government as it mulls going
ahead with a recommendation made yesterday by its own advisory
body to eliminate use of atomic power, an option favored in
public opinion polls, in its first post-Fukushima  energy policy .  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda has called a press conference
this evening in  Tokyo  when he may follow the advice of the
ruling party advisory board and phase out nuclear plants over
the next two decades. That would require more use of fossil
fuels as wind and solar plants are built, meaning Japan won’t
meet a pledge to cut  greenhouse gases  25 percent over the three
decades starting in 1990.  “There is no doubt the government will scrap the 25
percent target,” Keigo Akimoto at the Research Institute of
Innovative Technology for the Earth wrote in an e-mail response
to questions. Without nuclear, Japan would have to buy 320
million tons of overseas emission credits a year to meet the
target and the public won’t accept that amid higher sales taxes
and electricity tariffs, the researcher said.  Tuomas Rautanen, head of regulatory affairs and consulting
at First Climate in Zurich, agreed the 25 percent goal may be
out of reach. “In order to reach that target, or even a lower
one, Japan would need to draw strongly on international
offsets” of emissions, he said.  ‘Full Speed’  Meantime, companies from mobile phone operator  Softbank
Corp. (9984)  to convenience store chain  Lawson Inc. (2651)  are announcing
renewable energy projects as polls and public hearings show a
majority of citizens want an exit from nuclear despite the cost.
The government is debating to reduce nuclear  energy supply  to
zero percent, 15 percent, or 20-25 percent by 2030.  “No matter which option is selected, renewable energy must
be increased in Japan at full speed,” Japan’s second-richest
man, Softbank Chairman Masayoshi Son said at an Aug. 29 news
conference to announce a plan to build the country’s biggest
solar plant.  Under the zero nuclear option, Japan would need to invest
43.6 trillion yen ($548 billion) on solar, wind and other types
of renewable energy and 5.2 trillion yen on power grids,
according to the government. At least 26.1 trillion yen in
spending on renewables would be needed even if the world’s
third-largest economy stays with nuclear power.  Proposed Principles  Japan should adopt three principles to eliminate nuclear
power by the end of the 2030s,  Seiji Maehara , the chairman of
the ruing  Democratic Party  of Japan’s policy research committee,
told reporters yesterday in Tokyo.  The government should strictly apply the forty-year
operation limit on nuclear reactors and prohibit further
construction of atomic plants, Maehara said. Restart of any
reactors should be allowed only when safety is confirmed by a
new regulator yet to be established, he said.  The government plans to compile its new long-term energy
policy, based on the ruling party’s proposal, Motohisa Furukawa,
state minister for national policy, said Sept. 4.  Shares of six of Japan’s 10 regional power companies fell
in morning trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Tohoku Electric
Power Co., the worst performer among the utilities, declined 3.3
percent to 496 yen, heading for the lowest since Aug. 6.  The 10 utilities dominate production, transmission and
distribution of power throughout the country, generating
combined annual revenue of 15.7 trillion yen, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The government review of the industry’s
nuclear future includes plant sales and law changes to spin off
transmission businesses from power plants.  Green Incentives  Beside Softbank, finance and leasing company  Orix Corp. (8591) 
plans to spend 54 billion yen on solar projects in the next
three years. Lawson, the second-largest convenience-store chain,
 aims  to install solar panels at 2,000 stores by the end of March
2014.  Sparx Group Co. shares jumped the most in a month in Tokyo
trading this morning after the  fund manager  yesterday said it
will build a mega-solar power plant in southern Japan to
diversify its business.  Others planning solar investments include  Kyocera Corp. (6971) ,
Tokio Marine Asset Management Co. and  Mitsui Chemicals Inc. (4183)   Japan started an incentive program in July to encourage
clean energy investment. The so-called feed-in tariff for solar
power is 42 yen per kilowatt-hour for 20 years, about triple the
14.59 yen per kilowatt-hour industrial users paid for
electricity during the 12 months ended in March.  Solar Rates  “The mega-solar business can move into profit at 35 yen
per kilowatt-hour, so the rate has been set at an extremely
attractive price for newcomers,” Kenji Yumoto, vice chairman of
the Japan Research Institute, wrote in an Aug. 24 report. He
cautioned that Japan needs to avoid mistakes made in Spain and
 Germany  where feed-in tariffs prices were set too high.  Japan going zero nuclear by 2030 would require 35 percent
of electricity supply coming from renewable sources, while the
other two scenarios call for a clean energy ratio of as much as
30 percent.  Meeting the target under zero nuclear would put solar
panels on 12 million homes or about 44 percent of all of the
country’s detached houses, according to the government. About
900,000 residences in Japan have solar panels.  Similarly, wind power capacity would increase nearly 20
times to 47.6 gigawatts, taking up 4,755 square kilometers
(1,836 square miles) of land and marine areas, or about six
times the size of  New York  City’s  land area .  Business Defeat  Japan opting for no nuclear would also represent a rare
defeat for big business, partly brought about by tens of
thousands of citizens in anti-nuclear marches and
demonstrations. Thousands show up every Friday evening outside
Prime Minster  Yoshihiko Noda ’s residence to demand an end to
atomic power.  Keidanren, Japan’s biggest business lobby that includes
industry giants like  Toyota Motor Corp (7203)  as well as power
utilities, has called the zero nuclear plan “unrealistic” and
a threat to manufacturing and jobs in Japan.  Electricity rates for corporate users may more than double
by 2030, according to the Research Institute of Innovative
Technology for the Earth, which analyzed scenarios for the
government.  The zero percent scenario “is ignorant of economic
efficiency and entails a large increase in the public burden,”
Keidanren said July 27 in a  statement . “If energy cannot be
stably supplied at an economically efficient price, not only
will growth be set back, the hollowing-out of industry and
employment will accelerate in the midst of intense global
competition.”  Carbon Vs. Economy  Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano , who has had public
clashes with Keidanren Chairman  Hiromasa Yonekura  over energy
policy, has another view.  “I don’t think the zero nuclear scenario is any more
negative than the 20-25 percent scenario for Japan’s economy.
Rather, it will positively impact the economy if we do it
right.” Edano said Aug. 7.  Developing renewable-energy and power-saving technologies
would boost domestic demand and improve Japan’s competitiveness,
he said.  Huge Losses  Some utilities will face insolvency if the government
chooses the zero nuclear option.  Four out of 10 nuclear plant operators -- Hokkaido Electric
Power Co., Tohoku Electric Power Co., Tokyo Electric Power Co.
and Japan Atomic Power Co. -- would become insolvent if Japan
goes non-nuclear, the trade ministry’s Agency for Natural
Resources and Energy said in June.  The utilities would be forced to book combined special
losses of 4.4 trillion yen on costs to decommission reactors and
write off nuclear fuel and plant facilities, according to the
agency.  Eliminating nuclear power “will inevitably have profound
effects on various areas” including increases in fuel costs and
electricity rates and the global warming issue, Makoto Yagi, the
chairman of Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan said
yesterday in a statement.  The country “needs to maintain the nuclear fuel cycle
program and keep utilizing nuclear power as an important
electricity source,” he said.  Election Time  Prime Minister Noda, facing declining approval ratings,
recently signaled the government is leaning toward zero nuclear.
Noda ordered his cabinet ministers on Aug. 6 to consider how to
cope with challenges the country would face without nuclear
power.  He also invited members of citizen groups organizing the
anti-nuclear protests outside his residence for a rare meeting
on Aug. 22.  “If the government favors the zero nuclear option, the new
policy should have been decided by now, because it would
guarantee them a victory in the next election,” Reiji Ogino, a
Tokyo-based energy analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co., said by phone.  “The government is likely considering somewhere between
zero and 15 percent nuclear as the point of compromise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  