-- Jefferies Aims to Be One of Top Five Brokers on the LME
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-09-06T06:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/jefferies-aims-to-be-one-of-top-five-brokers-on-the-lme.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment
bank that bought Prudential Bache’s commodities business, wants
to be one of the five biggest brokers on the  London  Metal
Exchange after starting on the floor yesterday.  Jefferies Bache Ltd. aims to be in the top five by
transaction volume, Richard Khaleel, a Jefferies spokesman, said
by phone yesterday. New York-based Jefferies joined 11 companies
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Barclays Plc entitled to
trade in the so-called ring, London’s last open-outcry trading
floor. Jefferies doubled metals staff to about 50 people since
June when it hired Michael Frawley as global head of metals and
listed products, Khaleel said.  The LME handles about 80 percent of global trade in metals
futures, with trading last year valued at $15.4 trillion.
Jefferies, under Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler , added
more than 400  employees  through its purchase of the Bache unit,
which was completed in July 2011. The company was previously a
Category 2 member, limited to trade electronically and by phone.  Trading Team  Jefferies hired 13 former Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd.
people, most of whom are ring dealers, Frawley said. Nine people
from the company have been authorized to trade on the floor of
the LME, the exchange said Aug. 31. Newedge Group SA brokers
Joel Spier and John Peiser were hired in New York while Steve Pettitt joined in London and Tiger Shi and John Browning are in
 Hong Kong .  Metal prices more than tripled in the past decade as demand
from  emerging markets  led by  China  overwhelmed supplies from
mines. The LME’s members last month approved a $2.2 billion
takeover from Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., which
pledged to keep the London bourse’s ring and system of
establishing metals prices until at least 2015.  The exchange’s  Category 2  members include Credit Suisse
Group AG, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., according to its website. Natixis ended its Category
1 membership on July 27 and became a Category 2 member.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  