-- Jefferies Converts Knight Preferred, Boosting Shares Outstanding
-- B y   S t e v e   C h a m b e r s
-- 2012-09-06T21:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/jefferies-converts-knight-preferred-boosting-shares-outstanding.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (KCG) , the New York-
based brokerage that helped arrange a $400 million bailout for
Knight Capital Group Inc., has converted almost all of the
preferred shares it acquired in the transaction to common stock.  The conversion almost doubled the outstanding stock of
Knight, which was pushed to the brink of bankruptcy after its
computers mistakenly bombarded U.S. markets with share orders on
Aug. 1. Almost 182 million common shares were  outstanding  as of
yesterday compared with 97.8 million on Aug. 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jefferies helped assemble the group of investors that
bought convertible securities representing a 73 percent stake.
While the money enabled  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Knight to
remain solvent, it diluted existing  stockholders  whose ownership
proportion will shrink as the convertibles are exercised.  “It’s a moot point from a shareholder perspective, because
if you were holding the stock back on July 31 you were
diluted,” said  Chris Allen , an equity analyst at Evercore
Partners in New York. “You lost money.”  According to the  SEC filing , Jefferies converted into
common stock about 122,000 of the 125,000 preferred shares it
held. The brokerage said it owns 81.25 million Knight common
shares, making it the largest shareholder, in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission Aug. 30. Richard Khaleel, a
spokesman for Jefferies, declined to comment.  Conversion Eligible  Under an agreement between Knight and the investors, the
first preferred securities were eligible to be swapped for
 common  on Aug. 13 at $1.50 a share. There were no restrictions
on when members of the investor group, which also includes TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp., Blackstone Group LP, Getco LLC, Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. and Stephens Inc., could sell common shares.  Allen said the conversion doesn’t necessarily mean
Jefferies is preparing to sell to realize gains, though it gives
it the flexibility to do so, he said.  Should Knight’s stock trade at $3 a share for 60 trading
days, all preferred shares will automatically be converted to
common. The stock closed at $2.74 today.  As of Sept. 4, the investors held 130,113 shares of Series
A-1 Preferred Stock and 144,102 shares of Series A-2 Non-Voting
Preferred Stock, each of which are convertible into 666.667
shares of common stock. Knight has begun posting updates on the
number of outstanding common shares and preferred shares each
Wednesday on its website.  Trading Range  Knight’s stock has traded in a  six-cent band  since Aug. 24
even as its market capitalization climbed to $498 million from
$270 million since Sept. 4. The increase in overall value
represents the additional shares created when investors exchange
their convertible preferred stock for common shares.  Among the investors, Jefferies’s investment was the biggest
at $125 million, according to a government filing by Knight.
Getco and Blackstone bought $87.5 million each; TD Ameritrade
received $40 million and Stephens and Stifel got $30 million
each, it showed.  The additional market value does little to help investors
who owned Knight shares prior to the trading loss. The stock has
fallen 73 percent since the malfunction. The 267 million shares
purchased in the bailout for $400 million have a value of $732
million based on Knight’s stock price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Chambers in  New York  at 
 schambers18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  