-- Texas, Iowa Voter Rule Changes at Issue in Court Hearings
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-06T20:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/judges-hear-court-challenges-to-texas-iowa-voter-rules.html
A U.S. appeals court heard arguments
over challenges to a law passed by  Texas  Republicans limiting
voter registration efforts before the Nov. 6 presidential
election, while lawyers in state court in Iowa debated a plan to
purge non-citizens from voter rolls.  Texas officials asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New
Orleans  to stay an order issued last month barring enforcement
of several provisions of a 2011 law regulating third-party voter
registration activities. U.S. District Judge  Gregg Costa 
determined that the law probably conflicted with federal rules
and the U.S. Constitution.  “This order should be stayed pending appeal,” Jonathan
Mitchell, an attorney for the state of Texas, said at a hearing
today. “The problem in the district court’s analysis is that
the First Amendment is not implicated in any way by Texas
laws.”  Texas is taking away the techniques of the voter
registration organizations, U.S. Circuit Court Judge James L. Dennis responded. “You are affecting the rights of voters.”  “We are trying to protect the rights of voters who trust
these organizations,” Mitchell replied.  The appellate panel didn’t issue a decision.  Voter Rolls  In a separate lawsuit, two civil rights organizations asked
a state court judge in  Des Moines  today to stop  Iowa  Secretary
of State  Matt Schultz  from implementing a rule change using
lists of foreign nationals to purge non-citizens from voter
rolls. The  American Civil Liberties Union  and a Latino rights
group claim the new rules, which Schultz announced in July,
would unfairly affect new citizens.  The rules don’t harm Iowa voters and the organizations
don’t have standing, or the right, to object to them, Jeffrey
Thompson, a state deputy attorney general, argued at the hearing
today.  “The rules are actually intended to provide protection to
the very individuals” the organizations say they represent,
Thompson told Polk County District Court Judge Mary Pat
Gunderson. “They run the risk if they get what they’re asking
for of doing harm to the people they’re trying to protect.”  Gunderson, an appointee of Republican Governor Terry Branstad, said she would issue a decision today.  Court Battles  The lawsuits are among the multiple court battles over U.S.
voting rules, particularly in so-called swing states such as
 Florida , Ohio, Pennsylvania and  Wisconsin , where both the
Republican and Democratic presidential campaigns see possible
victories.  At least two lawsuits challenging a proposed voter purge
are pending in Florida, and a federal judge last month blocked
implementation in that state of a new law restricting voter
registration activities. Voter cases are also under way in
 Alabama , Texas,  Tennessee  and  South Carolina .  The Republican-dominated Texas Legislature passed several
revisions in its election code in 2011, imposing new
requirements for third-party voter registrations.  This included barring non-Texans from becoming volunteer
deputy registrars, or VDRs, prohibiting them from accepting
applications for residents outside the county in which they were
appointed, requiring them to personally deliver rather than mail
applications to election officials and restricting their
compensation. The rules were passed to prevent voter
registration fraud, attorneys for the state argued in court
papers.  Registration Drives  The nonprofit organization Project Vote and its affiliate,
Voting for America Inc., sued Texas Secretary of State  Hope
Andrade  in February, seeking an injunction barring the state
from enforcing provisions of the law. Registration drives
conducted by third-party organizations are critical to
increasing the number of voters in the state, particularly
racial minorities, the plaintiffs argued in court filings.  Costa granted the injunction Aug. 2, finding that the
plaintiffs were likely to succeed in proving that certain
provisions either conflicted with the federal Voting Rights Act
or violated the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  “The in-state requirement excludes millions of Americans
from serving as VDRs in Texas. The county limitation
substantially restricts the number of potential voters a VDR can
help register. And the compensation prohibition reduces the
number of people willing to hire VDRs or to work as VDRs because
it criminalizes performance-based pay,” Costa said.  Pressing Need  He also found no pressing need for stricter rules on voter
registration.  “The state has not produced evidence showing that rampant
fraud by out-of-state VDRs existed in pre-2011 Texas elections
or continues to exist in those states that permit all Americans
to engage in the voter registration activities protected by the
First Amendment,” Costa said. On Aug. 14, Costa, appointed by
President  Barack Obama , denied the state’s request for a stay
pending appeal.  The state appealed the order to the court in New Orleans.  “The state will be irreparably injured if the district
court’s order remains in effect between now and the upcoming
November elections,” lawyers for the state argued in an Aug. 16
filing.  The appeal is being heard by three judges, Dennis, who was
appointed by President  Bill Clinton ; Catharina Haynes, appointed
by  George W. Bush ; and Jerry E. Smith, appointed by President
 Ronald Reagan .  Six Decisions  “In order to approve this motion for a stay, the court
would have to ignore at least six U.S. Supreme Court
decisions,” plaintiffs’ attorney Chad Dunn told the panel at
the hearing today. These decisions concerned laws that affected
freedom of speech, Dunn said in court papers.  “This court is supposed to give huge deference to the
district court judgment, especially this close to the
election,” Dunn said.  “I think this is a difficult area,” Haynes said. “I’m
looking for the evidence here” that the laws are impeding voter
registration, she said. “There’s nothing in this statute that
says you can’t encourage people to vote.”  The plaintiffs had shown that voter registration “is part
of free political expression,” Dennis said at the hearing.
“This is core political expression.”  Foreign Nationals  The ACLU and the  League of United Latin American Citizens
of Iowa  claim that Schultz, a Republican, instituted a new
administrative rule in July that would require his office to
periodically obtain lists of foreign nationals “from
unspecified state and federal agencies and attempt to match
those names to voter registration records,” as part of an
effort to purge non-citizens from the voting rolls.  The secretary of state would then send notices to
registered voters whose names appeared on one of these lists
that they may not be citizens and may be illegally registered to
vote, according to the lawsuit. The voter would have to respond
within 14 days to dispute this information, or face being
stricken from the eligible voters list, the ACLU lawyers said.  “The public has no way to be sure he’s using accurate, up-
to-date voters from Iowa’s voter lists,” Ben Stone, executive
director of the ACLU of Iowa, said in a statement.  The rules don’t provide obstacles to legitimate voters,
lawyers for the state said in court papers.  ‘Emergency Rules’  “Ironically, the emergency rules challenged by the
petitioners were promulgated by Secretary Schultz to protect the
voting rights of Iowans whose immigration status in the state’s
drivers’ license database might be incorrect or out of date,”
Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller  and Thompson said in a filing
last month. Miller is a Democrat.  The rules would “ensure that any affected individual
receive notice and a hearing before his/her name is removed from
the voter registration records,” the state’s lawyers said. The
state also contends the district court has no jurisdiction to
order a temporary injunction barring the rules.  “There’s no such injury alleged or at issue in this
case,” Thompson said today. “This is about whether the
secretary of state had the authority to do what he did.”  The organizations are “just misguided” and “misreading
this thing absolutely backward,” Thompson said. The purge rule
offered by the Iowa secretary of state was done in order to gain
access to the federal SAVE database, which provides more
accurate information than drivers’ license data, Thompson said.  “We don’t have to prove that an injury actually occurred
but that an injury is likely to occur to 4,000 Latino Iowans,”
plaintiffs’ attorney Joseph Glazebrook argued today. The issue
is whether Schultz had the statutory right to make the rules, he
said.  The cases are Voting for America Inc. v. Andrade, 12-40914,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans); and
 American Civil Liberties Union  of Iowa Foundation v. Iowa
Secretary of State Matt Schultz, CV 9311, District Court, Polk
County, Iowa (Des Moines).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  