-- Simon & Schuster, Hachette E-Book Accord Wins Approval
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-09-06T20:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/judge-approves-settlement-with-publishers-in-e-book-case.html
A price-fixing settlement between
the U.S. government and electronic-book publishers  Simon &
Schuster , Hachette Book Group Inc. and HarperCollins Publishers
LLC won a judge’s approval.  The  Justice Department  in April sued the three publishers
along with Apple Inc.,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin Group and
MacMillan, a unit of Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH.
The government claimed the defendants conspired to fix the price
for e-books in violation of U.S. antitrust law.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  New York  today agreed
with the Justice Department that the settlement is in the public
interest.  “The government alleges substantial ongoing harm as a
result of the settling defendants’ illegal activity,” Cote
wrote in an opinion. “E-books consumers should not be forced to
wait until after the June 2013 trial to experience the
significant anticipated benefits of the decree.”  The settlement, filed the day the Justice Department sued,
requires the three publishers to cancel contracts with
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Google Inc. and other sellers of e-books that
allow the publishers to set prices. The publishers must also
refrain for two years from signing contracts that would prevent
retailers from setting prices, according to the agreement.  Public Opposition  Members of the public submitted 868 comments on the
proposed agreement, more than 90 percent of which opposed it,
Cote said in the opinion.  Last week, 49 states and five U.S. territories said they
had reached a $70 million settlement with Simon & Schuster,
Hachette and HarperCollins on behalf of consumers.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department’s
antitrust division, said, “The department is pleased the court
found the proposed settlement to be in the public interest and
that consumers will start to benefit from the restored
competition in this important industry.”  The case is U.S. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 