-- Justice Department Terror Statistics Incorrect, Report Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-09-06T16:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/justice-department-terror-statistics-incorrect-report-says-1-.html
The U.S.  Justice Department 
inaccurately reported terrorism-related statistics, understating
the number of people charged with crimes linked to terrorism and
overstating how many cases had been resolved favorably,
according to an inspector general report.  The department said that 512 people were charged from the
Sept. 11 attacks through September 2007, while the number was
actually 544, according to the report released today.  The department’s National Security Division said the number
of counterterrorism cases resolved favorably to the government
was 59 in fiscal year 2009, two more than the actual count,
according to the report.  “Although it appears that the statistics were not
significantly overstated or understated, the inaccurate
reporting indicates a need for the NSD to strengthen further its
application of controls for gathering, verifying, and reporting
its terrorism-related statistics,” the report from Michael E. Horowitz, the department’s inspector general, said.  This is the second report since 2007 faulting the
department’s terrorism data. That year, an inspector general’s
audit found some of the data were “significantly overstated or
understated.” The most recent report reviewed statistics in
budget submissions and other documents from fiscal years 2009
through 2012.  Today’s report also found that the department understated
the number of convictions or guilty pleas in terrorism cases.  The Justice Department agrees with the inspector general’s
recommendations for improving internal controls to prevent the
inaccuracies, said Dean Boyd, a spokesman.  “The audit made no finding that any of the discrepancies
were intentional,” Boyd said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  