-- K-V Pharmaceutical Loses FDA Lawsuit Over Makena Drug
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-06T23:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/k-v-pharmaceutical-loses-fda-lawsuit-over-makena-drug.html
K-V Pharmaceutical Co. (KVPHQ) ’s lawsuit
alleging that the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration ’s actions
led to “unlawful competition” involving its Makena drug was
dismissed by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington today
threw out the company’s claims that the FDA caused it
“irreparable harm” by refusing to block pharmacies that
created a cheaper alternative of the drug used to reduce the
risk of pre-term birth in women.  “This case is fundamentally an effort to get the court to
direct and oversee the FDA’s enforcement activities, and that it
cannot do,” Jackson said in her 38-page ruling.  The lawsuit, filed July 5, alleges that K-V is “almost
entirely reliant” on the success of Makena for the money it
needs to finance the company’s operations and make  debt 
payments, according to the ruling.  K-V, based in Bridgeton,  Missouri , filed for Chapter 11
protection in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan  on Aug. 6. The
company, which owes secured lenders $235 million, told a judge
at a court hearing the next day that its value depends on the
outcome of the FDA lawsuit and continued protection from
competitors. Presuming such protection, K-V last year projected
Makena revenue of more than $400 million by 2013.  Georgia Ruling  Makena, an injectable drug, was approved by the FDA in 2011
for use by pregnant women with a history of pre-term birth.  Tony Herrling, a spokesman for K-V, said the company
received a favorable court ruling in  Georgia  requiring that the
state’s Medicaid agency cover FDA-approved drugs and reimburse
for Makena.  “The central issue for K-V Pharmaceutical, in its several
court actions regarding MakenaR, has always been to ensure that
pregnant women have access to MakenaR, the only drug approved by
the Food and Drug Administration for their condition,” Herrling
said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is K-V Pharmaceutical Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 12-cv-01105, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  