-- Kuwait’s Biggest Lender Unit Plans Buyout Fund as Deals Gain
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-09-06T13:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/kuwait-s-nbk-capital-to-raise-money-for-new-fund-by-early-2013.html
NBK Capital Ltd., the investment
banking arm of  National Bank of Kuwait SAK , plans to raise as
much as $300 million for a second private-equity fund as deals
accelerate, Chief Executive Officer Salah al-Fulaij said.  “We are expecting it to be launched late this year or
early next year,” al-Fulaij said yesterday in an interview in
 Kuwait  City. “The appropriate fund size, given regional
opportunities, is $250 to $300 million, like the first fund.”  The new fund will invest in the  Middle East  and North
Africa region, he said, with a focus on middle-size companies in
 Turkey ,  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates . The bank
expects to announce a private-equity deal in Saudi Arabia within
the next couple of weeks, he said, without giving more details.  The company’s first $300 million private-equity fund was
set up in 2006 with a 10 percent contribution from NBK, the
country’s biggest lender. “This fund is fully deployed,” Al-
Fulaij said. “Some exits happened and others will happen.”  NBK Capital is advising  Qatar Telecom QSC (QTEL)  on its $2.2
billion purchase of a 47.5 percent stake in Kuwait’s  National
Mobile Telecommunications Co. (NMTC)  It’s also advising Kuwait
Telecommunications Co., the country’s third-largest mobile phone
operator, on a proposed share listing.  M&A Transactions  ‘We are also active in advising six M&A transactions in
Kuwait and throughout the Gulf Co-operative Council, which we
expect to close during 2013,” al-Fulaij said, without giving
further details.  NBK Capital, which in 2009 started the first dedicated
mezzanine fund in the Gulf Arab region that lends to private-
equity companies and to those seeking long-term financing, is
expecting to complete two mezzanine financings in Turkey and the
U.A.E before end of 2012, al-Fulaij said.  The bank is also part of a committee advising on the
construction of Kuwait’s rail network under the government’s
Public-Private Partnership program. It was also the manager of
recent bond sales by Commercial Facilities Co. and Kuwait
Projects Co, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  or
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  