-- Nampak Climbs to Record on Africa Strategy: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-09-06T15:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/nampak-climbs-to-record-on-africa-strategy-johannesburg-mover.html
Nampak Ltd. (NPK) , South  Africa ’s largest
packaging company, climbed to a record after saying it is
evaluating projects worth $498 million in Africa in the next
three to five years to tap into faster-growing economies.  Shares advanced 3 percent, the most since July 5, to 28.99
rand by the close in Johannesburg, the highest since at least
1990 when Bloomberg started compiling data on the stock.  The company is considering projects worth a total of $350
million in West Africa as well as $120 million in Angola and
Mozambique, according to a presentation to investors in Cape
Town yesterday posted on its  website . Nampak is also planning
projects worth a further $28 million, including in East and
Southern Africa.  “It looks like investors are buying into the rest-of-
Africa strategy, although it still has some way to go,” Mark Hodgson, an analyst with Avior Research (Pty) Ltd., said by
phone from  Cape Town . “They put across a good message in terms
of what they are trying to do.”  Angola and Nigeria are the main focus for the company’s
investments outside South Africa, Graham Hayward, head of
 investor relations , said by phone from Johannesburg.  The Johannesburg-based company plans to double earnings
from businesses elsewhere on the continent to 16 percent this
financial year, Chief Executive Officer Andrew Marshall said in
a Feb. 1 interview. It increased revenue from the rest of Africa
to 1.3 billion rand ($155 million) in the year through September
2011 from 1.2 billion rand a year earlier.  Nigeria’s economy expanded 6.6 percent in the second
quarter, more than twice  South Africa ’s 3 percent growth over
the same period. The  International Monetary Fund  expects
Angola’s economy to expand 6.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  