-- Nexen Stock Seen Wrong by Traders Betting on Cnooc Bid
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-09-06T20:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/nexen-stock-seen-wrong-by-traders-betting-on-cnooc-bid.html
There’s a reason why MKM Partners
LLC, Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. and GFI Group Inc. say the market is
betting the wrong way on the takeover of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   The oil and gas explorer’s shares have lost 2.9 percent
through yesterday since Beijing-based  Cnooc (883)  Ltd.’s offer was
announced on July 23, leaving them  8.5 percent below  the agreed
price. The difference is the second-largest among proposed North
American acquisitions valued at $1 billion or more, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. MKM, Oscar Gruss and GFI said
arbitrage traders should view this as a chance to make money
because the deal will probably close, driving the stock to the
$27.50-a-share bid.  While the majority of Canadians in a  survey  commissioned by
Sun News Network want the government to reject the purchase of
Calgary-based Nexen by Cnooc, Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver said Sept. 4 that  Canada  needs foreign investment to
develop and market its raw materials. Nexen’s Gulf of Mexico
operations aren’t “national treasures” that would prompt the
U.S. to raise obstacles to the deal, according to MKM, which
also said the arbitrage spread is so wide that potential
earnings will prove alluring even if approval is delayed.  “I would be a buyer,” Alfredo Scialabba, a New York-based
special situations analyst for GFI, said in a telephone
interview. “The risk-reward is very attractive. The spread and
the market are telling you that there is a 75 percent chance the
deal goes through, but we think the chances are higher than that,
so we would be a holder of this one.”  Biggest Deal  Pierre Alvarez , a spokesman at Nexen, didn’t respond to a
phone call and e-mail requesting comment. Peter Hunt, a Cnooc
spokesman who works for Hill & Knowlton Strategies, didn’t
comment on the deal’s odds of success or timing.  “We are respectful of the regulatory requirements across
all the respective jurisdictions,” Hunt said in an e-mail. “We
are working on all the necessary governmental and regulatory
filings to comply with the requirements.”  In July, Cnooc agreed to buy Nexen for $15.1 billion in the
biggest overseas takeover by a Chinese company.  China ’s largest
offshore oil and natural-gas explorer said it would pay 61
percent more than Nexen’s prior closing price. About 30 percent
of Nexen’s production last year came from its Canadian
operations. Its oil and gas assets include production platforms
in the  North Sea ,  Gulf of Mexico  and  Nigeria , as well as oil-
sands reserves at Long Lake,  Alberta , where it already produces
crude in a joint venture with Cnooc.  ‘Net Benefit’  The deal is subject to review under the Investment Canada
Act, which requires foreign takeovers provide a “net benefit”
to the country.  Six factors  are considered, including the
effects on employment, competition within an industry, the
degree of participation by Canadians in the business and
Canada’s ability to compete globally. The Committee on Foreign
Investment in the  United States , which has Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  as chairman, will also examine the transaction.  Cnooc has applied for Canadian approval, Interior Minister
Christian Paradis said on Aug. 29. The process can take 75 days
or longer, putting the results at about Nov. 12 or later. Cnooc
has already asked CFIUS to review the transaction, according to
Hunt, the company spokesman at Hill & Knowlton.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said on Aug. 23 that
the combination must serve the long-term interests of his nation.
He was responding to a poll from Sun News Network that showed a
majority of Canadians surveyed want the government to reject the
deal. After he spoke to reporters that day, Nexen’s stock  price 
sank to $25.68, or 6.6 percent less than Cnooc’s offer versus
5.9 percent below at the end of the prior session.  ‘Significant,’ ‘Growing’  When asked if the deal would be allowed given that Canadian
companies face limits on investment in China, the prime minister
said that should be scrutinized, though he noted Canada has
“significant and growing” investments in China. Oliver, the
natural resources minister, reiterated the importance of
investment reciprocity when speaking with reporters on Sept. 4.
U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from  New York , has
 asked  Geithner to block the deal until China gives American
companies more access to its market.  While Canada doesn’t want to appear like it’s “rubber
stamping” the agreement, the nation “needs foreign capital to
develop their resources, especially these particular
resources,”  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at MKM in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview. “In the U.S.,
you still have headline risk because there will be another
politician or two who will try to use this as sort of a wedge.
But ultimately it’s not a national treasure. Ultimately this
deal gets the approvals.”  BHP’s Failure  Canada rejected Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd.’s hostile
$40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. in 2010,
one of only two acquisitions blocked by the net-benefit rule. To
help appease Canadian regulators, Cnooc pledged to locate its
North and Central American headquarters in Calgary, retain
Nexen’s current employees and management, enhance the company’s
planned capital expenditures in Canada, and expand charitable
programs.  The acquisition will provide “significant long-term
benefits to Canada,” Cnooc said in a July 23 statement. In a
conference call that day, Cnooc Chief Executive Officer Li Fanrong said, “Put simply, we are in Canada to invest.”  Nexen slipped to $25.16 a share yesterday, pushing the
spread between the stock price and Cnooc’s offer to its widest
point since the transaction was announced in July, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The gap is larger than every agreed takeover
in  North America  valued at $1 billion or more, the data show.
Only the unsolicited proposal for Best Buy Co. from founder
Richard Schulze has a bigger spread.  Today, Nexen shares rose 1.6 percent to $25.50, the biggest
increase since the deal was announced.  Awaiting Approval  Harper is mulling Cnooc’s deal as Bank of  Nova Scotia 
continues to await Chinese approval to close its purchase of
Bank of Guangzhou. The prime minster raised the issue with
China’s Premier Wen Jiabao in February.  The holdup underscores challenges Harper faces as his
government reviews the offer for Nexen. His decision may be a
pivotal moment in relations between the two countries as
Canadian companies look to establish themselves in the world’s
second-biggest economy, and as China seeks access to Canada’s
natural resources.  “China is a huge market for Canada, and it’s a huge
potential partner that can help Canada in a same way that
Canadians can help China,” Charlie Fischer, who was Nexen’s CEO
until 2008, said in a phone interview. “If we want to be able
to exploit those assets, we need to have really large and strong
pools of capital to be able to do it.”  Plunge Risk  Nexen shareholders risk losing money if regulators block
the transaction. The stock was valued at $17.06 the day before
Cnooc’s offer. GFI’s Scialabba estimates it could fall to $18.20,
about $7 less than yesterday’s closing price.  “Whenever you have a Chinese buyer involved, there’s
uncertainty,” he said. “Definitely people are kind of scared”
that the acquisition could be scuttled.  Still, the market is implying 80 percent odds that the deal
will get done, according to Jefferies Group Inc.’s Ted Chen, an
event-driven strategist in New York.  “It’s not a bad risk-return to play,” Chen said in a
phone interview. “This is a logical deal for Canada to
approve.”  Traders can make a 29 percent annualized return if the
takeover is completed by year-end, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Even if it’s delayed to the end of March, the gain would
be about 16 percent on an annualized basis, the data show.  “If for any reason the closing was delayed to March 2013,
then we would still have an attractive return because the spread
is so large,” Scialabba said.  Bill Kavaler of Oscar Gruss agreed that Nexen is offering
an opportunity that’s too good to pass up.  “It’s a buy,” Kavaler, a New York-based special
situations analyst at Oscar Gruss, said in a phone interview.
“It’s very complicated in terms of the regulatory issues” he
said. Still, Nexen doesn’t “qualify as a national strategic
asset, so it will be approved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  