-- NFL’s Standoff With Referees Won’t Stop the Game, Goodell Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/nfl-replacement-officials-are-more-than-adequate-goodell-says.html
The  National Football League  and its
officials have to close a gap of about $50 million to $70
million before they can reach agreement on a new five- to seven-
year contract, NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said.  The NFL started its season two nights ago with replacement
officials from the lower college football levels working the
 Dallas Cowboys ’ 24-17 win over the  New York Giants .  “Our officials did a more than adequate job,” Goodell
said at the Bloomberg Sports Business Summit hosted by  Bloomberg
Link  in New York yesterday. “We’ve proven we can train
officials, get them up to NFL standards, and we’ve done that in
a three-month period. These officials will get even better as
time goes by. The game is not going to stop.”  Goodell said the NFL and its officials’ union have
“significant differences” from philosophical and economic
standpoints. The league locked out its 120 part-time officials
in June and the latest round of contract negotiations was ended
by Goodell on Sept. 1.  “We want to make officiating better for the long term,”
Goodell said. “This agreement is critical in doing that. We
want to make sure we have a deep pool of officials, train them
properly. Maybe when performance on the field is not doing so
well, we can move guys in and out during the season, maybe by
individuals or by crews.”  Full-Time Jobs  Goodell said the league wants to hire full-time officials,
possibly one on each crew. He said officials have been making an
average of $150,000 annually and the league offered a salary
increase to about $200,000 on average. The two sides also
disagree on pensions.  The NFL Referees Association said in a Sept. 2 statement
that the league provided an ultimatum that the union abandon its
positions on all issues other than compensation in return for
the possibility that the league would modestly increase its
offer. NFLRA spokesman Michael Arnold said yesterday in an e-
mail that the union wants to reach a fair agreement with the
league and get back on the field.  “Our members are professionals who have continued to
prepare for the season and are ready to go,” Arnold said. “We
have repeatedly shown our willingness to seek a middle ground in
negotiations with the NFL and continue to be willing to engage
in meaningful negotiations.”  Replacements Used  The replacement officials used in the season opener emerged
without any of the significant mistakes or confusion that led to
criticism from players, coaches, fans and the media during the
preseason. Arnold said the union won’t comment on the
performance of the replacements.  “The officials are being trained. They understand the
rules,” Goodell said. “Unfortunately, officials make mistakes.
We have situations every season, every week, where an official
may not drop a flag for a violation and we have to fine.
Officiating is an imperfect science.”  Goodell said the NFL is also evaluating a reduction of the
preseason, saying that fans don’t like the current format of
four exhibition games for each team.  The league is considering formats that would have each team
play two preseason games and then 16 or 18 regular-season
contests.  “The four preseason games are an issue for us,” Goodell
said. “One, you have a question whether we really need it to
put on the best quality product. Two, you have an issue of how
our fans are reacting to it, and they’re not reacting positively.
It’s not the kind of standard that the NFL is used to
producing.”  The issue of a shorter preseason came up during labor
negotiations last year.  “We had the right in the previous bargaining agreement to
do that unilaterally,” Goodell said. “We didn’t do that
because we want to be thoughtful, smart and make sure our
players are part of the decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  