-- NFL Replacement Referees Avoid Errors in Giants-Cowboys Game
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-06T10:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/nfl-replacement-referees-avoid-miscues-in-giants-cowbooys-opener.html
The third team on the field for the
 National Football League ’s season opener was under almost as
much scrutiny as the  Dallas Cowboys  and  New York Giants .  The crew of replacement officials emerged without any of
the gaffes, blown calls or confusion that led to criticism from
players, coaches, fans and the media during the preseason.  Even though the Cowboys held on for a 24-17 win over the
Giants last night in East Rutherford, New Jersey,  Dallas ’
offense made more mental mistakes than the seven-man crew of
replacement referees. Of the Cowboys’ game-high 13 penalties for
86 yards, seven were for false starts or delay of game.  The defending Super Bowl-champion Giants were whistled for
four penalties for 33 yards. Giants quarterback Eli Manning said
he didn’t notice any significant difference having the
replacement referees working last night’s game.  “You’re going to get some calls, you’re not going to get
some calls,” Manning said. “That’s part of it.”  Giants receiver  Victor Cruz  offered one complaint after the
game, saying the officials didn’t call a penalty on the Cowboys
when he thought he was held on a third-down pass play from the
Dallas 4-yard line in the second quarter. The Giants settled for
a field goal on the drive.  “I felt I got grabbed a little bit more than the usual,
but you can’t have any excuses,” Cruz said.  The NFL and its 120 part-time officials have been unable to
agree on a new contract, with differences on pay, pensions and
operational issues. The league locked out the officials in June
and the latest round of negotiations was ended by NFL
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  on Sept. 1.  Limited Experience  Without regular officials such as Ed Hochuli or Gene
Steratore, the NFL used replacements during its preseason games.
Most of those had only experience below the highest level of
college football and many were criticized for missed or
inaccurate calls. Only one of last night’s officials had worked
a game at college football’s highest level, Division I.  The Giants experienced mistakes by the replacements during
the preseason, most notably in their 6-3 win over the  New
England Patriots  on Aug. 29.  The referees mistakenly attributed multiple fouls after a
second-quarter punt and needed several minutes of deliberation
among themselves and then with both coaches to determine and
explain the proper ruling. Before the Giants attempted the punt
a second time, the officiating crew announced a correction on
the reporting of the foul, drawing further jeers from the
MetLife Stadium Giants-record crowd of 82,287 in  East
Rutherford , New Jersey.  Replays of those gaffes and the confused referees quickly
made the rounds on multiple websites.  Aggressive Play  Aside from a blown call by a replacement referee that may
determine a regular-season game, others have said they are
worried about the effect on player safety.  “My concern is that the replacement referees get too
cautious,” said former NFL receiver Cris Collinsworth, who’s
now an analyst for NBC. “The easiest way for them to disappear
is to keep the flag in their pocket. If that’s the case then
maybe we get players that get a little more aggressive than we
would’ve seen otherwise.”  The 17 penalties called last night were the most in a
season opener since 2005, when the Patriots and Oakland Raiders
drew a combined 23 penalties for 195 yards. The Raiders totaled
16 penalties for a loss of 149 yards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford,
 New Jersey , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  