-- Nippon Yusen, Wilhelmsen Raided by Antitrust Regulator
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-09-06T08:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/nippon-yusen-tumbles-on-fair-trade-commission-raid-tokyo-mover.html
Japan’s antitrust regulator raided
the offices of five shipping lines, including  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) 
and  Wilh. Wilhelmsen ASA (WWASA) , that control about 70 percent of the
global market for carrying cars.  Wallenius Wilhelmsen Logistics, a unit of Wilhelmsen, is
being investigated in Japan for a possible breach of an anti-
monopoly act that involves price fixing, Benedicte Gude, a
Lysaker, Norway-based spokeswoman for the company, said in a
phone interview today.  Nippon Yusen ,  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104) ,
 Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107)  and Eukor Car Carriers Inc. also said
their offices were searched.  Nippon Yusen, the world’s biggest owner of car-carrying
vessels, plunged fell  5.3 percent  to 144 yen, its lowest since
at least 1974, at close of trading in  Tokyo . About 10 shipping
lines are suspected of discussing raising rates together for
transporting cars to the U.S., Europe and other parts of Asia
from Japan since 2008,  Kyodo News  reported, without saying where
it got the information.  “The key to watch is what kind of fine will be imposed if
the commission confirms the allegations,” said Minoru Matsuno,
president of Value Search Asset Management Co., a Tokyo-based
investment advisory firm. “It’s difficult to imagine it will
cause a vital blow to the companies given their finances.”  Fare Trade Commission  The Fair Trade Commission officials entered Nippon Yusen’s
offices earlier today and the company is cooperating with the
investigation, the shipping line’s spokesman Jiro Tanida said by
telephone. Nippon Yusen isn’t aware of the reason for the search,
he said.  Offices of Mitsui O.S.K., Japan’s second-largest car
carrier, were searched by the commission and the shipping line
is cooperating, spokesman Yasuyuki Fukuma said by phone.
Kawasaki Kisen spokesman Jitsuo Narita and Eukor Car Carriers
Inc. spokesman Osamu Tani also said their companies’ offices
were searched.  Isao Kasubuchi, director of management and planning
division at  Japan  Fair Trade Commission, declined to comment on
the investigation.  The five companies are the world’s five biggest car-
carrying lines, controlling about 70 percent of the global
market, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Mitsui O.S.K. declined 2.7 percent to 181 yen, while
Kawasaki Kisen, Japan’s third-largest shipping company, was
unchanged at close of trading. Wilhelmsen  fell  2.8 percent to
45.7 Kroner at 9:54 a.m. in Oslo.  Nippon Yusen transported 2.92 million vehicles in the
fiscal year ended March 31, according to the company. The
carrier has predicted it will carry 15 percent more vehicles
this fiscal year. The shipping line also forecast a rebound to
profit of 20 billion yen ($255 million) in the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  