-- Nissan Executive Says China Sales Hurt by Japan Tensions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-06T05:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/nissan-executive-says-china-sales-hurt-by-japan-tensions.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the biggest
Japanese automaker by sales in China, said deliveries in the
country have been affected as it cut back on marketing events in
the wake of violent anti-Japan demonstrations last month.  Nissan has reduced the number of promotional activities, on
the advice of Chinese authorities, Nissan Chief Operating
Officer Toshiyuki Shiga told reporters at an auto forum in
Chengdu, southwest China today. The impact is difficult to
quantify, he said.  Shiga’s comments may be among the first from a major
Japanese company acknowledging the fallout from an island
dispute that’s soured diplomatic ties between Asia’s two biggest
economies and triggered protests. Tension is escalating as
Japanese companies increasingly rely on China for growth to
counter shrinking demand in  Europe .  “Sales in China were already slowing, and this may
accelerate the slowdown in sales,”  Mitsushige Akino ,  executive
director  at Tokyo-based Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. said by
telephone. “I won’t be surprised if production becomes affected
too, and if tension further heightens between the nations, it
may have a bigger impact.”  Protests erupted in China and  Hong Kong  last month as
Japanese activists landed on an island in the  East China Sea ,
known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese. Japan is
mired in a similar row with South Korea, while China is
embroiled in territorial disputes with  Vietnam  and the
 Philippines .  Tomoko Takemori, a spokeswoman at  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , said the
company hasn’t heard of any impact on sales or production in
China. Naoto Fuse, a spokesman at Toyota, said the carmaker is
not seeing any impact now from the political tension with  China .  Island Protests  Li Bing, an engineering business owner, helps illustrate
why companies such as Nissan are expressing concern.  “ Germany  and American brands are all acceptable but
definitely not Japanese ones,” said Li, 34, who’s attending the
Chengdu Motor Show this week in the capital of landlocked
Sichuan province. “All my friends are boycotting Japanese brand
stuff. No matter how good the quality and pricing are, we won’t
buy.”  Demonstrations were held in more than 10 Chinese cities and
featured calls for a boycott of Japanese goods, the state-run
China Youth Daily reported last month. Japan asked the Chinese
government to protect its citizens living in China, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said.  Staying ‘Rational’  China Daily  said the protests of varying size in cities
including Beijing, Qingdao, Guangzhou and Shenzhen were mostly
peaceful and the newspaper urged people to be “rational.”  “When choosing between a Japanese or a German-branded car,
both equal in terms of value, why would you buy a Japanese car
when you see residents smashing them in such anti-Japan
protests?” said Song Jian, president of Tsinghua Institute for
Automotive Technology. “It would definitely weigh on your
buying decision.”  Still,  Kenichi Hirano , market analyst at Tachibana
Securities Co., sees any impact on sales from tensions between
the two countries as temporary and short-lived.  “These tensions are reoccurring and every time it happens,
the Communist Party controls and quietens down the tension
before it gets too heated,” he said.  Nissan’s Chinese partner joined Hirano in ruling out a
prolonged fallout.  ‘Some Impact’  There will definitely be “some sort of impact, but I
believe Chinese consumers are a lot more rational now,” Zhu Fushou, general manager of Dongfeng Motor Corp., the Chinese
joint venture for Nissan, said today in an interview at the
forum.  Nissan’s Shiga said that growth in China will probably come
from the less developed cities, such as Chengdu, where car
ownership levels are lower and incomes are rising.  Asked whether anti- Japan  sentiment has made it more
difficult for Nissan and other Japanese automakers to sell in
the inland areas, just as growth is expected to outpace the
richer eastern coastal areas, he said: “I can imagine so.”  “Both countries are important to each other
economically,” he said. “I hope this issue will be solved as
soon as possible and not continue.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  