-- North Korea Holds Chinese Firm Responsible for Failed Venture
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-09-06T05:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/north-korea-holds-chinese-firm-responsible-for-failed-venture.html
North Korea held a Chinese mineral
company responsible for the collapse of an  iron-ore  joint
venture, escalating a dispute that risks undermining the
isolated state’s relations with  China , its biggest investor.  Xiyang Group, based in Liaoning in northeast China,
fulfilled only 50 percent of what it had agreed to and was
“chiefly to blame,” the official Korean Central News Agency
said yesterday. Xiyang said last month that its contract was
terminated at the plant after North Korea demanded an increase
in royalties and rent.  The row may undermine North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s
effort to boost foreign investment in an economy in which 16
million people, or two thirds of the population, suffer from
poverty and malnutrition. China accounts for 89 percent of  North
Korea ’s foreign trade and the two countries are negotiating the
expansion of joint economic zones with an eye on the reclusive
state’s estimated $6 trillion of mineral reserves.  “North Korea doesn’t understand how capitalism works and
believes that all companies operate under the government’s
orders,” said Lee Woo Young, a professor at the University of
North Korean Studies in Seoul. “The two countries are likely to
turn this dispute into a diplomatic one to exercise leverage in
negotiating Chinese investment in the joint economic zones.”  Mining exports are one of the few legitimate ways for North
Korea to earn foreign currency. Last year, the regime exported
$1.2 billion of minerals, 97 percent of which went to China,
according to a June 1 report by the Korea Trade-Investment
Promotion Agency in Seoul.  Signed Contract  Xiyang signed a contract in 2007 to build a mine producing
500,000 tons of iron ore per year, the company said on a weblog
that was confirmed by  Bloomberg News  today. The company
dispatched more than 100 technical workers to North Korea to set
up the plant.  The North Korean side raised 16 issues in September last
year which “completely went against the contract,” the company
said, including raising royalties and equal pay for North Korean
workers and Chinese workers. North Korea then terminated the
contract on Feb. 7 and cancelled the joint venture company,
cutting access to water, electricity and communications, Xiyang
said.  “They chased us out after we invested,” Wu Xisheng, a
deputy general manager in charge of Xiyang’s North Korea
investment, said by telephone today from Beijing. “There’s
nothing we can do. We can’t go back.”  North Korea agreed to pay compensation of $31.24 million to
resolve the dispute that the company hasn’t received, forcing
Xiyang to make a statement, Wu said.  Public Response  “North Koreans took Xiyang’s complaint as the Chinese
government finding reasons to limit investment in the North,”
said Lee, the professor in  Seoul . “That is why they responded
so publicly.”  North Korea’s government said it is working to improve the
nation’s investment environment to “meet the demand of the
developing times,” according to the KCNA report, which cited
the DPRK Commission for Joint Venture and Investment.  North Korea has made little progress on an economic zone
set up last year on the Yalu river islands of Hwanggumphyong and
Wihwa on its border with China. An earlier zone to the east was
established in the 1990s at Rajin-Sonbong, giving China’s
landlocked provinces of Jilin and Heilongjiang access to the
North’s Rajin port.  Jang Song Thaek, the uncle of North Korean leader Kim Jong
Un, won a Chinese pledge during his visit last month to Beijing
to “quickly start” development in Wihwa, the KCNA said on Aug.
15. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said two days later that the two
countries will offer favorable land and tax policies to
encourage companies to invest.  North Korea’s economy has been further strained in recent
months by torrential rain and flooding. More than 179,000 tons
of coal was washed away in July, and scores of mine pits
inundated northeast of Pyongyang.  The  United Nations  said in June that about 16 million of
North Korea’s 24 million people suffer from chronic food
insecurity, high malnutrition rates, and deep-rooted economic
challenges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  