-- NYC Marathon Renews Baggage Service After Runner Complaints
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-09-06T20:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/nyc-marathon-reinstates-baggage-policy-after-runner-complaints.html
New York  Road Runners, organizer of
the  ING New York City Marathon , reversed its Aug. 23 decision to
cancel baggage-check service after participants from around the
world complained about the change.  The Nov. 4 marathon, which will feature 47,000 runners
traversing the city’s five boroughs, will allow participants to
choose between storing personal belongings for later pickup and
a no-baggage option, which will allow an earlier exit from the
finish line area in  Central Park .  Mary Wittenberg, chief executive officer of New York Road
Runners, said “feedback regarding the no-baggage policy” led
organizers of the world’s biggest marathon to work with city
officials to give runners the choice.  “This adjusted 2012 marathon plan includes the use of
reconfigured space that will enable us to offer a baggage option
for those of you who prefer it, while still easing finish-line
congestion and providing a better and safer post-race
experience,” Wittenberg said in an  e-mail  to entrants.  About 1,500 people signed an online  petition  opposing the
baggage ban, and Twitter, Facebook and Internet runners’ blogs
were awash with complaints about the change. Advertising Age
magazine ran an article critical of the NYRR’s handling of the
decision, and Runner’s World called it a debacle.  Finisher Ponchos  Under the no-baggage policy, the NYRR had planned to
provide fleece-lined, water-repellent ponchos at the end of the
race and phone stations for runners to contact family and
friends. Discarded clothing worn before the race would be
donated to charities. That plan will still apply to runners who
choose not to check bags.  Under the original baggage program run by  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  for the past 15 years, runners checked items at the
starting line in Fort Wadsworth on  Staten Island  and UPS trucks
hauled them to Central Park for the finish. The NYRR said it
took some runners as long as an hour to retrieve their baggage,
leading to the cancellation last month. UPS will continue to
provide storage and transportation this year, the NYRR said.  Wittenberg provided details of the new policy in a
telephone news conference today. She was joined by Deputy Mayor
Howard Wolfson, whom she credited with helping approve space and
logistical support to offer runners the choice.  “We want to make sure runners have a meaningful and safe
and memorable experience during the run, and we want to make
sure that people can leave the park quickly upon completion of
the run,” Wolfson told reporters. “We also keep in mind the
concerns of neighborhood residents.”  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  