-- NZX Developing Milk Hedge for Farmers as Currency Offsets Gains
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-09-06T12:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/nzx-developing-milk-hedge-for-farmers-as-currency-offsets-gains.html
NZX Ltd. (NZX) , the operator of  New
Zealand ’s stock exchange, is developing a hedging tool to help
dairy farmers protect themselves against volatile milk prices
and currency swings.  NZX wants to introduce so-called dairy swaps within the
next year, the exchange’s Chief Executive Officer Tim Bennett
said in an interview in Wellington. The product will give dairy
farmers more price certainty and curb the  currency risk  they
face with NZX’s current futures contract, he said.  The New Zealand dollar has risen 2.5 percent this year, the
second best-performing in the Group of 10 currencies, offsetting
higher global milk prices. As New Zealand seeks to become  Asia ’s
food basket and boost exports, a third of the economy, younger
farmers are expected to borrow heavily to buy properties, making
hedging tools more necessary, said Bennett.  “If we want to get young farmers on to the farms, and own
those farms, then they will need risk management tools because
the lenders will want to reduce the price volatility,” said
Bennett. “That’s why this is good for the economy.”  New Zealand’s dairy farmers owe NZ$30.5 billion ($24
billion) on outstanding loans, according to the  Reserve Bank of
New Zealand ’s web site. The average age of the current
generation of farmers is almost 60 and many are debt free,
meaning there could be significantly more lending in the future
as a new generation seeks to buy land, Bennett said.  Largest Exporter  Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s
largest dairy exporter, pays its 10,500 farmer shareholders
every month for the milk it receives from them. By using swaps,
farmers are effectively buying insurance against falls in that
payout caused by swings in commodity prices and currencies.  Hedging tools are designed to give farmers more certainty
by allowing them to sell a portion of their product forward at a
fixed price. The current futures contract, which has traded
30,000 lots since starting almost two years ago, is linked to
the U.S. dollar-based  GlobalDairyTrade  auction price.  The swaps will ideally be denominated in the local currency
and tied to Fonterra’s payout price, Bennett said. While banks
have historically been reluctant to offer such swaps, citing a
lack of counterparties to match with farmers, that’s changed
over the past six months, with rising interest from food groups
that want to fix their input costs, according to Bennett.  Forecast Payout  “If you think about the risk management requirements of
the New Zealand dairy farming community, it’s all about trying
to buy some fixed price exposure to the payout,” said Bennett.  Whole milk powder prices increased for a third straight
time in the latest auction to reach a five-month high, Fonterra
said Sept. 5. Powder has risen 18 percent since mid-July as the
worst U.S. drought in 56 years curbs supplies and pushes global
food prices higher.  Still, Fonterra last month cut the forecast payout to its
shareholders for the current season, saying the  New Zealand
dollar ’s strength was more than offsetting higher global prices.  Demand for food commodities including dairy is rising in
 emerging markets  as economic growth lifts incomes and spurs
sales of protein-rich meals. World food production will need to
expand 70 percent by 2050 as 2 billion people are added to the
population, according to the  United Nations .  Fonterra said last month it shipped a record 620,000
metric tons of dairy products from May to July after New Zealand
milk production rose to an all-time high.  The company, which accounts for about 40 percent of the
global trade in dairy products, forecasts milk demand in China
will rise 7 percent a year on average by 2020, according to a
presentation from CEO Theo Spierings in March.  China ’s own supply is estimated to increase about 4 percent
a year, creating the opportunity for milk producers to meet the
shortfall, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  