-- Obama Likely to See Jobs Data Before Convention Speech
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/obama-likely-to-see-jobs-data-before-convention-speech.html
President  Barack Obama  probably will
receive August’s unemployment report before he delivers his
acceptance speech tonight at the Democratic National Convention
in Charlotte, North Carolina, said  Austan Goolsbee , a former
chairman of the White House  Council of Economic Advisers .  “The numbers usually come in the afternoon, so he probably
will” see them before the address, Goolsbee said. “He would
have to use a secure phone,”  On the afternoon before the Friday release of the  monthly
jobs figures  at 8:30 a.m. Washington time, the Bureau of Labor
Statistics sends an encrypted message with the raw figures to
the Council of Economic Advisers. The council chairman along
with agency economists draft a one-to-two-page memo to explain
the data to the president. Copies of the memo also go to the
director of the National Economic Council and the vice
president.  Obama probably won’t betray a good or bad jobs report with
his body language, said Goolsbee, who once received an Oval
Office fist bump from the president after sharing upbeat
economic data. Goolsbee headed the Council of Economic Advisers
from September 2010 to June 2011.  “My experience is that the president is extremely good at
not tipping his hand about what’s in the numbers,” he said
yesterday. “So anybody who’s going to be looking at his speech
trying to figure out what’s in them, I would say probably going
to be disappointed.”  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, and Jennifer Kaplan, Labor Department spokeswoman, didn’t respond to requests
for comment.  The U.S. unemployment rate rose to 8.3 percent in July from
8.2 percent in June even as employers added 163,000 jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Charlotte at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  