-- Obama Tells Supporters Speech to Outline Election’s ‘Stakes’
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-06T18:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/obama-tells-supporters-speech-to-outline-election-s-stakes-.html
President  Barack Obama  told
supporters on a conference call today that his address tonight
at the Democratic National Convention will outline the “stakes
in this election,” and that he can’t wait to share his “vision
for the future.”  The call was held for tens of thousands of people who won’t
be able to see the address live after organizers, citing the
possibility of thunderstorms, moved the event indoors to a
smaller venue in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Obama had planned to speak at the outdoor Bank of America
Stadium, which seats almost 74,000 people. Instead, he will
stand at the podium at the Time Warner Cable Arena, where the
convention has been held the past two days. Obama delivered his
2008 acceptance at an outdoor stadium in Denver.  The president said he wanted to tell those who had planned
to be in the stadium how much he regrets they couldn’t all
assemble in one place.  He said that given the potential for lightning, it was too
risky to hold the event outdoors because it would have been
difficult to get everyone out quickly if needed.  “There’s plenty of enthusiasm out there,” he said. “We
can’t let a little thunder and lightning get us down.”  Obama said that his party’s convention has been an
“unbelieveable” success so far.  “This is still going to be a really close election,” he
said. “I really need your help, guys.”  Obama’s campaign manager said on the call there would have
been no problem filling the outdoor stadium. “It would have
been standing-room only,” the aide,  Jim Messina , said.  The president spent the morning at his hotel preparing for
his prime-time nomination acceptance speech, one aimed at
convincing voters struggling in a slow economic recovery that
things will get better if they give him a second term. The
speech is scheduled for shortly after 10 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Charlotte, North Carolina at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  