-- OCI to Expand U.S. Operations as Second-Quarter Profit Falls
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-09-06T12:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/oci-second-quarter-profit-falls-28-on-taxes-expansion-costs.html
Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) ,
Egypt’s biggest publicly traded company, said it will expand
fertilizer and construction operations in the U.S. as  second-
quarter profit  retreated.  The company will build a $1.4 billion fertilizer plant in
 Iowa  and is finalizing the acquisition of Des Moines-based
builder  The Weitz Co. , it said in a statement late yesterday.
The company reported a 28-percent decline in profit to $119.4
million for the three months that ended in June. Revenue
retreated 8.5 percent to $1.35 billion.  The fertilizer plant is OCI’s second in the U.S., following
the phased start of production at its $250 million ammonia and
methanol plant in Beaumont,  Texas , over the last year. The
company wants to take advantage of low natural-gas prices and
growing U.S. demand for fertilizers, Chief Executive Officer
 Nassef Sawiris  said in a phone interview yesterday from  New
York .  “Although we view this as a positive indicator for share
price momentum in the near term, the actual value accretion for
OCI should happen not before 2016,” Allen Sandeep, equity
analyst at Beltone Financial, said by phone. The fertilizer
plant, which will have an annual capacity of as much as 2
million tons, plans to start production in 2015, Sawiris said.
Iowa is the biggest corn-producing state and the largest
consumer of nitrogen-based fertilizer, according to OCI.  Rising Stock  OCI shares  gained 1.7 percent to 289 Egyptian pounds at
1:52 p.m. in Cairo, heading for the highest close since January,
2011. The stock has climbed 44 percent this year, compared with
a 53 percent increase for the benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) , valuing
the company at 60.4 billion pounds ($9.9 billion).  Profit “was impacted by a high effective  tax rate  due to
higher contribution from our European operations,” Sawiris said
in the earnings release. OCI continues to incur startup costs on
Sorfert Algeria and OCI Beaumont, fertilizer makers that started
production within the last year, he said.  Sawiris declined to disclose details about the acquisition
of Weitz, which he said will be involved in building the
fertilizer plant, because the negotiations haven’t been
completed. Weitz had a backlog of $787.7 million as of the end
of June, which is expected to increase by about 30 percent when
it starts work on the plant.  The planned demerger of the company’s construction and
fertilizer units is on track and the approval of  Egypt ’s General
Authority for Investments is “imminent”, he said. The split is
expected to be completed in the fourth quarter, according to
OCI’s statement.  Sawiris expects 2013 to be a “strong year” for
construction investments in Egypt, he said in the interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  