-- OCZ Tumbles After Sales Miss Company’s Revenue Projection
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-09-06T20:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/ocz-tumbles-after-sales-miss-company-s-revenue-projection.html
OCZ Technology Group Inc. (OCZ) , a maker
of disk drives, tumbled after reporting preliminary fiscal
second-quarter sales that missed the company’s forecast because
of supply constraints.  The shares of San Jose, California-based OCZ sank 19
percent to $4.35 at the close in New York, the biggest decline
since at least February 2010. Today’s slide extended the  stock ’s
slump for the year to 34 percent.  Sales in the quarter that ended in August will be $110
million to $120 million, down from a prior projection of $130
million to $140 million, the company said in a statement. OCZ
said it experienced a shortage of Nand  flash memory  --
semiconductors used to store data in phones, tablets and other
devices -- as the industry curbed production last month to
counter a glut that had depressed prices.  “OCZ doesn’t have the purchasing power of the larger Nand
consumers so they definitely get the short end of the stick,”
said  Cody Acree , an analyst at Williams Financial Group, in a
research note. “OCZ is working to redesign its products to use
more plentiful segments of the Nand spectrum, which should help,
but will take time.”  The preliminary earnings report from OCZ bodes well for
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , a Nand supplier that slumped 22 percent
last year as capacity gains caused an industry-wide glut, Acree
said.  “We recommend investors look to OCZ’s pre-announcement as
an accentuation of the structural shifts and take advantage of
Micron’s lagging share price,” he said.  Micron, based in Boise, Idaho, rose as much as 7.4 percent
to $6.65, the biggest intraday gain in two months. Chip-maker
 SanDisk Corp. (SNDK)  climbed as much as 8.2 percent, while  Cypress
Semiconductor Corp. (CY)  increased as much as 6.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  