-- OECD Calls for Euro-Area Confidence Boost as G-7 Economies Cool
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-09-06T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/oecd-calls-for-euro-area-confidence-boost-as-g-7-economies-cool.html
The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said that  Europe ’s debt crisis is
hurting growth across Group of Seven economies and urged euro-
area authorities to bolster confidence.  “The loss of momentum at the G-7 level may persist
throughout the latter half of this year, with the recession in
the euro area and associated trade and confidence headwinds
enduring,” the OECD said in a report published today. “With
the euro-area crisis still the most important risk for the
global economy, further policy action is needed to instill more
confidence in monetary union.”  The Paris-based organization, which advises its 34 member
governments on economic policy, cut its gross domestic product
forecasts for the main euro economies.  Germany  will expand 0.8
percent this year instead of the 1.2 percent predicted in May,
while  France  will expand 0.1 percent instead of 0.6 percent and
 Italy  will shrink 2.4 percent instead of 1.7 percent, it said.  The report comes as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  prepares to set out details of a bond-purchase plan later
today that is intended to counter investor concern about the
breakup of the single currency. Economists are split over
whether the ECB will also lower the benchmark rate to a new
record low, with 30 of 58 in a Bloomberg survey predicting a
quarter-point cut to 0.5 percent and 28 forecasting no change.  ‘Exit Fears’  The OECD urged the Frankfurt-based central bank to cut
borrowing costs and endorsed the broad outline of the awaited
bond-buying plan. Draghi will hold a briefing at 2:30 p.m., 45
minutes after the ECB announces its interest-rate decision.  “In the euro area, the  interest rate  on the marginal
lending facility should be lowered,” the OECD said. “It is
crucial to stem exit fears. This could be achieved by the ECB
undertaking bond market intervention to keep spreads within
ranges justified by fundamentals.”  For their part, euro-area banks and governments should move
toward “full recognition of non-performing loans, enforced by
common supervision and the availability of area-wide public
funds for recapitalization,” the OECD said.  The U.K., which isn’t a member of the single currency, is
also suffering from the region’s woes. GDP will shrink 0.7
percent this year instead of the previously predicted expansion
of 0.5 percent, the OECD said. The forecast doesn’t account for
likely growth shifts following the additional Diamond Jubilee
bank holiday in June or the London  Olympic Games  last month.  U.S. Japan  By contrast, the U.S., the world’s largest economy, will
probably grow 2.3 percent this year, according to the OECD.  The U.S. has “comparatively stronger growth, reflecting
inter alia progress in balance-sheet adjustment and improving
housing market conditions,” the OECD said. Additional easing of
monetary policy “would have to be provided if the labor market
situation were to deteriorate and fiscal tightening proves
excessive in 2013.”  In  Canada , the economy may grow 1.9 percent this year,
while  Japan  is seen expanding 2.2 percent, today’s report
showed. The OECD said that cooling inflation means that “some
of the recent policy restraint could be clawed back in  China ,
without providing an economic forecast.  ‘‘Likely durable changes are taking place in the
geographical composition of global imbalances, with the euro
area surplus rising on soft domestic demand and fiscal
consolidation,’’ the OECD said. ‘‘In the U.S. an increasing non-
oil deficit is offset by an improving oil balance.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  