-- Okada Says Buying Disputed Islands Could Help Japan-China Ties
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-09-06T09:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/okada-says-buying-disputed-islands-could-help-japan-china-ties.html
A Japanese proposal to buy islands
also claimed by  China  could lead to “peaceful and stable
relations,” Deputy Prime Minister  Katsuya Okada  said.  The government is in talks to buy the islands, known as
Senkaku in Japanese and Daioyu in Chinese, from their private
owner, quashing an attempted purchase by Tokyo governor and
China critic Shintaro Ishihara. China yesterday rejected the
idea and vowed to take all necessary measures to defend its
sovereignty over the islands.  Ishihara’s announcement set off tit-for-tat visits by
activists on both sides to the islands in the  East China Sea 
lying near oil and gas reserves. Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  is set to meet Chinese President  Hu Jintao  at a
Asian summit this weekend in a bid to defuse tensions between
the region’s two biggest economies.  “I don’t see a big problem with the Chinese government
concerning the Senkaku islands,” Okada told reporters today in
 Tokyo . “We want the people of China to understand that a
purchase of the islands by the national government is a better
option for peaceful and stable relations.”  The cabinet may approve a deal to buy the islands for 2.05
billion yen ($26.1 million) on Sept. 11, the Nikkei newspaper
said yesterday. Japan has administrative control over the
uninhabited islands and pays the Japanese owner rent, a
situation Okada described as “unstable” because they could be
sold to anyone.  Chinese Opposition  Chinese state-run media have been filled with editorials
and articles this week expressing opposition to the plan, and
the government has repeatedly voiced its disapproval.  “The so-called nationalization of the island has seriously
damaged China’s sovereignty and hurt Chinese people’s
feelings,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said yesterday
in Beijing. “China’s will and determination to safeguard our
sovereignty is unshakable.”  Okada drew a contrast between the dispute with China and a
separate territorial altercation with  South Korea .  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  paid a surprise visit
last month to islets known as Dokdo in Korean and as Takeshima
in Japanese. Noda, who called the move “unacceptable,” is not
scheduled to meet Lee at this weekend’s Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in Vladivostok, Russia.  “I am surprised by the attitude taken by South Korea’s
government recently,” Okada said. “Japan’s attitude has not
changed at all, because the relationship is important in terms
of economics, politics and security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  