-- Ambow Rebounds as ECB Bond Plan Spurs ADR Rally: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-09-06T20:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/hollysys-jumps-on-ecb-program-as-ambow-rebounds-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
climbed the most in a month as European policy makers agreed on
steps to safeguard the region’s currency, fueling optimism for
exporters in Asia’s biggest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 1.8 percent to 87.83 yesterday,
the most since Aug. 6.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO)  surged 14
percent as trading in shares of the tutoring service provider
resumed. Yingli Green Energy Holdings Co. rallied after saying
it will cooperate with the European Commission’s anti-dumping
probe into Chinese solar producers, and  Spreadtrum
Communications Inc. (SPRD)  led gains in technology companies.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
policy makers agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program aimed
at controlling regional  interest rates  and strengthening the
currency of China’s largest trading partner. Europe’s three-year
sovereign debt crisis has crimped Chinese exports and weakened
industrial  output .  “This exercise by the Europeans should allow a lot of
laggard markets, particularly the BRICs, to stage a medium-term
recovery,”  Christopher Palmer , who helps manage $2.5 billion of
assets as the director of global  emerging markets  for Henderson
Global Investors Ltd., said by phone yesterday from London. “We
know growth has slowed in China but this will help bolster their
manufacturers and exporters that have been hurt by Europe’s
problems.”  China ETF Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 1.7 percent to $32.73,
the steepest rally in a month. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
surged 2 percent to 1,432.11, the highest level since January
2008. Data showed yesterday service industries in the U.S.
expanded in August at a faster pace than forecast and claims for
 unemployment benefits  fell to the lowest level in a month.  China’s top planning agency approved plans to build 2,018
kilometers (1,254 miles) of roads, its second major construction
project announced this week, as the government boosts spending
on infrastructure to help spur economic growth.  Beijing-based Ambow rebounded 14 percent to $2.59 as
trading resumed after a record 27 percent slump on Sept. 5
triggered a suspension in its stock transactions.  All one-on-one tutoring centers operated by Jinghan Yingcai
Education and Technology Co., a unit of Ambow, are legally
registered with local industrial registration agencies and tax
bureaus, and the company is not aware of any pending regulatory
reviews, Beijing-based Ambow said yesterday in a PRNewswire
statement. The company doesn’t expect any restatement of
previous financial results, it said.  Concerns Remain  Ambow tumbled on Sept. 5 after the company said in an
online statement it had started an internal investigation
following China’s state television report that its unit
exaggerated training results and that the schools’ registrations
were incomplete.  “We are satisfied by the company’s explanation that is
hasn’t violated any regulations, but remain concerned that
attention from official state media could signal a new push
toward tighter regulation and possibly even price controls,”
 Trace Urdan , an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co., wrote in a note
yesterday. He maintained an outperform rating on the stock.  Yingli, based in Baoding of China’s northern Hebei
province, surged 7.1 percent to $1.67, snapping a two-day slump.  EU Probe  The company will cooperate with the European Commission’s
anti-dumping investigation to “prove that the conditions for
the imposition of punitive tariffs are not fulfilled,” Yingli
said in a statement Sept. 5.  The European Union yesterday opened a probe into whether
Chinese manufacturers of solar panels sell them in the 27-nation
bloc below cost, a practice known as dumping. The commission has
nine months to decide whether to impose provisional anti-dumping
duties for half a year and EU governments have 15 months to
decide whether to apply “definitive” levies for five years.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s biggest panel
maker, declined 4.9 percent to 78 cents in New York, extending
its loss into a fifth day. LDK Solar Co. retreated 3.8 percent
to $1.28, and Trina Solar Co. fell 3.8 percent to $4.03, the
lowest level since March 2009.  Spreadtrum, a Shanghai-based mobile chipmaker, jumped 6.5
percent to $20.59, the highest level this year.  Hollysys
Automation Technologies Ltd. (HOLI) , a control systems manufacturer
based in Beijing, advanced 5.9 percent to a four-month high of
$10.01.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMI) , a
circuit-chip maker, soared 5.1 percent, the most in four weeks,
to $1.84.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.7 percent, the most in
a week, to 2,051.92 yesterday. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies added 0.5 percent to 9,069.39 in the
first increase in three days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  