-- Hong Kong to Restrict Sales of Homes at Two Sites to Locals
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-09-07T08:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/hong-kong-to-restrict-sales-of-apartments-at-two-sites-to-locals.html
Hong Kong  will allow only local
residents to buy apartments to be built on two sites it plans to
sell, in the government’s toughest move to limit purchases by
Chinese from other cities who have helped propel prices to the
world’s most expensive.  Only permanent Hong Kong residents will be allowed to own
the units for the first 30 years after the sites in eastern
Kowloon are sold next year, Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, who
came to power in July pledging to boost the supply of homes to
keep housing affordable, said yesterday. Details of the measure
come a week after it was flagged as part of a 10-point package
Leung announced on Aug. 30 that also included the speeding up of
the approval of permits for private project sales.  The policies are the toughest since the government in June
last year increased down-payment requirements to quell concerns
about a surge in non-local purchases, particularly by investors
from mainland  China  who account for a third of new home buying
in the city and helped drive  prices  up 85 percent since the
beginning of 2009.  “The restrictions may influence developers’ sentiment when
they bid for the sites,” said Vincent Cheung, national director
for valuation and advisory at property broker Cushman &
Wakefield Inc. “I won’t be surprised if prices end up being 10
to 15 percent lower than what the normal sites would fetch. But
at the moment demand from local buyers is still strong. ”  Leung, who was elected in March by a committee of mostly
businessmen, professionals and lawmakers, has pledged during his
campaign to address a widening wealth gap and concerns that
housing is becoming unaffordable to the general public.  Trip Canceled  Yesterday’s announcement came a day after Leung canceled a
trip to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in
Vladivostok,  Russia , his first scheduled overseas visit. His
government is also facing protests over a proposed national
education program, which detractors said portrays an overly
favorable view of Communist Party rule in China.  Buyers from other parts of China made up 36.8 percent of
all new sales by value in the first quarter, down from 37.9
percent in the previous three months, according to  Midland
Holdings Ltd. (1200)  The proportion reached 53.9 percent in the third
quarter last year, the realtor said.  “Land for housing in Hong Kong is a rare resource,” Leung
told reporters at a briefing broadcast by the city’s Cable TV
yesterday. “When we decide on how to use it, we need to make
sure we are satisfying the need of Hong Kong people first.”  Home Transactions  The sites, which the government plans to sell in the first
quarter, have a combined area of 1.6 hectares (4 acres) and can
be turned into about 1,100 apartments, Leung said. The
government is the main supplier of land for development in the
city.  The seven-member  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks
developers, including  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and  Cheung
Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., rose the most since February, adding 3.5
percent, at the close of trading. It has gained 18 percent this
year, compared with the 7.4 percent increase in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  “Given that only two sites are included in the plan, it
probably won’t have too much impact on the overall private
housing market,” said Alfred Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Bocom International Holdings Co. “It may benefit buyers at the
lower to middle end of the market.”  The property index has risen 2 percent since Leung unveiled
the new efforts to curb prices on Aug. 30.  Mortgage Restrictions  The number of home transactions in Hong Kong rose 42
percent in August from a month earlier, the biggest increase
since March.  Before this year’s rebound,  home prices  fell 4 percent in
the last three months of 2011, the biggest quarterly drop since
the global credit crisis, after  Donald Tsang , Leung’s
predecessor, introduced mortgage restrictions last year and as
 China’s economy  began to slow.  Hong Kong home prices are 65 percent higher than Tokyo’s,
the world’s second-priciest place to buy a home, according to a
study by  Savills Plc (SVS)  published last September that compares
prices in 10 global cities including  New York  and  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  