-- Hong Kong’s Leung Cancels APEC Trip as Student Protest Grows
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e ,   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-09-06T12:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/hong-kong-s-leung-cancels-apec-trip-as-student-protest-grows-1-.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying canceled a trip to the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit, his first scheduled overseas visit, as a
proposed national education program led student protesters to
stage a seven-day demonstration.  Leung, scheduled to attend the meeting in Vladivostok,
 Russia , this week, scrapped the trip hours before his departure
to “focus on domestic duties,” according to a government press
release yesterday. Protesters began camping out at the
government headquarters on Aug. 30 demanding that Leung abandon
plans for national education classes that they said portrayed an
overly favorable view of Communist Party rule in  China .  Leung said today that that protesters should express their
opinions to the Committee on the Implementation of Moral &
National Education, according to a  statement  posted to the
government’s website. The scope of the committee has been
expanded to include discussion on anything, including the
deadline after the three-year initiation period, he said.  The subject has been in preparation for a decade, according
to today’s statement. Leung has told police to be tolerant of
protesters and said there was no plan to remove them from the
headquarters, he said.  Thousands March  Tens of thousands of parents, students, and social
activists marched through  Hong Kong  on July 29 to oppose plans
for the lessons.  “Leung needs to come out and face the students,” said
Lau, a woman who would give only her surname out of privacy
concerns. “If his intention was to listen, he would have
listened days ago.”  Lau, who said she works as an office messenger, and her
four-year-old grandson were among several thousand listening to
speeches critical of the government at Hong Kong headquarters
yesterday evening. A police officer at the protests estimated
2,000 people were in attendance yesterday evening. A spokesman
for the Hong Kong police wasn’t immediately available to confirm
the estimate.  The annual APEC meeting is usually attended by the region’s
leaders to discuss issues including trade liberalization and
economic integration.  “Under normal circumstances, you can’t avoid this
meeting,” Ivan Choy, a political scientist at the  Chinese
University  of Hong Kong, said by phone yesterday. “This will
raise a lot of speculation. Does it mean there are serious
governance issues in Hong Kong?”  Camped Out  Demonstrations against the new school subject have taken
place several times since July 30, with thousands braving the
rain on Sept. 1. Some protesters have camped out at the
government office, with about a dozen on hunger strike.
Yesterday, the crowds spilled over into Tim Mei Avenue, which
runs adjacent to government offices.  “National education is one of the things that he has to
deal with,” Eva Chan, an organizer for the National Education
Parents Concern Group, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“The protest is getting a lot of momentum” and the government
is under pressure to address parents’ concerns, she said.  Sinking Popularity  Leung’s popularity has sunk to the lowest level since he
was picked to run Hong Kong in March. His support rating dropped
to 49 out of a possible 100 score in a survey of 1,019 adults
conducted by the University of Hong Kong Public Opinion
Programme from Aug. 14 to Aug. 18.  Leung on Sept. 4 urged protesters to join a government-
appointed committee to discuss their concerns. The chief
executive will announce new policy initiatives in the next two
to three days,  Radio Television Hong Kong  said yesterday.  ‘Just for Show’  “Canceling the trip is just for show,” said Leung, a
student who also asked not to use her full name, who came to the
site after school with two classmates. All three were wearing
green checkered school uniforms. “This is the sixth day this is
going on -- shouldn’t he have come out earlier if he wanted to
listen? He still hasn’t come to face the people”  Public discontent in Hong Kong has also risen with a
widening wealth gap and surging  home prices . The government
announced a range of property measures on Aug. 30, including a
proposal to restrict some home sales to locals and the speeding
up of approval for apartment sales.  Home prices  have jumped 88 percent since the start of 2009,
spurred by record low-interest rates and purchases by Chinese
investors.  Savills Plc (SVS)  said this year that Hong Kong is the
world’s costliest place to buy an apartment.  Wealth Gap  During his election, Leung pledged to narrow a wealth gap
that has widened to its worst since records were kept in 1971.
Average gross household income of the poorest 10 percent fell to
HK$2,170 ($280) per month in 2011 from HK$2,590 in 2001,
according to a June 18 census report.  Leung also had to contend with criticism over his choice of
members for the Executive Council, the city’s Cabinet. Former
Development Secretary Mak Chai-kwong resigned less than two
weeks after he took office over a corruption investigation.
Mak’s successor  Paul Chan  was criticized for being a director of
a company that partitioned an apartment for rent.  On July 1 when Leung took office, also the 15th anniversary
of Hong Kong’s return to China, about 112,000 people marched on
the streets to demonstrate for higher minimum wages, human
rights in China and protest against income disparity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  