-- Mortgage Refinancing’s Future May Mean Models Overstate Returns
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-09-06T18:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/mortgage-refinancing-s-future-may-mean-models-overstate-returns.html
A return to looser  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  underwriting guidelines for homeowners refinancing
outside of post-crisis programs will probably create lower
returns on mortgage-backed securities than most investors
expect, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  A measure of relative yields on Fannie Mae’s 4 percent
securities would narrow to 10 basis points from 18 if the
companies resume streamlined  refinancing  starting in 2014 with
easier rules such as less documentation, Credit Suisse analysts
Mahesh Swaminathan, Qumber Hassan and Vikram Rao wrote in a
report today.  Those rules “at some point” are likely to replace the
looser guidelines targeted at borrowers with little or no home
equity under the federal Home Affordable Refinance Program
introduced in 2009 and refined last year. That would boost
prepayments among a new set of homeowners and hamper returns,
they wrote.  “Under this scenario, MBS valuations are richer than
current metrics imply,” the New York-based analysts said.  The assessment shows the greater challenges that
government-backed mortgage-bond investors and analysts are
having in studying the value of the securities after a boom and
bust in U.S. housing tightened credit, weakened consumers,
roiled the lending industry and prompted government action.
While agency mortgage bonds carry little  default risk , returns
on the securities, which have climbed to near-record prices,
depend on how quickly the debt gets repaid.  Barclays Model  A change in September 2010 to Barclays Plc models that
estimate the pace of prepayments caused that firm’s assessments
of so-called option-adjusted spreads, a measure of how much the
securities yield relative to Treasuries, to jump to 103 basis
points from 66 basis points, or 0.66 percentage point, according
to its index data.  Option-adjusted spreads, or OAS, capture projected average
yields relative to benchmark rates over a range of potential
future  interest rates .  Prepayments from refinancing, home sales and defaults
usually harm mortgage-bond investors who paid more than face
value by returning their money faster at par and curbing
interest.  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  4 percent securities trade for more than
107 cents on the dollar, meaning an investor would lose 7
percent if all the underlying loans were paid off immediately,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Average prices in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Mortgage
Master Index were 108.65 cents on the dollar yesterday, near the
record 108.7 reached Aug. 2. Prices have climbed from a 2012 low
of 107.2 cent in March.  Streamline Suspension  Fannie Mae suspended its traditional program for
streamlined refinancings when introducing HARP in 2009, while
 Freddie Mac  followed later, the Credit Suisse analysts wrote.  The government-supported companies “are likely to
reintroduce” those programs “at some point in the future,”
they said.  The effects of restarting traditional streamlined
refinancing after HARP’s scheduled end in 2013 can be seen by
comparing prepayment differences between the two companies’
securities during certain time periods, and those for high-
quality borrowers before and after HARP began, they said.  HARP allows borrowers with less than 20 percent home equity
to refinance without obtaining  mortgage insurance  or by rolling
over existing policies, a primary difference with the companies’
standard streamline programs.  The damage to investors from a resumption of traditional
programs would be mitigated by higher benchmark interest rates
or further increases in the fees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
charge for guaranteeing mortgage bonds, which usually increase
new-loan rates and reduce refinancing incentives, they wrote.  With current interest rates, Fannie Mae’s 4 percent
securities would return 1.18 percent over 16 months without its
traditional streamline program and 0.88 percent with it, the
analysts wrote. With a 50-basis-point jump in rates toward the
end of the period, the figures would be 0.72 percent and 0.52
percent, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  