-- Orthofix’s Settlement of Medicare Probe Rejected by Judge
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-09-06T19:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/orthofix-s-settlement-of-medicare-probe-rejected-by-judge.html
Orthofix International NV (OFIX) ’s
settlement of federal regulators’ accusations that the maker of
bone-repair products defrauded Medicare by paying kickbacks to
doctors was rejected by a judge.  U.S. District Judge William G. Young in  Boston  rebuffed an
Orthofix unit’s agreement to plead guilty to a felony count of
obstructing a government audit and pay a $7.8 million fine after
concluding the deal unduly restricted his sentencing power.  “It seems in this case the court’s hands ought not be
tied,” Young told prosecutors and lawyers for Orthofix today at
a hearing. “I have extreme unease of treating corporate
criminal conduct like a civil case.”  It’s unclear whether Young’s refusal to accept the plea
also scuttles Orthofix’s agreement to pay $34.2 million to
resolve civil claims first raised in a whistle-blower’s lawsuit
that the company defrauded the federal Medicare program through
payments to doctors who used its bone-growth stimulators.  Unusual Situation  “It’s an unusual situation,”  David Schumacher , an
assistant U.S. attorney handling the Orthofix case, said in an
interview after Young rejected the plea.  Mark Quick, an Orthofix spokesman, didn’t immediately
return calls for comment on Young’s decision.  Five Orthofix employees have pleaded guilty in connection
with the probe, the U.S.  Justice Department  said.  Thomas
Guerrieri , a company vice president, pleaded guilty this year to
violating the federal anti-kickback statute by setting up fake
consulting agreements for doctors who used the company’s
products. Guerrieri, 51, hasn’t been sentenced, according to
court dockets.  Orthofix, based in Curacao, in the  Netherlands Antilles ,
 said  in February that it had reserved $43 million to settle the
false-claims allegations.  The government joined a whistle-blower suit filed by
Jeffrey Bierman, a Missouri businessman who learned about
alleged Medicare fraud by Orthofix.  Medicaid Costs  He alleged company official improperly waived patient co-
payments, which wound up misstating the bone-stimulator’s true
cost and generating Medicare overpayments, prosecutors said in
June when they announced the accord with the company.  Bierman, owner of a company that provides billing services
to doctors and hospitals, sued under the federal  False Claims
Act , which lets whistle-blowers file cases on behalf of the
government and share in any recoveries. He was to receive
$9.2 million of the civil settlement in the Orthofix case,
according to the Justice Department.  Neil Getnick, a New York-based lawyer representing Bierman,
said in a telephone interview that he couldn’t immediately
comment on whether Young’s rejection of the plea would affect
the settlement of the whistleblower claims.  Bierman sued in 2005 questioning Medicare billings for
bone-growth stimulators, which are often used by patients who
have had back surgery, according to court filings.  Purchase Price  Bierman  alleged  that Orthofix and other makers of bone-
growth stimulators defrauded Medicare by submitting claims that
patients needed to purchase the devices rather than rent them.  The devices cost as much as $5,000 and are needed by
recovering surgery patients for no longer than six months, and
Orthofix should have submitted claims that amounted to rental,
according to the complaint.  In July, a physician’s assistant in  Rhode Island  was
sentenced to six months in prison followed by six months’ home
confinement for taking kickbacks from Orthofix on the
stimulators.  A federal judge in Boston also ordered the man, Michael
Cobb, 42, to pay a $3,000 fine and forfeit $10,000. Prosecutors
alleged Cobb received about $120,000 from Orthofix over seven
years starting in 2004 tied to orders for the devices.  Federal officials said evidence in the case showed that the
neurosurgeon for whom Cobb worked didn’t specify which brand of
stimulator should be ordered for patients and didn’t know about
the payments from Orthofix.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Bierman v. Orthofix International
NV, 05-10557, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston
at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  