-- L.A. Contemporary Art Museum Postpones Gala Amid Turmoil
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-09-07T20:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/los-angeles-contemporary-art-museum-postpones-gala-amid-turmoil.html
The Museum of Contemporary Art  Los
Angeles  isn’t in a party mood this year.  The downtown institution, rocked by the departures of board
members, won’t hold a gala in 2012, according to an e-mail from
the museum. Past events have included performances by Lady Gaga,
Beck and Deborah Harry.  The annual soiree, usually held in November, has been the
museum’s largest fundraiser, tax filings show. The 2011 gala,
which  raised  $2.5 million, was directed by performance artist
 Marina Abramovic  and featured live nude models rotating on
tables, while guests including Pamela Anderson, Kirsten Dunst
and  Will Ferrell  dined in white lab coats.  “This year’s MOCA gala is scheduled for the spring,”
according to the e-mail from the museum. “Date to be announced
shortly.” The museum’s fiscal year runs July 1 through June 30.  MOCA, which has a collection of almost 6,000 art works, has
seen at least seven board members quit this year, including
artists  Ed Ruscha  and  John Baldessari . Some current and former
directors have challenged the influence of billionaire  Eli Broad , who stepped in to save the museum with a $30 million
pledge in 2008.  Resigning trustees have been critical of the museum under
Jeffrey Deitch, a former New York gallery owner now serving as
director, and were supporters of Paul Schimmel, the longtime
chief curator who resigned on June 29. After initially saying
Deitch would act as curator, the executive committee of MOCA’s
board said last month that it would hire a new curator.  Broad, a MOCA co-founder, had been holding back some of his
pledged contributions. He agreed last month to become current on
those payments, Karen Denne, a spokeswoman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  