-- Asian Stocks Rise Ahead of ECB Bond-Buying Announcement
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-09-06T10:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/most-asian-stocks-rise-ahead-of-ecb-bond-buying-program.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index poised for the first gain in six days, as
investors await a European Central Bank meeting. Material and
energy companies climbed as oil and copper prices increased.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest lender, rose 1.6
percent in  Hong Kong . Lynas Corp. surged 41 percent in Sydney
after it said Malaysia issued a temporary operating license for
a rare-earths refinery. Yamaha Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest
motorcycle maker, soared 11 percent after its chief executive
officer said sales in  Indonesia  are likely to surpass the
company’s goal.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.3 percent to 116.14 as
of 7:41 p.m. in Tokyo, rebounding from the lowest close since
July 26. ECB President  Mario Draghi  has proposed unlimited
purchases of government debt that will be sterilized to assuage
concerns about printing money, two central bank officials
briefed on the plan said.  “Europe has been a source of tail risk for markets for the
last two years,” said Prasad Patkar, a portfolio manager who
helps manage about $1 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd.
in Sydney. “If that risk is addressed in a credible manner, the
scene could be set for a relief rally in risk assets.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1.2 percent this quarter
through yesterday as signs of a global economic slowdown
overshadowed expectations for further stimulus measures. The
Asian benchmark traded at 12.1 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.6 times for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  and
11.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Kospi, Nikkei  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 gained 0.8 percent after the
nation’s jobless rate fell last month even as employers cut
payrolls, supporting traders’ bets that the central bank will
resume interest-rate cuts. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  added 0.4
percent even after the economy expanded last quarter at a slower
pace than initially estimated.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little changed and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained 0.7 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index added less than 0.3 percent.
The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.4 percent even after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecast for China’s economic
growth. Reports this weekend are expected to signal further
slowing in the world’s second-largest economy.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index (TWSE)  declined 0.6 percent and Singapore’s
Straits Times Index slid 0.2 percent. Futures on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent today after the gauge fell 0.1
percent in New York yesterday.  To sterilize bond purchases, the ECB will remove from the
system elsewhere the same amount of money it spends, ensuring
the program has a neutral impact on the  money supply . The
central bank convenes today.  U.S. Jobs  Companies that do business in Europe rose. HSBC added 1.6
percent to HK$67.25. Mobile-phone maker  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,
which depends on Europe for 16 percent of its revenue, gained
1.4 percent to 70,400 won in  Seoul .  Investors are also awaiting a U.S. monthly unemployment
report tomorrow. Payrolls probably grew at a weaker pace in
August and unemployment exceeded 8 percent for a 43rd month,
economists forecast before the Labor Department report. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming ,
last week he wouldn’t rule out more stimulus to revive growth.  “Markets will continue to be in a wait-and-see pattern,”
said Patkar at Platypus Asset. “There are a lot of events that
are likely to keep investors from committing in a major way over
the next week.”  Lynas Jumps  Lynas, developing the world’s largest rare-earth refinery
in Malaysia, jumped 41 percent to 84 Australian cents after
winning a permit to start production in Malaysia following
months of delays.  Billabong International Ltd., a surfwear maker, gained 7.5
percent to A$1.365 in Sydney after receiving a A$694 million
($710 million) offer from Bain Capital Partners LLC, setting up
a possible bidding war with rival suitor TPG International LLC.  Among stocks that fell, Brilliance China Automotive
Holdings Ltd. lost 6.8 percent to HK$7.04 after saying its
controlling shareholder Huachen Automotive Group plans to sell
125 million shares at HK$7.17 each. The shares closed at HK$7.55
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  