-- Hovnanian Has Surprise Profit as Home Orders Increased
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-09-06T20:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/hovnanian-has-surprise-profit-as-home-orders-increased.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the
largest homebuilder in  New Jersey , reported an unexpected profit
for its fiscal third quarter as orders jumped and it recorded a
tax benefit.  Net income for the three months ended July 31 was $34.7
million, or 25 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $50.9
million, or 47 cents, a year earlier, the Red Bank-based company
said today in a statement. The results included the reversal of
$37 million of state tax reserves. The average  estimate  of 10
analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for a loss of 14 cents a
share.  Hovnanian, which has the  third-best  performing homebuilder
stock this year, has been purchasing land at distressed prices
in an attempt to boost profit margins.  The “strategy of opening new, better-located communities
is driving sales and generating greater operating leverage,”
 David Goldberg , an analyst with UBS AG in  New York , said
yesterday in a note to clients.  Homebuilders are increasing prices in markets where
shortages of existing properties listed for sale are driving
buyers to new construction. New-home  purchases  rose 3.6 percent
in July to a 372,000 annual pace, matching a two-year high,
figures from the Commerce Department showed last month.  Hovnanian’s net contracts for the quarter increased 19
percent from a year earlier to 1,541 homes, the company said.
Revenue jumped 36 percent to $387 million. Its contract backlog,
an indication of future sales, rose 41 percent from a year
earlier to 2,452.  “We believe the housing market’s recent overall strength
and our significantly improved sales pace this year indicates
that the market for new homes has bounced off the bottom and is
already in a period of gradual recovery,” Chief Executive
Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said in the statement.  The stock declined 4 percent to $3.08 at the close in New
York. It has more than doubled this year, compared with a 74
percent gain for the 13-member Bloomberg Industries homebuilder
 index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  