-- Lloyds ‘Incentive’ Probe, Bankers’ Board Vote: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-06T12:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/lloyds-incentive-probe-bankers-board-vote-compliance.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  is being
investigated by a U.K. regulator over how bonuses and other
incentives were used to motivate staff to improperly sell some
products to consumers, a person familiar with the case said.  The Financial Services Authority referred the bank to its
enforcement division for further proceedings, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the probe is
confidential.  An FSA review of 22 firms found that incentive programs for
bank staff “were likely to drive people to mis-sell in order to
meet targets and receive a bonus, and these risks were not being
properly managed,” Martin Wheatley, a managing director of the
regulator, said in a speech in London yesterday.  The failings at one firm were “so serious” that they
merited further investigation, the FSA said in a  statement . That
company is Lloyds, said the person.  “We have made significant changes to our incentive
schemes,” Lloyds said in a statement. “We reward behaviors
that are focused on achieving correct customer outcomes and
excellent service as well as monitoring sales to ensure that
colleagues have met customer needs appropriately.”  Lloyds has set aside 4.3 billion pounds ($6.8 billion) to
compensate customers who were mis-sold payment protection
insurance, more than any other U.K. bank. British regulators
said last year that consumers may receive as much as 9 billion
pounds in compensation as a result of improper sales of PPI.  Toby Parker, a spokesman for the FSA, declined to comment.
The probe was reported earlier yesterday by the Financial Times.  Compliance Policy  Banker Plan Would Fund Super-PACs to Influence Senate Races  A banking trade group is preparing to set up a political
fund that would allow members to funnel money anonymously to
pro-industry candidates in the final months of the U.S. election
campaign.  The  American Bankers Association  board is set to vote today
on a plan to create a nonprofit that would donate to super-
political action committees, or super-PACs, that can spend
unlimited amounts on TV ads and other campaign activities.  ABA officials, during a conference call Sept. 4 to brief
member firms, said they intend to raise several million dollars
in the next few weeks and concentrate their contributions on six
to 12 fiercely contested U.S. Senate races. Attempts in the
Republican-controlled House to roll back regulation of the
financial industry, particularly the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, have
so far run aground in the Democratic-controlled Senate.  The ABA’s effort comes only two months before elections for
president and Congress.  Craig Holman , a lobbyist for  Public
Citizen , which tracks the influence of money on politics, said
donations from the nonprofit could affect some races.  A series of court decisions and regulatory changes in 2010
unraveled previous federal limits on political donations. The
donors pool their money in nonprofits, which keep contributor
names secret, and super-PACs, which have amassed $350 million
through the end of July.  The ABA’s proposed fund would be a nonprofit, or 501(c)(4),
which would allow the organization to disburse money into key
Senate races and fund advocacy efforts.  The Washington-based trade group represents about 5,000
banks of all sizes, from community lenders to large Wall Street
firms like  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The association also donates to candidates through a more
stringently regulated political action committee that has given
more than $2.8 million this election cycle to candidates from
both parties.  For more, click here.  Barnier’s Banker Bonus Compromise Rejected by EU Lawmakers  European Parliament  lawmakers rejected a compromise
proposal on measures to regulate banker bonuses, saying the
plans are too weak.  Legislators rejected the proposal, advocated by European
Union Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier , during a
meeting yesterday on a draft Basel bank-capital law, said
Philippe Lamberts, the lawmaker leading the work on the measures
for the parliament’s Green group.  While EU lawmakers have called for a ban on bonuses that
exceed fixed pay, governments are concerned that the measure may
harm competitiveness. Barnier has advocated an alternative
approach based on empowering shareholders.  Members of the parliament at the meeting said that the
compromise plan “wasn’t even a basis to start discussions,”
Lamberts said in an interview in Brussels.  Haldane Says Macroprudential Policy Expectations Must Be Limited  Andy Haldane,  Bank of England   executive director  for
financial stability, wrote in an article published on Risk
Magazine’s website.  Global financial regulators are turning to macroprudential
tools to address systemic risk; development of “this regulatory
edifice has gone from architect’s drawing board to builder’s
construction site” at “warp speed,” he wrote.  “Provided macro-prudential frameworks are operated
flexibly and an undue weight of expectations is not placed on
their shoulders, they offer a route to avoiding some of the sins
of the recent past,” Haldane wrote in Risk Magazine.  Macroprudential policy is at a “similar stage to monetary
policy in the 1950s.” He sees “enormous scope for further
research into regulatory instruments to support macro-prudential
ends” and says “it may be necessary to look beyond the set of
instruments typically used for micro-prudential purposes.”  Work is also needed on legal entity identifiers and product
identifiers to improve risk management, he said in the magazine
article.  EU Seeks Views on Libor Overhaul Plans in Rate-Rigging Response  The European Commission is seeking views on possible rules
to overhaul Libor, Euribor and other so-called market benchmarks
in the wake of the scandal over interbank lending rates.  European Union regulators are weighing options such as
forcing  banks  to provide real transaction data rather than
estimates and increasing the number of lenders involved in the
rate setting, according to an e-mailed statement from the
commission.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark  interest rate  for more
than $500 trillion of securities, plummeted following  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s admission that it submitted false rates. The revelations
have provoked renewed calls for tougher oversight of the
financial system and pushed regulatory probes of interbank
lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined 290 million pounds ($460 million) in June for its role in
rigging Libor for profit.  The commission will seek views on possible measures until
Nov. 15, it said.  Separately, Barclays Plc said some employees that were
involved in the Libor scandal are no longer employed by the
bank.  “It would be inappropriate to comment about specific
individuals, although the employees involved no longer work at
Barclays,” the bank said in an e-mailed statement. “The firm
undertook a thorough and robust internal disciplinary process
promptly following the regulatory review which was completed in
late July.”  Compliance Action  U.K. Competition Regulator to Review Retail Gasoline Prices  The U.K. Office of Fair Trading said it would investigate
pricing in the 32 billion-pound ($50.8 billion) market for
gasoline and diesel fuel amid concerns about high retail prices.  The U.K. antitrust regulator said in a statement  yesterday 
it wants to identify whether or not there are competition
problems that it can take on in the market as it asked consumer
and industry groups to provide information to the agency over
the next six weeks.  Andy Peake, ASDA Group Plc’s director of petrol trading,
said in an e-mail that the group’s preference would be a
“national price” for fuel that everyone would charge.  The regulator said it will look at four areas to understand
how prices are set, including whether a reduction in the price
of crude oil is passed onto consumers and if major supermarkets
and oil companies make it harder for independent retailers to
compete. Between June 2007 and June 2012 the pump price of
gasoline rose 38 percent from 97 pence a liter to 1.34 pounds,
while diesel climbed 43 percent from 96 pence a liter to 1.39
pounds, according the Automobile Association Fuel Price Report.  Katherine Edwards,  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s group regulatory affairs
director said the group has brought real competition into the
petrol market.’’  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc  and  J. Sainsbury’s Plc (SBRY) 
said in e-mailed statements they would also provide information
to the agency.  Macquarie Private Wealth Probed By Regulator, AFR Says  Macquarie Group (MQG) ’s private wealth division is being
investigated by Australian Securities and Investments Commission
over possibly breaching laws aimed at upholding client
interests, the Australian Financial Review reported, without
saying where it obtained the information.  ASIC is examining whether Macquarie’s retail stockbroker
provided full information required in statements of advice as to
whether advisers were acting in the best interests of clients
and bank’s compliance systems, AFR reported.  The ASIC team is in dialog with Macquarie and has asked for
more information, according to AFR. Andre Khoury, a spokesman at
ASIC, declined to comment on the report. Lisa Jamieson, a
spokeswoman at Sydney-based Macquarie, declined to comment.  Courts  Former MAN Executives Samuelsson, Hornung Probed Over Corruption  Former  MAN SE (MAN)  Chief Executive Officer Hakan Samuelsson and
former Chief Financial Officer Karlheinz Hornung are being
investigated on corruption allegations by German prosecutors.  The probe was opened after the former head of MAN’s audit
department testified in a related trial last month that both
knew about “possible corrupt practices” regarding business
deals in Slovenia, Thomas Steinkraus-Koch, spokesman for
prosecutors in Munich, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The office “opened a probe because the two former MAN
managers are suspected of aiding in bribery in business
relations,” Steinkraus-Koch said. He said the case is not
barred by the statute of limitations.  MAN, Europe’s third-largest truckmaker, agreed to pay 150
million euros ($189 million) in 2009 to resolve an inquiry into
alleged bribes paid by its truck and turbo units.  “Of course I haven’t done anything,” Samuelsson said by
telephone, denying any corruption allegations.  Hornung didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.
MAN spokesman Andreas Lampersbach declined to comment, saying
this concerns individuals who haven’t worked for the Munich-
based manufacturer for years. The men resigned in 2009.  Siemens spokesman Alexander Becker declined to comment.  Interviews/Commentary  EU’s Barnier Seeks Financial-Overhaul Completion by End-2013  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, said
that he’s targeting an end-2013 deadline for completing the EU’s
overhaul of financial rules. Barnier was speaking at an event in
Brussels today.  Barnier plans to meet today with European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  to discuss plans for a banking union in
the euro area.  Barnier also said at the conference in Brussels that an
expert group, which is weighing options for overhauling bank
structure, will complete its work this month.  Separately, Barnier, said that he will seek views by the
end of the year on the financial industry’s role in supporting
growth.  Barofsky Says Bank Bailout Presumption Still Exists  Neil Barofsky , former special inspector for the  U.S.
Treasury ’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, a Bloomberg Television
contributing editor and author of the book “Bailout,” talked
about the U.S. banking industry and government bailouts.  He spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop.”  (For the video, click here.)  U.S. SEC Needs to Investigate Short Sellers, Xinhua Says  Short sellers made “unjustified attacks” on China-based
companies using “unreliable and ludicrous reports,” Xinhua
wrote in a signed commentary. Therefore, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission needs to “seriously investigate” short
sellers,’’ the paper said in the commentary.  The U.S. “cannot afford” a  capital market  that doesn’t
attract Chinese companies, the Chinese newspaper said in the
commentary.  While a “small number” of Chinese companies have
falsified data and reports, the “majority” comply with rules
and laws, according to Xinhua. The commentary was issued in
response to the Citron Research report on  Qihoo 360 (QIHU) , which
Xinhua called “inaccurate.”  Comings and Goings  BOE Struck by Lure of Banks as Economics Team Manager Leaves  Bank of England official Robert Wood resigned as London’s
finance industry lured a U.K. economic analysis manager from the
central bank for the second time in less than a year.  Wood, who led analysis of British data for policy makers,
will join Berenberg Bank in London this month, said two people
with knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified
because the appointment isn’t yet public. He follows a string of
economists who held the position known inside the central bank
as Head of the U.K. Team, using it as a springboard for jobs in
London’s finance industry.  The move coincides with a second year of pay freezes for
Bank of England staff, adding to the lure of more lucrative City
posts. Governor  Mervyn King , who implemented the salary policy
last year, thanked employees in this year’s annual report for
their forbearance and singled out the struggle to hire and keep
staff as a potential risk to its monetary-policy analysis.  Wood couldn’t be reached for comment. A Bank of England
spokeswoman confirmed yesterday that Wood has resigned and said
that he will be replaced by Venetia Bell. A spokesman for
Berenberg couldn’t immediately comment.  The Bank of England’s annual report, published in July,
said that a strategic priority was to “ensure the bank has the
right people and processes to carry out its core purposes --- in
particular during this period of transition,” referring to the
transfer of bank-regulation powers from the Financial Services
Authority. The report discussed the importance of retaining and
nurturing talented bank staff.  The central bank’s pay freeze is set to be reviewed in
March 2013. King asked in May to keep his pay frozen until he
leaves in June 2013.  OCC Names Warwick as Director for Enforcement and Compliance  The U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency named
Ellen M. Warwick to serve as the agency’s director for
enforcement and compliance, overseeing a unit that conducts
investigations and recommends administrative actions.  The OCC, which supervises national banks and federal
savings associations, announced Warwick’s appointment in a
statement yesterday. She will replace Richard Stearns, who is
retiring, said  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 