-- Palm-Oil Exports From Indonesia May Climb for Third Month
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-09-07T11:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/palm-oil-shipments-from-indonesia-set-to-climb-for-third-month.html
Palm-oil exports from  Indonesia , the
largest producer, will probably increase for a third month in
September as rising output and a lower tax boost purchases of
the commodity used in candy, soaps and biofuel. Prices dropped.  Shipments may advance to 1.6 million metric tons this month
after gaining an estimated 1.4 percent to 1.4 million tons in
August from July, according to the median estimates of five
plantation executives in a Bloomberg News survey. While output
may have dropped to 1.9 million tons last month from an
estimated 2 million tons in July, it will rise to 2.1 million in
September, four of the respondents said. The executives didn’t
provide forecasts for inventories.  Palm oil  in  Malaysia , the benchmark price in the second-
largest producer, has lost 7.8 percent this year even as
soybeans in  Chicago  rallied to an all-time high on damage from a
drought in the U.S. Stockpiles in Indonesia may total 4 million
tons, twice as much typically estimated, according to Godrej
International Ltd., which forecast a rise in Malaysian reserves
to a record. That may cut prices and hurt profits at companies
such as  Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. (GGR) , the second-biggest planter.  “September exports will gain because of lower duty,” said
Joko Supriyono, secretary-general of the Indonesian Palm Oil
Association. “Output will pick up as activities resume after
the Eid al-Fitr holidays in August,” said Supriyono, who’s also
a director at  PT Astra Agro Lestari. (AALI)  The association, which
doesn’t issue stockpile and production figures, will release
export data for August in the last week of this month.  Export Tax  Palm-oil futures dropped 0.7 percent to close at 2,927
ringgit ($941) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange today,
the lowest price at close since Aug. 16. Soybeans, crushed to
produce a rival oil, reached a record $17.89 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade on Sept. 4.  Soybean oil  was $315.38 a ton
more costly than palm, data tracked by Bloomberg showed.  Prospects for higher output and exports fueled gains in the
shares of Indonesian palm oil companies today, said Hariyanto Wijaya, an analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas in Jakarta.  Astra Agro rose 1.5 percent to close at 19,900 rupiah in
Jakarta, the most in a week.  PT Sampoerna Agro (SGRO)  gained 3.7
percent to 2,800 rupiah, the highest price at close since Aug.
28 and  PT Perusahaan Perkebunan London Sumatra Indonesia (LSIP)  climbed
2 percent to 2,500 rupiah.  Indonesia cut its tax on exports to 13.5 percent this
month, the lowest rate this year, from 15 percent in August,
Deddy Saleh, director general of foreign trade at the trade
ministry, said Aug. 29. The base price was lowered to $918 a ton
from $950.  Malaysian Inventory  The country’s exports rose 21 percent to 1.38 million tons
in July, the highest level since April, the Indonesian Palm Oil
Association said Aug. 28. That compared with the median estimate
of 1.4 million tons in a Bloomberg survey on July 31.  Stockpiles in Malaysia probably climbed 7 percent to 2.14
million tons in August, the highest in 11 months, according to a
Bloomberg survey published Sept. 5. Output rose 0.5 percent to
1.7 million tons and exports climbed 9.5 percent to 1.42 million
tons, the survey of two analysts and three plantation companies
showed. The Palm Oil Board releases the data on Sept. 10.  Gains in prices will be curbed because of the reserves,
slower economic growth and rising output,  Dorab Mistry , a
director at Godrej International, told a conference in  Singapore 
yesterday. The tropical oil may trade between 2,900 ringgit and
3,300 ringgit a ton this month and next, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  