-- Palm-Oil Veteran Mistry Says Indonesia Has ‘Hidden’ Reserves
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-09-06T07:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/palm-oil-veteran-mistry-says-indonesia-has-hidden-reserves-1-.html
Palm-oil  reserves in Indonesia, the
largest producer, may total about 4 million metric tons, twice
as much typically estimated, according to Godrej International
Ltd., which forecast a rise in Malaysian stockpiles to a record.  “It is difficult to be bullish on palm-oil prices,”  Dorab Mistry , a director at Godrej International Ltd., told a
conference in  Singapore , citing the stockpiles, slower economic
growth and rising output. The tropical oil may trade between
2,900 ringgit ($930) and 3,300 ringgit a ton this month and next,
he said. The most-active contract slumped as much as 2.6 percent
to 2,913 ringgit a ton on  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange today.  The reserves in the two largest producers may limit price
gains even as soybeans, which can be crushed to produce a rival
oil, are poised to extend a record rally after drought curbed
supplies. Benchmark palm oil in Malaysia has dropped 8.2 percent
this year, helping restrain gains in global food costs spurred
by the worst U.S. drought in more than half a century.  “The big story of 2012” is the stockpiles in Indonesia,
Mistry told the gathering organized by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
today, according to a copy of his remarks “Normal stocks of
palm products in Indonesia in the last two years have been of
the order of 3.5 to 4 million tons, as against the normal,
conventional guesstimate of 1.5 to 2 million tons.”  Noodles, Soaps  Palm oil, the most-consumed vegetable oil, is used in
everything from instant noodles to soaps and biofuels. Mistry,
based in  London , has traded vegetable oils for more than three
decades. Indonesia doesn’t release official data on stockpiles
and production, with export estimates available from the
Indonesia Palm Oil Association. Malaysia does issue figures.  “Indonesia doesn’t have proper statistics, and we can’t
actually see 4 million tons lying there,” Chandran Sinnasamy,
head of trading at LT International (M) Sdn., said by phone from
 Kuala Lumpur . “High stocks is a non story because even two
months ago people know that production is rising and stockpiles
are going to be built up around October and November.”  Palm oil has dropped in 2012 while soybeans rallied 44
percent. The divergence has widened palm oil’s  discount to
soybean oil  to $332 a ton today, the biggest difference since
2008, according to data tracked by Bloomberg. The November-
delivery palm-oil contract traded 2.5 percent lower at 2,914
ringgit at 3:56 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  ‘Hidden’ Stockpiles  “These hidden, or hitherto ignored, palm-oil stocks in
Indonesia are the key reason for the dismal performance of palm
oil,” said Mistry, who said he looked into Indonesian holdings
after tax changes in 2011. “Until recently, it has been the
opinion of most analysts that Indonesia hardly kept palm-oil
stocks and that Malaysian  palm-oil stocks  were the bigger.”  Palm-oil stockpiles in Malaysia probably rose to an 11-
month high of 2.14 million tons in August from 2 million tons in
July, according to the median in the Bloomberg survey of
analysts and plantation companies yesterday. Inventories reached
a record 2.27 million tons in November 2008, according to data
from the nation’s Palm Oil Board. Mistry didn’t give an estimate.  Output in Malaysia may gain to about 2 million tons in
September and October driven by a seasonal upswing, and 2012
production may be 18.2 million tons, Mistry said. Indonesian
production may peak in November, with annual output of about 27
million tons compared with 25.2 million tons last year, he said.  “A big chunk of stockpiles in  Indonesia  are due to the
very tardy logistics,” said Mistry. “It can take up to two
months for the fresh-fruit bunches harvested in Kalimantan to be
converted into refined palm products and exported,” Mistry said.
Kalimantan is the Indonesian portion of Borneo Island.  Soybean may rally to as much as $20 a bushel in December,
according to Mistry, while corn may gain to about $9 a bushel.
The most-active soybean contract reached an all-time high of
$17.89 on the Chicago Board of Trade on Sept. 4, while corn
reached a record $8.49 a bushel on Aug. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  