-- Partners Group, Avista Buy BofA’s Strategic Partners Stake
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-09-06T17:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/partners-group-avista-buy-bank-of-america-s-strategic-partners.html
Private-equity investors in
Switzerland and the U.S. have joined the management of Strategic
Partners Inc., a maker of medical uniforms, to buy the company
from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Partners Group Holding AG (PGHN) , based in Zug, Switzerland, and
Avista Capital Partners in New York will bring “significant
resources” to the seller of Cherokee and Dickies-branded
scrubs, Michael Singer, chief executive officer and founder of
 Strategic Partners , said today in a statement.  Terms of the transaction aren’t being disclosed, the buyers
said in the statement. Officials at Bank of America based in the
U.S. declined to comment on the deal.  Strategic Partners, with offices in Chatsworth,  California ,
was previously owned by Bank of America Merrill Lynch Capital
Partners. The firm focuses on the domestic market where medical
staff generally buy their uniforms themselves.  “It’s the largest wholesaler of this type of product in
the U.S.,” David Layton of Partners Group, who joins the
apparel company’s board, said in a phone interview. “It’s
almost a fashion business.”  Bank of America , the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
has sold more than $50 billion in assets and businesses since
 Brian T. Moynihan  took over as CEO in 2010 to bolster capital
before stricter international rules take effect.  Seeking Liquidity  “Partners Group has established a dialogue with a number
of financial institutions that need to dispose of positions in
private equity and real estate and are seeking liquidity --
investors who are available and interested in different types of
assets,” Layton said.  Partners Group, which has more than two-thirds of its
managed assets in private equity and the rest in real estate,
corporate debt and infrastructure, said in July it sees
opportunities in  North America  after scaling back investments in
 emerging markets .  North America accounted for 52 percent of private market
investments in the six months through June, compared with 40
percent in the prior year period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  