-- Peru Likely to Keep Rates Unchanged After Damping Credit Growth
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-09-06T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/peru-likely-to-keep-rates-unchanged-after-damping-credit-growth.html
Peru ’s central bank probably will
keep borrowing costs unchanged for the 16th consecutive month
today after taking steps to cool credit growth in an economy
that has withstood a drop in demand for its exports.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
will maintain the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, according to
17 of 18 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. One analyst forecast
a quarter-point increase to 4.50 percent. The decision will be
announced at 6 p.m. in Lima.  Policy makers will keep their overnight rate in neutral
territory on concern the global slowdown may deepen, while they
use reserve requirements to tighten  money supply , said Alonso Segura, the head of strategy and investment at Banco de Credito
del Peru. Economic activity rose at the fastest pace in 10
months in June fueled by a construction boom.  “An uncertain outlook for global growth makes it difficult
for the bank to raise rates,” Segura said by phone from Lima.
“They’re going to remain in wait-and-see mode.”  In contrast to Brazil and  Colombia , where central banks
have cut rates to bolster growth and employment, Peruvian policy
makers are seeking to keep a lid on credit demand as economic
growth and inflation accelerate.  The central bank lifted the amount of reserves banks must
set aside on Sept. 1 as it seeks to prevent near-zero borrowing
costs abroad from feeding demand for credit in U.S. dollars. It
raised the average reserve ratio by 0.5 percentage point,
following a similar rise May 1. Lenders’ average ratio in June
was 16 percent for soles and 40 percent for dollars.  Sol Strength  The common use of dollar deposits and loans in Peru make
adjustments to the  reserve requirements  more effective than
changes to the key  interest rate  in controlling demand, said
Cesar Fuentes, vice-president of Popular SAFI, a Lima-based
investment fund.  Outstanding consumer loans in dollars rose 21 percent in
July from a year ago, while dollar mortgages jumped 24 percent,
raising the economic risks from a sudden depreciation of the
sol, Fuentes said.  The sol’s 4.5 percent rally against the dollar this year
makes it cheaper for borrowers with earnings in soles to pay
back loans in U.S. currency. The sol touched 2.6070 per dollar
Sept. 4, the strongest level since 1997,  data  from the country’s
financial regulator show.  Total outstanding bank loans rose 16 percent to 163 billion
soles ($62.4 billion) in July from a year earlier, the fastest
pace in three months, as the  unemployment rate  slid to 6.2
percent in  Lima , the lowest since at least 2001.  Economic Growth  Economic activity probably rose 7 percent in July and
should expand about 6 percent this year and next as mining and
energy investment surges and the government boosts
infrastructure spending, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla told
Congress Sept. 4.  Cement demand surged 23 percent in July from a year ago,
while imports rose 24 percent, the national statistics agency
said Sept. 1. At the same time exports contracted for a third
straight month, dropping 22 percent on reduced metals, fishing
and natural gas sales abroad.  Peru is the world’s third largest copper and zinc producer
and sixth biggest in gold. The price of copper is down 13
percent in the past 12 months and has gained 2.6 percent this
year, while gold has fallen 9.7 percent and gained 8 percent
over the same periods.  The government is rolling out an infrastructure-heavy
stimulus program worth 2.5 percentage points of gross domestic
product to offset the weaker global economy. Should metal prices
fall and growth falter, the government stands ready to boost
spending, drawing on a fiscal surplus it estimates at 1 percent
of GDP next year, Castilla said.  Inflation Risks  The central bank may opt to increase its benchmark rate by
December should increases in international wheat and corn prices
keep annual inflation near current levels, Fuentes said in a
Sept. 4 interview in Lima.  Annual inflation accelerated to 3.53 percent last month
from 3.28 percent in July on higher food and electricity costs,
the national statistics agency said Sept. 1. Consumer prices
climbed 0.51 percent in the month, the fastest pace since April.
The median estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for
an increase of 0.4 percent.  “The bank’s holding at 4.25 percent because they’re
probably expecting lower growth in  China  and  Europe  to reduce
demand for commodities,” Fuentes said. “If Chinese growth
holds steady and there isn’t a catastrophe in Europe, the bank
will probably raise rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 