-- Peru Keeps Rate Unchanged at 4.25% After Damping Credit Growth
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-09-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/peru-keeps-rate-unchanged-at-4-25-after-damping-credit-growth.html
Peru ’s central bank bucked a
regional trend and kept borrowing costs unchanged for the 16th
consecutive month after taking steps to cool credit growth in
 South America ’s fastest-growing economy.  While central banks in Brazil and Colombia cut rates last
month, Peru’s five-member board led by bank President Julio Velarde yesterday maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent,
matching the forecasts of 17 of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. One analyst predicted a quarter-point increase to
4.50 percent.  In a  statement  accompanying the decision, policy makers
cited a weaker global economy, domestic growth close to
potential and a temporary deviation in inflation as reasons for
the pause. Though international grain prices have risen and the
local supply of some perishable foods has been disrupted, “a
gradual convergence in inflation to the target range is expected
in the remainder of the year,” the central bank said.  Policy makers used an increase in reserve requirements last
week to tighten the  money supply , said Alonso Segura, the head
of strategy and investment at  Banco de Credito del Peru. (CREDITC1)   “Growth is in line with potential and isn’t generating
demand pressures while inflation stems from supply factors,”
Segura said in a phone interview from Lima. “They need more
time to evaluate what might happen with the global economy.”  Faster Inflation  Economic activity rose 7.1 percent in June, the fastest
pace in 10 months, fueled by a construction boom, and held near
that level in July, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said Sept.
4.  The central bank raised the amount of reserves banks must
set aside on Sept. 1 as it seeks to prevent near-zero borrowing
costs abroad from feeding demand for credit in U.S. dollars. It
lifted the average reserve ratio by 0.5 percentage point,
following a similar move in May. Lenders’ average ratio in June
was 16 percent for soles and 40 percent for dollars.  The common use of dollar deposits and loans in Peru make
adjustments to the  reserve requirements  more effective than
changes to the key  interest rate  in controlling demand, said
Cesar Fuentes, vice-president of Popular SAFI, a Lima-based
investment fund.  Outstanding consumer loans in dollars rose 21 percent in
July from a year ago, while dollar mortgages jumped 24 percent,
raising the economic risks from a sudden depreciation of the
sol, Fuentes said.  Currency Rally  The sol’s 3.4 percent rally against the dollar this year
makes it cheaper for borrowers with earnings in soles to pay
back loans in U.S. currency. The sol touched 2.6075 per dollar
Sept. 3, the strongest level since 1997,  data  from the country’s
financial regulator show.  Total outstanding bank loans rose 16 percent to 163 billion
soles ($62.5 billion) in July from a year earlier, the fastest
pace in three months, as the  unemployment rate  in  Lima  slid to
6.2 percent, the lowest since at least 2001.  The government is rolling out an infrastructure-heavy
stimulus program worth 2.5 percentage points of gross domestic
product to offset the weaker global economy. Should metal prices
fall and growth falter, the government stands ready to boost
spending, drawing on a fiscal surplus it estimates at 1 percent
of GDP next year, Castilla said.  Cement demand surged 23 percent in July from a year ago,
while imports rose 24 percent, the national statistics agency
said Sept. 1. At the same time exports contracted for a third
straight month, dropping 22 percent on reduced metals, fishing
and natural gas sales abroad.  Copper and Zinc  Peru is the world’s third largest copper and zinc producer
and sixth biggest of gold. The price of copper is down 13
percent in the past 12 months and has gained 2.5 percent this
year, while gold has fallen 9.2 percent and gained 8.5 percent
over the same periods. Mining investment rose 21 percent in the
first five months of the year, led by  Newmont Mining Corp (NEM) ’s
Minera Yanacocha unit and  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   The central bank may opt to increase its benchmark rate by
December should increases in international wheat and corn prices
keep annual inflation near current levels, Fuentes said in a
Sept. 4 interview in Lima.  Annual inflation  accelerated to 3.53 percent last month
from 3.28 percent in July on higher food and electricity costs,
the national statistics agency said Sept. 1. Consumer prices
climbed 0.51 percent in the month, the fastest pace since April.
The central bank targets annual inflation of 2 percent plus or
minus 1 percent.  “The bank’s holding at 4.25 percent because they’re
probably expecting lower growth in  China  and  Europe  to reduce
demand for commodities,” Fuentes said. “If Chinese growth
holds steady and there isn’t a catastrophe in Europe, the bank
will probably raise rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  