-- Petaquilla Jumps After Inmet Proposes Offer: Vancouver Mover
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2012-09-06T20:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/petaquilla-jumps-after-inmet-proposes-offer-vancouver-mover.html
Petaquilla Minerals Ltd. (PTQ) , the
operator of the Molejon gold mine in Panama, jumped the most in
more than two years after  Canada ’s  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)  proposed a
C$112 million ($114 million) takeover.  Petaquilla rose 66 percent to 58 Canadian cents at the
close in Toronto, the most since Nov. 18, 2009. The shares
closed higher than the per-share bid of 48 Canadian cents or
0.0109 of an Inmet share, indicating investors expect a better
offer. Petaquilla declined 41 percent this year in Toronto
through yesterday.  Buying Petaquilla will “eliminate a potential source of
disruption” for Inmet’s Cobre Panama copper and gold project,
Inmet’s Chief Executive Officer Jochen Tilk said today in a
conference call. Toronto-based Inmet plans to spend $6.2 billion
developing Cobre  Panama  into Panama’s largest mine. Petaquilla’s
“cash balance is very low, they are not financially strong and
we are concerned about that,” Tilk said.  Petaquilla is considering the offer, the Vancouver-based
company said today in a statement. Inmet announced its proposed
bid yesterday after regular trading ended in Toronto.  Inmet is proposing to pay about 4.7 times Petaquilla’s
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median multiple in
three other takeovers of gold-mining companies valued at $100
million or more announced in the past year is 7.3, the data
show.  Inmet’s bid “does not appear expensive and may be of
strategic value, but the timing and use of funds will likely not
sit well with investors, given the large existing capex
commitment to Cobre Panama,” Stephen Bonnyman, an analyst at
BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said yesterday in a note.  Inmet’s financial adviser is Dundee Capital Markets Inc.
Inmet’s shares rose 3.5 percent to C$45.77.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  