-- Philippine Peso Advances After Competitiveness Ranking Improves
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-09-06T08:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/philippine-peso-advances-after-competitiveness-ranking-improves.html
The Philippine peso and bonds rose
after the nation’s ranking improved in an international
competitiveness survey.  The Southeast Asian country placed 65th in the  World
Economic Forum ’s 2012 Global Competitiveness report released
yesterday, 10 levels better than last year. The government is
ready to support growth and will accelerate spending to meet the
top end of a 5 percent to 6 percent growth estimate this year,
Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said on Aug. 30.  “Improving competitiveness may be one of the triggers for
the peso’s gain today,” said Emilio Neri, an economist at Bank
of the Philippine Islands in  Manila . “ Government spending  is
also starting to kick in.”  The peso rose 0.3 percent to 41.865 per dollar, the highest
closing level since Aug. 9, data from  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  showed.
One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 5.7 percent.  The yield on the 7.75 percent bonds due August 2017 fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.73 percent,
according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.  Inflation accelerated to 3.8 percent in August, the fastest
pace since January, the government reported yesterday. Full-year
consumer-price gains will be within the central bank’s 3 percent
to 5 percent target, Governor Amando Tetangco said following the
release of the data.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cut its policy rate to a
record-low 3.75 percent in July. The monetary authority will
next meet to review borrowing costs on Sept. 13. Authorities
will need to use tools other than the benchmark rate in times of
“strong capital inflows,” Tetangco said today.  Expectations that the central bank will hold borrowing
costs next week amid faster inflation also supported the peso,
according to  Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI) ’s Neri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  