-- PinguinLutosa Gains Most in 8 Years on Unit Sale: Brussels Mover
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-09-06T08:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/pinguinlutosa-gains-most-in-8-years-on-unit-sale-brussels-mover.html
PinguinLutosa NV (PIN) , the Belgian
producer of frozen vegetables, rose the most in more than eight
years in Brussels trading after saying its board agreed in
principle to sell its potato division for an enterprise value of
225 million euros ($284 million).  The shares rose as much as 3.05 euros, or 32 percent, to
12.50 euros, the biggest intraday percentage gain since August
2004. The stock traded at 11.74 euros, or 24 percent higher, at
10:31 a.m. local time.  PinguinLutosa acquired the Lutosa potato unit in 2007 for
175 million euros in cash. The company expects to sign the final
agreement by the end of the month and complete the transaction
by year end, subject to due diligence, antitrust approval and
acceptance by the buyer, according to an e-mailed statement from
PinguinLutosa. The buyer’s identity will be announced upon
completion of the negotiations, the company said.  “After the transaction, Pinguin without Lutosa will be net
cash positive,” Guy Sips, an analyst at KBC Securities in
Brussels, wrote today in a note to investors. “We already
indicated this deal as a real game changer.” Sips upgraded his
recommendation on the stock to “buy” from “accumulate” and
increased his price estimate to 16 euros from 9.80 euros.  The deal excludes property from 2007 that is owned by
PinguinLutosa Chief Executive Officer Hein Deprez and will be
sold separately by him, Deprez said today by telephone.
PinguinLutosa currently pays annual rent of 5 million euros for
the real estate, he said.  Dutch potato group  Aviko  was one of several companies
interested in buying the potato business,  De Standaard reported 
this week. PinguinLutosa on Sept. 4 said that it had received
unsolicited non-binding offers for the potato division. Deprez
today declined to name the buyer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  