-- Posco Said to Get Land for $12 Billion India Unit in October
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2012-09-06T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/posco-said-to-get-land-for-12-billion-india-unit-in-october.html
India will this month resume the
compulsory land purchases to enable  Posco (005490) ,  Asia ’s third-largest
steelmaker, to begin building a  $12 billion  steel plant, said
three people familiar with the plans.  The Odisha state government will acquire another 700 acres,
adding to the 2,000 already bought, said the people, who asked
not to be named because they aren’t authorized to speak before
an official announcement. The land will be given to the South
Korean steelmaker in October and construction could begin by the
end of the year, they said.  The  factory  in the eastern state, billed as the biggest
foreign investment in India, has been delayed by more than seven
years by farmers refusing to vacate government-owned land they
have occupied for generations. A revival of the state’s land
acquisition process may signal the government’s commitment to
push through stalled investments to resuscitate an economy
growing at the slowest pace in three years.  “Let’s see if they are actually able to acquire land this
time,”  Niraj Shah , a steel analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers
Ltd., said in Mumbai. “This process has been going on for years.
Even if Posco gets the land, it will take years to build the
factory and tie up its raw material needs.”  Posco is betting on rising steel demand from India’s
burgeoning middle class and government infrastructure
initiatives. The plant will produce 8 million tons of steel,
two-thirds the size of the project originally envisaged.  Slowing Growth  Indian gross domestic product rose 5.5 percent in the three
months through June from a year earlier, a pace close to the
three-year low of 5.3 percent in the first quarter. Inflation
eased to a 32-month low of 6.87 percent in July while remaining
the fastest among the largest emerging nations.  Posco is still waiting for a permit from the environment
ministry before it can start building the plant in the
Jagatsinghpur district, one person said. India’s  National Green
Tribunal  in March suspended an earlier clearance from the
ministry, asking for another review of environmental concerns
and recommendations to mitigate against any adverse impact
before final approval.  “The state may be preparing to restart land acquisition
but many people in the region are not happy with the project as
it threatens their livelihood,” said Prasanth Paikare,
spokesman for opposition group Posco Prathirodh Sangram Samiti.
“We will organize locals who are unwilling to give up land and
have rejected the compensation package.”  The company  and the state government in 2010 agreed to
compensate the local population by offering money for land, jobs
at the plant and allowances to sustain livelihoods in the
interim.  Posco remains committed to its original plan of building a
factory with a 12 million ton capacity, Posco  India  Deputy
Managing Director Ho-Chan Ryu said on March 1. Posco India
Chairman and Managing Director Yong-won Yoon said the same day
the seven-year delay could add 20 percent to the original cost
of the plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  