-- Private Equity Fund Vallis Seeks to Buy More Portuguese Builders
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-06T07:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/private-equity-fund-vallis-seeks-to-buy-more-portuguese-builders.html
Vallis Capital Partners , a
Portuguese private equity company, is seeking to buy more
construction companies after one of its funds bought three
builders this year.  “We have a few more companies in our pipeline,” said
Pedro Goncalves, who manages Luxembourg-based  Vallis
Construction Sector Consolidation GP Sarl , which has at least
 300 million euros  ($378 million) in funds. He declined to
provide details about his fund’s targets or timing of possible
deals.  The fund completed the purchase of Portuguese builders
Grupo  Hagen  and  Monte Adriano  last week, Goncalves said. Vallis
plans to merge the two companies with Grupo Edifer, another
Portuguese company it acquired this year for an undisclosed
amount.  The fund’s goal is to help companies counter a slump in
 Portugal ’s construction sector by merging them and focusing on
their foreign operations, said Goncalves. A total of 868
building companies went bankrupt in Portugal in the first seven
months of the year, the Portuguese Construction and Public Works
Industry Federation  said on Aug. 28 , amid a recession and as the
government cuts back on spending to comply with the terms of a
78 billion-euro bailout.  “There are too many construction companies in Portugal and
some won’t survive the current crisis,” said Goncalves. “Some
need to merge to gain enough scale to expand abroad.”  Goncalves, a former chief executive officer of Grupo  Soares
da Costa SGPS SA (SCOAE) , Portugal’s third-biggest building company in
terms of market value, said he would become the CEO of the
companies acquired by his fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  