-- Private-Equity Firms Drive Up Select-Service Hotel Prices
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-09-06T15:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/private-equity-firms-drive-up-select-service-hotel-prices.html
Private-equity firms including
 Starwood Capital  Group LLC and Clearview Capital LLC have been
the top buyers of select-service hotels this year, pushing up
prices for the properties, Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels said.  Opportunity and private-equity funds completed $519 million
of select-service hotel purchases this year through July, or 35
percent of total sales of such properties, the London-based
hotel investment services firm said in a report released today.
That’s up from $327 million, or 19 percent of transactions, a
year earlier. Select-service hotels usually lack such amenities
as full-service restaurants.  Lodging properties in markets where traveler demand is
recovering are proving attractive acquisition targets for
private-equity companies that can take advantage of low-cost
debt, said  Samantha Fisher , a Los Angeles-based senior vice
president at  Jones Lang . Capitalization rates, a measure of
investment yield, are likely to fall to 8.6 percent in the
coming six months for limited-service hotels from 9 percent late
last year,  Jones Lang  said.  “Lower cap rates show that these hotels are getting more
expensive, and that means the competition is back,” Fisher said
in an interview. In the past several months, there have been
more bids per property at any time since the U.S. financial
crisis, she said. “We’ve seen a dozen or so offers on some of
the limited-service hotels.”  Real estate investment trusts, historically the most active
buyers of the hotels, fell to second place. They were
responsible for 31 percent of purchases, according to Fisher’s
company, a unit of Chicago-based broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   Starwood Acquisitions  Purchases by Starwood Capital, founded by  Barry Sternlicht ,
accounted for nearly half of select-service hotel acquisitions
by private-equity funds this year through July. The Greenwich,
Connecticut-based company bought more than $200 million of such
properties, Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels said.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s planned acquisition of the Motel 6
lodging chain will add $1.9 billion to this year’s transaction
volume once completed, Jones Lang said.  “The returns on limited-service hotels are great,” Fisher
said. “These hotels make money because they are much less
expensive and simpler to run.”  Private-equity transactions this year include Clearview
Capital’s acquisition of an Embassy Suites property in Valencia,
 California , and  Noble Investment Group ’s purchase of the Hilton
Garden Inn Boston Waltham in Waltham,  Massachusetts . Both
acquisitions were made in May for undisclosed amounts.  “Over the next six to 12 months, we expect private-equity
funds to remain at the forefront of select-service investment,”
Mark Fair, a Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels managing director, said
in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  