-- Qatar May Study Lower Demands on Xstrata Deal, Liberum Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-09-06T13:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/qatar-may-study-lower-demands-on-xstrata-deal-liberum-says-2-.html
Qatar Holding LLC may study
softening its demand for a higher offer for its shares in
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  from  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  as the fund’s paper
loss on the proposed takeover has evaporated, said Liberum
Capital Ltd.  The Qatari sovereign wealth fund had an unrealized loss of
$1.4 billion on its Xstrata investment when it sought a higher
bid for the mining company from Glencore on June 26, Liberum
analysts  Richard Knights  and Ash Lazenby said today in a note.
Glencore’s bid of 2.8 shares would see the fund in the black
based on current prices, while an offer of 2.9 would give it a
profit of $221 million, Liberum said.  Qatar surprised analysts and investors in June by calling
for a higher offer, derailing the world’s biggest takeover this
year. The fund is the second-biggest shareholder in Xstrata with
a 12 percent stake and last week said it would oppose the bid
when investors in the biggest thermal coal exporter vote on the
offer tomorrow. UBS AG sees a 20 percent chance of the deal
winning investor approval, it said Sept. 4.  “The drastically improved economics might tempt Qatar
Holding to consider a lower offer if it were tabled by
Glencore,” the analysts wrote. The takeover “now represents a
materially more profitable proposition for Qatar Holding than it
did six weeks ago when it requested a ratio of 3.25.”  ‘More Appropriate’  The fund needed 3.7 Glencore shares for each one it held in
Xstrata at June 26 to break even on the investment, Liberum
said. In its first public statement on the deal that day, Qatar
Holding said a figure of 3.25 shares was “more appropriate.”  Since then Glencore’s shares have risen in  London  trading,
while Qatar has added to its Xstrata stake at lower prices,
improving the economics of the deal for the fund. Glencore
shares have advanced by 29 percent since June 26.  The average purchase price for Qatar’s stake was 1,076
pence, Liberum said, adding that it still sees a 70 percent
chance the deal will collapse. The fund has spent $5 billion
buying Xstrata shares since the bid was announced in February.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg has
rejected calls for an increase, saying he won’t overpay.  “I don’t quite understand the Qataris’ reason and logic
because the Qataris have not been a big shareholder of Xstrata
previously,” he said in an Aug. 21 interview. “We can always
look and if the Qataris believe they got it right, then let’s
talk in a year or two years’ time, and we’ll see who got it
right.”  ‘Strong Future’  Glencore advanced by 1.4 percent to 395 pence by 1:19 p.m.
in London, valuing its proposal at 1,106 pence, while Xstrata
increased 1.6 percent to 949.8 pence.  Qatar Holding said Aug. 30 that “although it continues to
support the principle of a combination of Glencore with Xstrata,
it has determined that it will not support the proposed merger
terms.”  The fund didn’t repeat its view that a ratio of 3.25 was
more appropriate in its statement that day. Qatar Holding said
it “believes that Xstrata has a strong future, whether in
combination with Glencore on acceptable terms or as a stand-
alone entity, and that its shares represent an attractive long-
term investment.”  A London-based external spokesman for the Qatari fund
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Qatar’s omission of its earlier request for an offer at
3.25 “is a signal the sovereign wealth fund is willing to
negotiate on a constructive basis,” BTIG Ltd. wrote in a note
to clients today. “We are equally encouraged by Glasenberg’s
recent rhetoric and absence of a ‘no increase statement’ and
think Glencore has realized that Qatar on its own can already
vote down the scheme.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  