-- Rare Autism Form May Improve With Diet Change, Study Says
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-09-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/rare-autism-form-may-improve-with-diet-change-study-says.html
A rare form of autism tied to
seizures and mental retardation may be treatable with a simple
diet change or supplement, according to a study that suggests
similar approaches might work for other forms of the disorder.  Researchers identified gene mutations present in two
families with the unusual autism and found the mutations caused
lower levels of certain amino acids in their blood. In an
experiment described today in the journal  Science , mice bred
with same gene mutations that were given a supplement of
branched chain amino acids, or BCAAs, had fewer seizures and
improved autism symptoms.  The next step is to see if the BCAA supplement does the
same for patients with the uncommon autism, researchers said.
While the autism found in the two families is extremely rare and
may not affect other people, the discovery might help identify
other forms of autism, said Gaia Novarino, an author of the
study and scientist at the  University of California , San Diego.  “This can be an example that there possibly are rare forms
of autism that are treatable,” Novarino said in a telephone
interview. “We don’t know how many there are out there. So
that’s what we want to look at and find.”  About 1 in 88 children in the U.S. are diagnosed with an
autism-related condition. The disorder hurts brain development
and is linked to poor social interaction and communication
skills, repeated body movements, and unusual attachments to
objects. Twenty five percent of autistic children also have
epilepsy, according to the study by researchers from  Yale
University  and the University of  California ,  San Diego .  Wide Spectrum  Because the disorder affects individuals in a wide spectrum
of ways, researchers have begun comparing autism to cancer and
investigating potential genetic and environmental causes. As
with cancer, it is difficult to pinpoint how or why autism
strikes some people.  The study focused on a gene, Branched Chain Ketoacid
Dehydrogenase Kinase, that was found in a family of Turkish
descent and in a second one of Egyptian ancestry, through
sequencing their exomes, or the region of the genome that
creates proteins. The defect causes lower levels of BCAAs in the
blood than typically found, according to the study.  BCAAs are essential nutrients that the body can’t make. It
is acquired through proteins in foods such as meat and dairy.
The BCAAs leucine, isoleucine, and valine spur the building of
protein in muscles, according to  WebMD (WBMD) , a provider of health
information to consumers and doctors.   Supplements containing these amino acids are promoted for 
helping reduce muscle breakdown during exercise and increase 
mental concentration. They’ve also been used to treat patients 
with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or  Lou Gehrig ’s Disease.  Testing Theory  To further test their theory, the researchers took skin
samples from the patients and converted them into neural  stem
cells . These cells acted normally in the presence of an
environment rich in the depleted amino acids.  The particular genetic variant is related to another
disorder called  Maple Syrup Urine Disease , where the opposite
occurs -- those affected have a toxic buildup of branched chain
amino acids. Patients with this disorder have urine that smells
like maple syrup and can develop mental retardation, according
to the  National Institutes of Health .  Novarino cautioned that the findings shouldn’t be applied
to people without this very specific and rare form of the
disorder.  “Not all autism patients will have to take amino acid
supplementations, because it probably won’t work,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  