-- Rakuten's Kobo Unveils $79.99 E-Reader in U.S. Push
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-09-06T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/raukten-s-kobo-unveils-79-99-e-reader-in-u-s-push.html
While the feature-packed  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPad and other tablets grab headlines, Kobo Chief Executive
Officer Michael Serbinis remains enamored with the simple e-
reader.  Serbinis, head of the digital reading company owned by
Tokyo-based  Rakuten Inc. (4755) , likes them so much because their
owners buy five times as many e-books as tablet users, he says.
That’s why Kobo is releasing two new dedicated e-readers, one
with a built-in light and another with a 5-inch screen that he
says is the smallest in the world.  “We’re making a bet on e-readers, absolutely,” Serbinis
said in an interview. “The demand for the dedicated e-reader is
growing.”  The new devices, which also include a media tablet, are
part of a push back into the U.S. market. Kobo’s devices had
been featured in Borders Group Inc.’s stores, a relationship
that ended last year when the second-largest bookstore chain
liquidated.  That left Kobo, which started as a subsidiary of Canadian
book chain  Indigo Books & Music Inc. (IDG) , with little presence in
the U.S., the world’s largest market for e-books. The Toronto-
based unit, bought by Rakuten last year for $315 million, has
since expanded into  Europe  and  Asia  and now is seeking to re-
establish itself in the U.S., where it gets less than 10 percent
of its revenue.  Kobo has a lot of ground to make up against its main
competitors, which spend heavily on advertising.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
has 60 percent of the U.S. e-book market, followed by  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS)  at 25 percent and Apple at 10 percent, according to
estimates from James McQuivey an analyst at  Forrester Research
Inc. (FORR)  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Kobo has less than 5 percent,
he said.  Independent Stores  Besides selling the new devices through retailers such as
Best Buy Co., Serbinis is betting on a partnership with the
American Booksellers Association, a trade group that represents
about 2,000 independent stores.  The deal allows the bookstores to sell Kobo’s devices and
accessories while sharing revenue generated from the digital
books sold on those e-readers. The plan replicates its strategy
in other countries, where it has partnered with about 11,000
bookstores, he said. Kobo expects 400 stores to begin offering
its wares this year.  “Where we have booksellers as our partners, we can not
only build our brand, but also drive significant share gains,”
Serbinis said. It’s also a cheaper way to gain people who read
and buy the most books, instead of trying to stand out against
deep-pocketed competitors at a consumer-electronics retailer, he
said.  Shipments Fall  Kobo’s renewed focus on dedicated e-readers comes as
worldwide shipments are expected to decline 15 percent to 23.6
million this year, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based
researcher IDC. Sales are then expected to increase thanks to
overseas growth before peaking at 35.5 million units in 2015.  That deterioration is being driven by a drop in the U.S.
that started this year and is expected to continue as cheaper
media tablets lure more consumers, said Tom Mainelli, a research
director at IDC. Shipments of tablets are expected to gain 65
percent to 117 million units this year, IDC said.  Serbinis is betting that even with all the advancements in
tablets, the glowing liquid-crystal display is still harder on
the eyes than e-readers. E-readers use e-ink, which has a dark
background and mimics printed material better. An e-reader’s
battery can also last for a month compared to less than half a
day for many tablets, he said.  Lower prices, or even devices being subsidized to the point
of becoming free to a consumer, will keep the e-reader alive as
a niche product for many more years, said Hugues De La Vergne,
an analyst for researcher Gartner Inc. based in  Dallas .  $79.99 E-Reader  The 5-inch Kobo Mini that weighs 4.7 ounces, 28 percent
lighter than the Kobo Touch, will cost $79.99. The Touch was
priced at $99.99, or $79.99 for a version with advertising.
Barnes & Noble’s cheapest Nook sells for $99 and Amazon offers a
Kindle with ads for $79. The Kobo Glo, which has a light, will
sell for $129.99 compared with $139 for Barnes & Noble’s Nook
Simple Touch with GlowLight.  “These devices will have to be cheap enough that people
won’t think about acquiring them,” De La Vergne said in an
interview. “If they can save money downloading books online
versus the printed media, then the device’s cost can justify
itself in a pretty short time for avid readers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  