-- Realty Income to Acquire American Realty for $1.9 Billion
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-09-06T20:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/realty-income-to-buy-american-realty-for-1-9-billion-in-stock.html
Realty Income Corp. (O)  agreed to buy
 American Realty Capital Trust Inc. (ARCT)  for $1.9 billion in stock,
the second-largest acquisition of a U.S. real estate investment
trust announced this year.  American Realty stockholders will receive 0.2874 of a
Realty Income share for each share they own, the equivalent of
$12.21 per share, the companies said in a statement today.
That’s about 2 percent more than New York-based American
Realty’s closing price yesterday. The companies valued the
transaction at $2.95 billion, including debt.  The proposed deal will add 501 properties to Realty
Income’s portfolio, bringing its holdings to more than 3,250
buildings, John Case, the Escondido, California-based company’s
chief investment officer, said in the statement. The transaction
would increase rental revenue from tenants with higher credit
ratings, such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , and allow Realty
Income to diversify by reducing revenue from retail real estate
to 77 percent from 86 percent.  Realty Income “is focused today on improving its tenant
credit quality, but in doing so, the company is venturing into
newer property types with a very mixed long-term operating
history,” Joshua Barber, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, wrote in a note to clients today. “Whether this
transaction will truly be accretive to O’s historically strong
operating profile through cycles is a bigger question; frankly,
we have doubts.” O is Realty Income’s ticker symbol.  Single Tenant  Most of the company’s properties are rented by a single
business with leases of as much as 20 years, where the tenant
also pays operating expenses such as taxes and maintenance.  Realty Income said the deal would immediately add to its
funds from operations, a measure of  cash flow  used by REITs, and
boost its dividend. The transaction is expected to be completed
by the first quarter of 2013.  “This acquisition comprehensively advances Realty Income’s
strategic objectives of increasing its revenue generated by
investment-grade tenants and further diversifying its portfolio
outside of the retail industry,” Chief Executive Officer  Tom Lewis  said in the statement.  American Realty climbed 2 percent to $42.21 at the close in
 New York . Realty Income fell 0.6 percent to $42.21.  Largest Deal  The largest deal involving a U.S. REIT announced this year
was W.P. Carey & Co.’s agreement in February to buy Corporate
Property Associates 15 Inc. for $2.92 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. W.P. Carey, a New York-based investment
company, plans to convert to a REIT and acquire Corporate
Property, its public non-traded REIT affiliate, according to a
statement announcing the transaction.  Eight purchases involving U.S. REITS were announced this
year at an average price of $1.36 billion and an average premium
of 46 percent, Bloomberg data show.  In 2011, 26 REIT acquisitions were completed, totaling
$27.4 billion, with an average premium of 23 percent, according
to Bloomberg data.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, Wells Fargo &
Co. and Latham & Watkins LLP advised Realty Income. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Proskauer Rose LLP advised American Realty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  