-- Recession Indicator Unreliable With Fed Rates: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-09-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/recession-indicator-unreliable-with-fed-rates-cutting-research.html
The bond market indicator that has
predicted every U.S. recession since 1970 may have lost its
forecasting prowess, thanks to the  Federal Reserve .  Two rounds of quantitative easing by the U.S. central bank
mean the gap between the 10-year Treasury bond yield and the
rate on the three-month bill “has been severely distorted and
therefore can no longer be relied on to convey a truthful
assessment of the risks of recession,” wrote Stephen Jen and
Fatih Yilmaz, founders of London-based SLJ Macro Partners LLP,
in an Aug. 29 report.  The yield curve’s traditional and consistent reactions to
Fed policy changes and investor expectations about inflation and
the economy have made it a tool for prognosis in the past. For
instance, an inverted yield curve, in which short-term
securities yield more than those with longer maturities, is seen
as a recession gauge because it reflects expectations for higher
 interest rates  and slowing inflation.  What’s changed is the Fed’s ultra-easy monetary policy,
which has brought interest rates close to  zero . That has
“significantly distorted the shape of the yield curve,” SLJ
said.  Other business cycle indicators also have “pretty serious
shortcomings,” the authors said. That’s because they are not
well equipped to capture the growing impact of the financial
sector and its wealth effect, the U.S.’s reliance on services,
supply-side shocks in the labor market and globalization.  The SLJ report proposed an alternative approach, based on
the idea that expansions have a “natural cycle” in which the
chance of recession increases the longer growth runs. That
suggests the risk of a downturn could be closer to 50 percent in
coming quarters compared to the zero chance ascribed by the
yield curve.  * * *  This time may be different.  That’s the conclusion of Deutsche Bank AG strategists, who
have delved into the history books to see when various financial
market indicators were last trading as they have done in recent
years, amid the global financial crisis.  Their research showed 10-year U.S. Treasury bond yields hit
their lowest in July since data began in 1790. Dutch 10-year
bond yields were the weakest in June in 495 years, while the
Bank of England’s balance sheet is bigger as a share of gross
domestic product than at any time since 1830.  The U.K. central bank’s benchmark interest rate of 0.5
percent is also the lowest it’s been in 318 years of history.
The previous record low was 2 percent.  The study also found that the U.S. has run a  budget deficit 
for 40 of the last 44 years. The U.K. had a shortfall in 51 of
the last 60 years. The German currency has “consistently
outperformed” virtually every rival since the 1930s.  “In many cases there are no historical precedents for what
we are currently experiencing,” Deutsche London-based
strategists  Jim Reid ,  Nick Burns  and Stephen Stakhiv wrote in
the Sept. 3 report, titled “A Journey into the Unknown.”  This suggests to them that the world economy’s underlying
flaws are “worryingly unparalleled” in history and that anyone
predicting the end of the five-year crisis is “operating
outside of the scope” of the data.  * * *  Also reaching into the distant past,  Steve Hanke  and
Nicholas Krus of  Johns Hopkins University  found several episodes
of national hyperinflation that have gone unreported in academic
and scholarly literature.  There have been 56 instances of known and previously
unidentified hyperinflation, they said in a report distributed
Aug. 31. The first known case was in in  France  in May 1795. At
their fastest, prices rose 304 percent in a single month, the
analysts wrote.  One missing case of hyperinflation was in the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo in 1998. Hanke and Krus discovered it using
the International Monetary Fund’s statistics database, calling
it surprising that the episode had gone unnoticed.  “Hyperinflation is an economic malady that arises under
extreme conditions: war, political mismanagement, and the
transition from a command to market-based economy -- to name a
few,” they wrote.  Another previously unreported instance was in the
 Philippines  in 1944, when  Japan  occupied the country and
replaced the Philippine peso with its war notes, dubbed “Mickey
Mouse money,” the authors said.  “Their over-issuance eventually resulted in a
hyperinflation that peaked in January 1944,” they wrote. “It
should be noted that the U.S. Army, under orders from General
Douglas MacArthur, did add a relatively small amount of fuel to
the Philippine hyperinflation fire by surreptitiously
distributing counterfeit Japanese war notes to Philippine
guerrilla troops.”  Known cases of hyperinflation include the fastest two ever
recorded. It took 15 hours for prices to double in  Hungary 
during its period of hyperinflation between August 1945 and July
July 1946, resulting in an equivalent daily rate of 207 percent,
the report showed. In  Zimbabwe  from March 2007 till mid-November
2008, prices rose the equivalent of 98 percent a day.  * * *  The U.S. housing market drove the world into recession. The
emerging American recovery may not be enough to lift it back up,
according to UBS AG.  At home, the rebound in U.S. property prices should
continue, bolstering confidence and spending in the largest
economy as well as slowing the pace of deleveraging, UBS
economist Andrew Cates wrote in an Aug. 31 report.  “Since the fundamental roots of the global financial
crisis lay in the U.S. housing market it almost goes without
saying that a recovery in that market could be of great
significance,” said Singapore-based Cates.  That’s because U.S. housing affects growth elsewhere as
Americans purchase consumer durable goods from abroad and the
improvement in the  U.S. economy  pushes up financial markets.
Cates’s research find that the slower pace of deleveraging may
have already boosted global gross domestic product by 1.5
percentage points.  The trouble is, that’s offset by other factors such as
 China ’s slowdown, the  European debt crisis  and the fact that
many countries still run debts larger than they were before the
crisis, said Cates.  The debt burdens “above all else, will continue to keep
global growth restrained in the period ahead, notwithstanding
the scope for U.S. housing and the U.S. economy more generally
to contribute more positively,” he said.  * * *  China’s residential construction may peak in five years and
remain above current levels till around 2030, according to
 Reserve Bank  of  Australia  economists Leon Berkelmans and Hao
Wang, providing continued demand for  iron ore  that is needed to
make steel.  One billion Chinese will live in cities by 2030, or about
70 percent of the population, from about 691 million people now,
the RBA economists projected. That urbanization means demand for
steel will continue to increase as Chinese developers build more
homes and make improvements in building quality, the analysts
said in a research paper published Sept. 5.  “No country can compare to China in terms of the sheer
scale of its urbanization,” the economists wrote.
“Construction requires steel, which in turn requires iron ore,
of which Australia is a significant producer. More intense use
of steel, due to taller buildings and other amenities such as
underground car parks, means that steel use by residential
construction will grow at a faster rate than the volume of floor
space built.”  A quarter of Australia’s  exports , or about 5 percent of
gross domestic product, goes to the world’s second-largest
economy. Sixty percent of those shipments are a single
commodity: iron ore.  “The medium- to long-term outlook for residential
construction remains relatively strong in China,” the
economists wrote. “While growth in urban residential
construction is expected to slow, the level of construction is
nevertheless expected to remain high for a prolonged period of
time. The prospects for steel used in residential construction
are stronger still.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  