-- Reinsurers May Get Higher Prices in Monte Carlo Talks
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-09-06T09:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/reinsurers-may-get-higher-prices-in-monte-carlo-negotiations-1-.html
Executives from reinsurers including
 Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  and their customers may negotiate modestly higher
prices for a second straight year in 2013 when they start
contract-renewal talks with clients in  Monte Carlo  this week.  “I see stable prices to slight increases,” Thierry Leger,
a member of the group management board at Swiss Re, said at a
roundtable of reinsurance buyers and sellers hosted by  Bloomberg
News  in Zurich. “On the other hand, we have the crisis and it
is very difficult for clients to digest price increases.”  Rates for property and casualty reinsurance climbed an
average of 7 percent this year after record natural-disaster
losses in 2011, according to the  Guy Carpenter U.S. Property
Catastrophe Rate on Line Index . The index has declined in four
of the last six years.  The record $105 billion of natural-disaster claims in 2011
gave reinsurers the leverage to push through price increases for
primary insurers this year. Negotiating higher rates for the
next round of contract renewals in January may prove more
difficult after insured losses slumped 86 percent to $11 billion
in the first half from the year-earlier period, when claims were
boosted by the earthquake and tsunami that hit  Japan .  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , which buys reinsurance contracts
to spread its risks, expects prices to remain little changed
next year if there is no “tough U.S. or European catastrophe
season,” said Paul Horgan, head of group reinsurance at the
biggest Swiss insurer. If reinsurers can present “a legitimate
reason” for higher prices, the company would accept these if
there is a market consensus.  Capital Buffers  “Everybody is still in good shape,” said Horgan. “So far
the losses for most of our trading partners have been earnings
losses, not capital losses,” as capital buffers have reached
record levels, he said.  Reinsurers have accumulated a record $480 billion of
capital, according to Aon Benfield, the world’s biggest
reinsurance broker, which mediates deals for primary insurers.
These buffers are used as a cushion against natural catastrophe
losses.  At the 31 biggest global reinsurers, net premiums written
rose by 5.3 percent to $76.3 billion in the first half, the
broker said.  July Renewals  “There is a trend, albeit gradual,” to raise prices, said
Amer Ahmed, chief executive officer of Allianz Re, the
reinsurance arm of Munich-based Allianz SE,  Europe ’s biggest
insurer. “There is not enough premium in the system for the
exposures that we carry.”  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, raised rates in
the July renewal round by about 2 percent and expects stable
prices in 2013. At second-ranked Swiss Re July renewals, when
most reinsurers agree on contracts with customers in parts of
the U.S. market,  Australia  and  New Zealand , rate increases were
3 percent.  Chief Financial Officer George Quinn said in May that the
Zurich-based company had seen the largest price increase “in a
renewal for long as I can remember.”  “The trend is pretty clear,” said Stephan Knipper,
president of Axis Re Europe, the European reinsurance unit of
Bermuda-based  Axis Capital Holdings Ltd. (AXS)  “It might be a gradual
one, though. This year the result is okay. So far we’ve been
lucky. We’ve had no cut event.”  Following the  Monte Carlo  talks, reinsurers and insurers
will reconvene negotiations in the German town of Baden-Baden in
October. Allianz SE, Axa SA and other insurers buy reinsurance
to help them shoulder claims from costly events such as natural
disasters.  Pricing Outlook  “Stable prices are more likely,” said Stefan Schuermann,
a Zurich-based analyst with Vontobel Holding AG, adding that
smaller reserve releases and the impact of low  interest rates  on
investment returns may push rates higher. “Even if there is
plenty of capacity, prices might rise somewhat in the end.”  Reinsurers such as Munich Re, Swiss Re and  Hannover Re 
typically renew about two-thirds of their annual property and
casualty contracts in the January round of renewals and the
remainder in April and July.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said it expected
reinsurers’ excess capital to continue to drive modest rate
increases, and that macroeconomic uncertainty, continued low
investment returns, and diminished benefits from reserve
releases would continue to put pressure on the industry’s
earnings for the next two to three years.  Hurricanes  The capital buffers show the stability of reinsurers, said
Jacopo d’Antonio, president and chief underwriting officer at
Aspen Re Europe, who expects “patchy but gradual” price
increases.  Capital buffers have “continued to strengthen through the
second quarter of 2012, moderating pricing pressures,”
according to a  report  by  Guy Carpenter & Co. , the reinsurance
brokerage of Marsh & McLennan Cos. “One important factor
driving these trends has been benign catastrophe activity,” the
broker said.  Among this year’s most costly disasters is Hurricane Isaac,
which made landfall in  Louisiana  on Aug. 28. It may cost
insurers as much as $2 billion in the U.S., risk-modeling firm
AIR Worldwide said last week. Offshore oil rigs and gas
platforms in the  Gulf of Mexico  probably didn’t suffer
significant damage from Isaac, AIR said.  During the past decade, the industry withstood natural
disasters such as  Hurricane Katrina , which flooded  New Orleans 
and caused $62 billion of insured losses in 2005, and last
year’s earthquake and tsunami in Japan, which cost the industry
as much as $40 billion, according to Munich Re.  Another argument for higher prices would be that
reinsurance is becoming more volatile as primary insurers react
to declining growth by concentrating the reinsurance they buy on
riskier policies while keeping the less exposed treaties on
their own books, said Hans-Joachim Guenther, chief underwriting
officer and head of reinsurance for Europe and  Asia  at Bermuda-
based Endurance Specialty Holdings, Ltd. “This puts more
pressure on us to charge the right price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  