-- Renewable Energy Is Obama Goal for Next Term, Aide Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-09-06T19:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/renewable-energy-is-obama-goal-for-next-term-aide-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s effort to
develop renewable power sources and persuade Congress to adopt a
long-term  energy policy  will be priorities should he win a
second term, his top climate and energy aide said.  Clean-energy programs and efficiency initiatives will be a
focus for the president if he’s re-elected in November,  Heather Zichal , Obama’s deputy assistant for energy and climate change,
told reporters today in  Washington .  “The big issue will remain engagement with Congress,” she
said. “The president has talked continuously about the need for
a long-term energy policy, and I think that will be something
that he will obviously remain focused on in the second term.”  As a candidate in 2008, Obama pledged to create 5 million
green jobs over 10 years by investing in renewable sources such
as solar and wind power. He promoted alternatives to fossil
fuels as a way to cut U.S. dependence on imported fuel. The 2009
economic-stimulus plan spent a record $90 billion on clean
energy, creating 225,000 green jobs after one year, according to
the White House.  Republicans have used U.S. support for Solyndra LLC, the
solar-panel maker that collapsed two years after getting a $535
million U.S. loan guarantee, to depict Obama’s policies as a
failure by meddling in the free market.  Mitt Romney , the
Republican presidential nominee, said federal regulation of oil
and gas limit U.S. energy development.  Zichal said the Interior Department is working on a
“common-sense rule” to regulate hydraulic fracturing on
federal lands. The proposal, which would require disclosure of
chemicals used in fracking, can be revised with help from energy
companies, in the way the Environmental Protection Agency
revised standards in April to combat air pollution from
drilling.  The EPA rule gave companies until 2015 to meet emission
requirements, responding to industry opposition to a proposed
60-day deadline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  