-- Riksbank Cuts Rates as Krona Surge Threatens Export Growth
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-09-06T11:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/riksbank-cuts-rates-as-krona-surge-threatens-export-growth-2-.html
Sweden ’s Riksbank cut its  benchmark
interest rate  for the first time since February, caving in to
calls from exporters, as the krona’s strength and deepening euro
crisis threaten the nation’s trade competitiveness.  The repo rate was cut by a quarter point to 1.25 percent,
the Stockholm-based bank said today. The move was predicted by
six of the 22 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg , while the
remainder forecast no change. The bank said the rate is expected
to remain unchanged “until the middle of next year.”  “During the summer the krona has appreciated faster than
expected and productivity has also been unexpectedly high,” the
Riksbank said. “Inflationary pressures are therefore expected
to be lower than was forecast in July.”  The bank has cut rates three times since December to
protect the largest Nordic economy against sagging euro-area
demand as leaders in the bloc struggle to contain the debt
crisis. Riksbank policy makers have come under pressure from
exporters such as  Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAA)  and trade unions to curb
krona gains after the currency soared to a 12-year high against
the euro last month, plunging manufacturing into decline.  The  European Central Bank  kept its benchmark rate at a
record low of 0.75 percent today, as predicted by 28 of 58
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The remainder forecast a
quarter-point cut.  Deeper Cuts  The krona declined 0.3 percent at 8.5090 against the euro
as of 1:50 p.m. in Stockholm. Against the dollar, the krona
weakened 0.1 percent to 6.7359.  Two of the bank’s six member board, Lars E. O. Svensson and
Karolina Ekholm, wanted to reduce rates to 1 percent, according
to today’s statement.  The rate cut “is needed since we’re heading toward a
significant economic downturn, even recession,” said Par Magnusson, chief economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
 Stockholm . “There will be more cuts” to 0.75 percent this year
and 0.5 percent in 2013 in a best-case scenario, he said.  The Riksbank said it now expects its repo rate to average
1.4 percent in the third quarter next year, versus a July
forecast for 1.6 percent, and that it will rise to an average
2.2 percent a year later, down from a 2.4 percent forecast.  Inflation Slows  Consumer prices  will rise 1.2 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2013, down from a 1.7 percent forecast, the Riksbank
said. Unemployment will rise to an average 7.6 percent this year
and stay at that level in 2013, the bank said. The  economy  will
grow 1.5 percent this year and 1.9 percent in 2013, it said.  Some of Sweden’s biggest industrial companies including
Svenska Cellulosa and  Holmen AB (HOLMB)  have urged the Riksbank to lower
rates to cool haven demand for the country’s currency. Bets on a
rate cut also grew this week after a survey showed the
 manufacturing industry  shrank in August at the fastest pace in 3
1/2 years, as export orders declined.  “The bank’s forecast for GDP growth next year is too
optimistic” and “if our assumption that the euro-zone debt
crisis worsens proves correct, the krona is likely to continue
to appreciate, reducing inflationary pressures further,”  Ben May , an economist at  Capital Economics  in  London , said in a
client note. “We are sticking with our view that interest rates
will fall to just 0.5 percent next year.”  Unproven Effect  Governor Stefan Ingves has previously said that the bank
shouldn’t use monetary policy to steer the krona, arguing rate
differentials have an unproven effect on exchange rates. Policy
makers also backtracked on July signals for an unchanged rate
for “just over a year.”  The krona has strengthened about 8 percent against the euro
since a low on May 17, making it the best-performing major
currency in the period. It has gained more than 20 percent
against the euro in the past three years.  Krona gains are helping to keep consumer-price growth below
the central bank’s 2 percent target. Headline inflation slowed
to 0.7 percent in July, the lowest in more than two years, from
1 percent the previous month, Statistics Sweden estimates.  The currency’s appreciation creates “challenges,” Prime
Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  told reporters in Kiruna, northern
Sweden, yesterday. The premier earlier this week said the strong
krona is here to stay, while  Bo Lundgren , the head of Sweden’s
National Debt Office, said the country may remain a haven from
 Europe ’s crisis “for a long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  