-- Robert Redford’s Runaway Activist Thrills Venice Festival
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-09-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/robert-redford-s-runaway-activist-thrills-venice-festival.html
In the early 1970s, a U.S. group
known as the Weather Underground detonated small bombs at the
Pentagon, the State Department, and the Capitol to protest the
 Vietnam War . They gave advance warning to avoid casualties.  Four decades later, actor-director  Robert Redford  brings a
fictionalized version of their story to the big screen, starring
himself,  Shia LaBeouf  and a seasoned cast including Julie Christie,  Nick Nolte  and Susan Sarandon. “The Company You
Keep” -- based on the Neil Gordon novel -- had its world
premiere at the  Venice  Film Festival.  “I was sympathetic to the cause,” Redford said at the
overcrowded Venice news conference yesterday, wearing a black T-
shirt under his white linen jacket. “The war was wrong: They
had every right to refuse to go.”  Redford said he watched the group self-destruct back in the
day, as its members became increasingly “pleased with
themselves.” Yet he shared their anti-war agenda.  The movie starts with news footage of  Weather Underground 
attacks. It then cuts to a Vermont housewife who’s seeing off
her husband and two teenage children after breakfast one day.  Driving to the gas station next, Sharon Solarz is arrested
in a police swoop: She was part of a Weather Underground team
whose robbery of a Michigan bank resulted in a guard’s death.  Another member of that team was Redford’s character.
Recently widowed and now named Jim Grant, he’s a public-interest
lawyer and a doting father to 11-year-old Isabel (the promising
Jackie Evancho).  Tenacious Reporter  Enter Ben Shepard, a reporter for a struggling newspaper.
He won’t let go of the story, despite warnings from his hard-
nosed editor (Stanley Tucci). Tenacious Shepard does his laptop
research even when he’s at the Laundromat, and wraps dollar
bills around a Styrofoam coffee cup to bribe a bureaucrat for
information.  Before long, Shepard reveals Grant’s true identity in a
newspaper scoop. Grant is forced to leave daughter Isabel in his
brother’s care and run away.  “The Company You Keep” is a good story told the old-
fashioned way. There are no jittery handheld cameras, no
overbearing soundtracks, no fancy voice-overs.  The movie is far less wordy and heavy-handedly political
than Redford’s 2007 “Lions for Lambs.” It’s also better than
two other U.S. movies that were included, unlike Redford’s, in
the official Venice competition: Terrence Malick’s “To the
Wonder” and Paul Thomas Anderson’s “The Master.”  Rebels, Legends  Casting is the film’s forte. Redford pairs the fresh-faced
and gifted LaBeouf with screen legends who each play an ageing
rebel. Christie is the wild, free-wheeling woman who has shunned
sedate suburban life. Gruff Nolte has a heart as big as his
frame.  Seated beside Redford at the Venice briefing, LaBeouf --
his hair slicked back and parted on the side -- said he watched
the Watergate-busting movie “All the President’s Men”
(starring Redford as  Bob Woodward ) to compose his character.  Given director Redford’s unambiguity about whose side he’s
on, the movie can’t avoid moments of earnestness. Yet it’s
solidly put together -- which is more than can be said for so
many other Venice offerings this year. Rating: ***.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Robert Heller  on rock music,  Lewis
Lapham  on history,  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend and  Jeremy
Gerard  on Broadway.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Venice at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 