-- Roddick Says Farewell to Tennis With U.S. Open Loss to Del Potro
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/roddick-says-farewell-to-tennis-with-u-s-open-loss-to-del-potro.html
Before the final game of his tennis
career,  Andy Roddick  took a long look up at the half-filled
stands and sighed. His wife, Brooklyn Decker, wiped away tears
as the crowd chanted “Let’s Go, Andy.”  Then it was over, a four-set loss to Juan Martin Del Potro
that ended when Roddick sent a running forehand wide and long.  The last U.S. man to win a Grand Slam title, and the lone
American man left in this year’s tournament, had lost in the
U.S. Open’s fourth round for the first time in his career.  “I’ve loved every minute of it,” Roddick told the crowd
before momentarily choking up. “A lot of ups, a lot of downs, a
lot of great moments along the way.”  Roddick, 30, who six days earlier had announced that he
would retire at the end of the tournament, bid farewell to
tennis on the court that yielded his biggest win -- the 2003
 U.S. Open  championship.  Del Potro, 23, the 2009 U.S. Open winner from  Argentina  and
the seventh seed this year, stood on the court clapping for
Roddick after his 6-7 (1-7), 7-6 (7-4), 6-2, 6-4 victory
yesterday in a rain-delayed match that began a night earlier.  $20 Million  Roddick won more than $20 million in a career that included
32 tournament titles and a 612-213 record in singles. He was
 ranked No. 1  in the world in 2003, and seven times has been the
last American man playing in the U.S. Open.  The rain that halted the match two nights ago in a first-
set tiebreaker deprived Roddick of a huge, supportive crowd and
a familiar setting for his finale. Since Arthur Ashe Stadium
opened in 1997, Roddick has played a record 28 night matches
there -- winning 20 of them.  The match resumed yesterday afternoon following another
rain delay. Roddick won the first set tiebreaker. Del Potro
evened the match in another tiebreaker and then took control.  Roddick said he found it very difficult to focus in the
last five games of the match.  “You’re thinking about matches you’re playing when you’re
12, or you’re thinking about my mom driving me to practices all
over the place,” he said in a news conference. “Then all of a
sudden you have to play a point against one of the best players
in the world.”  Del Potro advanced to a quarterfinal match against
defending champion Novak Djokovic, the second seed from  Serbia ,
who advanced when 18th-seeded Stanislas Wawrinka of  Switzerland 
quit while trailing 6-4, 6-1, 3-1. Also reaching the
quarterfinals yesterday was No. 8 Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia.  Sixth-seeded Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic  upset
five-time champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland, the No. 1 seed,
to set up a semifinal against  Andy Murray , the No. 3 seed from
Britain.  Women’s Matches  In the women’s quarterfinals yesterday, No. 3  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia , No. 4  Serena Williams  of the U.S. and No.
10 Sara Errani of  Italy  won to join top-seeded Victoria Azarenka
of Belarus in the semifinals.  Roddick, seeded 20th, won two matches in straight sets
after announcing his retirement and entered yesterday’s contest
against Del Potro with an 8-0 record in fourth-round matches at
the National Tennis Center in  New York .  The defeat capped a 13-year pro career for Roddick that
included three runner-up finishes to Federer at Wimbledon, a
2007 defeat to Federer in the U.S. Open final and four semifinal
appearances at the Australian Open.  Hall of Fame  “He’ll probably get to the International Tennis Hall of
Fame because he’s done so many things besides win that one
Open,” Bud Collins a tennis historian and journalist, said in
an interview. “He had a tremendous career.”  Roddick’s first U.S. Open appearance came at the junior
level in 1998. His first professional match at the tennis
season’s final Grand Slam was in 2000.  In 2003, he came back from a two-set deficit, including a
match point, to Argentina’s  David Nalbandian  before advancing to
the final, where he topped Juan Carlos Ferrero of  Spain .  It has been nine years since that title, an American
drought in men’s Grand Slam singles that is a record. Roddick’s
retirement leaves  Robby Ginepri , a 2005 U.S. Open semifinalist
now ranked 234th in the world, as the only active U.S. man to
advance beyond the quarterfinals of a major tournament.  “You know the burden, I understand it,” Roddick said of
being the top American male player of his generation. “I
understand the fact that we come from a place which probably had
more success than any other tennis country, where there are
certain expectations.”  Roddick said his final tournament had been an emotional
ride that went far beyond simply winning or losing.  “This was about something bigger, it wasn’t about ranking
points or paychecks or anything else,” he told reporters. “It
was fun. This week, I felt like I was 12 years old playing in a
park. It was extremely innocent. That was fun. I enjoyed it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  