-- South Korea Rating Raised by Fitch on Nation’s Stability
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-09-06T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/s-korea-rating-raised-by-fitch-on-stability-amid-global-turmoil.html
South Korea ’s debt rating was
upgraded by  Fitch Ratings  to AA-, the same as  Saudi Arabia  and
one level higher than Japan and China, 10 days after a similar
move by Moody’s Investors Service.  “It is an important vote of confidence for  Korea ’s safe
haven status, which could strengthen the appreciation bias of
the Korean won,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist
at Barclays Plc in Singapore. “We expect more inflows from
sovereign wealth funds.”  The decision yesterday is the second in less than two weeks
to cite South Korea’s relatively strong position to cope with
financial turbulence. South Korea’s sovereign debt rating was
raised by Moody’s one step to Aa3 on Aug. 27, the same ranking
as China and Japan, citing the country’s “strong fiscal
fundamentals” that allow room to cope with domestic risks and
external shocks.  “Two out of three major  credit rating agencies  moved Korea
up when so many have been downgraded in Europe,” said Jun Min
Kyu, an economist at Korea Investment & Securities Co. “This
raises the possibility of S&P to follow.”  While Moody’s and Fitch now have South Korea on their
fourth highest rating,  Standard & Poor’s  ranks the nation at A,
its sixth highest.  The won has strengthened 0.1 percent since the Moody’s
upgrade, to 1,133.85 yesterday. The Fitch upgrade was announced
after local financial markets closed.  ‘Financial Stability’  “The upgrade reflects Korea’s continued economic and
financial stability in a volatile global environment and a
strong macroeconomic policy framework including sustained fiscal
discipline,” Fitch said in yesterday’s statement. “It also
takes into account strong structural fundamentals including an
income level and social and political stability that are not out
of line with the ’AA’ rating range.”  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
 government bonds  fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service suggests they should climb, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back as far as the 1970s.  After S&P stripped France and the U.S. of AAA grades,
 interest rates  paid by the countries to finance their deficits
dropped rather than rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  