-- Saudi Arabia Has About 98 Onshore Drilling Rigs, Shoaibi Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-09-06T16:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/saudi-arabia-has-about-98-onshore-drilling-rigs-shoaibi-says.html
Saudi Arabia  has about 98 onshore
rigs currently drilling for oil and natural gas, according to
Shoaibi Group, a service company used by the kingdom’s state-run
producer.  Shoaibi, based in Khobar in Saudi Arabia, published the
figure today in an e-mailed statement while announcing a joint
venture with U.K. rig engineering company  Lamprell Plc. (LAM)  Shoaibi
didn’t provide comparison figures for earlier dates and state-
run Saudi Arabian Oil Co. doesn’t publish information on how
many rigs it has in operation.  “Saudi Arabia has an estimated 98 onshore drilling rigs in
place and there is a rising demand for advanced drilling
equipment and oilfield services in the upstream market, which
justifies Lamprell’s expansion into the market at this time,”
Shoaibi Group Director Khalid al-Shoaibi said in the statement.  The service company’s estimate compares with a figure of
121 rigs that Saudi Arabia used for both onshore and offshore
work in 2011, and 98 in 2010, according to OPEC’s annual
statistical bulletin from July. The country boosted production
this year and  pumped  an average 9.8 million barrels of crude a
day during the first eight months of 2012, compared with an
average 9.2 million a day during all of last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  While most Saudi Arabian rigs operate on land, it also has
some off its coast in the  Persian Gulf  and in an offshore
partitioned zone where it shares oil and gas output with  Kuwait .  Saudi Aramco , as the state oil company is known, plans to
increase its oil and gas drilling-rig count by 12 percent this
year to 145 to boost natural-gas production from new fields and
oil output from its Manifa field, Sadad al-Husseini, a former
executive of the state-run company and an independent energy
consultant, said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  