-- Scandals Show California Is Broken, Not Broke
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-09-06T22:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/scandals-show-california-is-broken-not-broke.html
Voters are accustomed to the scare
tactics of tax-hungry politicians who  warn  of looming cuts in
schools and public safety.  But nothing gets people’s attention like closing parks. And
in California, where the state beaches and mountain refuges are
as beloved as the politicians are cynical, the strategy has
exposed  practices  that border on the corrupt.  It started in May 2011 when Governor  Jerry Brown   announced 
that “turbulent times” required the “unthinkable” -- the
shuttering of 70 parks to deal with the state’s enduring fiscal
problems. Brown’s critics sensed that he found the proposed cuts
to be quite “thinkable” -- at least as a ploy to encourage
Californians to loosen the grip on their wallets.  Brown has staked his governorship on the idea that
Californians need to pay  higher taxes  to help plug a budget gap
estimated at almost $16 billion -- specifically a proposition on
the state ballot in November that would boost the  sales tax  by a
quarter cent for four years and impose supposedly temporary
income-tax increases on residents who earn more than $250,000 a
year.  Brown and his fellow Democrats didn’t count on two things.
First, nonprofit groups and local governments  came up with  the
money to keep most of the targeted parks up and running, thus
illustrating the effectiveness of nongovernment or local
solutions in the face of state-government  failure .  Employee Payouts  Second, it turned out that the state parks department,
rather than being strapped, was so  awash in cash  that it handed
out huge payouts to employees and hid millions of dollars in
special accounts. (Some private groups backed away from their
promises to finance individual parks when they learned about the
hidden funds.)  The scandal, combined with bad publicity over a
multibillion-dollar high-speed-rail  project  referred to as “the
train to nowhere,” has eroded the earlier strong public support
for tax increases and left state leaders scrounging for proof
that they are serious about reform. The latest polls show
support for the measure running slightly ahead, but vulnerable.  The Sacramento Bee, which  uncovered  the park story, pointed
to  California ’s generous policy of allowing employees to bank
many weeks a year of unused vacation time so that they have a
small fortune by the time they retire. The budgeting system
encourages agencies to spend down their reserves at the end of
the year, a common procedure in government. The result was
“excess cash left over and not enough ways to spend it,”
reported the Bee’s Kevin Yamamura.  The gaming of the system was methodical. The Bee  detailed 
how a deputy parks director came up with a surreptitious plan to
burn through extra cash and reduce the backlog of vacation hours
that employees had accumulated. He evaded state rules and issued
payments to department employees, including himself, recording
the transactions on Post-it notes to avoid scrutiny. He was
eventually demoted and then resigned from the department.  This shell game unveiled the existence of hidden accounts.
Two “special” parks funds contained $54 million in reserves --
far more than enough to cover the $22 million in cuts proposed
by the governor to help close the general-fund deficit. The
money was socked away for more than a decade because the finance
department relies on an honor system that doesn’t compare its
numbers with the state controller’s figures, according to a San
Jose Mercury News  report .  Squandered Resources  The Mercury News then  looked  at all 500 special funds
statewide and found $415 million in financial discrepancies from
questionable accounts and faulty accounting procedures.  Although the details may be lost on average voters, the
scandal is a reminder that the state squanders money even as
Brown sticks to the story of services cut to the bone. Since the
publicity has highlighted a possible solution -- more efficient
use of current dollars -- Brown and the legislators insist that
they are serious about streamlining the bureaucracy. Yes, they
will reform the state if only Californians do their part and
pony up additional tax dollars!  In the final days of the legislative session, a Democratic
plan to reform pensions -- in a state with an unfunded pension
liability  estimated  as high as $500 billion -- sailed through
both houses and landed on the governor’s desk. This was amazing,
given that state Democratic leaders refused until recently to
act on even the most modest changes.  The pension deal is fine as far as it goes, but it doesn’t
go very far. It offers modest caps on the salary on which the
yearly pension formulas are based ($110,000 for those who
receive  Social Security , $132,000 for those without it). It also
bans some of the most outrageous practices (such as collecting a
pension after being convicted of an on-the-job felony, and
allowing workers to boost their pensions by  adding  years to
their employment history that they didn’t actually work). Most
changes apply to new hires, not current workers.  But the governor and Democratic leaders are no more serious
about reforming pensions than they are about shuttering state
parks. The goal they are serious about is raising taxes. That’s
too bad, because the one thing the parks episode showed is that
California can make ends meet if it exercises a little oversight
and discipline.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in Sacramento, California. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  European Central Bank’s
new bond-buying plan  and on why the  U.S. needs to pay more
attention to APEC ; Stephen L. Carter on “hopefully” and other
 desecrations of the English language ; William Pesek on a  Romney
presidency causing no worries in China ;  Jonathan Weil  on how low
can  Facebook shares go .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in  Sacramento  at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 