-- Schumer Says Obama Must Address Israel in Conventio
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-09-06T22:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/schumer-says-obama-must-address-israel-in-conventio.html
President  Barack Obama  is sure to
talk about  Israel  tonight in his nomination acceptance speech,
especially in the wake of a dispute over excluding any mention
of Jerusalem from the party’s platform, Senator Chuck Schumer
said.  “I know he will,” Schumer, a  New York  Democrat, told
reporters at a breakfast meeting of the New York delegation to
the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  His comments today follow the amending of the Democratic
platform yesterday to declare Jerusalem as the capital of Israel,
a provision that had appeared in the party’s previous policy
statements and was initially left out of this year’s document.  Schumer called its absence “a mistake” by platform
drafters, “an act of omission, not commission.”  The chief drafter of the platform, former Ohio Governor  Ted Strickland , gave a different account.  Strickland said the language recognizing Jerusalem as the
capital of Israel wasn’t originally included because it isn’t
official State Department policy.  The provision, which had been included in the party’s 2008
platform, says: “Jerusalem is and will remain the capital of
Israel. The parties have agreed that Jerusalem is a matter for
final status negotiations. It should remain an undivided city
accessible to people of all faiths.”  ‘God-Given Potential’  Strickland said he received a call yesterday afternoon from
Obama’s campaign seeking the change that was adopted, as well as
the restoration of the reference to “God” in a phrase about
the “God-given potential” of “working people. The omission of
“God” was an oversight, he said.  The president personally asked for the amendment on
 Jerusalem  when the matter was “brought to his attention,” he
said.  James Zogby, a platform committee member and president of
the Washington-based  Arab-American Institute , said the omission
of the Jerusalem language from the original draft was deliberate.
“I do not believe it was an oversight,” said Zogby, citing his
own conversations with platform committee staffers.  Zogby said he saw a draft of the document before the
platform panel met in  Detroit  last month to take action before
the convention. When he expressed his pleasure that the draft
didn’t contain the 2008 platform’s Jerusalem reference “no one
said in response ‘oh, oh, we’ve got to fix that,’” Zogby said.
The dropped reference was “not like a surprise to anybody.”  Sovereignty  Zogby said the “language that’s been inserted is
inconsequential” because “it does not predetermine anything”
about Jerusalem’s status, which U.S. policy says should be left
to negotiations between Israel and Palestinians. “Jerusalem is
a capital” and “will probably be the capital of two states,”
Zogby said in a telephone interview.  The platform language doesn’t deal with the issue of
sovereignty, which “is to be determined” by negotiations on
creation of a separate Palestinian state, he said.  The dispute over the passage means that “it has become
even more important” that the president address the issue in
his speech, said Representative Eliot Engel, a New York Democrat.
Engel said he has urged White House aides to make sure Israel is
part of Obama’s speech because “he’s got a record of support he
could be proud of.”  Representative  Carolyn Maloney , also a New York Democrat,
said the issue showed that Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  is being disingenuous when he claims that he disagrees
with some of the  Republican Party ’s platform planks.  If Obama could tell the Democratic convention to change its
platform and add mentions of Jerusalem and God, then Romney
nominee could have demanded changes at his party’s convention
last week in Tampa,  Florida , she said.  “If you disagree with the platform, why didn’t you try to
change it?” asked Maloney, a Democrat. Obama “went in and
changed it. Romney could have gone in and changed the things he
disagreed with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Charlotte  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Charlotte at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  