-- Scotiabank in China Influences Harper on Nexen
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/scotiabank-in-china-influences-harper-on-nexen-corporate-canada.html
Bank of  Nova Scotia  is still waiting
to close its purchase of Bank of Guangzhou, seven months after
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  raised the issue with China’s
Premier  Wen Jiabao . The delay is weighing on Harper as he
considers Cnooc Ltd.’s $15.1 billion bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver said this week the
government’s review of the Cnooc offer will include discussions
on “reciprocity” for Canadian companies.  Scotiabank (BNS) ’s C$719
million ($726 million) acquisition in China was announced a year
ago and initially forecast to be closed last December.  The holdup underscores challenges Harper faces as his
government reviews the offer for Nexen, a Calgary-based oil and
gas producer. His decision may be a pivotal moment in relations
between the two countries as Canadian companies look to
establish themselves in the world’s second-biggest economy, and
as China seeks access to  Canada ’s natural resources.  “Either Canada is open for business or it’s not,” said
Charlie Fischer, who was Nexen’s chief executive officer until
2008 and sits on the board of  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  “If we turn down
all of these transactions, then it seems to me that across the
board, Canadian equities will lose value because we’re taking
away a significant opportunity for investors to realize gains.”  Nexen shares  have remained below  Cnooc (883) ’s $27.50 per share
offer price after jumping more than 50 percent and climbing as
high as $26.21 after the agreement was announced July 23. The
country’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index is up
0.29 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent gain for the
 S&P 500 Index .  Soundest Banks  While Canada’s financial system has been rated the world’s
soundest by the  World Economic Forum  for five straight years,
its banks and insurers have had difficulty with Chinese
ownership limits and slow regulatory approvals for foreign
financial institutions, according to a  report  by the Canadian
Chamber of Commerce.  “In China, it does take time to build the trust of
regulators and the policymakers,” said William Downe, CEO of
Toronto-based  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)  Canada’s fourth-biggest bank by
assets will get a “significant” boost from its Chinese
businesses within five years, Downe said yesterday at a
financial services conference.  Harper, who will appear at the Bloomberg Canada-Asia
Conference in Vancouver today on his way to the summit of Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation leaders in Russia, met Wen in
Beijing in February, and urged him to approve proposed
investments by  Manulife (MFC)  Financial Corp. and Scotiabank as part
of a broader effort to win greater access for Canadian companies
in the Asian country.  “I’ve given up forecasting” when the transaction will
close,  Brian Porter , Scotiabank’s head of international banking,
told investors on an Aug. 28 conference call. When he met
China’s regulator in July, “all the comments were positive; it
just takes time.”  Asia Strategy  Manulife, Canada’s largest insurer, has said Asia is a key
part of its strategy to reach C$4 billion in annual net income
by 2015. The Toronto-based insurer, which has had operated on
the continent since 1897, is scheduled to hold an investor
conference in  Hong Kong  today to discuss its progress in the
region.  Since U.S. President  Barack Obama  denied  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) 
a permit in January to build its Keystone XL pipeline -- which
would send crude from Alberta’s oil sands to refineries along
the  Gulf of Mexico  coast -- Harper has made it a national
priority to sell more oil to Asia. Chinese officials would
probably see a rejection of the takeover as an “embarrassing”
reversal for Harper, said  Wenran Jiang , a political science
professor at the University of Alberta.  Investment Welcome  “They would feel a sense of not only disappointment, maybe
even a sense of betrayal, because they were assured by the
senior leadership at the federal and provincial levels, that
Chinese investment will be welcome,” Jiang said in a telephone
interview.  Under Canada’s foreign-takeover law, Harper’s government
has 75 days to decide whether it will approve the Cnooc-Nexen
acquisition.  “Our government will take the time we have to properly
scrutinize this transaction” and allow it only “if it is in
the long-term interests of the Canadian economy,” Harper told
reporters Aug. 23 in Cambridge Bay, Nunavut.  Companies based in China have made 20 investments in
Canadian oil and gas companies valued at $33.1 billion over the
last decade, led by state-owned enterprises China Petrochemical
Corp., PetroChina Co. Ltd., China National Petroleum Corp. and
Cnooc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investment has been tilted toward Chinese purchases in
Canada. Canadian direct investment in China was C$4.5 billion in
2011, less than 1 percent of the Canadian total, and less than
half the level of investment in Canada by Chinese firms,
 Statistics Canada  data show.  Record Deficit  With 99 percent of oil exports going to the U.S., Canada’s
trade deficit with China reached a record C$31.7 billion in
2011, according to Statistics Canada.  Canada has lagged behind other countries in building
business relationships with fast-growing Asian countries, said
Dominic Barton, managing director of McKinsey & Co. Inc., a New
York-based management consulting firm. “The economic weighting
of the world is going to Asia, at a very fast pace and a very
massive scale, so we need to pivot now,” Barton said in a phone
interview yesterday from New Delhi.  Approving the Cnooc bid may alienate those who oppose the
transaction, including some of Harper’s own political
supporters. While the Canadian government is becoming
increasingly comfortable with foreign investment from  China ,
Harper’s former trade minister Stockwell Day said some people
are worried that Chinese state-owned enterprises may gain too
much influence.  Directly Tied  “There is still concern about what it means to be tied
directly to the government in China,” said Day in a telephone
interview.  About 57 percent of Canadians say the government should
reject the Cnooc bid, according to a  poll  by Abacus Data
released Aug. 23. Only 43 percent of the 2,099 respondents were
aware of the takeover before taking the online poll, which was
conducted Aug. 10-12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  