-- Rothstein’s Wife Charged With Hiding $1 Million in Jewelry
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-09-06T20:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/scott-rothstein-s-wife-charged-with-hiding-1-million-in-jewelry.html
The wife of Scott Rothstein, a
disbarred  Florida  attorney who ran a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme ,
illegally hid $1 million in jewelry from U.S. authorities trying
to seize his assets to repay investors, prosecutors charged.  Kimberly Wendell Rothstein, 38, was charged with four other
people today with lying after Internal Revenue Service agents
tried to confiscate the jewelry, including a 12-carat yellow
diamond ring. Rothstein amassed tens of millions of dollars in
real estate, cars, boats, luxury watches, jewelry and sports
memorabilia during his Ponzi scheme, authorities said.  Rothstein, who is serving a 50-year prison term, agreed in
November 2009 to plead guilty and forfeit his illegal gains.
When agents showed up on Nov. 9, 2009, Kimberly Rothstein held
back some jewelry, U.S. prosecutors said in court papers filed
in Miami and  Fort Lauderdale . She and a friend sold some jewelry
and joined others in covering up their actions by lying during
bankruptcy proceedings, according to court papers.  “The integrity of our system of justice is based on the
truthfulness of every witness that participates in the
process,” Wifredo Ferrer, the U.S. attorney for the Southern
District of Florida, said in a statement. “When a witness lies
under oath or conspires to obstruct justice, the integrity of
our system of justice is undermined.”  Watches, Bracelets  Kimberly Rothstein was charged with Stacie Weisman, 49, and
Scott Saidel, 45, with conspiracy to commit  money laundering ,
obstruct justice and tamper with a witness. Eddy Marin, 50, and
Patrick Daoud, 54, were charged with perjury and conspiracy to
obstruct justice.  Prosecutors seek forfeiture of five diamond rings,
10 watches, two bracelets, four necklaces, five pairs of
earrings, 50 gold bars, and various coins from the U.S.,  Canada ,
South Africa,  England  and  China .  “My guess is that this will resolve itself in a guilty
plea,” David K. Tucker, an attorney for Kimberly Rothstein,
said in a telephone interview.  “Kim would like to take the opportunity to express her
disappointment, shame, and sadness in regard to all of the
victims” of her husband’s Ponzi scheme, Tucker said. “She
had no involvement or knowledge of his fraudulent activity.
She takes full responsibility for her actions in regard to the
charge filed today.”  The cases are U.S. v. Marin, 12-cr-60205, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale) and U.S.
v. Kimberly Wendell Rothstein, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  