-- Serbia Pauses Interest-Rate Increases as Economy Slows
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-09-06T13:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/serbia-pauses-interest-rate-increases-as-economy-slows.html
Serbia’s central bank held its
benchmark  interest rate  for the first time in four months,
pausing a series of increases to bolster the dinar as economic
growth slows.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije kept the  one-week
repurchase rate  at 10.5 percent, it said today in a statement on
its website. Six of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey
predicted no change, while six expected a quarter-point rise and
eight forecast the rate to jump to 11 percent.  “Considering that the dominant factors that currently
influence growth of inflation can’t be adequately influenced by
the benchmark rate, the Executive Board decided to keep the
current level of monetary-policy restrictiveness,” the bank
said in a statement. The next rate meeting is Oct. 18.  Serbia  is struggling to avoid a second recession in three
years after the economy contracted 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, following a 1.3 percent decline in the three months
through March. Inflation is estimated to accelerate to 10
percent on rising food prices and increases in regulated prices
by the end of 2012, according to the central bank.  “Any further tightening will depend on external factors
and on the success of reigning in inflation expectations” as
well as fiscal consolidation, the bank said.  Struggling Economies  Policy makers across  Europe  have eased rates, or considered
doing so, to help their struggling economies as the euro region
slips toward a recession amid budget-cutting austerity measures
and a flare-up of the debt crisis. Hungarian policy makers
lowered borrowing costs by a quarter-point to 6.75 percent on
Aug. 28 and the Czech central bank lowered its two-week
repurchase rate to a record-low 0.5 percent on June 28.  The dinar traded 0.2 percent stronger against the euro at
117.5948 at 3:26 p.m. in Belgrade after falling 0.8 percent
earlier in the session.  The central bank raised rates in June by a half point, and
by a quarter point in both July and August to sap dinar
liquidity to curb the currency’s decline. The unit has lost 8.9
percent to the euro so far this year, the seventh-worst
performance in the world among 178 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  ‘Exceptional’ Inflows  “The bank may be anticipating some exceptional foreign
currency inflows and related dinar strengthening that others are
not aware of,” said Jasna Atanasijevic, chief economist at the
Belgrade-based Hypo Alpe Adria AD bank. A rate hike “seemed
necessary to support the dinar against its constant weakening in
2012.”  The  International Monetary Fund  suspended a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan in February amid signs the previous
government was slipping on budget targets. Such loans are set
aside for a country in case of an economic or currency crisis
without recipients necessarily drawing on the funds.  An IMF delegation is to arrive in Belgrade on Sept. 10 to
discuss the country’s macroeconomic stability, as well as a law
clipping of the central bank’s autonomy, which was criticized by
the lender, by the  World Bank  and the European Commission.  Serbia will ask the Washington-based lender for a new loan,
Finance and Economy Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said Aug. 31. He is
working on a review of the 2012 budget to narrow the gap to 6.5
percent of economic output this year and plans to keep it under
4 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  