-- Services in U.S. Expanded More Than Forecast in August
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-09-06T14:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/services-in-u-s-expanded-more-than-forecast-in-august.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded in August at a faster pace than forecast, offering
support to an economy that lost momentum in the first half of
the year.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing 
index climbed to a three-month high of 53.7 from 52.6 in July,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Readings above 50
signal expansion, and economists projected 52.5 for August,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  A sustained pickup in service industries will help make up
for three straight months of contraction in manufacturing and
may create more employment opportunities as the jobless rate
exceeds 8 percent. At the same time,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  is among
companies seeing waning demand as rising gas prices, cooling
global economies and diminished business investment hold back
U.S. growth.  “Services have held in there,”  Stuart Hoffman , chief
economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh, said
before the report. “The service sector is actually doing better
than manufacturing in terms of growth, which is a change from
what’s been going on in the past few years.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
51 to 53.5. The gauge has averaged 53.3 since the recession
ended in June 2009.  Stocks Climb  Stocks held gains after the figures and as the  European
Central Bank  announced specifics of its bond-buying plans aimed
at shoring up the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 1.4 percent to 1,422.41 at 10:13 a.m. in  New York .  Fewer Americans than forecast filed  first-time claims  for
unemployment insurance payments last week, another report today
showed. Applications for jobless benefits decreased 12,000 in
the week ended Sept. 1 to 365,000, the fewest in a month, Labor
Department figures showed.  Companies added more workers in August than projected,
according to a report from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services. The 201,000 gain was the most in five months
and followed a 173,000 rise the prior month that was higher than
initially estimated.  The ISM non-manufacturing survey’s employment gauge rose to
53.8, the highest since April, from 49.3 in the prior month. The
measure of  new orders  decreased to 53.7 from 54.3. A gauge of
business activity dropped to 55.6 from 57.2. The index of prices
paid increased to 64.3 from 54.9.  Factory Gauge  The group’s manufacturing index, released Sept. 4, showed
the industry  contracted  for a third month in August, the longest
such stretch since the recession ended in 2009. The ISM services
survey covers industries ranging from utilities and construction
to health care and finance  Stronger retail sales, along with a pickup in the housing
market, have helped sustain growth in the services industry. In
July, retail purchases advanced 0.8 percent, the most since
February, Commerce Department data show. Auto demand has also
fared well, with  sales of cars  and light trucks rising to an
annual rate of 14.5 million in August, the best in three years.  New  home construction  ran at a 746,000 annual rate in July,
close to June’s 754,000 pace that was the strongest in more than
three years, according to the Commerce Department.  At the same time, the services industry may be held back by
a struggling labor market. Payroll gains have failed to bring
the jobless rate below 8 percent for more than three years.  Consumer Spending  Higher gasoline prices could also keep  consumer spending  in
check. The average price of a gallon of regular gas has risen 50
cents since July 1, reaching $3.83 at the end of August,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest auto club.  FedEx is among U.S. companies saying slower economic growth
is hurting demand for their services. The world’s biggest cargo
airline operator this week projected its first earnings decline
since 2009 for the three-month period that ended Aug. 31.  “Weakness in the global economy constrained revenue growth
at FedEx Express more than expected in the earlier guidance,”
the company said in a Sept. 4 statement. Express packages
provide most of FedEx’s sales, and the Memphis-based shipper is
considered an economic bellwether because it moves goods ranging
from financial documents to pharmaceuticals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  