-- Sharp Falls After Moody’s Lowers Short-Term Ratings: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-06T01:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/sharp-falls-after-moody-s-lowers-short-term-ratings-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese
electronics maker renegotiating a stake sale to Foxconn
Technology Group, fell in Tokyo trading after Moody’s Investors
Service lowered its short-term  credit ratings  and the company
put up properties as debt collateral.  Sharp fell as much as 7.2 percent to 194 yen and traded at
196 yen as of 9:57 a.m., extending its decline this year to 71
percent. The shares are the biggest percentage loser this year
on the  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index. (MXAP)   Moody’s cut Sharp’s short-term ratings to Not-Prime from
Prime-3, the ratings company said in a statement yesterday,
citing a high level of short-term debt and weak operating
performance. The electronics maker, seeking to raise cash after
widening its loss forecast eightfold last month, mortgaged
properties including its Osaka headquarters and a plant in
Japan’s Mie prefecture, it said today.  “Sharp’s liquidity profile is under pressure,” Moody’s
said in yesterday’s statement. The new debt rating “also
considers its intense competitive pressures and the weak market
conditions for some of the company’s key products.”  The electronics maker put up properties as collateral as it
sought as much as 150 billion yen ($1.9 billion) in loans from
Japan’s Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd.,  Miyuki Nakayama , a spokeswoman for Sharp, said by
phone today. The Asahi newspaper reported the news earlier.  S&P Rating  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its long-term rating on Sharp
last week by two levels to BB+, the highest non-investment
grade, saying it suffers from weak  cash flow  and deteriorating
market conditions. It kept Sharp on a negative ratings watch.  S&P also cut Sharp’s short-term rating to B, the highest
non-investment grade.  Sharp, which widened the full-year loss projection to 250
billion yen, is seeking to raise cash and cut costs as 706
billion yen of its bonds, commercial paper and borrowings mature
within a year. Foxconn’s billionaire founder Terry Gou ended a
visit to  Japan  last week without announcing the conclusion of a
deal to invest in Sharp, which is cutting 5,000 jobs after a
stronger Japanese currency and slumping global TV demand led to
a record loss last fiscal year.  Foxconn Group, through its two Taipei-listed units, Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., the world’s largest contract
manufacturer of electronics, and Foxconn Technology Co., a maker
of computer cases, agreed in March to buy 9.9 percent of Sharp
for 67 billion yen in a sale of new shares.  Shares Tumble  Sharp has  tumbled  since Foxconn proposed paying 550 yen a
share in March, prompting the renegotiations. Foxconn Group
plans to proceed with its investment “at the most appropriate
time and most appropriate price” because it’s looking at
Sharp’s long-term prospects, Gou said Aug. 5.  Hon Hai, maker of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone, is Sharp’s
largest  supplier , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharp said last month it may sell stock holdings if Foxconn
invests less money than it said in March. Sharp cut its stake in
 Pioneer Corp. (6773)  to 9.2 percent from 14.28 percent and pledged 15
million Pioneer shares each to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. as collateral, the panel maker
said in a Sept. 3 filing to Japan’s  Finance Ministry .  “Sharp is taking action to bolster its financial
performance and generate cash,” Moody’s said in its statement.
“However, these measures will take time to execute and cash
outlays for the restructuring measures will add to its near-term
liquidity needs.”  A near-term upgrade of Sharp’s rating is unlikely, Moody’s
said, “since any successful recovery effort will take many
quarters to execute.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  