-- Sinopec, Nabors to Replace YPF Frankenstein Rigs, Official Says
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-09-06T16:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/sinopec-nabors-to-replace-ypf-frankenstein-rigs-official-says.html
YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s biggest energy
company, signed contracts with oil services providers including
 Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR)  and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  to
rent 14 drilling rigs for its shale exploration program, a YPF
official briefed on the matter said.  The contracts, awarded through private auctions, will
increase the number of rigs used by the Buenos Aires-based
company by 47 percent from the first half of 2012, the YPF
official said.  Starting next year, YPF will add 10 more rigs annually to
reach the 1,200-well a year target pledged by Chief Executive
Officer Miguel Galuccio in the company’s five-year business plan
on Aug. 30, the official said. Galuccio also introduced a $37.2
billion investment plan until 2017 seeking to boost oil and gas
output by 29 and 23 percent, respectively.  YPF should accelerate plans to rent additional rigs so the
company can stop using outdated, inefficient rigs from the
1970s, known internally as Frankensteins, the YPF official said.  The one- to three-year rental accords will cost an average
$10 million a rig each year, he said. YPF will invest $70
million in the second half of 2012 to rent the equipment in
addition to $150 million for its 30 existing rigs, he said.  YPF will offer incentives to oil services companies to
produce rigs in  Argentina , the official said, declining to
elaborate.  “Each drilling rig cost between $18-20 million, so, if we
will need 50, it makes sense,” he said.  Cost Reductions  YPF will be able to reduce well costs that average 60
percent more than U.S. expenses with better equipment, the
official said.  Besides Nabors, the world’s largest land-rig drilling
contractor, and China’s Sinopec, the other companies that signed
contracts for the 14 rigs are Italy’s Trevi Group SpA,  Estrella
International Energy Services Ltd. (EEN) , Venver SA, Emepa SA,
 Lupatech SA (LUPA3) ’s  San Antonio  Internacional Ltda., and DLS Drilling
Logistics and Services Corp., the YPF official said.  “We do not comment on any customer matters unless
initiated or approved by the customer as a matter of policy,”
Denny Smith, a Nabors spokesman, said in an e-mailed response
from Houston.  Sinopec, Trevi  Sinopec signed two contracts, according to the YPF
official. One of the rigs is working in the Vaca Muerta shale
formation in Argentina’s Neuquen province and the other is
scheduled to arrive from  China  next month, the official said.
Trevi will send three rigs in March 2013, he said.  Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a spokesman for YPF in Buenos Aires,
didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls or an e-mail. A
Sinopec official in Argentina declined to comment. Trevi-
Petreven Argentina President Ruben Moleon didn’t respond to
telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  The Vaca Muerta region in southern Argentina is estimated
to hold at least 23 billion barrels of oil in resources,
according to a survey by Ryder Scott.  Estrella Vice President Luis Aviles didn’t respond to a
telephone call or e-mail. Emepa spokesman Marcos Aguilera didn’t
reply to telephone calls or e-mails. Venver General Manager
Cristina Ojeda didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  DLS, a part of  Archer Ltd. (ARCHER) , the Norwegian oilfield services
provider based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , didn’t respond to telephone
calls and e-mails seeking comment. San Antonio didn’t respond to
e-mails and telephone calls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  