-- Solyndra Wins Preliminary Approval of Ex-Workers’ Accord
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-09-06T20:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/solyndra-wins-preliminary-approval-of-ex-workers-accord.html
Solyndra LLC, the failed solar-panel
maker, won preliminary court approval of a $3.5 million
settlement with former workers on the anniversary of its
bankruptcy filing.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath granted tentative
approval of the settlement and set a hearing for Oct. 17 to
consider making the ruling final, according to court documents
filed today in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Former employees sued Solyndra, which received a
$535 million U.S. Energy Department loan guarantee before
collapsing, arguing they didn’t get adequate notice when the
company fired almost its entire workforce last year.  The settlement resolves allegations that Solyndra violated
the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, which
requires 60 days’ notice of firings, and sets up a $3.5 million
fund that will be distributed to the workers two weeks after the
accord takes effect.  The settlement was jointly proposed by the ex-employees and
Solyndra, which faced as much as $15 million in damages plus
attorney’s fees if the workers succeeded, according to court
documents. Employees who were fired can opt out of the
settlement.  FBI Raid  Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , was raided by the
U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation two days after seeking
 bankruptcy protection . The company listed about $854.1 million
in assets and about $867.1 million in debt in court papers filed
Oct. 31.  The solar-panel maker’s collapse prompted congressional
scrutiny of President  Barack Obama , who praised the company
during a May 2010 tour of its facilities. It was the first
company to receive a loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington). The workers’ case is
Kohlstadt v. Solyndra LLC, 11-53155, also in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  