-- Sony Mobile Customers’ Data in China, Taiwan Disclosed by Hacker
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-06T04:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/sony-mobile-customers-data-in-china-taiwan-disclosed-by-hacker.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  is investigating a hacker
attack that exposed information on about 400 customers of the
company’s mobile-phone business in China and Taiwan.  About 400 user names, matched with e-mail addresses, were
disclosed online by a hacker group,  George Boyd , a Tokyo-based
spokesman for Sony, said today, declining to elaborate further.
The Japanese electronics maker believes the data was obtained
from a third-party service provider, Boyd said. No credit-card
or bank-account data was compromised, he said.  The attack comes more than a year after Sony’s PlayStation
Network services suffered a bigger data breach at a  data center 
in San Diego. That incident compromised more than 100 million
customer accounts and prompted Tokyo-based Sony to suspend
online entertainment services for more than two months.  Shares of Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, fell 0.7 percent to 857 yen as of 1:12 p.m. in
Tokyo, extending their loss this year to 38 percent.  A group believed to have links with the hacker collective
known as Anonymous issued a statement saying it stole customer
information from Sony’s mobile-phone unit, the Nikkei newspaper
said earlier today.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation
yesterday denied claims by hackers who said they stole
information about 12 million Apple user accounts from an FBI
computer. Cupertino, California-based Apple also said it didn’t
provide any user information to the FBI or other organizations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 