-- Sparx Enters Renewable Business Building Mega-Solar Power Plant
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-09-06T06:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/sparx-enters-renewable-business-building-mega-solar-power-plant.html
Sparx Group Co. (8739)  will build a mega-
solar power plant in southern Japan as it expands beyond  fund
management  to meet rising demand for renewable energy after the
March 2011 nuclear disaster.  Sparx, with 449 billion yen ($5.7 billion) of assets,
signed an agreement with a town in Kumamoto prefecture, in the
southern Kyushu island, and  Coretech Co. , a Tokyo-based company
providing alternative energy consulting business, today to build
the plant, said Sparx Chief Executive Officer Shuhei Abe. The
cost to build the plant, expected to start operating in October
2013, will be about 2.8 billion yen, Abe said.  Sparx is expanding into the alternative energy business as
Abe tries to bring his company back to  profitability  by widening
offerings beyond equity-related products. The Tokyo-based asset
manager in June won a contract from the  Tokyo Metropolitan
Government  to start an infrastructure fund that will invest in
the nation’s renewable energy industry.  “This marks our first real investment into the renewable
business and that is a significant step for us,” Abe said in an
interview. “It is part of our overall effort to expand into the
industry following the mandate from the Tokyo government.”  Japan  introduced  a so-called feed-in-tariff on July 1 under
which solar power providers earn 42 yen a kilowatt-hour for the
electricity they produce, three times the 13.65 yen charged to
industrial and commercial users. The preferential rate for
commercial and utility-scale solar power lasts for 20 years.  Tokyo Mandate  The plant, on about 9.5 hectares (23.5 acres) and
generating 8,000 kilowatts, will be managed by a unit of Sparx
dedicated to renewable businesses and will target about 8
percent to 10 percent return for investors, Abe said. Japanese
households use an average 3 kilowatts of electricity, according
to Tokyo Electric Power Co.  The fund run under Tokyo government’s mandate may
eventually invest in the plant if the investment is deemed
justifiable, he said. The Tokyo government’s infrastructure fund
is currently preparing to raise money and is planning to start
in late November, Abe said.  The Tokyo city government  sought  companies able to manage a
public-private infrastructure fund dedicated to investing in the
country’s power-supply business amid  Japan ’s efforts to cut
dependence on atomic energy that provided about 30 percent of
the nation’s power before the Fukushima nuclear meltdown in
March 2011 following a tsunami triggered by an earthquake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  