-- Sports Franchise Values May Not Continue Growing, Hindery Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-06T21:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/sports-franchise-values-may-not-continue-growing-hindery-says.html
 The record $2.3 billion sale of the
 Los Angeles Dodgers , buoyed by a projected windfall from the
sale of its broadcast rights, doesn’t necessarily mean the value
of professional sports franchises will continue to rise,
according to Leo Hindery Jr., who helped establish the Yankees
Entertainment & Sports Network.  The belief that professional sports franchise values will
continue to increase because of expanding media opportunities is
a “fallacy,” Hindery, managing partner at  InterMedia Partners
LP , said at the  Bloomberg Sports Business Summit  hosted by
 Bloomberg Link  in  New York .  Hindery said that valuation of new media opportunities is
difficult to project because there’s little historical data for
comparison, and television can’t sustain the current growth.  “It’s that assumption of perpetual ups in traditional
media that’s a fallacy,” Hindery said. “It can’t be proven to
be true.”  Hindery was part of a group bidding on  Major League
Baseball ’s Dodgers, who were sold in March in a bankruptcy
auction to a group including basketball Hall of Fame player
 Magic Johnson  and Guggenheim Partners executive  Mark Walter . The
team’s existing broadcast contract with News Corp.’s Fox expires
after next season, with many sports economists, including  Smith
College ’s  Andrew Zimbalist , predicting a heated bidding war
between multiple companies.  MLB Record  The previous record price for an MLB team was the $845
million that  Joe Ricketts , founder of TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp., paid for the Chicago Cubs three years ago.  The record Dodgers sale sparked speculation that the value
of other franchises will increase. The value of the 27-time
World Series-champion New York Yankees rose to an MLB-high $2.85
billion after the Dodgers sale, according to March estimates by
 Tony Wible , a Philadelphia-based analyst who covers media
companies for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  Hindery said that when analyzing the Dodgers’ value as part
of Colony Capital Chairman  Tom Barrack ’s bid group, he was
constantly thinking about how long the “gravy train” would
last.  “Because if it doesn’t last, if there is some regulatory,
economic, or technological intervention in the traditional
models, you better be quick on your feet,” Hindery said.  Media Contract  The basis of franchise valuation begins with analysis of
the team’s media contract, the status of its facilities and
whether it will require a pricey management overhaul, according
to Rob Tilliss, chief executive and managing partner of  Inner
Circle Sports LLC . Inner Circle Sports is a New York firm that
represents buyers and sellers of pro teams.  An owner who purchases a franchise in a 32-team league,
such as the NFL, is effectively buying a 3.3 percent stake in
the league,, according to Joseph Ravitch, the co-founder and
partner of the  Raine Group LLC .  “The NFL pays its teams $100 million a year,” he said at
the Sports Business Summit. “If you spun that out for a very
long time and simply did a dividend discount model, you might
argue that the present value of that dividend steam is worth
more than the reported value of some NFL teams.”  NBA China  The NBA pays teams $25 million a year, Ravitch said, the
excess  cash flow  from its international licensing, marketing and
media deals. If the league were to go public with  NBA China ,
which it formed in 2008 by bringing in outside equity investors,
it would create a large windfall for owners.  “If you look at the potential for a lot of these leagues,
whether it’s hockey, whether it’s basketball, baseball, to go
global and to create new businesses on a global basis, I think
there’s room for substantial value creation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  