-- Stern Sees Nets’ Revenue in NBA’s Top Five With Move to Brooklyn
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-06T17:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/stern-sees-nets-revenue-in-nba-s-top-five-with-move-to-brooklyn.html
The National Basketball Association
Commissioner  David Stern  said the Brooklyn Nets may jump into
the league’s five highest revenue teams in the franchise’s first
season in the Barclays Center.  Speaking at the  Bloomberg Sports Business Summit  hosted by
 Bloomberg Link  in  New York , Stern also stressed the league’s
desire to increase its brand in India, the world’s second most-
populous country. Those inroads include a Hindi-English website,
television agreements, tournaments and possibly a league that
bears the NBA name.  The Nets’ revenue should improve from “pretty bad” during
their last season in  Newark ,  New Jersey , to one of the league’s
top five or six, according to Stern.  “The Nets have these wonderful tent-pole sponsorships,
they’re doing spectacularly in their season-ticket sales and
they have retained a team that, in reading about it, looks like
they’re going to compete,” he said.  The team’s new arena, part of a $4.9 billion, 22-acre
project next to Brooklyn’s main public-transportation hub, opens
for basketball next month. This offseason, the Nets acquired
six-time All-Star  Joe Johnson  and brought back point guard and
Brooklyn native  Deron Williams , a three-time All-Star.  Team ownership, led by Russian billionaire  Mikhail
Prokhorov , also redesigned the logo, further distancing itself
from the team’s 35 years in New Jersey, where it lost almost 500
games more than it won.  Value Up  The Nets may generate revenue of $140 million and turn a
profit of as much as to $15 million, the New York Post reported
last month citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the
matter. The team is now worth $575 million, 60 percent more than
its  $357 million valuation  last season in Forbes Magazine’s
annual rankings, the newspaper said.  “Before, we had to have brochures and video of, ‘This is
what it’s going to be when we’re in Brooklyn,’” Nets General
Manager Billy King said in July. “Now we can take them there.
It’s a reality now, and I think it’s going to be great for the
people of  Brooklyn  and our fan base. It’s going to be great for
our players to be part of something special.”  NBA Growth  The Nets’ projected revenue and value increase is part of
the NBA’s total growth, Stern said. More than 20 of the league’s
30 teams will be profitable in the coming year, according to
Stern, the NBA’s first full season under a 10-year collective
bargaining agreement signed in November. The league reported
annual losses of $300 million before the new labor accord, and
Stern had said that half the teams lost money.  Stern said there are now at least 10 cities that have
expressed interest in hosting a team and over a dozen “high net
worth” prospective owners, whose interest will further increase
franchise values. He didn’t identify the cities or people
involved.  “I’m not looking at a lot of movement, but I am looking at
a lot of price increases simply because when someone offers you
a very high price for your asset, you have to decide whether
you’re in it to pass it to your family or if it’s an asset that
you may love but may not love enough to turn down a very high
offer,” he said.  Some owners have objected to the NBA’s overseas
investments, including a heavy focus on  China  and  India , because
there isn’t always a high return, Stern said. The league made
its first deal in China in 1988, sharing a portion of
advertising revenue in return for games being broadcast on the
country’s CCTV.  Investment Focus  “We can deliver more dollars, but frankly my view has been
that if there’s one area you should be investing in heavily is
international and digital,” Stern said.  The NBA has games broadcast on India’s television networks,
including Taj TV’s Ten Sports, in addition to an office in
Mumbai and five permanent employees in the country. The Hindi
website comes from the model of webpages the league has in China
with Sina.com and Tencent.com, according to Stern.  The league is also sponsoring events in India, which has a
population of over 1.2 billion, second only to China. It
sponsors the  Mahindra NBA Challenge , a grassroots clinic that
started last year, and is scheduling a four-city tournament
presented by  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s Sprite brand, which will include
more than 100 teams in Delhi, Hyderabad, Chennai and Mumbai.  The NBA and IMG Worldwide Inc. have been in talks about
creating a league in India,  Bloomberg News  reported this year
citing two people with knowledge of the discussions.  “Frankly we don’t think the market is quite ready for a
full-blown league,” Stern said today. “We’re more anxious in
building up the other aspects of our business, our marketing
partnerships, our merchandise, our television and our events.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  