-- Structured Note Sales Climb 48% Led by Interest-Rate Securities
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-09-06T15:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/structured-note-sales-climb-48-led-by-interest-rate-securities.html
Sales of structured notes in the
U.S. rose 48 percent in August, led by a doubling of issuance of
securities tied to interest rates, as investors look for
alternatives to Treasuries paying close to historic lows.  Interest-rate  securities accounted for $782.9 million of
structured notes sold in August, or 23 percent of the total
$3.46 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with $325.8 million in July and was the highest
percentage of the overall since August of 2011.  The  Federal Reserve  has said since January that it plans to
hold its benchmark borrowing costs “exceptionally low” through
at least late 2014, and four Fed presidents have come out in
favor of an open-ended strategy for bond buying. With short-term
rates being held between zero and 0.25 percent, investors bought
$323.4 million of structured notes last month where coupons
increase over the life of the security to as much as 9 percent.  “This is where structured notes can really add value,
because if you look at traditional Treasuries or corporate
bonds, you’re probably not going to get the yield that investors
are looking for,” said Serge Troyanovsky, head of North
American structured product sales at BNP Paribas SA in  New York .  Royal Bank of Canada, General Electric Co. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. had their largest offerings of the year in
August and together sold more than one-quarter of all notes in
the U.S. for the month. All three deals were either so-called
callable step-ups, where coupons rise at set intervals, or
fixed-to-floating notes tied to the London interbank offered
rate, or Libor.  Goldman Sells Step-Ups  Goldman Sachs issued the biggest step-up last month,
selling $105 million of 15-year bonds on Aug. 23. The notes
yield 4 percent annually for the first six years, then rise four
times to end at 8 percent for the last year, unless redeemed
early, according to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The securities were distributed by
Incapital LLC for a 3.34 percent commission.  RBC’s sale of $200 million of three-year, fixed-to-floating
rate notes on Aug. 22 was the year’s largest deal tied to
interest rates. The securities yield 0.935 percent interest for
the first year, then pay 0.43 percent more than three-month
Libor with a minimum yearly coupon of 0.55 percent, according to
a prospectus filed with the SEC.  None of last month’s offerings were so-called steepener or
flattener notes, which typically bet on changes in the yield
curve for U.S. Treasuries. That signaled that investors were
simply looking for more gains on their investments, instead of
taking a position on how short- and long-term rates will move,
said  Guy Lebas , chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  Record Low  The U.S. central bank has held its benchmark interest rate
at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The 10-year
Treasury bond yielded 1.60 percent yesterday, up from its record
low of 1.39 percent on July 24.  Fed presidents  James Bullard ,  John Williams ,  Charles Evans 
and  Eric Rosengren  have endorsed open-ended bond buying to push
down an  unemployment rate  that’s been above 8 percent for more
than three years.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  