-- U.K. Stocks Rise as ECB Agrees on Unlimited Bond Buying
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-06T16:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/u-k-stocks-rise-as-ecb-s-agrees-on-unlimited-bond-buying.html
U.K. stocks  surged the most in month
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
policymakers agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program to
help regain control of interest rates in the euro area.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  led
banks and mining companies higher, rising more than 5 percent
each.  Whitbread Plc (WTB)  jumped 5.3 percent after the owner of
Premier Inn budget hotels reported higher sales. William
Morrison Supermarkets Plc added 4.3 percent after the
supermarket chain’s earnings beat analyst estimates.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  surged 119.48 points, or 2.1 percent, to
5,777.34 at the close in London, its biggest gain since Aug. 3.
The gauge has climbed 9.8 percent from its 2012 low on June 1,
boosted by expectations that central banks will do more to
support growth. The broader FTSE All-Share Index advanced 2.1
percent while Ireland’s ISEQ Index jumped 1.7 percent.  “The markets clearly liked what Mario Draghi had to say as
he has effectively placed the central bank in the position of
being the lender of last resort,” said  Angus Campbell , head of
market analysis at Capital Spreads in London. “The big question
is will it be enough to draw a line under the crisis.”  Draghi said at a press conference in Frankfurt that the
central bank will have a “fully effective backstop to avoid
destructive scenarios with potentially severe challenges for
price stability in the euro area.”  The program “will enable us to address severe distortions
in government bond markets which originate from, in particular,
unfounded fears on the part of investors of the reversibility of
the euro,” he said after the ECB held its benchmark rate at a
record low of 0.75 percent, as predicted by economists.  The Bank of England also today kept its bond-purchase
target at 375 billion pounds ($596 billion), as forecast by the
majority of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Banks, Miners  Lloyds paced a rally in European banks as bond yields
declined in Italy, Ireland and Spain. The U.K.’s second-biggest
government-aided bank jumped 6.7 percent to 36.2 pence.  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  increased 6.1 percent to 193.05 pence and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  advanced 4.8 percent to 233.5 pence.  Mining companies climbed, sending a  gauge of metal
producers  up 4.1 percent. Vedanta Resources jumped 5.8 percent
to 928 pence,  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  rallied 5.6 percent to 1,157 pence
and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  rose 4.7 percent to 979 pence.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. today said Chinese commodity
demand is set to rebound into the final quarter as the world’s
largest user of energy and metals will see more infrastructure
projects and construction.  Lonmin Talks  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  jumped 7.3 percent to 568 pence after the
platinum producer, whose main mine has been shut since Aug. 10
because of a violent strike that led to the death of 44 people,
agreed with three labor unions to reopen wage talks.  The company signed an agreement with the National Union of
Mineworkers, the United Association of  South Africa  and the
Solidarity labor union. The Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union has yet to sign.  Under the agreement, the miners will return to work at the
operation, which accounts for a 10th of global platinum output,
by 7 a.m. local time on Sept. 10.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  climbed 5.3 percent to 6,795 pence
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded the gold producer to
overweight from neutral, the equivalent of a buy recommendation.  Whitbread Rises  Whitbread gained 5.3 percent to 2,210 pence after the
company reported a 4.3 percent increase in like-for-like sales
in the 24 weeks to Aug. 26, while total sales climbed 14.3
percent.  “We remain on track to deliver our ambitious growth
programme, with our strong brands winning market share,” said
Chief Executive Officer Andy Harrison in a statement.  Morrison climbed 4.3 percent to 292.7 pence after the
smallest of the four main U.K. supermarket chains reported that
first-half underlying pretax profit rose 0.7 percent to 445
million pounds, topping the median analyst estimate of 431.5
million-pounds.  The retailer also announced plans to open  convenience
stores  in London and sell wine online to boost profit growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  