-- U.K. House Prices Fall for Second Month as Market Treads Water
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-06T07:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/u-k-house-prices-fall-for-second-month-as-market-treads-water.html
U.K.  house prices  fell for a second
month in August and will probably remain little changed into
2013, according to Halifax.  Values fell 0.4 percent from the previous month to an
average 160,256 pounds ($255,000), the mortgage unit of  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said in a statement in  London  today. From a
year earlier, values were down 1.1 percent.  “ House prices  continue to tread water, as measured by the
underlying trend,” Halifax economist  Martin Ellis  said. “A
gradual upward trend in spending power, aided by lower
inflation, should help to support housing demand in the coming
months. Nonetheless, house prices are likely to remain flat over
the remainder of 2012 and into next year.”  Britain’s property market remains under pressure as the
economy struggles to recover from a recession and the euro-area
debt crisis drags on, undermining confidence and pushing up
lending costs. The  Bank of England , which is due to complete a
50 billion-pound round of  bond purchases  in November, will
probably keep its target for stimulus unchanged today.  Over the past year, house prices have declined in seven
months and increased in five, based on Halifax data. In the
three months through August, prices were 0.3 percent lower
compared with the preceding three months, and were down 0.9
percent down on the same period in 2011.  Property website operator Rightmove Plc said last month
that U.K. home sellers cut  asking prices  by a record for the
month of August after the London  Olympic Games  and an uncertain
economic outlook distracted potential buyers. Average asking
prices in  England  and  Wales  fell 2.4 percent from July, when
values declined 1.7 percent, it said.  The Bank of England will maintain its bond-purchase target
at 375 billion pounds today, according to 38 out of 39
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Policy makers will also
leave their benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent,
all 51 economists said in a separate poll. The decisions will be
announced at noon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  