-- U.S. Probing Claim That Romney’s Tax Returns Were Stolen
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/u-s-probing-claim-that-romney-s-tax-returns-were-stolen.html
The U.S. Secret Service is
investigating reports that  Mitt Romney ’s tax returns have been
stolen from an accounting firm and are being held for ransom.  Federal officials are probing a claim by an anonymous group
that it broke into a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP office in
Nashville, Tennessee, and stole copies of the Republican
presidential nominee’s tax returns.  “We are working closely with the United States Secret
Service, and at this time there is no evidence that our systems
have been compromised or that there was any unauthorized access
to the data in question,” Caroline Nolan, a spokeswoman for
PwC, said yesterday in a statement.  George Ogilvie, a spokesman for the Secret Service,
confirmed the agency is investigating the reports and declined
to comment further.  The anonymous group sent a letter to Romney’s accounting
firm and political offices in  Tennessee  demanding $1 million in
Bitcoins, a type of Internet currency, to prevent the disclosure
of the candidate’s tax returns. Romney’s tax returns have become
an issue in the presidential campaign as Democrats pushed the
former Massachusetts governor to release more than the two years
he has promised.  The anonymous group said it gained access to PwC’s network
file servers at one of the company’s Tennessee offices and
copied Romney’s tax documents. News organizations would be sent
“an encrypted copy of the most recent tax years that your
company had on file since you did not have them all in a
convenient electronic form,” the group said in a copy of the
letter posted online.  “If the parties interested do not want the encrypted key
released to the public to unlock these documents on September 28
of this year then payment will be necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  