-- U.S. Urges Angola to Probe Election Complaints After MPLA Win
-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-09-06T14:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/u-s-urges-angola-to-probe-election-complaints-after-mpla-win.html
Angola , Africa’s second-largest oil
producer, should investigate opposition complaints following the
Aug. 31 elections won by the ruling party of President Jose Eduardo dos Santos, the U.S. State Department said.  “We urge the Angolan authorities to investigate and
address promptly all electoral complaints, while working to
augment political rights and civil liberties,” Patrick Ventrell, an acting spokesman for the department, said in a
 statement  on its website yesterday.  Angolan civil society and opposition parties raised
concerns about media access, voter rolls, and lack of timely
accreditation of domestic, international, and political party
election observers, Ventrell said. The opposition National Union
for the Total Independence of Angola has said it’s considering
whether to challenge the results in the  Constitutional Court .  The vote is the second since a 27-year civil war ended in
2002. Angola pumps about 1.8 million barrels of crude a day,
supplying 2.9 percent of U.S. imported oil in May and 16 percent
of China’s purchases in July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Oil producers operating in the country include  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA. (FP)   The U.S. statement “is all part of democracy and free
speech that people can say what they want to say,” Julia
Ferreira, a spokeswoman for the national election commission,
said by phone in Luanda.  Election Observers  The Open Society Initiative of Southern Africa, a pro-
democracy group funded by  George Soros , and the Luanda-based
Association of Justice Peace and Democracy have said the
election wasn’t fair. While observer missions led by the Africa
Union, the Community of Portuguese Language Countries and the
Southern Africa Development Community raised the same concerns
as the U.S. in statements this week, they all said the results
were credible.  With about 98 percent of the votes counted, the  Popular
Movement  for the Liberation of Angola leads with 72 percent of
votes, extending Dos Santos’s 33-year rule by five years.  Unita won 19 percent and Casa-Ce, a new party formed this
year by a former senior Unita leader, Abel Chivukuvuku, got 6
percent. Final results are due by Sept. 8, the chairman of the
election commission said today.  Unita, Casa-Ce and two other parties haven’t formally
accepted the results and are conducting their own counts using
poll documents because of concern over the number of registered
voters and those who voted, the parties said in separate
statements this week. About 40 percent of registered voters
didn’t cast ballots, according to the election commission.  Former colonial ruler Portugal as well as China and Russia
have congratulated  Dos Santos  on the victory, according to
state-run radio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net 
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  