-- Health System in U.S. Plagued by $765 Billion in Waste
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-09-06T15:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/u-s-health-system-must-be-re-engineered-iom-panel-says.html
The U.S. health-care system is
plagued by about $765 billion in annual waste and needs stronger
government leadership to coordinate practices as the Affordable
Care Act increases burdens on caregivers, federal advisers said.  Fully adopting electronic medical records, ushering drug
discoveries into use faster and improving physician training are
needed most, an  Institute of Medicine  advisory panel said in a
report today. The report recommends the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services develop a program to improve learning for
doctors and to disseminate ideas for improvement.  “In some ways the system is the best the world has seen,
but it could be a lot better for less money,” said  Mark Smith ,
chief executive officer of the California HealthCare Foundation
in Oakland and IOM panel chairman. “We’re wasting a fair amount
of money and we’re wasting opportunities to improve care.”  Republicans have squabbled with President  Barack Obama  over
whether his 2010 health-care overhaul can trim medical spending
while adding 30 million people to insurance rolls. Government
data show spending on hospital visits, medications and other
care outpaced  real gross domestic product  last year by 2-to-1,
and consumed about 17.9 percent of the economy. Costs are
projected to jump 7.4 percent in 2014, when much of the
insurance expansion created by the Affordable Care Act begins.  60 Provisions  The Institute of Medicine, known for generating peer-
reviewed reports that serve as fodder for debates on issues such
as medical errors and vaccines, cited more than 60 provisions in
the health law that may help improve health care, including
incentives for doctors and hospitals to coordinate services.
Where the government falls short, then hospitals, employers and
insurers must step up, the panel said.  Hospitals can help by better analyzing their patient flow
and adjusting doctors’ schedules to reduce crowding on weekdays,
Smith said. Such jams often lead to ambulances diverting from
the closest hospitals, delaying care. Forcing surgeons to
schedule elective operations on Sundays can free up space during
the week for emergencies, he said.  “Here we are sending patients further than they need to
go, building operating rooms that we don’t need with an average
occupancy rate of 65 percent in this country, and yet when we
need them the beds are overcrowded,” Smith said in a telephone
interview. “That’s a problem we know how to solve.”  Drug Discoveries  The government and Congress also are in some instances
hindering better care as the adoption of new medical and drug
discoveries is “maddeningly slow,” the panel said. It took
more than a decade after the discovery that a bacterium called
Group B Streptococcus can infect and kill newborns before
hospitals began to routinely screen pregnant women for the germ,
said Gail Cassell, a retired vice president for scientific
affairs at  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  who sat on the IOM panel.  The  Food and Drug Administration  could play a more
prominent role in “translating knowledge into practice” if
Congress gave it adequate funding, she said in a telephone
interview. The agency’s budget, other than user fees it collects
from drug companies to review their products, hasn’t seen a
“significant increase” in five years, she said.  The Institute of Medicine, a branch of the  National Academy
of Sciences  that provides the government with nonbinding
recommendations on health-care policy, has issued a pair of
reports in the past 14 months that helped advance the Obama
administration’s health policies.  Financial Waste  One report urged the administration in July 2011 to require
insurers to cover birth control pills and devices at no cost to
consumers, a recommendation enacted 13 days later. Another panel
said in October that health plans regulated by the Affordable
Care Act shouldn’t be required to offer more benefits than
typical small business plans, advice Obama also followed.  The report today was less definitive in its
recommendations, primarily calling for better training and
sharing of information. The panel compiled past estimates of
health-care waste, including $210 billion a year in unnecessary
treatments, $190 million in excessive administrative costs and
$75 million lost to fraud.  Some of this waste can be combated if the government,
private insurers and employers forced health-care providers to
more rapidly ditch their reliance on paper records that lead to
duplicative care and mistakes, said Helen Darling, the president
and CEO of the National Business Group on Health in  Washington 
and a member of the IOM panel. Advances in computing should
enable hospitals and doctors to work closer together and analyze
clinical data to improve care, the panel said.  “Every tiny step in the health-care process is flawed in
one way or another and it’s very wasteful, very costful,” said
Darling, whose group represents large employers that offer
health benefits to workers. “Employers should say they don’t
want to deal with hospitals and physician practices that don’t
have electronic medical records.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  