-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall as ECB Says Bond Buys Unlimited
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-09-06T22:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/u-s-company-credit-swaps-fall-as-ecb-says-bond-buys-unlimited.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
dropped to the lowest level since May after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the bank will make unlimited
bond purchases.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 5.7 basis points to a mid-price of
94.9 basis points at 5:32 p.m. in New York, the lowest level
since May 2, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the biggest one-day decrease since July 27.  The swaps measure fell as the ECB chief said policy makers
agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program as they try to
regain control of  interest rates  in the euro area, reassuring
investors that leaders are working to stem damage from the
fiscal crisis. Steps to curb the region’s debt-market upheaval
may reduce concern that the turmoil will infect bank balance
sheets globally.  “We will have a fully effective backstop to avoid
destructive scenarios with potentially severe challenges for
 price stability ,” Draghi said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt  today.  Purchases will be fully sterilized, meaning that the
overall impact on the  money supply  will be neutral, he said.  “He’s telling the market, ‘we’re going to start up the
printing press,”’ said Bonnie Baha, head of global developed
credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which
oversees $40 billion. “Investors have just adopted this
cavalier attitude that maybe if ECB officials talk enough the
situation will just resolve itself.”  ‘Printing Press’  In the U.S., a report showed fewer Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week. Labor
Department figures showed  jobless claims  decreased by 12,000 to
365,000 in the week ended Sept. 1. That eased investor concern
that the labor market may weaken in the second half, damping the
economic recovery.  The credit swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, declined 0.13 basis point to 16.5
basis points. The measure, which falls when investors favor
assets such as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the
perceived safety of  government securities , has eased from 54.7
basis points in November.  Morgan Stanley  The cost to protect Morgan Stanley’s debt for five years
dropped to the lowest since February. Credit swaps on the
company’s debt fell 33 basis points to 272.5 basis points as of
4:30 p.m. New York time, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit swaps tied to H&R Block Inc.’s financial unit
dropped after the biggest U.S. tax preparer’s  net loss  narrowed
last quarter to $107.4 million, from $175.1 million a year
earlier. Contracts linked to debt issued by Block Financial LLC
dropped 47 basis points to 308.3, CMA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  