-- U.S. East, Gulf Coast Ports to Resume Talks to Avoid Strike
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-09-06T18:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/u-s-east-gulf-coast-ports-to-resume-talks-to-avoid-strike.html
Contract negotiations covering
workers at 14 U.S. East Coast and Gulf Coast ports will resume
the week of Sept. 17 with federal mediators in an attempt to
prevent a walkout that would disrupt holiday shipping.  The International Longshoremen’s Association and the U.S.
Maritime Alliance will hold talks under the authority of the
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service,  John Arnold , a
spokesman for the agency, said in a telephone interview today.
The location and content of the negotiations, which had broken
down Aug. 22 over wages and benefits, isn’t being disclosed.  “It’s good to see they’re back at the table and hopefully
can come to an agreement before trade gets disrupted,” David Vernon, a New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in a telephone interview. “As long as they’re at the table
and they’re working on it, that’s a positive.”  The two sides are faced with the Sept. 30 expiration of a
master contract that covers more than 14,500 jobs at ports that
according to the management group handled 95 percent of
container shipments last year in an area running from Maine to
 Texas . The union  said on Aug. 31  that it was “making
preparations” for a possible strike on Oct. 1.  The two sides began negotiations in late March and reached
tentative agreements in July on issues involving new technology
and union jurisdiction over work on chassis used for intermodal
cargo containers that can move by sea, rail or truck. Such
containers are often used to transport  consumer goods .  The union and the port management group voluntarily agreed
to mediation, Arnold said. Mediators will assist “in
negotiations with the goal of helping them reach a mutually
acceptable agreement,” he said.  ‘Contingency Plans’  Groups such as the Retail Industry Leaders Association and
the  National Retail Federation   have urged  the two sides to
resume talks. The National Industrial Transportation League in
an Aug. 29 letter also asked U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray
LaHood to encourage the union and ports group to return to the
bargaining table.  “Many companies are making contingency plans, but clearly
even the best plans will be problematic in the event of a full-
scale shutdown at East and Gulf Coast ports,” Peter Gatti,
executive vice president of the league, said in a Sept. 4
telephone interview. “Even the potential shift of that freight
will put extraordinary demands on all modes of transportation,
particularly for rail.”  Norfolk Southern  About 60 percent of  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) ’s international
intermodal business comes through East Coast ports, said Robin Chapman, a spokesman for the Norfolk, Virginia-based railroad.
Norfolk Southern is developing contingency plans with each East
Coast port and is prepared to accommodate intermodal traffic
from either coast, he said.  The company isn’t able to forecast the effect of a strike
or lockout on its revenue or earnings, Chapman said.  Scott Group, an analyst in  New York  at Wolfe Trahan & Co.,
estimated in an Aug. 30 note to clients that Norfolk Southern
would lose $19.7 million in revenue in a one-week port strike
and $84.5 million should a shutdown last a month.  Railroads in the western U.S. and Canada such as Omaha,
Nebraska-based  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and  Warren Buffett ’s
 Burlington Northern (BRK/A)   Santa Fe  could gain business from freight
shifts to western ports, he said.  CSX Corp. (CSX) , based in
Jacksonville,  Florida , and Norfolk Southern might also see long-
haul business for cargo ultimately destined for the eastern
U.S., Group said.  Burlington Northern is “not aware of any significant
diversions of freight due to the uncertainty of the ILA
negotiations,” Krista York-Woolley, a spokeswoman for the Fort
Worth, Texas-based railroad, said in an e-mail. The railroad is
prepared to handle additional business, she said.  2002 Lockout  In 2002, U.S. West Coast ports closed for 10 days after the
Pacific Maritime Association locked out members of the
International Longshore and Warehouse union, who it said were
intentionally slowing down work.  President  George W. Bush  stepped in to halt that shutdown,
which cost the  U.S. economy  more than $1 billion a day by White
House estimates. Bush under federal labor law obtained a court
order in October 2002 to suspend the lockout, and the two sides
reached a tentative agreement the next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  