-- U.S. August ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-09-06T14:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/u-s-august-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  August 2012 Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business
NMI at 53.7%  Business Activity Index at 55.6%  New Orders Index at 53.7%  Employment Index at 53.8%  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in August
for the 32nd consecutive month, say the nation’s purchasing and
supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 53.7 percent in
August, 1.1 percentage points higher than the 52.6 percent
registered in July. This indicates continued growth this month
at a slighter faster rate in the non-manufacturing sector. The
Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered 55.6
percent, which is 1.6 percentage points lower than the 57.2
percent reported in July, reflecting growth for the 37th
consecutive month. The New Orders Index decreased by 0.6
percentage point to 53.7 percent. The Employment Index increased
by 4.5 percentage points to 53.8 percent, indicating growth in
employment after one month of contraction. The Prices Index
increased 9.4 percentage points to 64.3 percent, indicating
substantially higher month-over-month prices when compared to
July. According to the NMI, 10 non-manufacturing industries
reported growth in August. Respondents’ comments continue to be
mixed, and for the most part reflect uncertainty about business
conditions and the economy.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE
The 10 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in August -
- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Finance & Insurance; Accommodation & Food Services;
Utilities; Management of Companies & Support Services; Retail
Trade; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Transportation &
Warehousing; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and
Other Services. The five industries reporting contraction in
August are: Mining; Wholesale Trade; Information; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; and Health Care & Social Assistance.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING …
“Markets and customers we serve remain strong and have not
caused any adverse impact to our business.” (Management of
Companies & Support Services)
“Economy still stagnant. Small jobs keeping us going. Expect
some improvement in  capital spending  in fourth quarter.”
(Professional, Scientific & Technical Services)
“Small slowdown in tourism. Commodity prices on the rise.”
(Arts, Entertainment & Recreation)
“Budgets are tighter; there are fewer new purchases being
pursued that were not planned or budgeted.” (Finance &
Insurance)
“Overall conditions continue to be unpredictable. Sales are
inconsistent as customers reel to the news of the day, which
creates havoc on the supply chain to respond.“(Retail Trade)
“Customers appear to be refocusing their resources on internal
costs and efficiencies.” (Wholesale Trade)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price Air Freight; Airfares (8); Asphalt;
Carbon Steel Products; Corrugated Cartons; Dairy (2); #1 Diesel
Fuel; #2 Diesel Fuel; Fresh Beef* (2); Fuel (2); Gasoline (8);
Lumber -- Pine, Spruce and Treated; Oils; Plastic/Poly Bags*;
and Steel Products.  Commodities Down in Price Beef*; Cellular Equipment; Copper
Products; Laptop Computers; Network Supplies; and Plastic/Poly
Bags*.  Commodities in Short Supply There are no commodities reported in
short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item. *Reported as both up and down in
price.  --------------------------------------------------------------  AUGUST 2012 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI
In August, the NMI registered 53.7 percent, indicating continued
growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 32nd consecutive
month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  NMI™ HISTORY
Month NMI Month NMI
Aug 2012 53.7 Feb 2012 57.3
Jul 2012 52.6 Jan 2012 56.8
Jun 2012 52.1 Dec 2011 53.0
May 2012 53.7 Nov 2011 52.6
Apr 2012 53.5 Oct 2011 52.6
Mar 2012 56.0 Sep 2011 52.6
Average for 12 months - 53.9
High - 57.3
Low - 52.1  Business Activity
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in August
registered 55.6 percent, 1.6 percentage points lower than the
57.2 percent registered in July. Eleven industries reported
increased business activity, and five industries reported
decreased activity for the month of August. Comments from
respondents include: “Demand appears to be less” and “Clients
deciding to act and not wait any longer.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in August -
- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Utilities; Finance & Insurance; Accommodation & Food
Services; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Educational Services; Construction;
Retail Trade; Transportation & Warehousing; and Management of
Companies & Support Services. The industries reporting decreased
business activity in August are: Mining;  Wholesale Trade ;
Information; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; and Health Care &
Social Assistance.  New Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in August for the
37th consecutive month. The index registered 53.7 percent, a
decrease of 0.6 percentage point from the 54.3 percent reported
in July. Comments from respondents include: “Number of new work
orders increased” and “Supporting new capital projects.”  The 10 industries reporting growth of new orders in August --
listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Utilities; Educational Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Finance & Insurance; Accommodation &
Food Services; Retail Trade; and Health Care & Social
Assistance. The five industries reporting contraction of new
orders in August are: Wholesale Trade; Mining; Construction;
Information; and Arts, Entertainment & Recreation.  Employment
Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
August after one month of contraction. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing
Employment Index registered 53.8 percent. This reflects an
increase of 4.5 percentage points when compared to the 49.3
percent registered in July. Nine industries reported increased
employment, six industries reported decreased employment, and
three industries reported unchanged employment compared to July.
Comments from respondents include: “Increased staff to support
several new or expanding contracts” and “Positions that had been
open for up to two years are now being filled -- finally.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in August --
listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Finance & Insurance; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Information; Construction; Accommodation & Food
Services; Public Administration; and Wholesale Trade. The
industries reporting a reduction in employment in August --
listed in order -- are: Educational Services; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Mining; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Utilities; and Health Care & Social Assistance.  Supplier Deliveries
The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 51.5 percent in August,
2 percentage points higher than the 49.5 percent registered in
July, indicating that supplier deliveries were slower in August.
A reading above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries, and
below 50 percent indicates faster deliveries.  The seven industries reporting slower deliveries in August --
listed in order -- are: Accommodation & Food Services; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Other Services; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and Wholesale
Trade. The five industries reporting faster supplier deliveries
in August are: Mining; Educational Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; Public Administration; and Construction. Six
industries reported no change in supplier deliveries in August
compared to July.  Inventories
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in August for the
seventh consecutive month. The index registered 52.5 percent,
which is 2 percentage points lower than the 54.5 percent
reported in July. Of the total respondents in July, 26 percent
indicated they do not have inventories or do not measure them.
Comments from respondents include: “Protecting  cash flow ” and
“Hedging to average future food inflation costs.”  The 10 industries reporting an increase in inventories in August
-- listed in order -- are: Mining; Utilities; Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Transportation & Warehousing; Other
Services; Retail Trade; Accommodation & Food Services; Public
Administration; Management of Companies & Support Services; and
Finance & Insurance. The four industries reporting decreases in
inventories in August are: Information; Health Care & Social
Assistance; Construction; and Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services.  Prices
Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and services increased significantly in August. ISM’s
Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for August registered 64.3
percent, 9.4 percentage points higher than the 54.9 percent
reported in July. In August, the percentage of respondents
reporting higher prices is 28 percent, the percentage indicating
no change in prices paid is 65 percent, and 7 percent of the
respondents reported lower prices.  Thirteen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in
prices paid during the month of August, in the following order:
Utilities; Retail Trade; Accommodation & Food Services; Other
Services; Wholesale Trade; Public Administration; Educational
Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Real Estate, Rental
& Leasing; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Finance & Insurance; Construction; and Health Care & Social
Assistance. The three industries reporting a decrease in prices
paid during August are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Information; and Mining.  Backlog of Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index grew in August
following two consecutive months of contraction. The index
registered 50.5 percent, which is 6 percentage points higher
than the 44.5 percent reported in July. Of the total respondents
in August, 44 percent indicated they do not measure backlog of
orders.  The six industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in
August -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing
& Hunting; Utilities; Retail Trade; Information; Management of
Companies & Support Services; and Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services. The six industries reporting lower backlog
of orders in August -- listed in order -- are: Other Services;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Finance & Insurance; Public
Administration; Construction; and Mining.  New Export Orders
Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be provided outside of the  United States  by
domestically based personnel grew in August for the second
consecutive month. The New Export Orders Index for August
registered 52 percent, which is 1 percentage point higher than
the 51 percent reported in July. Of the total respondents in
July, 63 percent indicated they either do not perform, or do not
separately measure, orders for work outside of the United
States.  The six industries reporting an increase in new export orders in
August -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing
& Hunting; Management of Companies & Support Services; Other
Services; Public Administration; Information; and Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services. The four industries reporting a
decrease in export orders in August are: Mining; Wholesale
Trade; Finance & Insurance; and Retail Trade.  Imports
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index contracted in August for
the second consecutive month after seven previous months of
growth. The index registered 49.5 percent, which is 5 percentage
points higher than the 44.5 percent reported in July. Fifty-
eight percent of respondents reported that they do not use, or
do not track, the use of imported materials.  The six industries reporting an increase in imports for the
month of August -- listed in order -- are: Construction; Finance
& Insurance; Other Services; Retail Trade; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; and Accommodation & Food
Services. The three industries reporting a decrease in imports
for the month of August are: Health Care & Social Assistance;
Wholesale Trade; and Information. Eight industries reported no
change in imports for the month of August compared to July.  Inventory Sentiment
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in August
registered 67 percent, which is 8 percentage points higher than
the 59 percent reported in July. This indicates that respondents
believe their inventories are still too high at this time. In
August, 35 percent of respondents said their inventories were
too high, 1 percent said their inventories were too low, and 64
percent said their inventories were about right.  The 12 industries reporting a feeling that their inventories are
too high in August -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Wholesale Trade; Utilities; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Finance & Insurance; Retail Trade; Information;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Public
Administration; and Health Care & Social Assistance. No industry
reported that their inventories are too low in August.  About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation
The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on
the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal
weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders
(seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted) and
Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties of
leading indicators and are convenient summary measures showing
the prevailing direction of change and the scope of change. An
index reading above 50 percent indicates that the non-
manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are sent
out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents
the first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY
report on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the third business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® monthly reports, are
listed in the order of most growth to least growth. For the
industries reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed
in the order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the
least level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management , the first supply
institute in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and
serve the supply management profession and is a highly
influential and respected association in the global marketplace.
ISM’s mission is to lead the supply management profession
through its standards of excellence, research, promotional
activities and education.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business® is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the third
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
September 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Wednesday, October 3, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  