-- UBS Sued by U.S. Regulator for $1.1 Billion in Faulty MBS Sales
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-06T22:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/ubs-sued-by-u-s-regulator-for-1-1-billion-in-faulty-mbs-sales.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  is being sued by the U.S.
regulator of  credit unions  for improper sales of $1.1 billion in
faulty securities that contributed to two firm failures, the
 National Credit Union Administration  said.  The lawsuit accuses the UBS Securities LLC unit of the
Zurich-based bank with selling residential mortgage-backed
securities that were “all but certain to become delinquent or
default” soon after the sale, according to NCUA’s  complaint 
dated today. Two wholesale credit unions -- U.S. Central Federal
Credit Union and Western Corporate Federal Credit Union --failed
after buying the products, the agency said.  “The strength of our entire financial system relies on
trust and accountability,” NCUA Board Chairman Debbie Matz said
in a statement. “UBS Securities violated this trust, which
contributed to the collapse of two corporate credit unions and
the resulting crisis in the credit union industry.”  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for UBS in  New York , declined
to comment on the suit, which didn’t specify damages.  “The RMBS were destined from inception to perform
poorly,” according to the lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court
in Kansas.  The legal action follows a series of similar lawsuits filed
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
the Wachovia Corp. unit of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , which was sued last year in a Los Angeles federal
court for the recovery of $491 million in losses.  Previous Settlements  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
agreed in settlements in November and March to pay a combined
$171 million to resolve similar accusations, with $145 million
from Deutsche Bank, $20.5 million from Citigroup and $5.3
million from HSBC. The banks didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  The two were among five wholesale credit unions, which
provide services to smaller retail firms, that were placed under
conservatorship following the 2008 financial crisis. The
Alexandria, Virginia-based NCUA, which is serving as liquidating
agent for the failed lenders, is responsible for recovering
losses to minimize the hit to its industry-funded stabilization
fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 