-- Mulally Says Europe Recognizing Surplus of Auto Factories
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-09-06T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/mulally-sees-europe-recognizing-surplus-of-auto-assembly-plants.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  and other automakers
in Europe recognize the need to reduce factory capacity as car
sales collapse in the region, Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  said.  “Europe had a lot of issues in the past and people did a
lot of things to subsidize the industry,” Mulally said
yesterday in an interview in Amsterdam. “But you’ve got to size
to the real demand so you can profitably grow. People are
realizing we all need to deal with that reality.”  Automakers in Europe have enough factory capacity to build
18 million vehicles a year, Mulally said. Auto sales in Europe
have collapsed to their lowest level in 17 years and are running
at less than a 14 million annual rate.  “Clearly, this is a structural issue,” Mulally said,
adding that Ford has no announcements to make yet on how it will
deal with its overcapacity.  Ford is utilizing just 63 percent of its factory capacity
in  Europe , according to Morgan Stanley. In order to be
profitable, auto factories must operate at 80 percent of
capacity or above, analysts have said. Ford has said it expects
to lose more than $1 billion in Europe this year.  “What they need to do is reduce capacity by at least 20
percent,” said Adam Jonas, an analyst for Morgan Stanley, who
estimates Ford’s European losses could reach $2 billion this
year.  15 Models  Mulally was in Amsterdam to unveil 15 new models Ford will
be introducing in Europe over the next five years, including a
redesigned Mondeo sedan and three new sport-utility vehicles.
Mulally also said Ford would bring the Mustang sports car to
Europe “soon,” without specifying when.  “We’ve always talked about taking the Mustang outside the
U.S.,” Mulally said. “In Europe, it makes a good business case
because so many people want it.”  Even with new models to stoke demand, Mulally said
realigning capacity has to be part of Ford’s plan to restore
profitability in Europe.  “Everybody knows we need to size our production to the
real demand,” Mulally said in an Aug. 28 interview in Beijing.  Shares of Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford rose 3.6 percent to
$9.92 yesterday in  New York . Ford has slid 7.9 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Amsterdam at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  