-- Hungary Rejects IMF Aid Conditions, Premier Orban Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-09-06T16:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/hungary-rejects-imf-aid-conditions-prime-minister-orban.html
Hungary rejects conditions set by
the  International Monetary Fund  for a loan, Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said, prompting a plunge in the forint that has
been buttressed by confidence an agreement would be reached.  The Washington-based lender asked Hungary to cut pensions
and scrap a bank tax in exchange for the loan, which wouldn’t
serve the nation’s interests, Orban said in a video message
posted on his page at the social media website  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
Orban said he would seek an “alternative negotiating
proposal,” without elaborating. The IMF’s Budapest office
declined to comment.  Hungary, whose sovereign-credit rating was cut to junk last
year, has had its request for a loan of about 15 billion euros
($18.9 billion) delayed multiple times because of Orban’s
resistance to adhere to legal and economic conditions set by the
lender and the European Union. The Cabinet first requested aid
last November. Yesterday, Orban said he expected an agreement
with the IMF this autumn.  “This is looking ugly once again,”  Luis Costa , a London-
based strategist at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said in an e-mailed note.
“I continue to see very little probability of a deal by
October,” which the government had flagged.  Forint Faith  The currency dropped as much as 1.7 percent today, the most
this year, before paring losses to trade at 287.97 by 4:11 p.m.
in Budapest. Investor faith in an IMF agreement helped the
forint surge 9.5 percent to the euro this year, after plunging
15 percent in the second half of 2011, the most in the world.  The gains in the forint showed Hungary needs an IMF credit
line to maintain market confidence and the government “can’t
avoid striking a deal,”  Mihaly Varga , the government’s chief
aid negotiator, said in Budapest yesterday.  Hungary can get by without additional foreign-currency
funding until about March or April, said  Gyula Toth , who helps
manage 220 million euros at Ithuba Capital in Vienna.  Hungary resumed negotiations in July following an eight-
month delay after the government compromised on a central bank
law that critics including the  European Central Bank  said
undermined monetary-policy independence.  Orban came into office in 2010 rejecting the extension of
an IMF loan his predecessor had obtained. He appealed for aid in
November of last year as the forint plunged, debt auctions
failed and the country’s credit grade was cut to junk. On Dec.
22, he said Hungary can do without IMF aid, recommitting to
negotiations two weeks later with the forint at a record low.  Orban’s Intentions  “I believe the government doesn’t really want an IMF deal,
it only wants the markets to believe it’s seeking an
agreement,”  Daniel Bebesy , who helps manage $1 billion mostly
in Hungarian  government bonds  at Budapest Fund Management, said
in a phone interview today. “The past year has proved that
markets can be deceived.”  Orban yesterday said said he expected an agreement with the
IMF in the autumn and that the two sides were “close to the
point where quick negotiations and the conclusion of quick
negotiations are realistic.”  Today, speaking from a retreat of his ruling party in
Sarvar, western Hungary, Orban said the IMF’s conditions, which
haven’t been confirmed by the Washington-based lender, “are not
in Hungary’s interest.”  “The meeting of the parliamentary group decided, and I
myself share their opinion, that at this cost we don’t need
it,” Orban said. “The parliamentary group has empowered us to
put together an alternative negotiating proposal; this is what
we’ll be working on in the coming days.”  Cabinet Measures  Questions e-mailed to Orban’s office seeking comment about
the Cabinet’s plans weren’t immediately answered.  The Cabinet’s measures, including a special tax on lenders
and the nationalization of private-pension funds, damaged
investor confidence, contributed to the downgrade of the
country’s credit rating, cut investments and helped push the
economy into its second recession in four years.  Orban won the 2010 elections with an unprecedented two-
thirds parliamentary majority on a pledge to end austerity. Even
as his support has crumbled, according to all polls, his ruling
party, Fidesz, has maintained a lead over the opposition more
than halfway through the premier’s four-year term.  Fidesz had 17 percent support among eligible voters,
compared with 14 percent for the Socialist Party and 8 percent
for the radical nationalist Jobbik, state news service MTI
reported Aug. 23, citing the polling company Ipsos. The survey
of 1,500 adults was carried out between Aug. 12 and Aug. 19 and
has a margin of error of 2.5 percentage points, MTI said.  ‘Tolerance Level’  The government needs to gauge the “tolerance level of
society” and hold consultations, Orban told reporters
yesterday. The government will protect a 300 billion-forint
($1.3 billion) payroll tax-cut plan for 2013, aimed at jump-
starting the economy, and won’t allow IMF conditions to threaten
it, Orban said yesterday.  IMF demands to “radically” cut spending, which would mean
a cut in wages and in public services, makes it a “tough
dilemma” on how to strike a “good” agreement with the
Washington-based lender, Antal Rogan, head of the ruling party’s
parliamentary group and a member of the aid-negotiating team,
told Magyar Nemzet in an interview published yesterday.  The Cabinet has said that the IMF objects to a financial-
transaction tax on the central bank, which is one of the ways
the government wants to finance the tax cuts, as well as its
signature flat personal-income tax, which has cut revenue while
failing to raise consumption.  Hungary  needs to move away from “ad hoc” taxes to plug
budget holes and should create a more “business friendly”
environment to boost growth and make budget financing
sustainable, the IMF said in a July 26 statement after holding
what it called a week of “constructive” talks in Budapest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  