-- Universal Health Care Shouldn’t Be Reduced, Lancet Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-09-06T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/universal-health-care-shouldn-t-be-reduced-lancet-says.html
Expansion of government-subsidized
medical care improves health and should be maintained in times
of economic crisis, according to  a survey  of research.  Programs such as Medicare for senior citizens and Medicaid
for the poor in the U.S. and similar programs in other countries
led to increased use of preventive, inpatient and outpatient
services and better health status for previously uninsured
populations, Peter Smith and Rodrigo Moreno-Serra of  Imperial
College London  wrote in The Lancet medical journal today.  Their paper comes as U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s 2010
health-care overhaul faces attacks by the Republican party in an
election year. The Republican nominee,  Mitt Romney , has vowed to
repeal the law and last week adopted a platform that advocates
Medicare changes in which senior citizens are given financial
support to purchase private insurance to stem the increase in
public debt.  “The available evidence has shown that when Medicaid and
Medicare were expanded, the beneficiaries saw an improvement in
health status and suffered less financially,” Moreno-Serra said
in a phone interview. “If countries rely more and more on
private spending, this will be detrimental to health outcomes
and financial security.”  Obama’s Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act requires
people to obtain health insurance or face financial penalties,
and, among other provisions, establishes subsidies to help
people purchase policies on state-level exchanges and expands
coverage of pre-existing conditions. The U.S. Supreme Court
upheld the core of the law in June.  China, Thailand  The survey, funded by the New York-based  Rockefeller
Foundation , also cites examples in China and  Thailand  where the
introduction of heavily subsidized health insurance programs
have led to increased use of medical services.  In low-income countries, universal health care as a goal
has also faced “powerful headwinds” since the financial crisis
began in 2008, said  Jeffrey Sachs , an economist at  Columbia
University , said in an article accompanying the paper.  Increased access to public health care, supported by donor
aid, has resulted in sharp declines in deaths from malaria and
child and maternal mortality in poor countries, he said.  “Cuts in aid at this point could undo the great progress
of the past decade,” Sachs said. “Universal coverage for
health is within our reach -- if we persevere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  