-- Hurricane Leslie Slows on Track East of Bermuda
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-09-06T15:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/hurricane-leslie-slows-on-track-east-of-bermuda.html
Hurricane Leslie is moving at a
crawl in the Atlantic south of  Bermuda  and probably won’t start
strengthening until tomorrow on a path past the islands.  The storm’s top winds have remained about 75 miles (121
kilometers) per hour since yesterday and it’s 430 miles south-
southeast of Bermuda, moving north at 2 miles per hour, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said.  “Leslie has barely moved since last night,” the center
said in an  advisory  at 11 a.m.  New York  time. “No significant
change in strength is expected today.”  High wind shear has been tearing at Leslie and the storm
has been pulling up colder ocean water, according to the center.
That has been holding the system’s strength down.  Eventually, Leslie, now a Category 1 hurricane on the
 Saffir-Simpson scale , is expected to develop top winds of 105
mph, which would bump it up a level to a Category 2, the center
said. The storm’s  current track  would take it east of Bermuda
this weekend and possibly into Newfoundland next week.  Newfoundland was hit hard in 2010 by Hurricane Igor, which
followed a similar path. Winds of 105 mph were recorded, and 90
cities and towns were isolated after 9.4 inches of rain fell,
washing out roads, according to a provincial report.  The Fire and Emergency Services of Newfoundland and
Labrador are monitoring Leslie’s track, according to a statement
from the agency.  Canada Watches  “Officials with  Environment Canada  and the Canadian
Hurricane Centre indicate there is significant uncertainty
around this system, but we remain on the alert,” it said.  Any impact on  Canada  is days away and a lot can happen,
said  Tom Downs , a meteorologist with Weather 2000 in New York.  “It is all highly dependent on the track,” Downs said.
“Everything is pointing to the Newfoundland coast, but 100
miles to the east and it misses it altogether.”  North Atlantic Refining Ltd. has a 115,000 barrel-a-day
refinery in Come-By-Chance, Newfoundland, at the northern end of
Placentia Bay about 90 miles west of the provincial capital of
 St. John’s .  Meanwhile, Hurricane Michael strengthened to become the
first Category 3 hurricane of the Atlantic season, the NHC said
in a  separate advisory . The system was 980 miles west-southwest
of the Azores with winds of 115 mph. The system is churning
northeast at 7 mph and poses no immediate threat to land.  The hurricane center is also tracking a remnant of
Hurricane Isaac that has re-entered the  Gulf of Mexico  and has a
40 percent chance of becoming a tropical system in the next two
days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  