-- Hurricane Leslie Stalls Again on Slow Track to Bermuda
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-09-07T16:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/hurricane-leslie-stops-moving-as-bermuda-issues-watch.html
Leslie was downgraded to a tropical
storm as it was almost stationary in the Atlantic before moving
north on a track past  Bermuda .  Leslie’s path may take the storm east of Bermuda on Sept.
9, the National Hurricane Center said in an  advisory  at 11 a.m.
East Coast time. The system was 410 miles (660 kilometers)
southeast of Bermuda with winds of 70 miles per hour. It wasn’t
expected to intensify today, but may regain hurricane strength
over the weekend.  East of Leslie, Hurricane Michael crept northwest with 105
mph winds, the NHC said in a separate  advisory . Forecasts show
the system may drop to tropical storm status over colder waters
early next week, and its winds may merge with Leslie’s near or
east of Newfoundland.  Leslie had been a Category 1 hurricane on the five-step
 Saffir-Simpson scale , but weakened when it stalled and began
churning up colder water from deeper in the ocean, Dan Kottlowski, senior meteorologist for AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania , said in a phone interview.  “It’s like someone took a plunger and started plunging
water in the bathtub,” Kottlowski said.  The storm’s  current track  would take it east of Bermuda on
Sept. 9, stirring high surf there and on the U.S. East Coast,
and then toward Newfoundland next week. It was forecast to
weaken into a tropical storm again before reaching the Canadian
province.  Newfoundland was hit in 2010 by Hurricane Igor, which
followed a similar path. Winds of 105 mph were recorded with as
much as 9.4 inches of rain washing out roads.  Canada Waits  The Fire and Emergency Services of Newfoundland and
Labrador said it’s monitoring Leslie’s track.  North Atlantic Refining Ltd. has a 115,000 barrel-a-day
refinery in Come-By-Chance, Newfoundland, 90 miles west of the
provincial capital of  St. John’s .  The Miami-based NHC is also tracking a remnant of Hurricane
Isaac that re-entered the  Gulf of Mexico  and has a 20 percent
chance of becoming a tropical system within two days.  Thirteen named storms have formed in the Atlantic so far
this  hurricane season , one more than the 30-year average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  