-- Valiant Petroleum Jumps in London on Plan to Study Breakup
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-09-06T15:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/valiant-petroleum-hires-morgan-stanley-to-examine-sale-breakup.html
Valiant Petroleum Plc (VPP) , a U.K. oil
explorer operating in the  North Sea , rose in London trading
after starting a strategic review that may see it sold or broken
up to boost returns for shareholders.  Valiant climbed 4.4 percent to 480 pence. The board has
hired Morgan Stanley to examine its options, Woking, England-
based Valiant said today in a statement after reporting a first-
half loss. The review will “maximize the value generated from
the existing asset base and cash generated from production,” it
said.  While the world’s biggest oil producers such as  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  have sold North Sea operations in recent years,
smaller companies are working to extend the life of fields and
add assets.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  bought Agora Oil & Gas AS and
Nautical Petroleum Plc this year, and  EnQuest Plc (ENQ)  said in August
it will seek acquisitions after making six in the first half.  “The share price is significantly below its intrinsic
value,” Valiant Chief Executive Officer  Peter Buchanan  said in
a telephone interview. “There’s a range and type of company
that may be interested in merging, and we hope that by going
public, we’ll talk to companies we otherwise wouldn’t have
thought of.”  Valiant, which pumps 7,453 barrels of oil equivalent a day,
said its production, development and exploration programs are
fully funded through next year. The review is part of planning
for 2014 to 2016, the company said.  The explorer reported a first-half net loss of $29.9
million, compared with net income of $32.1 million a year
earlier, according to a separate statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  