-- Van Gogh’s Peasant, Andy Warhol, Picasso Top Fall Season
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-09-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/van-gogh-s-peasant-andy-warhol-picasso-top-fall-season.html
As usual,  New York ’s  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art takes center stage this fall season.  Its promising exhibitions include the highly anticipated
“Bernini: Sculpting in Clay” (Oct. 3 - Jan. 6), a show of small
studies for larger works.  Comprising some 50 masterly terracotta models and
approximately 30 drawings from the hand of Gian Lorenzo Bernini
(1598-1680), it will bring us closer -- intimately so -- to the
mind, eye and workshop of the greatest of Italian Baroque
sculptors.  Among other must-see exhibitions will surely be the Met’s
“Matisse: In Search of True Painting” (Dec. 4 - Mar. 17). The
show highlights the artist’s dialogue with his own earlier works
and focuses on repeated images and themes executed in pairs,
trios and series.  Not to be outdone, the Guggenheim Museum is bringing us a
show of the other Modern titan, “Picasso Black and White” (Oct.
5 - Jan. 23).  Picasso, especially when compared with Matisse, is often
considered primarily a draftsman, or graphic artist.  This 110-work survey of paintings, drawings, prints and
sculptures exploring Picasso’s grisailles will remind us that
the Spaniard was also one of the most inventive colorists of the
20th century.  Peasant Portrait  Also eagerly awaited are the Museum of  Modern Art ’s focused
survey “Inventing Abstraction, 1910-1925” (Dec. 23 - Apr. 15)
and “Vincent van Gogh’s ‘Portrait of a Peasant (Patience
Escalier)’” (Oct. 30 - Jan. 20) at the Frick Collection.  “Inventing Abstraction” explores the nascent years of
European Modernist abstraction, including Robert Delaunay,
Kandinsky and Mondrian. With its superb permanent collection
from this period, MoMA is the best museum for the job.  The Frick will present but a single portrait of a man
wearing a turquoise smock and brilliant-yellow straw hat,
shining within a blue field.  What business does a van Gogh have in the Frick? Who cares?  On loan from the  Norton Simon Museum  in  Pasadena ,
 California , the stridently colorful work from 1888 was painted
when van Gogh was at the height of his powers.  How enlightening to see van Gogh’s “Peasant” in the company
of portraits by El Greco, Ingres, Memling, Rembrandt, Titian and
Velazquez.  Master Drawings  The Frick also has the stupendous loan exhibition “Mantegna
to Matisse: Master Drawings from The Courtauld Gallery” (Oct. 2
- Jan. 27). This show from  London  includes works by Leonardo,
Michelangelo, Rembrandt, Rubens, Seurat, van Gogh and Watteau.  Coups for the Frick, these two shows will bring visitors in
droves.  So, too, will the Met’s surefire blockbuster, “Regarding
Warhol: Sixty Artists, Fifty Years” (Sept. 18 - Dec. 31).  The show takes stock of the Pop artist’s continuing
influence on contemporary art -- creating malaise is more apt.  Clearly, Warhol is extremely influential, and this
exhibition, which likely won’t be much to look at, may prove
instructive.  But when “Regarding Warhol” -- trumping both Bernini and
Matisse -- leads the fall lineup at the world’s greatest and
most powerful museum, it may signal the first real populist
downturn since Thomas P. Campbell took over as the Met’s
director.  For more information:
 Metropolitan Museum of Art :  http://www.metmuseum.org .
Guggenheim Museum:  http://www.guggenheim.org .
 Museum of Modern Art :  http://www.moma.org .
Frick Collection:  http://www.frick.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and  Jason
Harper  on  cars .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 