-- Vietnam Risks Biggest East Asia IMF Rescue Since 1990s: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-06T09:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/vietnam-risks-biggest-east-asia-imf-rescue-since-1990s-economy.html
Vietnam  risks becoming the biggest
East Asian economy to seek an International Monetary Fund rescue
loan since the region’s financial crisis more than a decade ago
as it moves to support a faltering banking system.  The nation may need IMF aid to recapitalize banks and must
act quickly to clean up bad debt or risk “prolonged
stagnation,” the National Assembly’s economic committee said in
a Sept. 4 report published on its website yesterday. The
financial system needs an injection of 250 trillion dong ($12
billion) to 300 trillion dong, according to the 298-page report
that included recommendations to address economic risks.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government is struggling
to regain confidence in Vietnam after the arrest of a banking
tycoon last month highlighted the frailty of a financial system
hobbled by Southeast Asia’s highest bad debt levels. Growth
slowed to 4.4 percent in the first half of this year from 8.5
percent in 2007 as lending stagnated, damping state revenue and
crimping the country’s ability to rescue banks.  “Vietnam got itself into this mess and the government will
have to take responsibility to solve this before it worsens,”
said Gareth Leather, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London . “Credit has been one of the main drivers of the economy
and you’re not going to see growth return to 7 percent to 8
percent so long as banks are stuck with this problem.”  The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  of stocks fell 1.4 percent today.
The dong was little changed at 20,858 a dollar. Shares of Asia
Commercial Bank fell 1 percent to 19,500 dong.  Foreign Funding  “Vietnam is now at a point where it really does have to
explore ways of recapitalizing and restructuring the foundation
for its banking system,” said Peter Ryder, the Hanoi-based
chief executive of  fund manager  and property developer Indochina
Capital. “However, for the Vietnamese, particularly given their
history of fierce independence, to go to the IMF before
exhausting all other alternatives would be very surprising.”  Apart from the suggestion for Vietnam to seek an IMF loan
to restructure the banking system, the National Assembly
committee’s report also recommended other funding sources such
as selling  government bonds  with three-to-five-year maturities,
trimming state spending and drawing funds or investments from
foreign companies.  Seeking foreign funding is “unavoidable” in order for
Vietnam to quickly solve its bad debt problem, the report said.
Funds from foreign companies would be one of several sources
accessed to help buy bad debt, it said.  ‘Good’ Option  “I’d be very happy if I heard the IMF was involved,” said
Son Nam Nguyen, managing partner of Vietnam Capital Partners Ltd.
in  Ho Chi Minh City . “There would be a whole set of conditions,
which would be very good for Vietnam.”  Vietnam’s non-performing loans climbed to 4.47 percent of
total lending as of May 31, from 3.07 percent at the end of 2011,
according to central bank data.  State Bank  of Vietnam Governor
Nguyen Van Binh said in April that the level of non-performing
loans at some lenders may be “much higher” than reported
figures, with Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. estimating as much as
20 percent of debts may be bad.  The central bank should set up a company to buy bad debt
using foreign funding, the parliamentary panel said in this
week’s report, which was funded by the United Nations
Development Programme. Cross-ownership of banks are at “alarming
levels” and lending based on relationships have led to rising
non-performing loans and need to be promptly dealt with,
according to the report.  “The ratio of bad debt and overdue debt in the banking
system is at an alarming level,” while bank provisioning for
bad debt is inadequate, it said.  Not Imminent  The central bank hasn’t officially been presented with the
report by the National Assembly and the recommendations are
“just the committee’s view” for now, Nghiem Xuan Thanh, chief
administrator at the bank, said by phone today.  “We are not so desperate yet that we would need an
imminent rescue loan from the IMF,” Nguyen Duc Kien, deputy
head of the committee that published the report, said by phone
today. “This is just one of the recommendations to the
government in case it’s needed.”  Asian stocks snapped a five-day decline today as investors
awaited details of a European Central Bank plan to stem the
region’s debt crisis.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  will hold a press conference
today where he may offer details of a bond-purchase plan to
lower borrowing costs in Spain and  Italy . The event is scheduled
to follow the ECB’s decision on  interest rates .  Obama Speaks  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  meet in  Madrid  today to discuss the euro crisis,
and the  Bank of England  announces its interest-rate decision and
target for asset purchases.  Germany  reports factory orders for July and  Sweden ’s
central bank cut interest rates. The U.S. will report initial
jobless claims and President  Barack Obama  may outline his goals
for the economy as he gives an acceptance speech at the
Democratic National Convention.  In the Asia-Pacific region,  Australia ’s jobless rate
unexpectedly declined in August and in  South Korea  the central
bank said the economy expanded 0.3 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, less than initially estimated.  Vietnam had recognized the risks and unveiled plans to
prevent a collapse of its banking system months ago. The country
said in March it would buy bad debt from lenders as the nation
sought to overhaul the industry and cut bad-debt ratios at
state-owned banks to below 3 percent by 2015.  Forcing Mergers  The central bank has also said it’s ready to force mergers
among weak lenders, and Dung has ordered the monetary authority
to “solve” a shortage of funds after the credit crunch forced
thousands of companies out of business.  Restructuring the banking system is necessary as lenders
are “not truly strong,” Vu Duc Dam, chairman of the government
office, said at a briefing in Hanoi yesterday. Gross domestic
product growth could be as low as 5 percent this year, Dam said.  Vietnam’s state spending has risen 19 percent this year as
of Aug. 15, while income gained 1.7 percent, a government
statement showed yesterday. Government expenditure totaled 534
trillion dong, compared with income of 418.5 trillion dong.  Nguyen Duc Kien, who helped found Asia Commercial Bank,
Vietnam’s fourth-biggest lender by market value, was arrested in
August, and the central bank said police were investigating
violations at three companies managed by Kien after he allegedly
“conducted business illegally.” That was followed by the
arrest of former Chief Executive Officer Ly Xuan Hai by the
police for alleged economic mismanagement.  Vietnam’s stocks plunged, dragging the benchmark index into
in a  bear market  on Aug. 27 on concern the arrests may signal
further instability in the nation’s financial system.  The country’s last IMF lending program was a poverty
reduction and growth facility of as much as $368 million when it
was announced in April 2001.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  