-- Wal-Mart Asia Head ‘Optimistic’ India Will Allow FDI
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2012-09-06T10:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/wal-mart-asia-chief-optimistic-india-will-allow-fdi-in-retail.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, is “optimistic”  India  will allow foreign
direct investment in the country’s retail industry.  “I’m optimistic that FDI in retail and across multitudes
of industries will occur,”  Scott Price , head of the retailer’s
Asia operations, said today in an interview in Vladivostok,
 Russia , while attending the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit.  India currently bars foreign retailers such as Wal-Mart
that sell multiple brands from investing in supermarkets. A
loosening of those restrictions would allow companies including
Wal-Mart and  Carrefour SA (CA)  access to a retail market that is
currently estimated at $505 billion according to Technopak
Advisors Pvt. Wal-Mart currently has wholesale outlets in India
through a joint venture with local partner Bharti Enterprises.  “I’m optimistic because I think it’s inevitable,” said
Price, without specifying when he expects the market to open.
“India will want to improve the lot and life of its
population.”  Indian retailers would benefit from a loosening of rules
because foreign firms would require local partners.  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , the country’s largest
retailer, climbed as much as 2.3 percent in Mumbai trading
before closing little changed.  Trent Ltd. (TRENT)  gained as much as 2.4
percent.  Large Population  India’s government last year was forced to reverse a
November decision to allow foreign investment of as much as 51
percent in stores selling more than one brand, after political
opposition paralyzed parliament.  Supporters of foreign investment in retail say the global
chains are likely to invest in trucking and distribution systems
in India, where government estimates show 40 percent of fruit
and vegetables rot before being sold because of the lack of
cold-storage facilities and poor transport infrastructure.  India is “three times the population, one third the land
mass” compared with the U.S., Price said. “With that density
of population, these sorts of properly regulated openings will
only benefit.”  Global consumer companies are eager to tap Asian markets
for growth as economies in the developed world have stalled. Net
sales at the company’s international business rose 6.4 percent
in the three months ended July 31, topping a 3.8 percent rise in
the U.S.|  China Slowdown  Wal-Mart is seeing Chinese customers acting “a little bit
more cautious” and seeking to save money as economic growth
slows at home and overseas, Price said of  Asia ’s largest
economy. “The average Chinese is being a little bit more
careful about their money,” he said.  Wal-Mart’s comments reflect pressure on China’s retail
industry as consumers pull back amid the country’s slowest
economic growth in three years. Companies including milk seller
 China Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319)  and luxury watch retailer  Hengdeli
Holdings Ltd. (3389)  have reported slower sales growth.  Wal-Mart still sees “enormous” potential for its China
business, Price said. “GDP is still high, you don’t see a lot
of high levels of unemployment.”  The company is pushing its traditional everyday low pricing
strategy in China, instead of relying on temporary sales and
discounts. ’’We are very much trying to formalize a much
stronger price perception,’’ he said.  A slow recovery abroad and weak investment at home will
keep weighing on Chinese factories, China’s Ministry of Industry
and  Information Technology  said in a statement on its website
this week. The ministry’s forecast indicates that the government
recognizes that the slowdown has accelerated after growth dipped
to a three-year low of 7.6 percent last quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  