-- Walgreen Shares Decline After Sales Trail Estimate
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-09-06T20:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/walgreen-declines-after-sales-trail-estimate.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG)  fell the most in more
than a month after posting fiscal fourth-quarter revenue that
trailed analysts’ estimates as the lack of  Express Scripts  Inc.
customers hurt pharmacy sales.  The shares slid 1.9 percent to $35.20 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since July 23. Deerfield, Illinois-
based Walgreen, the largest U.S. drugstore chain, has gained 6.5
percent this year.  Sales in the three months ended Aug. 31 fell about 4.9
percent to $17.1 billion, Walgreen said today in a statement.
That trailed the $17.2 billion average of 17 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Walgreen has lost customers this year to  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) 
and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  after its agreement to provide
prescriptions for Express Scripts customers expired. Walgreen
and Express Scripts renewed that contract in July, and the
drugstore chain will become part of the benefits provider’s
network again on Sept. 15.  Not being part of Express Scripts’ network reduced
comparable-store prescription sales by 10.7 percentage points in
August, Walgreen said. Total August pharmacy sales slid 7.2
percent, the company said.  Adding to Walgreen’s slump today is a decision by Tricare,
the health plan for military personnel and their dependents, to
continue excluding the company from its network of retail
pharmacies, said  John Heinbockel , an analyst at Guggenheim
Securities LLC in New York. The retailer left the Tricare
network Dec. 31 when its contract with Express Scripts ended.  “We had assumed that Walgreen would be in this plan and
that it would recover 50 percent of the lost business,”
Heinbockel wrote today in a note. He rates Walgreen a buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  