-- Wealthy Unmoved by U.K. Tax Hike as Luxury-Home Sales Surge
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-09-07T15:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/wealthy-unmoved-by-u-k-tax-increase-as-luxury-home-sales-surge.html
The British government’s plan to
raise a tax on luxury-home purchases sparked a last-minute dash
by real-estate brokers to wrap up deals before the deadline hit
in March. They needn’t have bothered.  Sales of homes valued at 2 million pounds ($3.2 million)
more than doubled in May from a year earlier, according to the
most recent data available from the Land Registry. After a 40
percent decline in April, sales rebounded as investors from
mainland  Europe  and the  Middle East  took advantage of the U.K.’s
status as a haven from economic and political turmoil.  “Money is leaving the  euro zone  and being spent on a safe
asset,” Matthew Pointon, an economist at researcher  Capital
Economics , said. “Safe-haven flows outweigh the increase in the
stamp duty.”  Luxury homes have held their value better than cheaper
residential properties in the U.K. because of a scarcity of
prime real estate for sale, particularly in  London . That has led
to record prices paid for homes in the city’s Mayfair,
Kensington and Knightsbridge districts.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s annual budget
targeted luxury-home purchases to help narrow Britain’s record
deficit. He raised a transaction tax known as stamp duty on
homes sold for more than 2 million pounds to 7 percent from 5
percent. The use of corporations set up in offshore  tax havens 
such as the  Cayman Islands  to avoid the tax spawned a 15 percent
levy on purchases of homes by companies.  European Investors  In May, 113 houses and apartments in the U.K. sold for more
than 2 million pounds, up from 45 a year earlier, according to
the Land Registry. In London, sales jumped to 97 from 40 led by
overseas buyers.  Homes valued at 10 million pounds or more gained 2.9
percent in price in the three months after Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led coalition increased the stamp duty,
London-based Knight Frank LLP estimates. Home prices in London’s
most expensive areas have gained 49 percent since a March 2009
low point and are now 14 percent higher than the previous peak
in 2008, the property broker said in a Sept. 3 report.  “London has been extremely hot,” Yolande Barnes, head of
residential research at broker  Savills Plc (SVS) , said in a phone
interview. “This was a record quarter, but it’s been pretty
strong even before that.”  Negligible Impact  Small tax increases for the ultra-wealthy individuals
aren’t likely to deter them from buying luxury residences in
central London, according to Charles Leigh, a director at broker
 CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)   “A percent here or there isn’t a major threat,” Leigh
said in an interview.  There are 10,760 ultra-high net worth individuals living in
Britain, according to Wealth-X, which works with luxury brands
and banks to build a database of people who collectively hold
$10.7 trillion of wealth. They’re defined as U.K. residents with
net worth of at least $30 million, and together they have
combined assets of $1.3 trillion.  The U.K. capital is home to 5,955 “ultra-wealthy” people,
more than twice as many as Paris, which has 2,820, according to
Wealth-X. Zurich ranks third among European cities with 1,775.  Aldine Honey, proprietor of her own luxury real estate
brokerage, handled the sale of a 28.1 million-pound home in
London’s Mayfair neighborhood in May, the last month for which
U.K. Land Registry was published.  ‘Extraordinarily Positive’  “It’s extraordinarily positive considering the 7 percent
stamp duty,” Honey said in an interview. “Wealthy people still
consider London a safe haven.”  Britain’s government is weighing an extension of a capital-
gains tax on homes valued at more than 2 million pounds held by
unnaturalized non-residents. Some brokers, such as W. A. Ellis,
aren’t sure that overseas investors can withstand further taxes
on the U.K.’s luxury homes. Some property owners may want to get
out while they can, said Richard Barber, a partner at the firm.  “You’re not going to want to get stumped for  capital
gains ,” Barber said.  Doubts about whether luxury- home prices  can maintain upward
momentum have arisen amid a predicted wave of new building.
Builders plan to complete more than 15,000 houses and apartments
in London over the next decade to keep up with demand for
properties in the city’s traditional prime neighborhoods,
according to consulting firm EC Harris LLP.  ‘Downside Risk’  Prime Minister David Cameron is loosening requirements on
homebuilders to allow them build projects that are presently
unprofitable as he seeks to pull Britain out of a double-dip
recession. The U.K.’s economic growth slowed in the three months
through August and “significant downside risks” remain, the
National Institute of Economic and Social Research said today.  The 10-year development pipeline increased 70 percent from
a year earlier and companies now expect to construct homes with
a sales value of 38 billion pounds, EC Harris said Sept. 3.
About 3,800 units are expected to be completed in 2016, more
than seven times this year’s total of 500.  “There may be a question mark about the sustainability of
some of the price growth we’ve seen in the last year or two in
certain areas of super-prime London, which has been
phenomenal,” said Mark Farmer, head of residential at EC
Harris, in an interview.  Brokers such as Savills are making contrary forecasts. The
market will regulate the supply of prime central London homes to
a greater extent than has been predicted, according to Savills’
Barnes.  No Overhang  “There will be no vast overhang of stock by 2015 because
developers will provide a variety of product in different
locations and at different price points, tapping into different
market segments,” Barnes said in a statement. Not all projects
with planning permission will be built immediately, she added.  About 830 hectares (2,050 acres) of land were released for
residential development by planning authorities in London over
the four years through 2009, a drop of 10 percent from the same
period through 2004, broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said in
February. That’s prompted developers to renovate older office
buildings as homes as buyers hold on to prime London residences
for longer and help drive up prices.  Brokers including Savills and  Knight Frank  define prime
real estate as homes in the most expensive central London
neighborhoods such as Belgravia, Kensington and Knightsbridge.  An apartment at One Hyde Park, the U.K.’s most expensive
residential complex, was put up for sale Sept. 3 with an asking
price of 65 million pounds. The 9,000 square-foot (836 square-
meter) property in Knightsbridge has four bedrooms and takes up
an entire floor of the building, according to a statement by
Aylesford International, the broker managing the sale.  “The main feature of any of these deals and the prices
they’re achieving is that there’s such little stock” of luxury
homes available, Honey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 