-- Why Free Stuff Is So Irrationally Exciting
-- B y   W e n d y   W o l o s o n
-- 2012-09-06T17:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/why-free-stuff-is-so-irrationally-exciting.html
Loyalty points, frequent-flier
miles, corporate-branded umbrellas, tote bags, stress balls
and other trifles: All are contemporary versions of an old
and very effective marketing strategy. We have always been
suckers for free stuff.  Many of us remember pulverizing dry cereal to dust in
an attempt to retrieve a free prize at the bottom of the
box. Older generations were drawn to the miniature books,
plastic charms and base-metal tokens sealed inside boxes of
Cracker Jack. The mix of caramel-coated popcorn and peanuts
was often an afterthought.  That strategy was hugely successful, but it wasn’t
new. Rueckheim Bros. & Eckstein, the maker of Cracker Jack,
was probably inspired by American confectioners of the
1870s, who targeted young customers by selling “prize
packages” containing cash, jewelry and prints. Plus candy.  Confectionery supplier John H. Miller & Son, for
example, offered 21 different prize packages in its 1876
promotional flier, including the Great Watch Novelty, which
guaranteed that one out of every two boxes contained a new
silver coin, and one in 100 held a new watch. Other candy-
filled prize packages contained marbles, charms, puzzles,
whistles, pop guns and assorted other gimcracks, the
manufacture of which was a lucrative business in its own
right.  W.C. Smith of Buffalo, for example, specialized in
confectioners’ toys for “penny goods,” and  Chicago ’s Dowst
Brothers Co., which would later produce the TootsieToy line
of cast-metal cars and airplanes, began their business
producing thimble-sized tokens in the shape of rabbits,
boots, flowers, horseshoes and boats for candy boxes.  ‘Canvassing’ Friends  Confectioners, in turn, may have been inspired to
offer incentives by the publishers of children’s serials,
who in the 1870s began encouraging young readers to
“canvass” -- that is, to solicit subscriptions from their
friends -- acting, in effect, as cheaply paid agents.
Successful canvassers were promised remuneration in the
form of choice prizes. The magazine St. Nicholas promised a
pair of ice skates (five subscribers), a telegraph (10
subscribers), a tool chest (15 subscribers), a piano (300
subscribers), or free tuition to “any school or academy in
the U.S.” (500 subscribers).  Each year, publishers of the Youth’s Companion
dedicated an entire issue to a catalog of prize offerings
for readers: train sets, dolls and dollhouses, sleds, cast-
iron toys, magic sets, miniature steam engines,
kaleidoscopes, miniature printing presses and more.  Publishers took their cues from the incentive programs
that marketers had been using since the mid-19th century.
Such programs were used to attract the patronage of adults
rather than children. Soap maker B.T. Babbitt, a friend of
P.T. Barnum, is credited with using the first incentive
strategy in the U.S. in 1851, offering free lithographic
prints with bulk purchases of soap.  Other entrepreneurs soon followed, promising free
things from the practical to the fantastical along with the
purchase of books, food items and other  consumer goods . The
American Tobacco Co. even induced amputees to purchase
their products by offering them artificial limbs. In one
plaintive letter to a trade journal in 1911, a man missing
one leg at the knee implored his fellow members of the
Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen to contribute their
tobacco coupons: He needed to amass 40,000 of them in two
years.  ‘Irrational Excitement’  From a business perspective, incentives have been a
smart strategy from the start. They have a way of
persuading us to buy goods we otherwise might not have, to
buy them in greater quantities than we had intended, or to
waste valuable time standing in line for a free item we
have no use for.  As  Dan Ariely  explains in “Predictably Irrational: The
Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions,” paying nothing for
something is “a source of irrational excitement.” It
overrides the rational part of our brain that would
calculate how much something offered for free might
actually cost us. “Most transactions have an upside and a
downside, but when something is FREE! we forget the
downside,” Ariely writes. “FREE! gives us such an emotional
charge that we perceive what is being offered as immensely
more valuable than it really is.”  Not surprisingly, incentive goods, however popular,
tend to be quite shoddy. Take the mid-19th-century book
dealers that successfully sold remaindered books (that were
themselves otherwise of little value in the market) by
offering worthless trifles (imitation silk handkerchiefs,
electroplated pen and pencil sets, and so on) along with
them. People were more interested in the gift than the item
they were purchasing.  When incentives actually are quality goods, their
value is typically low compared with the amount of consumer
investment required to get them. The free toaster famously
offered in exchange for opening a bank account was quite
modest compensation for, potentially, a lifetime’s worth of
loyal patronage.  We continue to be seduced by free stuff, our consumer
selves having evolved little over time. Children today are
often enticed by the prizes that accompany  McDonald (MCD) ’s Happy
Meals, which also serve as clever tie-ins to toy lines and
new films.  Now, though, most incentives exist in abstract form,
as frequent-flier miles and loyalty points with tightly
controlled and often opaque redemption procedures. These
incentives also come at a price that extends beyond the
mere cost of purchase, because we blithely trade valuable
contact information and personal details for something as
mundane as a promotional T-shirt.  Now, as then, marketers know that we can’t resist free
things, even as they end up costing us more and more.  (Wendy Woloson is an independent scholar and
consulting historian. Her most recent book is “In Hock:
Pawning in America from the Revolution to the Great
Depression.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Wendy Woloson at
 wendy@repositoryofusefulknowledge.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 