-- Wynn’s Former Partner Nominates Two to Company’s Board
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-09-06T01:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/wynn-s-former-partner-nominates-two-to-company-s-board.html
Kazuo Okada, the Japanese
billionaire whose stake in  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  was forcibly
redeemed by the casino company, proposed two nominees to its
board of directors.  Okada’s Aruze USA Inc. plans to nominate Yale University
law professor Jonathan Macey and former broadcasting executive
Fredric G. Reynolds to the board of Las Vegas-based Wynn,
according to a regulatory  filing  yesterday. The annual meeting
is scheduled for Nov. 2.  With the nominations, Okada opens a new front in a fight
that is already being waged in U.S. and Japanese courts. The
casino company led by Steve Wynn, 70, said on Feb. 19 that an
investigation by its board found Okada made gifts and other
payments to casino regulators in Asia that made him unsuitable
as an investor.  George Sard, an outside spokesman for Wynn Resorts, said
the company had no comment. Steve Getzug, a spokesman for Okada,
also declined to comment.  Wynn Resorts seized Okada’s 20 percent stake, or 24.5
million shares, giving him a $1.9 billion, 10-year note in
return at a 30 percent discount to market value.  Macey, on leave from  Yale Law School , is the author of
several books on corporate law and Reynolds was chief financial
officer of  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  Aruze will pay each a one-
time fee of $50,000, according to today’s filing.  Reynolds, reached through CBS, declined to comment. Macey
didn’t respond to telephone and e-mailed messages.  Okada, the founder and chairman of the Tokyo-based pachinko
company  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , has contested the
redemption. He is scheduled to appear Sept. 18 in  Las Vegas  for
a deposition by Wynn Resorts’ lawyers, according to Okada’s Aug.
31 state court filing in Las Vegas.  Okada Motion  A Wynn Resorts co-founder and vice chairman before being
removed, Okada, 69, sued the casino operator in January for
access to financial records in a dispute over use of company
funds, citing a $135 million donation in July 2011 to the
University of Macau Development Foundation.  Okada asked a Nevada judge to rule that Wynn Resorts can’t
prevent him from voting his 24.5 million shares at the
stockholder meeting, or from nominating directors, until the
legal challenge to the redemption has been resolved.  “This relief is necessary because the Wynn Resorts board
of directors purports to have forcibly redeemed Aruze USA’s
almost 20 percent interest in Wynn Resorts, seeking to
disenfranchise Aruze USA with respect to critical upcoming
stockholder votes and to silence Kazuo Okada as the lone voice
of dissent against  Steve Wynn  on the board,” according to
Okada’s Aug. 31 filing in Las Vegas.  Universal Entertainment added 0.7 percent to 1,631 yen at
9:48 a.m. in  Tokyo . Wynn fell 1.1 percent to $99.61 at the close
yesterday in  New York . The shares have declined 9.8 percent this
year.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, A-12-656710-B4522-B,
District Court, Clark County Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  