-- Xstrata CEO Said to Encourage Glencore, Qatar Resolution on Deal
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-09-06T23:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/xstrata-ceo-said-to-encourage-glencore-qatar-resolution-on-deal.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  Chief Executive Officer
 Mick Davis  has encouraged  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and Qatar’s
sovereign-wealth fund to work out their differences ahead of a
shareholder vote on this year’s largest takeover, according to
people familiar with the situation.  Davis, who stands to get as much as 28.8 million pounds
($46 million) in performance-related bonuses should the deal
succeed, has been in contact with Qatar Holding LLC and
commodity trader Glencore about a resolution ahead of today’s
vote by shareholders in Switzerland, said the people, who
declined to be identified as the discussions are private. Davis
isn’t actively involved in any negotiations between Glencore and
the Qatari fund, two people said.  Qatar Holding, controlled by the Persian Gulf state’s royal
family and the owner of 12 percent of Xstrata, has said it will
block the 21.5 billion-pound deal that would create the world’s
fourth-largest mining company. The fund is calling for the
proposed exchange ratio of 2.8 Glencore shares for each Xstrata
share to be raised to 3.25. Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg has
said he doesn’t understand the fund’s position and has rejected
calls from Qatar and other investors to raise the bid.  Xstrata investors are due to meet at 10 a.m. London time at
the  Theatre-Casino  in Zug,  Switzerland , where the company is
based. A 75 percent acceptance level is needed for the  takeover 
to proceed. Glencore shareholders, about 80 percent of whom are
company employees, are set to vote two hours earlier at the same
venue.  A Bump?  “Investors should not underestimate Glencore’s ability to
engineer a bump in the agreed ratio to three shares or the
possibility of a last-minute deal with Qatar,” Alain William, a
Paris-based analyst at Societe Generale SA, said in a note.  Davis isn’t negotiating actively on anyone’s behalf,
according to the people. Glasenberg, Glencore’s largest
shareholder with a stake of about 16 percent, will make the
final decision on whether to raise the bid and will rely less
on advisers as the deal nears a conclusion, a person familiar
with the matter said last week.  Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment. A spokesman for Xstrata and an
official who speaks for the Qatari fund also declined to
comment.  Xstrata gained 4.7 percent to 979 pence in  London 
yesterday, 2.5 times Glencore’s closing price of 392.4 pence.  Votes from as little as 16.48 percent of Xstrata’s shares
would be sufficient to block the deal because Glencore can’t
vote its 34 percent stake under the terms of the deal, which was
announced in February.  Qatar Stake  The shareholder meetings were originally planned for July
11 and July 12. They were rescheduled after Qatar said June 26
it wanted a higher offer, and following Xstrata’s alteration of
the terms of a proposed compensation package for its executives.  Xstrata moved on the pay issue to defuse objections from
some investors to the 172.8 million pounds of retention payments
proposed for 73 of its executives. The payments were converted
to shares instead of cash and the terms were also changed,
linking some of the bonuses to performance. The payments include
28.8 million pounds of shares to be paid to Davis over three
years.  Qatar Holding has spent about $5 billion buying shares
since the bid was announced to become the biggest shareholder in
Xstrata after Glencore, filings show.  New Offer  The fund said last week that while it didn’t object to the
principle of the deal, it wouldn’t support it based on the
current terms. Xstrata stockholders Schroders Plc and Standard
Life Investments have also said they will vote against the bid.
Glasenberg said Aug. 21 he was ready to move on from the deal
rather than overpay.  Davis, 54, stands to become CEO of the enlarged company,
while Glasenberg, 55 and Glencore’s largest shareholder with a
stake of about 16 percent, would become deputy CEO.  Should the current proposal fail, Glencore executives are
considering a structure for a new offer that would be more
difficult to block, a person with knowledge of the matter said
this week. It may seek an offer structured as a more
conventional takeover, the person said. That would reduce the
level of acceptances needed to complete a deal to more than 50
percent, compared with 75 percent using the current so-called
scheme of arrangement.  Xstrata is being advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank
International Plc. Glencore, which has agreed to pay Xstrata a
so-called break fee of 298 million pounds should it withdraw the
offer, has tapped Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Qatar
Holding has been advised by Lazard Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  