-- Yamaha Jumps After CEO Sees Sales Recovery in Indonesia
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-09-06T09:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/yamaha-jumps-after-ceo-sees-sales-recovery-in-indonesia.html
Yamaha Motor Co. (7272) ,  Japan ’s second-
largest motorcycle maker, surged the most in more than three
years in  Tokyo  trading after the chief executive officer said
sales in  Indonesia  will most likely exceed its goal.  Yamaha climbed 11 percent to close at 727 yen in Tokyo
trading, the biggest advance since Feb. 25, 2009. The Iwata
City, Japan-based company expects sales in Indonesia to
“slightly outperform” its target of 2.4 million units in the
year to Dec. 31, President and CEO Hiroyuki Yanagi said today.  The company has performed “better than expected” in
Indonesia in the three months through August, Yanagi said in
Tokyo. Yamaha, which  sold  42 percent of its total motorcycles in
the first half in Indonesia, is counting on the Southeast Asian
nation and other emerging markets to drive growth. The Japanese
company’s sales in Indonesia fell 21 percent in the first half
from a year earlier.  “It looks like business in Indonesia is set to recover,
and Yamaha seems to have overcome its concerns,” said Koichi Sugimoto, a Tokyo-based auto analyst at BNP Paribas SA.
“Yamaha’s  cost  cutting measures seem to be taking effect, and
we can expect a rebound in the next fiscal year.”  Yamaha, which gets about 89 percent of  sales  from overseas,
plans to introduce 16 new models annually in  emerging markets .  Industrywide demand for motorcycles in Indonesia declined
5.5 percent to 3.64 million units in the first half, according
to Yamaha. Yamaha’s motorcycle sales in Indonesia in the period
declined to 1.31 million units from 1.65 million units a year
earlier, the company said.  Yamaha is targeting 28 billion yen ($357 million) in
operating profit this year, 38 percent lower than an earlier
forecast, as net income in the first half fell 50 percent. It
also expects sales to drop to 1.2 trillion yen, 14 percent lower
than forecast earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  