-- Yankees Retake AL East Lead With Win Over Rays as Orioles Lose
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-06T04:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/yankees-retake-al-east-lead-with-win-over-rays-as-orioles-lose.html
The  New York Yankees  moved back into
sole possession of first place in the American League East with
a 6-4 victory over the Tampa Bay Rays after the  Baltimore
Orioles  fell 6-4 to the Toronto Blue Jays.  Baltimore is one game behind New York in the division and
is tied atop the AL wild-card standings with the Oakland
Athletics, who lost 7-1 to the Los Angeles Angels last night.
The Rays are 1 1/2 games back, with the top two teams making the
postseason.  “Buckle up, it’s going to be a hell of a ride over the
last month,” Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  told
reporters. “I’d tell our fans who care deeply about us and pay
a lot of money, I would tell them to hang in. We’re going to
sprint this one out and try to do them proud.”  The Yankees (77-59) open a four-game series tonight against
Baltimore (76-60) at the 46,000-capacity Oriole Park in Camden
Yards.  “When that place is sold out with Orioles fans, it’s a
great atmosphere,” Baltimore first baseman  Mark Reynolds  told
reporters. “I’m actually a little nervous out there playing in
front of so many people.”  In the National League, the Washington Nationals defeated
the Chicago Cubs 9-1 to improve to 84-52, the best record in
 Major League Baseball . The Atlanta Braves (77-60), who beat the
Colorado Rockies 1-0, and the St. Louis Cardinals (74-63), who
lost 6-2 to the  New York Mets , have the top two spots in the NL
wild-card race. The  Los Angeles Dodgers  are a game behind the
Cardinals.  Yankees Lead  Alex Rodriguez  hit a run-scoring double and  Russell Martin 
followed with a two-run ground-rule double in the fourth inning
to give New York a 3-1 lead at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg,
Florida.  Martin hit his 15th home run of the season in the sixth and
two runners reached home plate on a Tampa Bay error in the
seventh.  Evan Longoria hit a run-scoring single in the first for the
Rays (75-62), who are 2 1/2 games behind the Yankees in the AL
East.  Ben Zobrist  tied the game at 3-3 in the fifth with a two-
run triple and Luke Scott homered in the sixth to tie the game
at 4-4.  Hiroki Kuroda (13-10) allowed four runs on eight hits and
struck out three in six innings for the Yankees.  Rafael Soriano 
pitched a perfect ninth inning for his 36th save.  Rays starter  Matt Moore  (10-9) gave up six runs on eight
hits while striking out nine in 6 1/3 innings.  Orioles Lead  At Rogers Centre in Toronto, the Orioles led 2-0 in the
second inning on  Adam Jones ’s solo home run and Matt Wieters’s
score on Manny Machado’s groundout to second.  Toronto’s Kelly Johnson hit a run-scoring double in the
second and Rajai Davis hit a solo home run to tie the game 2-2
in the third inning before the Rays added four runs in the
seventh.  Reynolds ended the scoring in the ninth inning with a two-
run homer for the Orioles.  “We won the series; that’s our goal,” said Orioles
catcher Wieters. Baltimore took the series 2-1.  Nationals pitcher Gio Gonzalez earned his 18th win,
pitching a three-hitter and striking out nine in seven innings
against the Cubs.  Roger Bernadina, Bryce Harper and Adam LaRoche each blasted
home runs in the third inning as the Nationals took a 5-0 lead.
Harper added another solo home run in the sixth and Ian Desmond
and Danny Espinosa added two home runs in the seventh.  Anthony Rizzo scored the Cubs’ only run with a home run in
the ninth inning.  It was the second consecutive game in which the Nationals
had six home runs against the Cubs, who have lost the first
three contests in the four-game series that ends tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  