-- Myanmar Investment Law Fight Spurs ADB Warning: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-09-06T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/myanmar-investment-law-fight-spurs-adb-warning-southeast-asia.html
Myanmar President Thein Sein is
moving to counter lawmakers who inserted protectionist elements
in a foreign investment bill that may impede overseas companies
just as the U.S. and European Union ease sanctions.  Thein Sein’s administration is pushing back against a draft
passed by Myanmar’s 440-member Lower House last month, Finance
Ministry adviser Than Lwin said by phone yesterday. The draft
law raises the minimum threshold for investing in the country
and caps ownership at 49 percent in some sectors, according to a
report by Singapore-based Vriens & Partners, which advises
companies looking to invest in Myanmar.  “It will create a lot of problems for Myanmar if they want
to compete with  Cambodia , Laos,  Thailand , the  Philippines  or
others,” Alfredo Perdiguero, the  Asian Development Bank ’s
principal economist on Myanmar, said by phone yesterday. “They
have really watered down the law to a point where we think it’s
too weak.”  The debate reflects misgivings among local businesses
concerned at losing out to foreign companies as Myanmar opens up
following a shift to democracy that has attracted  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
and MasterCard Inc. The ADB last month said Myanmar’s economy
may grow as much as 8 percent per year if it continues taking
steps to increase trade and attract investment.  “What you see here is a lobbying effort by local industry
with the lower house of parliament that clearly doesn’t reflect
the opinion of the president and the key economic ministers,”
said  Hans Vriens , managing partner of  Vriens & Partners . “I
expect this draft will see substantial changes. I can’t think of
any country in  Southeast Asia  with the exception of  Singapore 
where the government is so keen to attract foreign companies to
invest and build up the economy as Myanmar.”  $5 Million Minimum  The requirement for foreign companies to spend a minimum of
$5 million might stifle investment in the  tourism industry ,
where jobs can be created quickly, Vriens said. Myanmar
attracted 816,369 tourists last year, compared with about 19
million in neighboring Thailand, according to government
 statistics .  The draft caps foreign ownership at 49 percent for joint
ventures in restricted sectors, which include agriculture and
fisheries, and mandates parliamentary approval for “investments
of a very large size.” It also requires 75 percent of employees
to be Myanmar citizens after six years, down from 15 years in an
earlier version.  Than Lwin, who is also deputy chairman of  Kanbawza Bank
Ltd.  and a member of the National Economic and Social Advisory
Council, said the government would aim to remove the $5 million
requirement among other clauses.  More Incentives  “We are still discussing how we can do away with these
protectionist clauses,” he said. “On the whole we are trying
to move toward more incentives for foreign investors. If you put
in more protectionist measures, you wouldn’t expect any
significant FDI coming in.”  President  Barack Obama  in July authorized U.S. companies to
invest in Myanmar for the first time in about 15 years. Thein
Sein met Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  at a July 13
business forum in  Phnom Penh , Cambodia, that included
representatives from  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Boeing Co. and General Motors Co.  MasterCard this month became the first payments network to
issue a license to a Myanmar bank as the country moves to
integrate with the global financial system. The company plans to
set up an office in the country once credit card usage becomes
more widespread, according to Vicky Bindra, MasterCard’s
president for Asia-Pacific, the  Middle East  and  Africa .  “It’s very difficult to predict how long it will take, but
it will happen, that’s for sure,” he said by phone on Sept. 5.
“It could be anywhere from five to 10 years depending on how
much support there is from the government.”  Parliamentary Power  Debate over the investment law was delayed as parliament
moved to impeach members of the Constitutional Tribunal over a
ruling that lawmakers said favored the executive over the
legislative branch. The case showed parliament was “flexing its
muscles,” said Derek Tonkin, former British ambassador to
Thailand, Vietnam and  Laos  and chairman of  Network Myanmar ,
which promotes reconciliation in the country.  “They are anxious to show their mettle, to show that they
really are independent,” Tonkin said. “The president has a
very difficult choice” on whether to delay consideration of the
bill or push for changes now, he said.  Thein Sein took power last year after his party won an
election that ended about five decades of direct military rule.
Since taking office, he dismantled a fixed  exchange rate , eased
media censorship and held talks with opponents such as former
political prisoner Aung San Suu Kyi.  ‘Fine-Tuning’  Total foreign direct investment in Myanmar between 2005 and
2010 amounted to $3.8 billion, most of it in the oil and gas,
power and mining sectors, according to the ADB. The country’s
low-cost labor and strategic location next to China and  India 
are among draws for investors, it  said  last month.  Concerns over the foreign investment law are largely
limited to companies based in the U.S. and EU, said Andrew Rickards, chief executive officer of  Yoma Strategic Holdings
Ltd. (YOMA) , a Singapore-based developer of properties in Myanmar.  “If you think how quickly the country has come from being
pretty much closed to the open debate we are now having, you
will see how far the country has come and that what we are now
seeing is some ‘fine tuning,’” he said by e-mail. “The over-
riding sentiment from the top is that the country still needs
foreign investment to develop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  