-- Yellen Getting Fed Hawks to Work With Doves Signals Potential
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-09-06T04:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/yellen-getting-fed-hawks-to-work-with-doves-signals-potential.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve used to be
a black box. Big banks employed full-time Fed watchers to study
the money markets and guess what the institution was up to. When
 Janet Yellen  was appointed a Fed governor in 1994, it was just
six months after the central bank had published for the first
time a statement to announce that it had adjusted benchmark
 interest rates .  How much has changed. The central bank now explains its
every move and even discusses decisions to not move. It outlines
its view of the future and says what it might do next. The Fed’s
pledge to keep rates near zero through 2014 shows how
communications and policy actions have melded as Chairman Ben S. Bernanke searches for tools to support a sputtering recovery
with no further fiscal help from Congress.  Yellen, 66, has championed transparency and clearer
messaging throughout her time at the Fed, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its October special issue on  the 50 Most
Influential people in global finance . As vice chairman the past
two years, she has united disparate factions on the 19-member
 Federal Open Market Committee  for a communications overhaul.  The recommendations of an FOMC subcommittee on this topic,
which she chairs, have thrust Bernanke into quarterly press
conferences and led to the individual interest-rate forecasts of
policy makers being made public. In January, her panel even
managed to  explicitly commit  the Fed to an inflation target of 2
percent and to attaining an  unemployment rate  between 5.2 and 6
percent, their current estimate for full employment.  ‘Short List’  “I didn’t walk in here in 1994 thinking this was a key
issue I’d be working on,” says Yellen, who was a governor from
1994 to 1997 and served as president of the Federal Reserve Bank
of  San Francisco  from 2004 to 2010. “It’s been a long sequence
of steps to get where we are today.”  And where is Yellen today? Possibly in line to succeed
Bernanke, whose second four-year stint as chairman ends in
January 2014. “In a second Obama term, were Bernanke to leave,
Janet Yellen would be at the top of the short list for Fed
chair,” says Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation
studies at the  Cato Institute .  Yellen’s campaign for transparency has made the Fed a more
effective steward of the economy, says  Alan Blinder , a Princeton
University economist who was one of Yellen’s predecessors as
vice chairman. “The Fed was once a laggard on public
communications,” Blinder says. The early 1990s, in his view,
were the end of the Middle Ages. “The Enlightenment was just
barely starting,” he says.  ‘Leading the Pack’  Especially in the past two years, thanks to Yellen and her
working group, the changes have come to fruition, Blinder says.
“Because of this latest effort, the Fed is pretty much leading
the pack on transparency,” he says.  Bernanke put Yellen in charge of the new subcommittee on
the dry topic of “communicating with the public” at her  first
FOMC meeting  as vice chairman, on Nov. 2, 2010. Her panel came
to include both inflation hawks, who have dissented from FOMC
decisions to add economic stimulus, and doves, who believe the
policy-making committee should do more to boost growth and bring
down unemployment.  Count Yellen as a dove. She says the Fed can help create
jobs with  accommodative monetary policy  and should tolerate
somewhat more inflation to achieve that end.  Richard Shelby , the senior Republican on the Senate Banking
Committee, opposed her appointment as vice chairman in 2010,
arguing that she would make the Fed less cautious about rising
prices. “President Yellen has a Keynesian bias toward inflation
in the unrealistic hope that inflation will increase
employment,” he said before the vote on her nomination.  Quantitative Easing  Yellen has defended the central bank’s two rounds of asset
purchases, or quantitative easing. In a Jan. 8, 2011, speech at
an American Economic Association meeting in Denver, she said
they created 3 million jobs. As vice chairman, however, she has
not always sided with the dovish members as they have pushed for
more easing and has never dissented from a policy decision.  Calabria, who previously worked for Shelby as a senior
staffer on the Banking Committee, says Yellen has avoided much
of the hawk-dove rancor and remains a viable candidate for
chairman. “With her experience in the Fed system and academic
expertise, she would have a far better chance getting Senate
approval, even under Republicans, than others of a similar
dovish temperament,” he says.  Inflation Target  Yellen’s  influence  at the Fed is evident in the January
statement on inflation and employment issued by her
communications subcommittee and later adopted by the full FOMC.
It’s the most precise formulation ever of the Fed’s mission.  The statement specified that the 2 percent inflation target
would be as measured by the personal consumption expenditures
price index. It assessed the Fed’s ability to affect employment,
estimating it should be possible in today’s economy to get
joblessness down to 5.2 to 6 percent.  These are matters that excite central bankers and go to the
core of the Fed’s so-called dual mandate, which was established
by Congress in 1977. The Fed is charged with obtaining both
maximum employment and stable prices. Lawmakers left it up to
the Fed governors and presidents to determine the best path to
these goals and even their definition.  “You’re trying to institutionalize something that is by
agreement only,” says  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow
Financial Inc. in  Chicago . “You want to make it as durable as
possible. You can’t do that unless you get the extremes to buy
in.”  ‘Ideas and Evidence’  John Williams , who was president of the San Francisco Fed
after Yellen, says she knows how to find commonalities and build
consensus. “Although she has strong views, experience, knowledge
and expertise, she’s a person to whom ideas and evidence
matter,” says Williams, who served as Yellen’s research director
in San Francisco. “She listens to people. She learns from what
other people are saying.”  Yellen -- who earned her Ph.D. at  Yale University , studying
under future Nobel laureates  James Tobin  and  Joseph Stiglitz  --
started out on an academic path. She became an assistant
professor at  Harvard University  and might never have made it to
the Fed if the university had awarded her tenure. In 1977, she
took a job as an economist in the central bank’s division of
international finance.  There she met another ambitious young economist,  George Akerlof , who worked in the bank’s division of research and
statistics. They fell in love over discussions in the cafeteria
at the Fed’s  Martin Building , known for its panoramic views of
the National Mall and mediocre food.  Akerlof  They married in July 1978. Later that year, they left the
Fed, first for the  London School  of Economics and then for the
 University of California , Berkeley.  Akerlof never returned to the Fed system, but he did fine
in academia. He won the  Nobel Prize in 2001  with Stiglitz and
 Michael Spence  for their analysis of how markets function when
there is asymmetric information -- when one party in a
transaction has better information than the other.  “Not only did our personalities mesh perfectly, but we have
also always been in all but perfect agreement about
macroeconomics,” Akerlof said of Yellen in his autobiography for
the Nobel. “Our lone disagreement is that she is a bit more
supportive of free trade than I.” That remark is a joke, Yellen
says. They agree about trade too.  Akerlof and Yellen were a formidable duo at Berkeley,
authoring more than a dozen papers, some jointly and some
individually, and together editing a book that examined how the
labor market functions.  ‘Rip-Roaring Debate’  “There was a rip-roaring debate during the time we were at
Berkeley -- in a way it continues to this day -- about the
nature of unemployment and what can be done to address it,”
Yellen says.  When joblessness is cyclical, the result of a weak economy,
it can be addressed by  monetary policy . If it’s structural, the
result of such things as worker skills not matching employer
needs, the steps needed to fix it are mostly beyond the scope of
central bank actions.  “This type of argument constantly resurfaces whenever
unemployment rises, and it’s alive and well now,” Yellen says.
“If you read my speeches, you can see me arguing that the
unemployment we have is not structural. It’s cyclical. But you
can see some of my colleagues arguing the opposite.”  Having done extensive research on what affects
unemployment, Yellen quickly won respect when she became a
governor, says Susan Phillips, who was appointed to the Fed in
1991, three years before Yellen.  Typed Remarks  She developed a reputation for rigor and preparation,
arriving at meetings with typed-up remarks that she revised as
other policy makers at the table spoke, Phillips recalls. “It’s
a demonstration of how careful she was,” she says. “She listened
to what other people had to say and went through editing her
comments to reflect and respond to it.”  With the U.S. unemployment rate stuck  above 8 percent  for
the past three and a half years, there’s definitely room for Fed
policy makers to debate their response. As of August, the FOMC
had been unable to reach a unanimous decision on monetary policy
in more than a year -- and had managed unanimity only four times
since 2009. The polarization is even more extreme among the
economists and politicians who watch and criticize Bernanke and
the central bank.  All the disagreement, though, just puts a higher value on
Yellen’s ability to find common ground among Fed policy makers
-- and to create new ways to communicate what they’re trying to
get done.  Editors: Robert Dieterich, Jonathan Neumann  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  