-- Lynas Surges After Winning Delayed Malaysia Permit: Sydney Mover
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-09-06T06:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/lynas-surges-after-winning-delayed-malaysia-permit-sydney-mover.html
Lynas Corp. (LYC) , developing the world’s
largest rare-earth refinery in Malaysia, climbed the most in
more than three years in Sydney trading after receiving a permit
to start production following months of delays.  The Malaysian Atomic Energy Licensing Board yesterday
granted a temporary operating license for the company’s plant in
Pahang, Sydney-based Lynas said yesterday in a statement. This
will enable the transportation of rare earths concentrate ahead
of first production that’s expected in October, it said.  The refinery has been held up by protests and legal delays
amid community concern over radiation risks. Lynas, which was
initially granted permit approval in February, rose 41 percent
to 84 Australian cents, its biggest gain since May 2009.  “Many in the market were skeptical that the license would
get issued because it seemed to be heavily politicized,”  Andrew Harrington , resource analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd., said
yesterday by phone from Sydney. “It’s going to be extremely
positive for the share price which has been suffering from a lot
of shorting because of the doubts.”  Lynas, which said last week it would export waste material
from the plant to ease community concerns, is still down 20
percent this year, under-performing a 6.3 percent gain in the
S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Rare earths, 17 chemically similar elements, are used in
Apple Inc.’s iPod music players, flat-screen televisions,
magnets and hybrid cars. The materials are also used to make
goods such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  helicopter blades, Nokia Oyj mobile
phones and Toyota Motor Corp. wind turbines.  China Factor  Lynas has thousands of tons of unprocessed raw materials
piled up at its Mount Weld mine in  Western Australia  ready for
export, Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Curtis said June 29.
The processing hold-up has had repercussions for clients with
some reversing plans to open factories near the Malaysian
refinery. Instead they set up in  China , which currently supplies
90 percent of the world’s rare earths, he said then.  The licensing board will monitor operations and safety
standards, Lynas said in yesterday’s statement. A permanent
license may be granted during the next two years should
standards be met, it said.  Maximus Johnity Ongkili, Malaysia’s minister of science,
technology and innovation, rejected in June an appeal by local
residents to cancel Lynas’s permit. Protests have included a
march on parliament, court challenges and social media
campaigns.  “I am very angry,” Fuziah Salleh, opposition member of
parliament for Kuantan, Pahang, said by phone yesterday. “We
will have to consult our lawyers.”  Seeking Stay  The temporary operating permit is valid for two years
through to Sept. 2, 2014, the licensing board said yesterday in
a  statement  on its website. The permit will enable Lynas to
conduct trial processing of lanthanide concentrates in stages
and in limited quantities under close and continuous
surveillance by the authorities, it said.  Save  Malaysia , Stop Lynas!, a protest group, has two
outstanding applications in court to review the minister’s
decision, said Tan Bun Teet, its chairman.  “It looks like they have beaten the gun,” he said by
phone. “We will ask our lawyers to put in an intervention to
ask for a stay.”  Phase one has been completed with capacity of 11,000 tons
per annum, Curtis said yesterday. The second phase should start
in the second quarter of next year with the plant capable of
running at full capacity by the end of next year processing
22,000 tons per annum, Lynas’s CEO said.  “Malaysia has a healthy legal system,” said Curtis. “I’m
not going to prejudge the outcome of the appeals, but in the
Malaysian system they are entitled to do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  