-- Hypo Alpe-Adria’s Capital Need Rises to 2.19 Billion Euros
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-09-06T07:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/hypo-alpe-adria-s-capital-need-rises-to-2-19-billion-euros-1-.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the nationalized Austrian lender loaded with bad debt, said
its capital need rose 46 percent to 2.19 billion euros ($2.8
billion) as of the end of April.  Austria ’s Financial Markets Authority told the bank it has
until March 31 to fill the shortfall, which would boost Hypo
Alpe’s equity ratio to 12.67 percent, according to a statement
from Klagenfurt, Austria-based Hypo Alpe today. The FMA said a
year ago that the bank had a 1.5 billion-euro gap.  Hypo Alpe, which is the third-biggest lender in the former
Yugoslav nations, is one of three banks Austria has rescued
since 2008 after shareholders walked away. The risk of further
state capital injections into banks was one of the main reasons
the Alpine republic lost its AAA rating at  Standard & Poor’s  and
was put on negative outlook at Moody’s Investors Service earlier
this year.  The bank, led by Chief Executive Officer Gottwald Kranebitter, will “continue to do everything to strive to
reduce risk and to create conditions that allow an adequate
capital ratio without direct injections from its owner,” it
said in the statement.  State Bailout  Hypo Alpe has received 1.35 billion euros in state capital
and a 200 million-euro guarantee already, of which the federal
government wrote off 700 million euros in last year’s budget.
About 16.7 billion euros of its funding is also guaranteed by
Austria and the province of Carinthia, Hypo Alpe’s former owner.  The regulator increased the bank’s capital ratio
requirement to 12.67 percent from 12.04 percent because of a
“more conservative” assessment of its credit risk and the
increasingly tight situation on the financial markets, Hypo Alpe
said. The ratios for the bank’s units in Italy and Slovenia were
set at 10 percent and 9 percent, respectively, and are already
met, it said.  The March 31 deadline is a three-month extension from the
previous end-of-year date. The bank has until Sept. 28 to
comment on the FMA’s demands.  Austria’s  Finance Ministry  said that while it acknowledged
the FMA’s suggestion, this only was a draft with Hypo Alpe still
able to reply to the regulator. The ministry will wait for a
final verdict before it commented, it said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Hypo Alpe’s common equity Tier 1 ratio, a measure of
financial strength, rose to 2.6 percent in the first half from 2
percent at the end of last year as it cut assets and bought back
hybrid capital, it said in a presentation for investors last
month. Its Tier 1 ratio, a broader measure, fell to 6.1 percent
from 6.2 percent.  While the lender swung to a loss in the first six months of
this year, the units it put up for sale were all profitable,
according to the presentation. The biggest, in the former
 Yugoslavia , had after-tax profit of 26 million euros, down from
32.3 million euros a year earlier.  Profit almost doubled in  Croatia  and narrowed in  Serbia ,
while the bank had losses in Slovenia and Montenegro. Hypo
Alpe’s larger rivals in the former Yugoslavia are  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
and Nova Ljubljanska Bank dd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Alpbach, Austria at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  