-- Blockbuster, Tribune, AbitibiBowater: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2011-01-28T13:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/abitibibowater-contessa-constar-charlie-brown-s-bankruptcy.html
  Borders Group Inc ., the book seller
that had a $143.7 million operating loss in the first three
quarters of 2010, obtained a $550 million financing commitment
that sets a high bar to avoiding Chapter 11.  General Electric Capital Corp. signed a commitment to
provide $550 million in secured financing to replace an existing
revolving credit and term loan. The commitment contains several
conditions, including the ability to syndicate $175 million of
the loan.  Before  Stamford , Connecticut-based GECC will close the
loan, Borders must convert $125 million of supplier payables
into a loan subordinate to GECC’s financing. As reported in
yesterday’s statement by Ann Arbor, Michigan-based Borders, the
lender also requires “financing arrangements with the company’s
vendors, landlords, and other financing parties” on terms
satisfactory to GECC.  One of the conditions is a “store closure program.”
Because closing stores entails breaching leases, landlords
evidently must agree to deal with their claims in a way that
Borders won’t be forced into bankruptcy by landlord lawsuits.  Before making the loan, GECC is allowed to complete due
diligence and be satisfied about Borders’ financial condition.  At the end of yesterday’s statement, Borders said it also
is exploring alternatives, including a bankruptcy court
restructuring. Borders isn’t paying its suppliers at the present
time.  Borders reported a $143.7 million operating loss and a
$185.2 million net loss for the first three quarters of the
current fiscal year on revenue of $1.52 billion. In the same
period last year, the operating loss was $115.6 million.  For the fiscal year ended Jan. 30, 2010, Borders had a
$110.2 million net loss and an $84.9 million operating loss on
revenue of $2.79 billion.  For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Borders closed yesterday at 80.6 cents a share in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares rose to more than
$1 in pre-market trading today.  Updates  Icahn Seeks Dismissal of Lyme Regis Blockbuster Suit  Carl Icahn asked a judge to dismiss the lawsuit filed
against him in bankruptcy court on Dec. 23 by Lyme Regis
Partners LLC, the holder of $570,000 of 9 percent senior
subordinated notes issued by  Blockbuster Inc ., the movie-rental
chain.  The suit seeks to subordinate Icahn’s claim or
recharacterize the debt as equity. In a motion filed yesterday,
Icahn said the complaint must be dismissed because Lyme Regis
isn’t authorized to sue based on damage allegedly incurred by
all creditors or by Blockbuster itself. Icahn’s motion to
dismiss refers to how the bankruptcy judge earlier in December
denied a motion by Lyme Regis for authority to sue Icahn on
behalf of the company and its creditors.  Icahn also said that the indenture governing the
subordinated notes precludes anyone with less than 25 percent of
the issue from suing.  Blockbuster filed in Chapter 11 having negotiated the
outline of a reorganization with holders of 80 percent of the
$630 million in 11.75 percent senior-secured notes. The deadline
for filing the plan and disclosure statement has been pushed
back several times and is now Feb. 4.  As originally envisioned, the plan would give new stock to
senior noteholders, with general unsecured creditors receiving
warrants for 3 percent. Lyme Regis and other holders of the $300
million in 9 percent subordinated notes would receive nothing.  Following the bankruptcy filing, Blockbuster rejected about
220 leases. The Dallas-based company said it would close 72
additional stores by the end of 2010 and about 110 more in the
first quarter of 2011.  Blockbuster began reorganizing in September with 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S. Of the U.S. stores, 3,000
were owned and the rest were franchised. About 200 stores closed
before bankruptcy.  The petition listed assets of $1.02 billion against debt of
$1.47 billion. Blockbuster estimated that it owes $57 million in
accounts payable in addition to the secured and subordinated
notes.  The case is In re Blockbuster Inc., 10-14997,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  Tribune Reports $43.3 Million Net Income in December  Tribune Co. filed an operating report showing net income of
$43.3 million for the period from Nov. 22 through Dec. 26. Total
revenue was $219.2 million and reorganization costs were $7.7
million.  Tribune reported that cash increased $36 million in the
month, to end at $1.78 billion. The cash balance report isn’t
the same as cash shown on the balance sheet, which totals $1.06
billion.  From the inception of the Chapter 11 case in December 2008,
Tribune has spent $25.2 million on its primary bankruptcy
counsel. Primary lawyers for the creditors’ committee have cost
$22.3 million.  Three reorganization plans will vie for approval at a
confirmation hearing to begin March 7. For a summary of the
plans filed by creditors, including one that was withdrawn,
click here for the Nov. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For
details on Tribune’s own plan, click here for the Oct. 25
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The plans differ in how they either settle or propose to
litigate disputes arising from fraudulent transfer claims
resulting from the $13.7 billion leveraged buyout led by Sam Zell in 2007. For a summary of some of the examiner’s
conclusions about possible defects and fraudulent transfers in
the LBO, click here for the July 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Tribune, the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S., listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune,  Los Angeles  Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  Bowater  Canada  Finance Chapter 11 Case to Be Dismissed  Reorganized newsprint maker  AbitibiBowater Inc . filed a
motion to dismiss the Chapter 11 case of subsidiary Bowater
Canada Finance Corp.  Although affiliates implemented their U.S. and Canadian
reorganizations in December, the BCFC affiliate was dropped out
because creditors of the subsidiary voted down the plan.  It was agreed at the time with BCFC noteholders that the
subsidiary’s U.S. Chapter 11 case would be dismissed, as would
the arrangement proceeding in Canada. Since then, BCFC has been
assigned into a proceeding under Canada’s Bankruptcy Insolvency
Act, in which the creditors’ representative will continue
pursuing claims against affiliates.  The BCFC noteholders turned down the Abitibi plan,
believing they would have a larger recovery pursing claims
through litigation.  BCFC is a so-called unlimited limited liability company
under Canadian law. Unlike ordinary corporations, where owners
have no liability for company debt, the shareholders of an
unlimited limited liability company are liable for all the
company debt. In addition to their claims on the notes, the
noteholders could a make a separate claim based on BCFC’s status
as an unlimited limited liability company.  A bankruptcy judge last month unsealed a September report
from BCFC’s special adviser looking into whether BCFC should
pursue claims against affiliates and their officers and
directors. The adviser concluded that claims shouldn’t be
pursued against officers and directors. The adviser also
recommended against suit for misuse of proceeds of the BCFC
notes.  In a similar case involving a Canadian finance subsidiary
of  Smurfit-Stone Container Corp ., a bankruptcy judge in Delaware
ruled this month against the noteholders. That opinion was based
on a specific provision in the indenture waiving a possible
double recovery. The question of whether noteholders are
entitled to a double recovery on account of Canadian law was
left undecided in the Smurfit decision. For a discussion of the
Smurfit case, click here for the Jan. 11 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Abitibi’s plan reduced debt by 88 percent, from $6.8
billion to $850 million. For a summary of the plan, which
treated creditors differently at each of the 40 affiliated
companies, click here for the Nov. 23 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  The company was formed in October 2007 by a merger between
Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville, South
Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi makes newsprint, uncoated
mechanical paper and lumber. Bowater also makes newsprint, along
with papers, bleached kraft pulp and lumber.  The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24 pulp
and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in 2008 was
$6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April 2009, the
combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of $9.9 billion
and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of September 2008.  The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Constar Projects $16.3 Million Operating  Cash Flow     Constar International Inc ., a manufacturer of blow-molded
plastic beverage containers, filed projections with the
bankruptcy court predicting cash receipts of $342.5 million in
calendar 2011.  The projection, required by bankruptcy court rules, shows
$16.3 million of net operating cash flow this year. Capital
expenditures of $13.9 million and $9.9 million in professional
fees are predicted to result in a $7.4 million negative net cash
flow. The negative cash flow would be offset by a net of $18.3
million in drawings on a credit agreement.  The Chapter 11 case is being financed with a promised $55
million loan. The hearing for final approval of financing will
occur on Feb. 1.  The prepackaged reorganization begun Jan. 11 was Constar’s
second in two years. For details on the new reorganization and
the predecessor, click here for the Jan. 12 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Constar’s Sept. 30 balance sheet listed assets of $325
million and total liabilities of $321 million. The new petition
said assets are $418 million with debt of $414 million.  For nine months ending in September, the Philadelphia-based
company reported a $56.8 million operating loss and a $73.7
million net loss on net sales of $439 million.  The new case is In re Constar International Inc., 11-10109,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). The
prior reorganization was In re Constar International Inc., 08-
13432, in the same court.  Charlie Brown’s Liquor License in  New Jersey  Draws $280,000 Bid  The owner of  Charlie Brown’s Steakhouse  has a purchaser
willing to pay $280,000 for one New Jersey liquor license. The
company wants the bankruptcy judge to approve the sale at a
March 9 hearing in view of extensive marketing efforts already
undertaken.  New Jersey has a limited number of liquor licenses.
Scarcity makes the price high.  The company closed 47 locations before filing in Chapter
11. Liquor licenses that weren’t transferrable were canceled.
Those that have value are being sold. The company’s seven The
Office restaurants were authorized last week to be sold for
$4.675 million to  Villa Enterprises Inc.   The company said it will submit a motion in “short order”
to set up sale procedures for the remaining 32 locations.  At the outset of the Chapter 11 case, the lenders were owed
$70.2 million.  Along with Charlie Brown’s and The Office, the company,
controlled by Trimaran Capital Partners, operates under the name
Bugaboo Creek.  In addition to $70.2 million of secured debt at the outset
of the case, there is $14 million owing on second-lien senior
subordinated notes and $30 million on a mezzanine loan.  The senior secured lenders are Ableco Finance LLC, Wells
Fargo Capital Finance Inc. and Ally Commercial Finance LLC.  The case is CB Holding Corp., 10-13683, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filing  Frozen Seafood Processor Contessa Files in Los Angeles  Contessa Premium Foods Inc. , a processor of farm-raised
shrimp, convenience meals, and stir-fry vegetables, filed for
Chapter 11 reorganization on Jan. 26 in Los Angeles to reduce
debt on a new plant in Commerce,  California .  The company built the plant to be the “world’s first
environmentally friendly frozen food processing center,” a
court filing says. The recession resulted in declining revenue,
making the San Pedro, California-based company unable to exploit
the capacity of the new plant.  Sales fell from a peak of $221 million in 2007 to $154
million in 2010, according to court papers. Consumers are buying
less-expensive alternatives to closely held Contessa’s products,
the filing says.  Assets and debt are both between $50 million and $100
million, according to the petition.  The case is In re Contessa Premium Foods Inc., 11-13454,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District California (Los
Angeles).  Statistics  Professional Services Most Profitable in 2010  Professional service companies of various types occupied
all of the 10 top spots in the list of nonpublic companies with
the highest net profit margins in 2010, according to a study by
 Sageworks Inc.   Health-care providers occupied four of the top 10 spots.  With the exception of printers, the 10 least profitable
categories, as measured by net profit margin, were all in
industries related to construction, said Sageworks, a provider
of financial information about nonpublic businesses.  All categories of professional service companies had
increased revenue in 2010. All except two of the least
profitable categories of companies had revenue declines in 2010.  Retirement  William Hill Retiring From  North Dakota  Bankruptcy Court  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge William A. Hill in Fargo, North
Dakota, is retiring after 36 years in federal service.  Hill, 64, is the only U.S. bankruptcy judge in North
Dakota. He handles cases in four different courthouses in the
state.  While bankruptcies have been rising to near records
elsewhere, Hill said in an interview that favorable commodity
and oil prices have minimized filings in his state.  When asked if he intends to work after retirement, Hill
said, “I don’t want to be pinned down to anything.”  Hill’s retirement will be effective Aug. 21, according to
bankruptcy court clerk Dianne Schmitz. Announcing his retirement
in advance provides time for designating a successor, she said.  Hill received his undergraduate and law degrees from the
University of North Dakota. He became a U.S. magistrate judge in
1975 before his appointment to the bankruptcy bench in 1983.
Before serving as a magistrate, Hill was deputy secretary of
state in North Dakota.  Downgrade  Peninsula Gaming Downgraded on Debt for New Project  Casino operator Peninsula Gaming LLC was downgraded one
notch yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service in view of debt it
will incur for a new project.  The new corporate rating is B2, while the $305 million in
senior unsecured notes became Caa1.  Moody’s said Dubuque, Iowa-based Peninsula is issuing $172
million in new debt to finance the first phase of a $295 million
casino project in Mulvane, Kansas, slated to open in January
2012.  Peninsula operates four casinos in Iowa and  Louisiana .
Revenue for the first nine months of 2010 was $242 million. Net
income for the three quarters was $6 million.  The Sept. 30 balance sheet showed assets of $527.6 million
and total liabilities of $556.3 million.  Daily Podcast  Lehman, Summit, OTB, Townsends, Credit Bids: Bankruptcy Audio  The revised reorganization plan for  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc ., the prepackaged filing by Summit Business Media
Holding Co., the filing by the  DeWitt  nursing home on the East
Side of Manhattan, dismissal of the Chapter 9 municipal
reorganization for New York’s  Off-Track Betting Corp. , the
upcoming auction for chicken producer  Townsends Inc. , and how
the reorganization of the  InterContinental Chicago O’Hare  hotel
could lead to a conflict of circuits on the issue of so-called
credit bidding are analyzed in the bankruptcy podcast with
Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News bankruptcy
columnist and editor-at-large Bill Rochelle. To listen, click
here.  Advance Sheets  5th Circuit Remains Strict on Gerrymandering Classes  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  New Orleans  used a small case
to make big law on classifying similarly situated creditors into
separate classes under a Chapter 11 plan. The opinion on Jan. 26
could make life difficult for some companies reorganizing in the
three states covered by the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals:
Louisiana, Mississippi and  Texas .  The issue arises when a bankrupt company has one creditor
whose claim is large enough to block approval of the plan. To
overcome opposition, a bankrupt company will often put the
objecting creditor into a separate class, knowing that the
remaining creditors, as a different class, will vote “yes.”  With one class voting for the plan, it’s possible for the
bankruptcy judge to use the so-called cramdown process and
confirm the plan, even when the other class votes “no.”  Writing for the appeals court, U.S. Circuit Judge Jerry E. Smith cited a 1991 5th Circuit case, called Greystone, as
holding that “debtors cannot place claims into separate classes
to gerrymander the vote -- that is, to create an impaired class
that will approve the plan.” Smith said that all unsecured
creditors should have been in one class absent a “legitimate
reason,” given that they were all to share the same recovery.  Smith said the bankrupt company failed to convince the
bankruptcy judge that the opposing creditor had a sufficient
“non-creditor interest” to justify separate classification. He
said that a desire to avoid litigation in the future is a non-
creditor interest when the potential lawsuit in the future is
not related to the creditor’s claim.  Smith also said the bankrupt company failed to convince the
bankruptcy judge that there was sufficient animosity to justify
separate classification.  The case involved Save Our Springs Alliance Inc., an
Austin, Texas-based  environmental group . The bankruptcy court
dismissed the Chapter 11 case at the behest of Sweetwater Austin
Properties LLC, an Austin housing developer. Save Our Springs
lost a lawsuit to stop a Sweetwater development. Upholding a
Sweetwater counterclaim to recover attorneys’ fees in defending
the suit, the state court gave judgment in favor of Sweetwater
that was filed as a $295,000 claim when Save Our Springs later
sought Chapter 11 protection to stop collection of the judgment.  For discussions of rulings in the bankruptcy court, click
here and here for the Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The case is Save Our Springs Alliance Inc. v. WSI (II) Cos.
LLC (In re Save Our Springs Alliance Inc.), 09-50990, U.S. 5th
Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans). The Chapter 11 case was
In re Save Our Spring Alliance Inc., No. 07-10642, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Western District Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 