-- Accel's Jim Breyer Says Now Not Best Time for LinkedIn Initial Share Sale
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-01-28T15:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/accel-s-jim-breyer-says-now-not-best-time-for-linkedin-initial-share-sale.html
Accel Partners’ Jim Breyer said if
it were up to him he wouldn’t take LinkedIn Corp. public now.  “I don’t think there’s any rush to go to the public
markets,” said Breyer in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland .
“Certainly the advice we give our CEOs is ‘Take time, remain
private as long as you can, build the business, build the
profitability.’”  LinkedIn, based in  Mountain View ,  California , said
yesterday it plans to raise as much as $175 million in an
initial public offering. Shares of the social networking site
for professionals are being auctioned at valuation of almost $3
billion by the private exchange SharesPost, three people
familiar with the matter said last week.  While LinkedIn’s IPO will “not be a flop,” a valuation of
anything more than $3 billion would be “a reasonably high
price,” Breyer said. “We see a lot of deals that are priced
for perfection today.”  Breyer is the managing partner of  Palo Alto , California-
based venture capital firm Accel Partners. He has invested in
more than thirty companies, including $12.7 million in Facebook
Inc. in 2005 and a stake in Groupon Inc., which are both still
privately held. Last year, Fortune Magazine named Breyer the top
10 smartest investors in technology.  “There’s always a danger” of another technology bubble,
similar to the late 1990s, Breyer said.  Breyer declined to comment on the valuations of Facebook or
Groupon. He cited  Netflix Inc ., which delivers movies online and
DVDs by mail, as an example of a company where investor
enthusiasm may be driving valuation too high. Netflix shares
have risen more than fivefold in the past two years and has a
market value of about $11 billion.  “Does it deserve the kinds of valuations that it’s
currently seeing? God Knows,” Breyer said. “At some point you
lighten up and take a breath and let the company execute and
don’t try to jump in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 