-- Baht Has Weekly Loss as Foreigners Sell Thai Stocks; Bonds Drop
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2011-01-28T08:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/thai-baht-has-fourth-weekly-loss-as-foreigners-sell-stocks-bonds-decline.html
  Thailand ’s baht completed a fourth
weekly loss, its worst losing streak since June, after political
protests prompted overseas investors to trim their share
holdings. Interest-rate swaps rose and government bonds declined.  Global funds sold $57 million more stocks than they bought
this week through yesterday, bringing this month’s net sales to
$881 million, according to exchange data. The SET Index of
shares, which rose 41 percent last year, had its biggest drop
since October 2009 on Jan. 24 when nationalists announced they
would demonstrate in Bangkok the following day to pressure the
government over a border agreement with  Cambodia .  “The baht is clearly under downward pressure for now
because foreigners have been taking money out from stocks,”
said Kozo Hasegawa, a foreign-exchange trader at Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “The biggest reason is that investors
seem to have locked in profits from last year’s sharp gains. We
also had some political concern earlier this week and that
didn’t help sentiment at all.”  The baht fell 0.7 percent to 31.10 per dollar as of 3:35
p.m. in Bangkok, taking a weekly decline to 1.3 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached
31.13 today, the weakest level since Sept. 8.  The  People’s Alliance  for Democracy, which seized Bangkok’s
airports 26 months ago, demands that Thailand drop out of the  United Nations ’ World Heritage Committee, cancel a 2000
agreement with Cambodia on border negotiations and urge
Cambodians to withdraw from disputed border areas.  Manufacturing Declines  The industrial production index dropped 2.5 percent last
month from a year earlier, its first slide in 14 months,
according to the Office of Industrial Economics. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for a 0.65 percent increase.  “The resumption of these political activities are probably
giving people a reason to take money off the table,” said
Kobsidthi Silpachai, head of capital markets research at
Kasikornbank Pcl. The worse-than-expected data “gives further
justification for people to sell the baht,” he said.  The onshore interest-rate swap advanced this week and  government bonds  dropped as Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn
Trairatvorakul said on Jan. 26 the bank needs to boost borrowing
costs again to damp quickening inflation. There is a possibility
that  core inflation , which excludes fresh food and fuel, “will
exceed the top end” of the central bank’s 3 percent target,
Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said Jan. 21.  The one-year swap, the fixed cost needed to receive a
floating payment, increased 13 basis points this week to 1.89
percent. It fell 4.5 basis points from yesterday, when the rate
reached a 19-month high of 2.025 percent.  The yield on the 3.125 percent debt due December 2015
climbed 15 basis points from a week ago and two basis points
from yesterday to 3.38 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  