-- Mandela Discharged From Hospital, Is Stable After Infection, Surgeon Says
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2011-01-28T14:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/mandela-discharged-from-hospital-is-stable-after-infection-surgeon-says.html
  Nelson Mandela , South Africa’s
former president, was discharged from a Johannesburg hospital
after a two-night stay that prompted widespread concern about
the 92-year-old’s health.  Mandela responded well to treatment for an acute
respiratory infection and will now receive care at home, the
country’s Surgeon General Vejayn Ramlakan told reporters today
at the  Netcare Milpark Hospital . Mandela is “well” and in
“high spirits,” he said.  “There is no need to panic,” Ramlakan said. “For 92, he
surprises us on a daily basis” with his response to treatment.  Mandela’s hospitalization reignited concern about the
health of South Africa’s first black president, who hasn’t been
seen in public since a brief appearance at the final of the
soccer  World Cup  on July 11 in Johannesburg. The Nobel peace-
prize winner served for five years as president following  South
Africa ’s first all-race elections in 1994.  “It comes to us with great joy to hear that he has been
discharged,” Mandla Mandela, the former leader’s grandson, told
the press conference.  Robben Island  Mandela suffered from tuberculosis on Robben Island prison,
where he spent most of his 27-year jail term for fighting
against the apartheid government, and has also had respiratory
infections in the past. He was treated for prostate cancer in
2001.  Relatives, including Mandela’s former wife Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, friends and leaders of the ruling  African
National Congress  flocked to the hospital yesterday. Police
boosted security at the hospital, cordoning off the entrance and
restricting journalists and TV cameras from entering the
premises.  Security was also increased around Mandela’s home in the
Johannesburg suburb of Houghton, where he arrived by ambulance
today after leaving the hospital, according to the South African
Press Association.  Mandela received 10,000 messages of support this week,
including from U.S. President  Barack Obama , Deputy President
Kgalema Motlanthe told reporters. Mandela was sitting up in bed,
breathing unassisted and joking with friends and family today,
Motlanthe said.  “The Mandela family and Madiba himself would like to
convey our appreciation for all those South Africans and people
around the world who sent words of support to the family and
their prayers,” Motlanthe said. “Madiba is well,” he said,
using Mandela’s clan name.  Mistakes  Motlanthe said the government may have erred and
contributed to “panic” by not giving the public an earlier
update on Mandela’s health. The  Nelson Mandela Foundation  hadn’t
provided any information on the former leader since a two-
sentence statement on Jan. 26 that he was undergoing “routine”
tests.  “We’re quite happy he’s been discharged,”  Gwede Mantashe ,
secretary-general of the ANC, said in an interview at the
hospital. “We think that will allay all the speculation.
Mandela is 92 years. People must put less and less pressure on
him and his family.”  President  Jacob Zuma , who attended the  World Economic Forum 
in Davos this week, has been kept informed of Mandela’s
condition by Defense Minister Lindiwe Sisulu, his spokesman,
Zizi Kodwa, said. Zuma has left Davos for  Addis Ababa , the
Ethiopian capital, where he will attend the African Union
leaders’ summit this weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 