-- Mangalore Refinery, Essar Fall on Iran Supply Concerns
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2011-01-28T12:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/mangalore-refinery-essar-oil-fall-on-concern-over-oil-supplies-from-iran.html
  Mangalore Refinery &amp; Petrochemicals
Ltd . and  Essar Oil Ltd . declined in Mumbai after an Iranian
trade official said the Middle Eastern nation may halt crude
sales to  India  in two weeks if a payment impasse isn’t resolved.  State-run Mangalore Refinery, the largest Indian buyer of
Iranian crude, fell as much as 4.4 percent to 65.65 rupees and
closed at 68.40 rupees. Essar Oil dropped 4 percent to 120.25
rupees and group company Essar Energy Ltd. declined 2.6 percent
to 529 pence at 10:55 a.m. in  London .  Refiners including Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest,
need to find a way to pay for Iranian crude after the  Reserve
Bank  of India on Dec. 27 dismantled a mechanism used to settle
oil trades in euros and dollars. Indian refiners owe  Iran  about
$900 million for crude oil, Mehdi Fakheri, vice president of
international affairs at the  Iran Chamber of Commerce,
Industries and Mines , said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday.  “If Mangalore Refinery doesn’t get the crude from Iran,
then utilization rates could drop and margins could be affected
as well,” said  Alok Deshpande , an oil and gas analyst at
Mumbai-based Elara Securities Ltd., who has a “sell” rating on
the stock. “As long as this is not resolved, it’s going to have
a major overhang on the shares.”  Mangalore Refinery imports about 7 million metric tons a
year (4 million barrels a month) of oil from Iran, Managing
Director U.K. Basu said Dec. 30. Essar, the second-biggest buyer
of crude from the Persian Gulf state, imports about 3 million
barrels a month, Chief Executive Officer Naresh Nayyar said Jan.
17.  India-Iran Trade  Swastayan Roy, a spokesman for Essar, declined to comment
when reached on his mobile phone today. Mangalore Refinery’s
Basu didn’t return a call to his mobile phone.  Crude oil supplies from Iran won’t be disrupted, Banking
Secretary R. Gopalan told reporters in  New Delhi  today. India is
putting in place the last leg of a clearing mechanism to settle
oil trades with Iran and is open to making payment in any
currency, including the euro, Gopalan said.  The gridlock over payments threatens about $9.5 billion in
annual oil trade between the two countries, Fakheri said.  “If there is no payment solution, I am afraid Iran will be
selling its oil to other countries,” Fakheri said. “Then our
trade exchanges will drop to almost 20 percent” of the current
level, he said.  Stoppage of shipments may force Mangalore Refinery, a unit
of India’s Oil and Natural Gas Corp., to buy oil at higher
prices from the  spot market .  Officials from Indian and Iranian central banks are in
talks to settle trades in their domestic currencies, Fakheri
said. Iran is India’s biggest oil supplier after  Saudi Arabia .  India imports about 21 million tons of crude from Iran
annually, Oil Secretary S. Sundareshan said on Dec. 30. Refiners
currently receive oil shipments from Iran on credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell@bloomberg.net  