-- Anglo Says Most South Africa Coal Assets Work to Plan Amid Rain
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2011-01-28T13:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/anglo-says-most-its-south-african-coal-mines-performing-well-amid-flooding.html
  Anglo American Plc  said “most” of
its South African steam coal operations delivered to plan in
recent weeks as heavy rains pummel the country.  “Despite the challenges posed by  rain , our Thermal Coal
operations have performed well with most of them delivering
according to plan,” London-based Anglo American’s local unit
said in an e-mailed response to a query.  Heavy rain since December in South African derailed trains,
flooded crops and added to coal producers’ problems in
Australia, where floods have shut mines in Queensland. South
Africa declared 28 municipalities across seven of its nine
provinces  disaster areas  last week.    Wescoal Holdings Ltd . said two of its coal pits in South
Africa’s main producing region, Mpumalanga, flooded and it may
lose about a quarter of a year’s output.  Rockwell Diamonds Inc .
lost five days’ worth of gem production due to flooding at its
operations north of Kimberley, where three-quarters of the
normal annual rainfall was recorded in the past six days, the
Vancouver-based company said in a statement today.  Rains may persist into June, the South African Weather
Service said Jan. 26. In the first 10 days of January, most of
South Africa received more than double its normal rainfall,
according to a  map  on the service’s website.    Optimum Coal Holdings  Ltd. said last week its opencast
mines were affected by excessive rain and First Uranium Corp.
said yesterday some of its pump stations had flooded.  In Mozambique, on South Africa’s northern border, about
12,000 people were displaced by flooding, state-controlled Radio  Mozambique  reported, citing Joao Ribeiro, director of the
national disaster institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 