-- Appropriations Committee Loses Allure in U.S. Congress Targeting Spending
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2011-01-28T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/appropriations-committee-loses-allure-in-u-s-congress-targeting-spending.html
  Michele Bachmann , a Tea Party
favorite and critic of  government spending , took a pass. Utah
Republican Jason Chaffetz opted out. California Republican  John Campbell  said no thanks.  The House Appropriations Committee, once a post that
guaranteed control over billions of taxpayer dollars, isn’t such
a lure in a new era of austerity.  Although Republicans campaigned on promises to slash
spending, few lined up to get on the panel charged with deciding
what to cut. Jack Kingston of  Georgia , a 16-year veteran of the
Appropriations Committee, said some of his party colleagues
would rather complain about spending than make the tough
decisions about reducing it.  These lawmakers “have enjoyed bashing appropriators and
spending and really didn’t want to transition over to it,”
Kingston said in an interview. “I feel like you can affect the
spending policy best from the committee that appropriates.”  House Republicans aim to cut roughly $60 billion from the
current fiscal year’s budget as they seek to reduce spending to
2008 levels. That would require big cuts in the part of the
budget that funds medical research, police, libraries, parks,
environmental programs and scores of other initiatives.  Republican leaders had additional slots to fill on the
Appropriations Committee and other panels after taking over the
House majority from Democrats in the Nov. 2 elections. Bachmann,
one of the most outspoken critics of the Obama administration’s
spending, took Intelligence. Chaffetz picked Oversight and
Government Reform. Campbell opted for Financial Services.  Less Interest  “We sent a sheet around, people gave us their preferences
and there weren’t that many members that chose to serve on the
Appropriations Committee,” said House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican. “There wasn’t as much interest,” so “it
opened up more spots for freshmen.”  Republicans placed nine new colleagues on the panel,
including three freshmen, while reducing its membership by
almost 20 percent. The committee now has 29 Republicans and 21
Democrats, down from last year’s 37 Democrats and 23
Republicans.  Lawmakers used to wait years for a chance to serve on the
panel where members such as the late Pennsylvania Democrat John Murtha became legendary for steering cash to their districts.  ‘Prince of Pork’  Current committee Chairman Harold Rogers had been following
a similar path. He was dubbed the “Prince of Pork” by the
Lexington Herald-Leader in his home state of  Kentucky ; the
newspaper said the Republican had funneled more than $2 billion
to his district over his career.  “That used to be the way you could stay here forever and
worship the great god of re-election,” said  Alan Simpson , a
former Republican senator from  Wyoming  and co-chairman of the
Obama administration’s debt-cutting commission.  House Republicans have sworn off approving spending for
lawmakers’ pet projects, known as earmarks, in a bid to show Tea
Party activists who helped them win the chamber that they are
serious about reducing spending.  This includes Rogers, who won a three-way race last month
to head the committee promising to uphold his party’s earmark
moratorium.  Kingston, who recruited colleagues to join the panel, said
many were worried they would be voting for unpopular cuts only
to see them die in the Democratic-controlled Senate -- concerns
he said were legitimate.  “I don’t see the Senate going along with a lot of the
tough decisions that we make,” Kingston said. “But once you
got that vote on your record, you can’t get rid of it.”  Hoping for Coup  Still, Kingston, a member of a group of self-described
fiscal conservatives known as the Republican Study Committee,
said, “I would have loved to have a rush of the RSC members
saying, ‘Hell, yeah, let’s have an appropriations coup.’”  The group, made up of about 165 of the House’s 242
Republicans, last week urged even deeper reductions than their
party leaders, calling for more than $2 trillion in savings over
the next decade.  Some of those who passed on a spot on Appropriations said
they didn’t want to give up their assignments on other
committees, as is usually required for members of the panel.  Chaffetz, an RSC member aligned with the Tea Party, said,
“I just love what I’m doing on oversight,” even if “not many
people put it as their number one choice.” He said he’ll offer
amendments to spending bills on the House floor.  “That’s the way I can go out and attack appropriations,
rather than sitting on an aisle seat on the appropriations
committee -- I can get the best of both worlds,” Chaffetz said.  Seniority Concern  Campbell said he didn’t want to sacrifice his seniority on
the financial services committee.  Kingston said Bachmann rejected his suggestion she join
appropriations. Bachmann, who is circulating a petition urging
her colleagues to oppose a requested increase in the
government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit in an effort to force
spending cuts, declined to comment.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said that
although interest in serving on the appropriations panel may
have declined, those who joined are committed to cutting.  “A culture shift is underway,” said Ryan, a Wisconsin
Republican. “Usually people go on there to spend money, to dole
out pork.” Now, he said, “the people going on the committee
are the conservatives.”  Among those added was Arizona Republican Jeff Flake, a
longtime critic of the panel who in 2007 was kicked off the
Judiciary Committee by party leaders because he repeatedly
challenged appropriators’ earmarks on the floor.  “I wore them down,” joked Flake. Lawmakers who prefer
other committees “don’t understand this is still the tip of the
spear -- it’s where money is spent and priorities are made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  