-- Banks Should Stop Lobbying For EFSF Bond Buys, Lagarde Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2011-01-28T14:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/banks-should-stop-lobbying-for-efsf-bond-buys-lagarde-says.html
  European Central Bank  officials and
bankers should stop lobbying the European Union to permit its
bailout fund to buy back bonds of indebted members, French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said.  “It is a matter better left to finance ministers than
bankers and advisers,” she said at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland  when asked about calls from central bankers
and executives to retool the fund.  European Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet said in
an interview in Davos that it may be ‘useful” for the 440
billion-euro ($602 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility to buy government bonds to help ease tensions in
financial markets. Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer
Josef Ackermann said that he also supports the idea.  The EFSF is the main part of a 750 billion-euro ($1
trillion) financial backstop created in May to stop the spread
of  Europe ’s debt crisis after Greece accepted a 110 billion-euro
bailout. EU leaders are debating how to expand the fund’s
mandate by a summit meeting in March after the backstop failed
to stop contagion spreading to Ireland. That has also sparked a
jump in the borrowing costs of  Spain  and Portugal.  “The actions the fund can take need to be expanded and I
would very much also support the concept that the fund should be
in a position to purchase government bonds,” Allianz SE board
member Joachim Faber said in an interview in Davos.  Market Involvement  “We are discussing it at the moment,” Lagarde said. “I
don’t think there is a general consensus yet, but it is one
avenue for the stability fund to get involved in markets.”  Finance ministers are also considering allowing the fund to
recapitalize distressed banks and may also increase the size of
the aid mechanism. EU leaders are committed to making the fund
more “efficient and flexible” and if it needed to be enlarged,
“so be it,” Lagarde said  EFSF bond purchases would take pressure off the ECB, which
Trichet pushed to start buying Greek, Portuguese, Irish and
Spanish debt in May to restore order to bond markets.  Greece ’s
debt will reach 150 percent of economic output this year, with
Spain’s rising to almost 70 percent and Portugal’s hitting 90
percent, the European Commission forecast in November.  The EFSF “probably should purchase the entire portfolio
the European Central Bank is owning at the moment,” Allianz’s
Faber said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Connan in Davos via  London  at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher in Davos at  jfraher@bloomberg.net  