-- Bank Chiefs Get Antitrust Reminder for Their Closed-Door Davos Gatherings
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2011-01-28T15:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/bank-ceos-get-antitrust-reminder-before-starting-closed-door-davos-meeting.html
When the chief executive officers of
banks including  Bank of America Corp .,  Barclays Plc  and  JPMorgan
Chase &amp; Co . met in Davos yesterday, lawyers told them to avoid
discussing pricing matters or risk breaking antitrust rules.  CEOs were told to refrain from talking about costs and
price changes, according to the one-page legal briefing prepared
for groups meeting at the World Economic Forum and obtained by
Bloomberg News. Executives should “feel free” to “discuss
common problems and challenges of a general, administrative or
logistical nature, as long as the purpose of the discussion is
not to encourage uniform action or the elimination or
restriction of competition,” the note said.  Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond  and Prudential Plc CEO Tidjane Thiam co-chaired the annual event, known as the Governors
Meeting for Financial Services, which convened behind closed
doors on the sidelines of the forum yesterday. The gathering
discussed regulation, sovereign debt, political intervention in
the markets and financial innovation. The bankers’ session
preceded a planned meeting with global regulators tomorrow.  “There is always an antitrust risk if sensitive
information which could be relevant to competition, for example
on prices, conditions or customers, is exchanged in meetings
between competitors,” said Andreas von Bonin, a partner at law
firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer’s antitrust, competition and
trade team. “It makes a lot of sense” to provide legal advice.  EU Fines  Attendees were advised to avoid “discussing, recommending
or agreeing” on matters including pricing matters, costs,
supplier details, technological developments, and sales volumes
or geographies, law firm Clifford Chance LLP said in the memo,
which was found among materials left in the room where the
meeting took place.  Companies risk cartel fines of up to 10 percent of annual
revenue if European Union regulators decide they teamed up with
rivals to fix prices or allocate customers and markets. British
Airways Plc, Air France and nine others were fined 799.4 million
euros ($1.09 billion) by the European Commission in November for
colluding with competitors.  The  World Economic Forum  thought “it would be useful to
have a one page do’s and don’ts,” Clifford Chance spokeswoman
Claire Gosnell said. “It’s sometimes helpful to have some
guidelines in front of you.” The guidance notes were sent to
all groups at the forum and weren’t specific to the bankers’
meeting, she said.  Participants in yesterday’s meeting included Brian Moynihan
of Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender by assets; Brady Dougan of Credit Suisse Group AG, the second-largest Swiss bank;
and Oswald Gruebel of  UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest lender.  Spokesmen for Barclays, UBS and JPMorgan didn’t immediately
return calls for comment. Spokesmen for Bank of America and
Credit Suisse declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Davos,  Switzerland , at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  