-- Bayer, Cadila Form 50/50 Joint Venture to Sell Pharmaceuticals in India
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2011-01-28T11:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/bayer-cadila-s-zydus-form-joint-venture-to-sell-pharmaceuticals-in-india.html
  Bayer AG  agreed to form a joint
venture to distribute pharmaceuticals in India with  Cadila
Healthcare Ltd . as the German drug and chemical company expands
in faster-growing markets.  Each company will hold 50 percent of the shares in the
Mumbai-based venture, which will be called Bayer Zydus Pharma,
and have equal representation on the board, according to a
 statement  today from Bayer. About 600 employees from both
companies will work for the venture. Financial terms weren’t
disclosed.  The deal with Ahmedabad, India-based Cadila’s Zydus unit
will help Bayer increase sales in India, the company said.
Indian pharmaceutical revenue probably will grow about 13
percent annually the next two years, Firstcall India Equity
Advisors Pvt. estimated in a Nov. 19 report. Drug sales in
Europe, Japan and the U.S. will expand 4 percent annually
through 2015, according to a report by IMS Health Inc.  “With this step we aim to significantly accelerate our
capabilities to better serve the fast-growing Indian market,”
Joerg Reinhardt, chief executive of Leverkusen, Germany-based
Bayer’s health-care unit, said in the statement. The venture
will “enhance the launch of new products and the sales of
existing brands.”  Bayer HealthCare will contribute its existing sales and
marketing business in  India  to the venture, while Cadila will
contribute its women’s health, diagnostic-imaging business and
other products, according to a statement from Cadila. The
venture will sell brands from both companies, such as Bayer’s
blood thinner Xarelto and Cadila’s Euglim for diabetes.  Cadila manufactures pharmaceutical ingredients, branded and
generic formulations, diagnostic kits and pharmaceutical
machinery parts, according to its website. Cadila fell 1.7
percent to 815.2 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading in
Mumbai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 