-- BofA’s Investment Bank Compensation Pool Said to Decline 10%
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2011-01-29T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/bofa-banker-compensation-said-to-decline-10-on-falling-revenue.html
  Bank of America Corp .’s investment
banking division set aside about 10 percent less for employee
compensation than a year earlier as revenue slipped, said two
people with direct knowledge of the decision.  Managing directors in areas that underperformed compared
with 2009 saw pay shrink by as much as about 20 percent, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based bank doesn’t disclose compensation figures.
Employees of the global banking and markets unit, run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . trading head  Thomas Montag , were told
their year-end payouts on Jan. 27, the people said.  “It’s what you should expect considering it was a pretty
volatile year,” said  Alan Johnson , managing director of New
York-based compensation consultant Johnson Associates Inc.
“People were down more than that at other places; I’d say a 10
percent decline overall is a pretty good outcome.”  The bank joins Goldman Sachs and  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co . in
trimming 2010 pay for traders, deal makers and other personnel
amid revenue slumps and regulatory pressure following taxpayer-
funded rescues. Bank of America said this month that revenue in
Montag’s division fell 13 percent to $28.5 billion in 2010 as
trading results slipped in the fourth quarter.  About 20 percent to 30 percent of bonuses are in cash that
vests in one year, and the rest will be in stock and cash that
will take longer to receive, said one of the people. That
compares with as little as 5 percent cash for 2009 bonuses, when
the firm was under the jurisdiction of  Kenneth Feinberg , then
the Obama administration’s special master on compensation. The
bank repaid $45 billion in U.S. assistance in 2009.  ‘Fair and Appropriate’  Year-end awards typically make up the majority of
compensation for investment-bank employees. The firm’s
investment bank earned $6.3 billion last year, a 37 percent
decline from 2009, a year in which the unit booked a $3.8
billion gain tied to a unit sale. That still made it the bank’s
most profitable division in 2010, helping offset unprofitable
mortgage and credit-card operations.  The bank’s “pay practices are fair and appropriate for our
employees and our shareholders,” Jessica Oppenheim, a Bank of
America spokeswoman, said in e-mail.  JPMorgan’s investment bank set aside enough money to pay an
average of $369,651 to each employee for 2010, or 2.4 percent
less than in 2009, according to the company’s year-end financial
statements. Goldman Sachs’s pool equates to an average of
$430,700, a reduction of 14 percent.    Morgan Stanley   Morgan Stanley cut the investment bank’s compensation pool
by 2 percent to $7.08 billion. The firm doesn’t disclose the
number of employees in the unit. Companywide, Morgan Stanley’s
per-employee pay decreased about 3 percent when adjusting for
its ownership of a brokerage joint venture for part of 2009 and
a U.K. bonus tax last year, a person briefed on the bank’s
expenses said this week.    Wall Street  firms’ soaring pay over the last three decades
incentivized traders to disregard risk and limited regulators’
ability to lure talent to police banks, the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission wrote in a 545-page book published this week.
As firms felt the need to compete for talent with “aggressive
incentives,” total compensation at U.S. banks and securities
firms climbed to $137 billion by 2007.  “The dangers of the new pay structures were clear, but
senior executives believed they were powerless to change it,”
the panel wrote. Former  Citigroup Inc . Chief Executive Officer
Sanford Weill told the commission, “If you look at the results
of what happened on Wall Street, it became ‘Well, this one’s
doing it, so how can I not do it?’”  Outsized Risks  Morgan Stanley CEO  James Gorman  said in November that Wall
Street must fix a culture that contributed to the financial
crisis by idolizing individual employees and giving them
incentives to take outsized risks.  Fixing the culture will require “creating a compensation
system that better aligns or balances shareholders’ interests
and the broader society’s interests with the individual’s
interests, and changing the perception that it’s the individual
that’s the hero,” said Gorman, 52.  Investment banks set aside a portion of revenue to reward
employees and typically decide bonuses at the end of the year
based on annual results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 