-- Cameron Tells Davos U.K. Is Determined to Narrow Deficit as Growth Slows
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2011-01-28T15:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/cameron-to-tell-davos-u-k-is-determined-to-kill-off-specter-of-debts.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron 
reasserted his commitment to eliminating Britain’s budget
deficit amid criticism that his plans are choking the recovery.  “Our first priority is to kill off the specter of massive
sovereign debts,” Cameron told the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland  today. “It’s going to be tough but we must
see it through.”  Cameron countered warnings that his budget cuts are too
harsh by saying sustainable finances are a condition for growth,
not an alternative. Critics including billionaire investor  George Soros  say the squeeze is compounding the misery for
households facing soaring food and fuel prices and the threat of
higher  interest rates  as inflation accelerates.  Britain’s economy unexpectedly shrank 0.5 percent in the
final three months of 2010 as the coldest December in a century
hampered services and retailing, data this week showed. With
underlying growth flat, it suggests the recovery is fading
before the budget cuts begin in earnest in April.  “The issue in the U.K. is very simple,” former Labour
Prime Minister  Tony Blair  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview from Davos today. “It’s about reducing the deficit
but reducing it in such a way that you don’t choke off growth.”    Consumer confidence  plunged the most since 1994 in January,
hit by an increase in  sales tax , according to a survey published
today by GfK NOP Ltd. The Confederation of British Industry said
yesterday its retail-sales index fell for the first time in
three months and stores see further weakness.  Soros Warning  Soros, who reportedly made $1 billion selling the pound in
1992, said this week that Cameron’s Conservative-led government
will have to rethink its budget deficit-cutting plan or risk
pushing the economy back into recession.  Cameron today offered a recipe for growth: removing
barriers to trade within the European Union and around the
world, promoting “liberal democratic values” globally and
cutting regulation.  His goal, he said, was “an economy based not on
consumption and debt but on savings and investment,” with “a
new emphasis on manufacturing, exports and trade.”  Cameron said the last Labour government had relied too much
on a few sectors of the economy, especially financial services.
“It’s a great strength, but the tragedy of the last decade was
that growth was based on too narrow a basis,” he said. “That’s
not a sustainable model for economic growth.”  Vested Interests  In Davos, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  hit
back at criticism from the Labour opposition. He said its
policies had left Britain more indebted than most major nations
and vowed to fight “vested interests” resisting the cuts.  “Right now the right long-term choices for the economy are
the difficult choices,” he said. “Adjustment will not be
without struggle.”  Unions representing workers in the public and private
sectors met in  London  today to discuss coordinated action
against the spending cuts. A mass demonstration is planned for
March 26, three days after Osborne delivers his annual budget.  Workers are facing a “volatile cocktail” of job cuts and
attacks on pay and pensions that could spark industrial action,  Brendan Barber , general secretary of the  Trades Union Congress ,
warned after the talks.  Industrial Action  “The government’s agenda is doing huge damage to the
economy and vital public services,” Barber said in an e-mailed
statement. “No one is talking about a general strike, but of
course these attacks on our members could well give rise to
industrial action around specific disputes.”  Cameron said that without determined action to cut the
deficit, higher real interest will prevent a recovery from
materializing  The prime minister made the deficit, which grew to 11.1
percent of gross domestic product in the last fiscal year, his
top priority after  Standard &amp; Poor’s  threatened to lower the
U.K.’s AAA credit rating in May 2009. S&P affirmed the rating
after the government last year set out plans to virtually
eliminate the shortfall by 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ; or
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  