-- Cash-for-Clean Energy in India May Beat UN Carbon Plan
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-01-28T14:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/cash-for-clean-energy-trading-to-start-in-india-with-threat-to-un-market.html
When Oil & Natural Gas Corp. set up
34  wind turbines  on a blustery inlet in western India to power
oil-drilling equipment, it expected the project to earn United
Nations carbon credits that could be turned into cash.  Two years after the windmills whirred into service, India’s
largest oil explorer is still waiting for its first rupee for
cutting carbon-dioxide emissions through the wind-power project.
A.K. Hazarika, onshore director for ONGC, has a back-up plan
that may be more lucrative: an Indian renewable-energy trading
program that starts in March.  India, the world’s second-largest producer of UN credits
for carbon-reduction, is a test case for alternatives that may
generate more profit than the four-year-old UN program that’s
supported by 192 nations. The domestic program is attracting
interest from some of  India ’s largest industrial companies.  “If the market takes off, renewable-energy trading will
clearly be more beneficial” than the UN’s Clean Development
Mechanism credits, said Vibhav Nuwal, director of  REConnect
Energy Solutions Pvt. , an adviser to companies seeking the new
Indian renewable-energy certificates. The domestic program is
simpler and will attract some of the same projects, he said.  Indian companies generating clean power will earn tradable
renewable-energy certificates. The so-called RECs will be worth
at least twice what they can get on average for selling a UN
carbon credit, said Nuwal, a former carbon broker. Registration
is under way and trading may begin after March, he said.  Billionaire Jindals    JSW Energy Ltd ., the utility controlled by the billionaire
Jindal family that Forbes magazine ranked as India’s fifth-
richest, said it’s planning to capitalize on the program. So has
London-traded  Greenko Group Plc , a developer of hydropower and
biomass plants, as well as Orient Green Power Co., backed by
Hong Kong private equity firm Olympus Capital Holdings  Asia .  Eligible companies will also be able to register, earn and
sell RECs in about five months compared with delays of as much
as three years in the UN program, Nuwal said.  UN Spokesman David Abbass said in an e-mail that domestic
programs “need not diminish the usefulness” of the Clean
Development Mechanism and the challenge was for environmental
markets to “all pull in the same direction.”  ONGC’s wind farm at Surajbari, in Gujarat state, was built
by  Suzlon Energy Ltd . and is one of the company’s six that is
eligible to earn UN credits. It took a year just to register,
Hazarika said. The UN has yet to issue the wind farm any credits
for avoiding  carbon emissions , according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Faster Returns’  “Returns will definitely come faster through the Indian
program than what we’ll get from the CDM,” ONGC’s Hazarika said
in a phone interview. “We’re definitely looking at RECs.”  Companies will be able to sell a REC for at least 1,500
rupees a megawatt-hour of renewable power they generate,
according to the floor price set by regulators.  In comparison, companies have earned on average 590 rupees
($12.95) a megawatt-hour from selling UN permits called
Certified Emission Reductions issued for avoiding emissions,
according to a REConnect analysis.  Selling RECs may add up to 140 basis points on returns for
Indian wind projects and may add 300 basis points if both UN
credits and RECs are sold, according to an April report by
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Regulators in India have said they may let companies earn
both RECs and CERs, making it the first country where companies
can potentially earn both types of credits for a single project,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.    Chile , which has 42 UN-registered projects, is drafting
legislation for a renewable certificate trading program. The
U.K. already has one.  Challenge to UN  If RECs become too profitable, however, they could
undermine UN eligibility. That’s because UN rules allow only
those projects that can prove they wouldn’t have been profitable
without emission credits, Nuwal said. The rule is designed to
weed out projects that would have been built anyway.  India is the top supplier after  China  in the UN carbon
market, which generated  $20 billion  worth of trades in 2009,
according to  World Bank . Companies and countries facing carbon-
emissions caps buy CERs to offset their regulated emissions.  The future of the UN market is jeopardized by the inability
of countries’ to agree on a global treaty to limit emissions.
Participants have also complained about the rising costs of
administrative delays.  JSW Energy, which won 4 million UN credits for using waste
gases siphoned from a steel plant to produce electricity, will
focus on earning RECs for a 240-megawatt hydropower plant being
built in northern Himachal Pradesh state, Vice Chairman N.K.
Jain said by telephone.  Complaints on Delays  Greenko, which has registered more renewable energy
projects with the UN than any other company in India, said in
its latest  annual report  it faced delays in UN issuances of CERs
and planned to diversify its income through RECs.  Soham Renewable Energy India Pvt., a developer of
hydropower plants backed by New York-based hedge fund D.E. Shaw
& Co., earned about $1 million from selling UN credits to
Japan’s Chubu Electric Power Co. Those returns were “dreadfully
slow” in coming, says Vice Chairman Sanjith Shetty.  “You actually spend a lot of money before you see money,”
said Shetty by telephone from Bangalore. “If there’s an
alternative that cuts short the process, that would be
welcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 