-- China Approves Property Tax Trials to Curb Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-01-28T09:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/china-approves-property-tax-trials-in-shanghai-chongqing-to-curb-prices.html
  China  approved property tax trials
on some homes in Shanghai and Chongqing, adding to measures
announced earlier this week in its campaign to curb real-estate
speculation and asset bubbles.  Both cities will begin trials for the levy today, following
the government’s Jan. 26 announcement it will raise the minimum
down-payment for second-home purchases and ask local authorities
to set price targets for new properties.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  on Jan. 18 said the government will
“resolutely” implement controls on the real-estate market in
the first quarter, including curbing speculation and increasing
supplies of affordable housing. Property prices rose for a 19th
month in December, even after the government suspended mortgages
for third-home purchases and restricted loans to developers.  “Given the limited scope and moderate  tax rate , we expect
this new policy to have limited incremental impact on
transaction volume and price,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts led by Yi Wang wrote in a report today. The latest
measure suggests “the policy uncertainties are now
substantially lowered,” they said.  An index of Chinese property stocks lost 0.1 percent at the
close, compared with the 0.1 percent gain in the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index. The real estate gauge was the worst-
performer among the key index’s five industry groups last year,
declining 28 percent. China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest
developer by market value, dropped 0.5 percent in Shenzhen, and
Poly Real Estate Group Co. fell 1.2 percent.  Tax Rates  The  Shanghai  rate is temporarily fixed at 0.6 percent for
all taxable residential properties, and is reduced to 0.4
percent for housing bought at prices less than twice the average
of newly built “commercial homes” last year, the government
said. Average sale prices will be released by the local
statistics bureau annually.  In Chongqing, only homes bought at more than twice the
average price will be taxed, with units purchased at more than
four times the average taxed at 1.2 percent, Mayor Huang Qifan
said in a live webcast on the state-run People.com site.    Home prices  in Chongqing, in the country’s west, surged 29
percent in 2010 and those in Shanghai jumped 26.1 percent,
according to year-end data from SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest real estate website owner. Nationwide, the 6.4
percent gain in housing prices in December was the smallest in
13 months.  Low-Income Homes  Property tax revenue will be used to build more low-income
housing, the  Finance Ministry  said earlier in a separate
statement. Levying property tax on individual home buyers can
guide them to make “rational” decisions, the statement said.  The government last year raised down payments for second
homes and restricted loans to developers, and some cities
including Beijing limited the number of homes local residents
can buy. In October, the central bank increased  interest rates 
for the first time in three years and raised borrowing costs for
a second time Dec. 25.  The sooner-than-expected implementation of the property tax
trials will further weaken  market sentiment  and reduce
transaction volume, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by
Jinsong Du wrote in a report today. Housing ministry officials
told the company more cities may implement the tax “soon,”
without giving names, according to the report.  “While many expect the property tax to signal the removal
of the policy overhang, we disagree -- officials told us there
should be more tightening measures, especially on credit
policies,” the analysts said.  Higher Down-Payments  The down-payment ratio for second homes will rise to 60
percent from 50 percent, the State Council said this week. The
Cabinet asked local governments to boost land supply and said
they should set price targets for newly built houses based on
regional economic growth and disposable incomes.  China reported the most real estate investment in the world
for a second straight year in 2010 as development-site purchases
helped lift global commercial property sales by 43 percent, New
York-based Real Capital Analytics Inc. said on Jan. 26.  Property developers tapped 79.6 billion yuan ($12 billion)
of foreign capital last year, a surge of 66 percent from 2009,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  Rising real estate prices are the “biggest danger” to the
Chinese economy,  Li Daokui , an adviser to China’s central bank,
said in an interview with Bloomberg News in Davos,  Switzerland 
on Jan. 26.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story: Zhang
Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andreea
Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  