-- China Stocks Rise, Capping Biggest Gain in Six Weeks; SAIC Jumps
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-01-28T07:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/china-s-stocks-decline-on-property-tax-paring-weekly-gain-banks-retreat.html
China’s stocks rose, capping the
benchmark index’s biggest five-day gain in six weeks, as
automakers and industrial companies rallied on speculation their
shares are undervalued given earnings growth prospects.  SAIC Motor Corp. surged to the highest in two months after
Citic Securities Co. and China International Capital Corp.
recommended automakers because of their valuations. A gauge of
industrial stocks posted its steepest weekly gain since November.
China Vanke Co. and  China Construction Bank Corp . led losses for
developers and lenders after two cities announced property taxes
and the central bank governor signaled more increases in banks’
reserve requirements in an interview with Xinhua news agency.  “Valuations for some sectors are at a historical low,
bringing buying opportunities at the moment,” said Deng Changrong, a strategist at Huaxi Securities Co. in Shenzhen.
“Some investors are taking the chance to build up their
strategic portfolios.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 3.6, or 0.1 percent, to 2,752.75
at the 3 p.m. close. It gained 1.4 percent this week, the most
since the five days ended Dec. 17. The  CSI 300 Index  rose 0.3
percent to 3,036.74, a 1.8 percent weekly gain. China’s markets
will be closed from Feb. 2 to 8 for the lunar new year holiday.  The Shanghai gauge has tumbled 13 percent since a Nov. 8
high after the central bank raised banks’ reserve requirement
ratios and  interest rates  to counter inflation and avoid asset
bubbles. Real-estate prices rose for a 19th month in December,
even after the government suspended mortgages for third-home
purchases and restricted loans to developers.  ‘Valuation Bottom’  China’s stocks are at a “valuation bottom” as the
introduction of property taxes and increases in down payments
for second-home purchases have removed short-term policy
uncertainty, according to Citic Securities.  The  Shanghai  Composite trades at between 14 times and 15
times earnings, a level that’s equal to when the gauge dropped
to a low of around 1,700 amid the financial crisis in 2008,
Citic analysts led by Xi Feng wrote in a report today. The
brokerage recommends low-valuation stocks such as automakers and
electric appliance manufacturers.  A gauge of industrial companies jumped 4.6 percent this
week, the second most among the 10 groups in the CSI 300.  SAIC, China’s largest automaker by market value, jumped 3.6
percent to 17.33 yuan, its highest close since Nov. 26. It
rallied 8.1 percent this week. SAIC dropped 27 percent last year
on concern sales growth would slow after the government scrapped
subsidies for vehicle purchases in rural areas. FAW Car Co.
climbed 4.2 percent to 17.05 yuan today.    China  International Capital Corp. favors “leading
companies” such as SAIC as valuations drop below 10 times
estimated earnings for 2011, close to the low end of the
historical average, analysts led by Chen Pengyang said.  ‘Strong Outlook’  China’s auto stocks will perform well in the first quarter
because sales are expected to be “strong” in 2011 and other
local government won’t follow Beijing with measures to limit car
licenses, according to UBS AG. The Beijing government said on
Dec. 23 it would set a monthly quota of 20,000 new vehicle
licenses as part of efforts to alleviate congestion.  Sany Heavy Industry Co. rose 6.8 percent to 21.65 yuan
today after saying it will buy a leasing company controlled by
two of its vice presidents for 111.6 million yuan.  Financial Stocks  A gauge tracking banks and developers in the CSI 300 Index
slid 0.6 percent today and gained 0.1 percent for the week, the
worst performer among the industry groups, after the government
announced tighter controls on property investment and lending.  China Vanke declined 0.5 percent to 8.26 yuan today, adding
to a weekly loss of 1.4 percent. Poly Real Estate dropped 1.2
percent to 13.08 yuan today.  Shanghai will begin property tax trials today, the city
said in a  statement  on its website yesterday. China said Jan. 26
it will raise the minimum down-payment for second-home purchases
to 60 percent from 50 percent and told local governments to set
price targets for new properties.  The Shanghai rate is “temporarily fixed at 0.6 percent for
all taxable housing, and is reduced to 0.4 percent for houses
bought at prices less than twice the average of newly built
commercial homes last year,” the government said. Average sale
prices will be released by the local statistics bureau annually.  Monetary Policies  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
largest bank by market value, lost 0.7 percent to 4.21 yuan.  China Construction Bank Corp ., the nation’s second biggest, slid
1.1 percent to 4.66 yuan.  China’s central bank doesn’t rule out further use of
“quantitative and price” tools to rein in liquidity and
tighten credit, central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in an
interview with Xinhua, which didn’t say when the interview took
place.  The shift to a “prudent” monetary policy stance this year
will “over time” bring down inflation, end negative real
interest rates and drive  money supply  and credit growth down to
“normal” levels, Zhou said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government is trying to mop up
liquidity resulting from its policy of limiting currency
appreciation and from surging inflows of capital from overseas.
Banks extended 7.95 trillion yuan of new loans last year,
exceeding the central bank’s target of 7.5 trillion yuan.  China may order its biggest banks, including ICBC and China
Construction Bank, to raise  capital ratios  to as high as 14
percent when credit growth is judged excessive, said a person
familiar with the matter.  --Irene Shen, Shidong Zhang. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 