-- China Forestry Debt Slumps 34% on Downgrade Warning
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2011-01-28T08:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/china-forestry-dollar-bonds-fall-40-to-record-on-debt-downgrade-warning.html
Dollar bonds of  China Forestry
Holdings Ltd . plunged 28 cents on the dollar to a record low
after Moody’s Investors Service put the debt on review for
downgrade and the stock was halted from trading.  The $300 million of 7.75 percent five-year notes, sold in
November, plunged to 55 cents on the dollar to yield 24.1
percent, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices on
Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank AG, Standard Chartered Plc and UBS AG
managed the debut sale, the data show.  Moody’s placed the Hong Kong-based company, one of the
three largest privately held  plantation forest  operators in
China in terms of coverage area according to its website, on
review for possible downgrade yesterday after assigning its debt
a Ba3 rating, its third-highest speculative-grade, on Nov. 29.  “The suspension of  China  Forestry’s share trading could
imply developments which may potentially have a negative impact
on its credit profile and access to financing,” Moody’s senior
analyst Ken Chan said in a statement.  China Forestry investor relations manager Gao Shi said
market speculation about the company’s finances was “just a
rumor.” She declined to comment further before an expected
board announcement.  Share Suspension  China Forestry, which is part-owned by Washington-based
private equity firm The  Carlyle Group  according to company
filings, had its shares suspended on Jan. 26 “pending the
publication of an announcement in relation to price sensitive
information.”    Standard &amp; Poor’s  today placed the bonds on “credit watch
with negative implications.” The company’s credit profile
“will have weakened if the suspension is a result of negative
developments in its business, accounting or financial
positions,” analyst Frank Lu said. “The senior management is
inaccessible to us for comment.”  The company’s board held an emergency meeting yesterday and
it’s still unclear as to when there will be a formal
announcement, credit analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc. led by
Hong Kong-based Pradeep Mohinani wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients today.  China Forestry’s stock fell 13 percent to HK$3.14 on Jan.
13 after it said Chief Executive Officer Li Han Chun had sold
shares. Li, who joined the company in 2004, will continue as
chief executive, the company said on Jan. 14.  The shares, suspended at HK$2.95, have lost 18.7 percent
this year compared with a 2.6 percent gain in  Hong Kong ’s  Hang
Seng Index . The company reported a 0.6 percent drop in profit to
429.3 million yuan ($65.1 million) for the six months to June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  