-- China Said to Plan Raising Ratio If Credit Excessive
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-01-28T09:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/china-said-to-plan-to-raise-capital-ratio-when-credit-excessive.html
China may order its biggest lenders,
including  Industrial &amp; Commercial Bank of China  Ltd. and  China
Construction Bank Corp ., to raise  capital ratios  to as high as
14 percent when credit growth is judged excessive, said a person
familiar with the matter.  Newly proposed rules would require increasing capital
adequacy buffers by as much as 2.5 percentage points when the
banking regulator determines loan growth to be too fast, said
the person, declining to be identified as the plan isn’t public.
In normal conditions, lenders deemed systemically important will
need to have a minimum 11.5 percent ratio, unchanged from the
current requirement for China’s biggest banks, said the person.  China is tightening oversight of banks, limiting mortgages
and raising interest rates to prevent a record $2.7 trillion of
credit extended in the past two years from inflating asset
bubbles that may saddle lenders with bad loans. Some banks may
need to raise additional capital to meet the new requirements,
the person said.  “This shows further tightening as the regulator worries
about excessive lending,” Xu Guangfu, an analyst at Xiangcai
Securities Co. in  Shanghai , said by telephone. “The banking
sector’s valuation is already depressed and this may drag it
lower. The market will be more concerned about those banks that
were lending aggressively.”  No Decision  An official with the regulator’s news department, who
declined to be identified because of the agency’s rules, said a
decision hasn’t yet been made on the ratios and that the process
is still ongoing.  Under the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s proposed
rules, systemically important banks will have to comply with the
capital ratio requirements by the end of 2013, three years
earlier than other lenders, the person said. China’s five
biggest banks, which also include the  Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd .,  Bank of China Ltd . and Bank of Communications Co., are
currently deemed systemically important, the person said.  All banks would be required to have a capital adequacy
ratio of at least 8 percent, with an additional 2.5 percentage
points as a buffer during normal credit conditions, the person
said. Systemically important banks would need to maintain an
additional percentage point, the person said.  Excessive Credit  During periods when loan growth is too fast, the regulator
will require all lenders to increase their ratios by as much as
2.5 percentage points, the person said. It isn’t immediately
clear what standards would be used for determining when credit
expansion is excessive, the person said.  Regulators are taking advantage of record bank profits and
double-digit economic growth to set stricter rules at a faster
pace than agreements announced in July by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision .  China’s economy , set to surpass Japan’s to
become the world’s second biggest, grew 10.3 percent in 2010,
the fastest pace in three years, according to government data.  An earlier version of the rules would have required China’s
biggest banks to have capital adequacy ratios of 11 percent to
15 percent by the end of 2012, a person with knowledge of that
proposal said in September. That compares with ratios from 11.5
percent to 14 percent stipulated by the latest proposal.  The previous version also called for Tier 1 capital of 8
percent. The new proposal’s requirement for  Tier 1 capital ,
which includes common equity, retained profits and perpetual
preferred stock, is 6 percent, same as the Basel rules,
according to the person.    China  vs. Basel  China would, under the new rules, require core Tier 1
capital, which excludes perpetual preferred stock, of at least 5
percent by 2013 for the nation’s biggest banks, the person said.
The Basel rules require banks to have 4.5 percent of such
capital within five years, and to add an additional 2.5 percent
buffer by Jan. 1, 2019.  Domestic lenders had an average capital adequacy ratio of
11.6 percent as of Sept. 30, with their Tier 1 ratio standing at
9.5 percent, according to the CBRC.  The new rules would also require banks to have a 4 percent
so-called “leverage ratio,” which measures Tier 1 capital as a
percentage of total assets that are both on and off the lenders’
balance sheets, the person said.  Systemically important banks will also need to have bad-
loan provisions that are no less than 2.5 percent of total
outstanding credit by the end of 2013, or 150 percent of non-
performing debt, whichever indicator is higher, the person said.
Other lenders with relatively strong profitability should meet
the requirement by 2016, the person said.  December Provisions  Chinese banks’ provisions were 218.3 percent of their
outstanding bad loans as of Dec. 31, the regulator said Jan. 24.  Initial assessments show that the new rules won’t have any
major impact on bank lending or the nation’s economic growth in
the near term because most lenders are currently capable of
meeting the requirements, the person said.  At the same time, factors including bad loans and China’s
move to more market-based  interest rates  may lead to the rules
having a greater impact than what’s expected by the regulator,
the person said. As a result, the government will seek to
improve conditions for fund raising by banks and provide
incentives to set aside adequate loan provisions, according to
the person.  China Minsheng Banking Corp., the nation’s first non-state
lender, announced plans this month to raise about 21.5 billion
yuan ($3.3 billion) in a share sale in Shanghai to plug a
capital shortfall. Bigger rivals have already tapped investors,
led by $56 billion in equity sales by the nation’s five largest
state-owned banks in Shanghai and  Hong Kong  last year, as the
regulator prepared to tighten capital rules.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:  John Liu  in Beijing at   jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Bruce Grant  at   bruceg@bloomberg.net  