-- Chrysler Wants Dealers to Avoid Haggling When Fiat Returns to U.S. Market
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2011-01-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/chrysler-wants-dealers-to-avoid-haggling-when-fiat-returns-to-u-s-market.html
Chrysler Group LLC wants dealers to
avoid haggling with shoppers over the price of the Fiat 500 when
reintroducing its parent company’s brand to America, betting
that will make young customers more comfortable in showrooms.  “The pricing is the pricing,” said Laura Soave, head of
the Fiat brand in North America. “The younger generation
doesn’t haggle. They don’t feel comfortable with it. They hate
the experience.”  Dealers have been given advertising standards that include
prohibitions on promoting vehicles for less than the
manufacturer’s suggested retail price, Soave said during an
interview this week in  San Diego . While automakers typically
can’t prohibit discounts, the company limited the number of U.S.
Fiat franchises to minimize competition among dealers.  Chrysler, operated by  Fiat SpA , is bringing the 500 and the
Italian automaker’s namesake brand to the U.S. market at the
same time as it prepares to sell a redesigned Chrysler 300
flagship sedan. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based automaker may
report a fourth-quarter loss of $99 million on Jan. 31, the
average of three analysts’ estimates.  The vehicles are among 16 models Chrysler has refreshed or
redesigned in the past year, most of which are just going on
sale.  The 500 and redesigned 300 “really represent that this
company is coming together,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an industry
analyst with IHS Automotive.  The automaker is more than one year into a five-year
turnaround that’s supposed to return the company to
profitability this year.  Clam-Shaped Hood  Fiat has already sold 500,000 of the 500 cars since 2007 in
other parts of the world. The small car and its clam-shaped hood
evoke the 500’s iconic design of more than 50 years ago.  Unlike the original, the small engine is in the front of
the car. Engineers also worked to update the new 500 to U.S.
tastes, including the addition of an automatic transmission,
glove box and cup holders.  Early buyers of the 500 will have a greater interest in the
manual transmission, which will get 33 mpg in combined city and
highway driving, while eventually the majority of buyers will
prefer the automatic transmission, Soave said.  Younger drivers “never learned how to drive a manual and
they have no interest in driving a manual,” she said.  The Fiat 500, already being made in  Mexico , will start at
$15,500, not including the destination charge. Chrysler has said
it expects to sell 50,000 of the cars in North America. Company
executives expect to make additional money on the sale of
accessories.  Demonstration units have begun arriving in showrooms, she
said, and a marketing push is planned for March.  Customer Service  Early next month, Chrysler is bringing together about 300
people from the 130 U.S. Fiat dealerships for special training
in handling customers and selling the car which can be
configured in 500,000 ways, Soave said.  Dealers “need to be able to take the customers and show
them how to accessorize the vehicle,” she said.  The sales “consultants” will take on non-traditional
roles, including being the customer’s contact point for vehicle
service, she said.  Carl Galeana, who will open Fiat franchises in Michigan and  Florida , said he’s seeing a lot of excitement for the 500.  “The passion for a Fiat is much bigger than I thought,”
he said in a telephone interview.  Like Saturn  Chrysler’s efforts to set up Fiat reminded him of how the
predecessor of  General Motors Co . went about setting up Saturn,
Galeana said. He was a Saturn dealer until the Saturn brand was
ended as part of GM’s bankruptcy in 2009. The Saturn experience
included no-haggle buying.  “Customers, quite frankly, liked that process,” he said.  No-haggle policies can be effective if consumers feel like
they’re getting
a good deal already, Lindland, the industry analyst, said.  “Taking that haggling aspect out of it is a really smart
move,” she said.  Chrysler expects the market for small cars in  North America 
to more than double to 896,000 vehicles in 2014 from 442,000
last year, Soave said.  Consumer interest in small cars may not keep up with the
number of new entries.  “The 500, right now I think, is more symbolic” for the
return of the Fiat brand,  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive officer
of automotive website Edmunds.com, said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t see it as a massive volume car.”  While Soave is busy preparing dealers for a small car,
Chrysler is also preparing them for the 300 large sedan.  New Book  Chrysler executives call the 300 and the 200 convertible
“Chapter 2” of rebuilding the namesake brand. The first
chapter was unveiled in November with the redesigned and renamed
200 mid-sized sedan -- previously called Sebring -- and the
refreshed Town & Country minivan.  This is “our opportunity to tell the world that you don’t
have to cross an ocean to get a great car,” Olivier Francois,
head of the Chrysler brand, said this week in San Diego.  The new 300 starts at $27,170, excluding destination
charges. The previous model’s starting price was $27,260,
according to Chrysler’s website.  Chrysler’s average incentive spending on the 300 last year
rose to $5,042 from $4,765 in 2009, according to researcher
Autodata Corp. The industry average for passenger cars last year
was $2,563.  Chrysler  plans to pull back on incentive spending with the
new vehicle, Francois said in an interview earlier this month.  “We choose to be very transparent,” he said. “We are
going to aim for both loyal customer targets and to conquest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 Thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  