-- Citigroup Ignored 2005 CDO Alarm After Shedding OCC `Handcuffs,' FCIC Says
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2011-01-28T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/citigroup-ignored-2005-bond-warning-after-shedding-handcuffs-.html
  Citigroup Inc .’s bond-trading desk
was warned in 2005 that it was taking too much risk, three years
before mortgage losses in the unit led to a near collapse of the
bank and a $45 billion U.S. bailout.  The warning from the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency came in a December 2005 letter to Geoff Coley, then co-
head of New York-based Citigroup’s fixed-income trading. A copy
was released by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, which
explained in its  final report  yesterday how Citigroup’s former
trading chief Thomas Maheras collected $34 million in salary and
bonus in 2006 as his division took increasing risks.  “The findings of this examination are disappointing, in
that the business grew far in excess of management’s underlying
infrastructure and control processes,” bank examiner Ronald
Frake  wrote in the letter . “Transaction risk is high.
Management oversight is considered less than satisfactory.”  The panel was the second watchdog this month to show how
the government questioned whether Citigroup can be left alone to
manage its risks.  Neil Barofsky , inspector general of the
Treasury Department’s bank-bailout program, disclosed in a Jan.
13 report that Citigroup’s primary banking unit, Citibank, is
under a memorandum of understanding with the OCC requiring risk-
management upgrades. A repeat failure of Citigroup could again
imperil the global financial system, Barofsky wrote.  The OCC now believes a “key turning point” for Citigroup
came in 2006 when regulators lifted sanctions imposed on the
bank earlier in the decade, according to the FCIC. The freedom
allowed the company, then led by Chief Executive Officer Charles O. “Chuck” Prince, to embark on an “aggressive” expansion,
according to the FCIC.  Surge in Assets  In two and a half years, the bank’s balance sheet ballooned
by 58 percent to $2.36 trillion as of Sept. 30, 2007, just
before Prince was fired.  “With the removal of formal and informal agreements, the
previous focus on risk and compliance gave way to business
expansion and profits,” OCC Examiner John Lyons wrote in a  Feb.
14, 2008, letter  to Vikram Pandit, who took over as Citigroup’s
CEO in December 2007. The letter, labeled “confidential and
non-public,” was posted on the FCIC’s website. “The board and
senior management have not ensured an effective and independent
risk-management process is in place,” it said.  Mike Mayo, an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities USA
Inc., said the OCC letter may indicate bank supervisors will be
less willing to release Citigroup from the restrictions now in
place. Mayo accused Citigroup’s current management in a report
last October of setting aggressive financial targets, and listed
what he considers 20 “significant” risk-management breakdowns
since 1998.  Handcuffs Off  “When the regulatory handcuffs were taken off, then Citi
had a whole new set of problems, so perhaps now the handcuffs
will stay on longer,” Mayo, who rates the shares
“underperform,” said in an interview.  Citigroup spokeswoman Molly Meiners said Pandit has
overhauled risk management and runs a “fundamentally different
company today than it was before the crisis.” In an interview
yesterday with Bloomberg Television at the  World Economic Forum 
in Davos,  Switzerland , Pandit said, “As we move forward, it is
now about responsible and sustainable growth.”  The bank, which got a $45 billion taxpayer rescue in
November 2008 when it nearly collapsed, last year repaid the
last of its bailout obligation with a profit of more than $12
billion to the Treasury Department.  Citigroup’s Growth  In the December 2005  letter to Coley , the OCC’s Frake said
risk management in Citigroup’s credit-derivatives business was
“disappointing, in that the business grew far in excess of
management’s underlying infrastructure and control processes.”
The letter was copied to then-Chief Risk Officer David Bushnell,
Chief Administrative Officer Lewis Kaden, Chief Financial
Officer  Sallie Krawcheck , General Counsel Michael Helfer,
securities-division head Robert Druskin and Maheras. Coley,
Bushnell, Krawcheck and Druskin have since left the company.  Much of Citigroup’s almost $30 billion in net losses in
2008 and 2009 stemmed from collateralized debt obligations, or
CDOs, a type of bonds. Many of them were packaged from  credit
derivatives  -- financial contracts linked to mortgage bonds and
other debt instruments.  The FCIC cited an internal May 2005 Federal Reserve
document faulting the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  for
staffing its Citigroup team at a level that “has not kept pace
with the magnitude of supervisory issues that the institution
has realized.”  Risk Management  According to documents labeled confidential and released by
the FCIC, Citigroup overhauled its risk management in 2006 after
being faulted the prior year for lapses. The Federal Reserve,
which in early 2005 had cut its rating on Citigroup’s risk
management to “fair” from “satisfactory,” raised it back to
“satisfactory” in early 2006, according to an  internal central
bank memorandum  released by the FCIC.  In a  hand-delivered letter  to then-Citigroup Chairman
Sanford “Sandy” Weill in April of that year, New York Fed
Assistant Vice President Dianne Dobbeck acknowledged
“improvements in the compliance structure and its effectiveness
as a result of substantial management effort expended.” The
same month,  New York  Fed Executive Vice President William Rutledge informed Prince in a letter that a March 2005 ban on
 “significant expansion”  at the bank had been lifted.  Rutledge has since retired from the Fed. Dobbeck was
promoted to senior vice president in January 2009, according to
a  Fed statement .  Citigroup’s CDO desk created $22 billion in CDOs in 2006,
double the amount in 2005, according to the FCIC report. Coley’s
co-head of fixed-income trading, Randolph Barker, got $21
million in compensation that year, according to the FCIC’s
report. Coley’s compensation wasn’t disclosed.  Prince’s Compensation  Prince, who told the FCIC that he spent “more than half
his time” dealing with “various types of trouble” with
regulators, got $79 million of compensation from 2004 through
2007, according to the report. Maheras, who as trading chief
oversaw the fixed-income desk, spent “less than 1 percent of
his time thinking about CDOs,” he told the FCIC.  “In this case, too-big-to-fail meant too-big-to-manage,”
the FCIC’s Democratic majority, led by  Phil Angelides , concluded
in its report.  Prince fired Barker in October 2007, and Maheras left at
the same time. Coley left Citigroup in January 2008, according
to securities-industry records, and now works at Chapdelaine &
Co. alongside Barker. Coley didn’t respond to calls for comment,
and Maheras didn’t return a call to his hedge fund, Tegean
Capital Management LLC.  Citigroup had a policy allowing the bank to “claw back”
compensation from executives “under narrowly specified
circumstances,” according to the FCIC report. “Despite
Citigroup’s eventual large losses, no compensation was ever
clawed back under this policy.”  Oversight ‘Deficiencies’  On April 15, 2008, New York Fed Assistant Vice President
John Ruocco informed Pandit in a hand-delivered  letter  that
Citigroup’s risk-management rating was again being cut to
“fair.” The change was due in part to “serious deficiencies”
in the prior management’s oversight and controls.  “Senior management at the firm allowed its drive for
additional revenue growth to eclipse proper management of
risk,” the New York Fed wrote in an  accompanying report .  An internal  Federal Reserve  review in 2009 again found
“substantial weaknesses in the New York Fed’s oversight of
Citigroup,” according to the FCIC report.  “The  New York Fed  continuously seeks to refine its
supervisory process and is incorporating the lessons of the
crisis,” spokesman  Jack Gutt  said.  Roger T. Cole, former head of bank supervision at the
Federal Reserve, told the FCIC that supervisors “did discuss
issues such as whether banks were growing too fast and taking
too much risk, but ran into pushback.”  “Citigroup was earning $4 to $5 billion a quarter, and
that is really hard for a supervisor to successfully
challenge,” Cole said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  