-- Climate Talks Must Determine How to Disburse Aid, Africans Say
-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 2011-01-28T11:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/climate-talks-must-determine-how-to-disburse-green-fund-aid-africans-say.html
Global climate talks later this year
in Durban,  South Africa , need to focus on how to disburse $100
billion in pledged aid to  developing countries , the head of  Nigeria ’s Centre for Public Policy Alternatives said.  Envoys at United Nations talks in Cancun,  Mexico , in
December agreed to a package aimed at limiting global warming by
protecting forests, advising nations on adapting to higher
temperatures and opening a $100 billion Green Climate Fund.  “They put forward the idea of a green fund,” Folarin
Gbadebo-Smith, a Harvard graduate, said in an interview in
Johannesburg. “The truth is, as an African corporation, I
cannot access funds sitting with the UN. The process of getting
to that money is so complicated.”  The fund is intended to mobilize $100 billion a year by
2020 from wealthier countries to help poorer nations cope with
the consequences of  climate change  and mitigate further CO2
emissions.  “The international community makes these offers with one
hand and then cleverly pulls it back by creating structural
obstacles to access,” Gbadebo-Smith said yesterday.  The UN talks in  Durban  in December need to spell out the
financing framework details for extending the aid to developing
countries, said Evariste Sinarinzi, head of Burundi’s Designated
National Authority. His is among the government agencies that
screen carbon projects before they go to the Clean Development
Mechanism’s   executive board .  “It’s important to simplify these procedures so that
developing countries can get access to these funds. We want to
see how these adaptation funds are going to be spent,”
Sinarinzi said in an interview.  Disbursement Concerns  The money must not be dispersed to governments, said
Gbadebo-Smith, a former mayor of a Lagos municipality. “African
governments collectively are corrupt. Any money you throw at
these entities just disappears into a black hole.”  African nations reached a consensus at the Cancun talks on
getting climate-protection finance via the African Development
Bank Group.  “But conditions have to be set,” he said. “The
guidelines have to really clear as to how you can access this
money and part of the money must be made available for
information and education of the end-user.”  There’s no forum where ideas are exchanged and coordinated
in  Africa , Gbadebo-Smith said. “That’s a problem that needs to
be addressed by this finance,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in  Cape Town  at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  