-- Cnooc Falls Most in Eight Months After Forecasting Output Growth Will Slow
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-01-28T10:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/cnooc-tumbles-in-hong-kong-after-forecasting-lower-oil-production-in-2011.html
  Cnooc Ltd ., China’s biggest offshore
energy explorer, fell the most in more than two years in Hong
Kong trading after forecasting slower production growth.  The shares slumped 7 percent to close at HK$17.32, the
largest drop since Dec. 2, 2008. The decline was the most among
the 45 stocks on the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  China Oilfield
Services Ltd ., which counts Cnooc as its biggest customer, fell
1.9 percent.  Cnooc said yesterday it plans to raise oil and gas
production by as much as 12 percent in 2011, after paying about
$8.4 billion for energy assets in  Africa , Argentina and the U.S.
in the past year to bolster reserves. By contrast, the company’s
output increased 44 percent in 2010.  “The 2011 strategy preview revealed a lower-than-
anticipated production volume growth,” Cheng Khoo and Gordon Wai, analysts at Nomura International (HK) Ltd., said in a
report today. “This year’s volume growth is unlikely to excite
especially as the growth will mainly come from its Argentina
acquisition. The stock is unlikely to outperform.”  Overseas acquisitions in the past year included the $3.1
billion purchase of a 50 percent stake in Argentine producer
Bridas Corp. and the $1.08 billion acquisition of a share in  Chesapeake Energy Corp .’s Eagle Ford shale project in  Texas .  Most of Cnooc’s assets are off the Chinese coast, where the
company said it plans to start up four projects this year.
Fields outside China may account for more than 20 percent of
overall output this year, and by 2015, more than 30 percent,
according to Cnooc’s estimates.  ‘Profits Ahead’  The Beijing-based company may report profit rose 75 percent
to 51.5 billion yuan ($7.8 billion) last year, the mean estimate
of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg shows. Net income may
increase to 58.6 billion yuan this year, according to them.  “With oil likely to average $100 this year versus $80 last
year, Cnooc’s latest production growth guidance could translate
to more record profits ahead,” said  Gordon Kwan , the head of
regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. “While
some might view Cnooc’s growth target as a big ‘slowdown,’ don’t
forget this is on top of a very high base in 2010 that saw over
44 percent jump in oil and gas output. Many global peers out
there can only manage low single-digit production growth.”    Capital spending  may rise 55 percent this year to $8.77
billion as Cnooc steps up deepwater exploration in areas
including the  South China Sea , the unit of state-controlled
China National Offshore Oil Corp. said yesterday.  The oil and gas producer was rated a “buy” by 19 of 30
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Six of them recommended selling,
while five said “hold.”  Overseas Acquisitions  “Cnooc has not ruled out more acquisitions to boost
production and reserves,” Kwan said. “One of our 10
predictions for 2011 in the energy sector is Cnooc making a
sizable oil sands acquisition in  Canada .”  Oil sands are deposits of bitumen, an extra-heavy oil that
must be treated for use in refineries to produce gasoline and
diesel fuels. In June,  China  Petrochemical Corp., known as
Sinopec Group, completed its $4.65 billion acquisition of a
stake in oil-sands producer Syncrude Canada Ltd.  --Winnie Zhu. Editors: Ryan Woo, Tan Hwee Ann.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 