-- Coal Mines in Australia's Queensland Brace for Cyclone After Worst Flood
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2011-01-28T07:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/coal-mines-in-australia-s-queensland-brace-for-cyclone-after-worst-flood.html
  Australia ’s Queensland state,
recovering from the nation’s worst flood disaster, is bracing
for a  cyclone  expected to hit its northeastern coast within
three days, threatening more damage to stricken coal mines.  Tropical Cyclone Anthony reformed into a cyclone today and
is likely to hit the coast between Mackay and Cooktown on Jan.
30 or Jan. 31, the Bureau of Meteorology said. On the other side
of the continent, Western Australia’s state capital Perth is
preparing for dangerous weather triggered by another cyclone and
catastrophic fire conditions.  Almost two months of torrential rains in the Queensland
have killed as many as 32 people, damaged about 30,000
properties, cut rail lines and spoiled crops. Lost coal
production may cost as much as A$9.5 billion ($9.4 billion),
with 85 percent of coal mines in the Australian state, the
biggest exporter of the steelmaking commodity, “impaired by
excess water,” Queensland Resources Council said yesterday.  Cyclone Anthony may reach a Category 2 intensity, out of a
scale of one to five, with five being the highest, bureau
forecaster Rick Threlfall said in a phone interview from
Brisbane. Queensland coal-mining districts may be affected with
storms and heavy rain, he said.  “Areas of concern at this stage would be the central
coalfields area such as Emerald, but pretty much everywhere on
that coastal strip and inland could see very heavy rainfalls
early next week,” Threlfall said.  Drenched Pits  The floods caused  BHP Billiton Ltd . and Rio Tinto Group to
declare force majeure, a legal clause that allows producers to
miss deliveries. The removal of water from pits is likely to be
affected by the “state government’s risk-averse environment
regulator,” the lack of pumping equipment and water damage, the
Resources Council said yesterday.  Steelmakers in  Asia  may be forced to pay as much as 78
percent more for three-month hard coking coal contracts starting
April 1 after flooding disrupted output, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  Queensland has 57 producing coal mines, according to the
Resources Council. It may take two to three months for normal
operations to resume, the government said last week.  Another system has formed off Fiji and could hit Queensland
as a Category 4 or Category 5 cyclone as early as Feb. 3, the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported, citing state Premier  Anna Bligh .  Cyclone, Heatwave  In Western Australia, Perth is preparing for a weekend of
extreme weather conditions triggered by Severe Tropical Cyclone
Bianca and a heatwave.  People living in the southwest of the state, which includes
Perth, have been urged to prepare for extreme to catastrophic
fire conditions, damaging winds, dangerous seas, localized
flooding and potential storm surge activity during the next two
days, the state’s  Fire & Emergency Service  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Bianca, a Category 3 cyclone, was 510 kilometers (317 miles)
west-southwest of the town of Exmouth at 11 a.m. local time
today. It’s forecast to weaken as it tracks southwest before
heading to Perth by Jan. 30, according to the bureau’s website.  Perth’s temperature reached 38 degrees Celsius (100 degrees
Fahrenheit) today. It is expected to be matched tomorrow, which
will lead to dangerous fire conditions, the Bureau of
Meteorology said.  Rig Disruptions  The bureau has removed onshore warnings for Severe Tropical
Cyclone Bianca, which caused disruptions to oil output for
Chevron Corp.,  Santos Ltd ., Woodside Petroleum Ltd. and Apache
Corp.  Santos, Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer,
expects the Mutineer-Exeter project off Western Australia to
restart within two weeks in the absence of another cyclone,
spokesman  Matthew Doman  said by phone today from Adelaide. The
platform has been sent to Dampier for maintenance, he said.  Woodside hasn’t restarted output at its Enfield or Cossack
Pioneer ventures, spokeswoman Laura Hammer said by phone today
from Perth. Apache production at the Stag oil field also hasn’t
resumed, spokesman Matthew Coomber said from Perth.  Chevron resumed operations at  oil fields  off northwestern
Australia, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  Western Australia, about four times the size of  France ,
accounts for 62 percent of the nation’s mineral production, 75
percent of natural gas and 64 percent of crude oil and
condensate, according to state government figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 