-- Codelco Raises $1 Billion for Copper Expansion in Electricity Company Sale
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C r a z e
-- 2011-01-28T14:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/codelco-raises-1-billion-for-copper-expansion-in-electricity-company-sale.html
Codelco, the world’s largest copper
producer, sold its stake in a Chilean electricity company
controlled by  GDF Suez  SA for $1.04 billion as part of a plan to
raise funds for expansion.    Chile ’s state-owned copper company sold 424 million shares
in E-CL SA, or a 40 percent shareholding, at 1,200 pesos apiece
after a book-building process led by Larrain Vial SA, Codelco
wrote in a statement distributed by e-mail today.  Codelco plans to spend $16.5 billion in the next five years
to ramp up production from its aging mines after the metal’s
price jumped 30 percent last year to record levels. Chile’s
government will allow Codelco to retain all proceeds from the
sale, Chairman Gerardo Jofre said on Jan. 7.  “With this sale we’ve completed our financing program for
this year,”  Thomas Keller , Codelco’s vice-president of finance
and administration, told reporters today after a share placement
ceremony at the Santiago stock exchange. “We could return to
debt markets by the end of the year but that will obviously
depend on market conditions.”  E-CL supplies power to northern Chile’s mining region. Its
shares fell 5.2 percent to the sale price of 1,200 pesos at 8:27
a.m. New York time in Santiago trading. The stock trades at 4.69
times trailing profit, making it the second-cheapest electricity
company in Chile, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  IM Trust set a yearend price estimate of 1,490 pesos and
recommended its clients participate in the Codelco sale for as
much as 1,180 pesos per share, according to an e-mailed note,
citing prospects for mining projects to boost energy demand.  Banco BICE began coverage of E-CL with a “buy” rating and
an yearend share price estimate of 1,610 pesos, according to a
Jan. 21 note. Banco Penta also rates the company “buy” and
forecasts shares to reach 1,596 pesos, it said on Jan. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net 
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeran Wittenstein at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net  