-- U.S. Consumer Sentiment Falls Less Than Forecast
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2011-01-28T15:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-slips-as-michigan-index-drops-to-74-2-from-74-5.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers fell
less than expected in January, a signal the biggest part of the
economy may extend gains from late 2010.  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan  final index of
consumer sentiment decreased to 74.2 from 74.5 in December. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a reading
of 73.3, up from a preliminary figure of 72.7 issued earlier
this month.  A boost in consumer spending driven by increased optimism
could add momentum to an economic expansion  Federal Reserve 
policy makers this week said wasn’t strong enough to reduce
unemployment. The economy expanded at a 3.2 percent pace in the
final three months of 2010, a Commerce Department report showed
earlier today.  “There’s a very solid foundation for very solid growth
over the next couple of quarters,” said  Eric Green , chief
market economist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York . “You’re
seeing stronger views in terms of the outlook and firming views
on economic conditions.”  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey of 67 economists ranged
from 71.8 to 76. While the sentiment index averaged 89 in the
five years leading up to the recession that began in December
2007, it hasn’t reached that level since the recovery started in
June 2009.  Current Conditions  The survey’s measure of current conditions, which reflects
Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and whether
it’s a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars, fell to 81.8
from 85.3 in December.  In the last year, improving economic news has helped boost
stocks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 13 percent in 2010
and has extended those gains in 2011.  The Commerce Department’s report today showed the  U.S.
economy  accelerated in the fourth quarter, driven by the biggest
gain in consumer spending in more than four years and rising
exports. Gross domestic product fell short of the 3.5 percent
median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg and was
restrained by the biggest drag from inventories in two decades.
Final sales, which include all categories except stockpiles,
rose at a 7.1 percent pace, the fastest since 1984.  Consumer purchases, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, increased at a 4.4 percent annual rate from October
through December, the Commerce Department’s figures showed.  Six Months From Now  Consumer expectations for six months from now, which more
closely projects the direction of  consumer spending , climbed to
69.3, the highest since June, from 67.5, according to today’s
confidence report.  American consumers said they expect an inflation rate of
3.4 percent over the next 12 months, compared with a rate of 3
percent projected in December. Over the next five years, the
period tracked by Fed policy makers, Americans’ forecast for
inflation rose to 2.9 percent, the highest since July, from last
month’s forecast of 2.8 percent.  Higher energy costs have driven inflation concerns among
consumers. The average price of a gallon of gasoline rose to
$3.10 yesterday, after reaching $3.12 last week, the highest
since October 2008, according to AAA. Prices on regular-grade
gasoline have exceeded $3 a gallon since Dec. 21.  While the economy accelerated at the end of 2010, the U.S.
hasn’t been creating jobs fast enough to replace the 8.4 million
lost during the recession.  FOMC Statement  “Growth in household spending picked up late last year,
but remains constrained by high unemployment, modest income
growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit,” the  Federal
Open Market Committee  said Jan. 26 in its statement after a two-
day meeting in Washington.  To provide more stimulus, President  Barack Obama  in
December signed into law an $858 billion bill extending for two
years tax cuts for all income levels. The measure also continues
expanded jobless insurance benefits to the long-term unemployed
for 13 months and reduces payroll taxes for workers by two
percentage points this year.  “These steps, taken by Democrats and Republicans, will
grow the economy and add to the more than one million private-
sector jobs created last year,” Obama said this week during the
State of the Union address.    General Motors Co ., the largest U.S. automaker, will add a
third shift and about 750 jobs to its assembly plant in Flint,
Michigan, to meet rising demand for pickups, according to a Jan.
24 statement. The hiring will start in the second quarter, and
the additional shift will begin in the third quarter, Detroit-
based GM said.  “Adding a third shift is a response to customer demand for
heavy-duty pickups, which most people use to tow, haul and
plow,”  Mark Reuss , president of GM North America, said in the
statement. “Equally importantly, it brings jobs and a needed
economic boost to the Flint area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  