-- Corn Advances on Concern Dry Weather May Curb Argentine Yields
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2011-01-28T11:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/corn-advances-on-concern-argentina-rains-may-not-prevent-drought-damage.html
Corn rose in Chicago, reducing a
weekly drop, on concern that rain in  Argentina  came too late to
shelter crops in the world’s second-largest exporter from damage
caused by dry weather.  March-delivery corn advanced 0.5 percent to $6.5425 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 12:19 p.m. Paris time.
The contract is heading for a 0.5 percent decline this week.  Rains and storms forecast in Argentina through next week
will fail to revive corn crops damaged by hot and dry weather
during pollination, Telvent DTN Inc. said yesterday.  “It’s a major issue,”  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund
manager at Astmax Co., said by phone from Tokyo. The global
market is relying on shipments from Argentina after the U.S.,
the  largest exporter , completed its harvest, he said. “The
market is focusing on Argentina and  Brazil .”  Argentina’s core corn-growing region in the center of the
Pampas region suffered water shortages during the last months of
2010 and early this month. The dry weather was caused by a La
Nina weather event in the  Pacific Ocean . Corn harvesting in
Argentina starts next month.  The Buenos Aires Cereals Exchanged kept its corn-production
forecast unchanged at 19.5 million metric tons yesterday, after
lowering it last week from 20.4 million tons.  Wheat Slips  March-delivery wheat fell 0.3 percent to $8.4375 a bushel,
trimming the weekly gain to 2.3 percent. Milling wheat for March
delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris slipped 0.3 percent to
264 euros ($362.34) a ton.  Argentina’s wheat harvest was completed in the past week
and the crop is estimated to have almost doubled to 15 million
tons from 7.9 million tons a year earlier, the cereals exchange
said. That compares with a  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
estimate earlier this month of 14 million tons.  Exporters in the U.S. sold 1.047 million tons of wheat in
the week ended Jan. 20, compared with 1.1 million tons a week
earlier, the USDA said yesterday.  Soybeans for March delivery declined 0.1 percent to $13.975
a bushel in  Chicago , for a weekly drop of l percent.  Rains forecast in Argentina will help ease stress to the
nation’s soybean crops, improving harvest prospects, DTN said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  