-- Divorces of Wealthy Have Unfortunate Effect on U.K. Family Law, Judge Says
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2011-01-28T14:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/divorces-of-wealthy-have-unfortunate-effect-on-u-k-family-law-judge-says.html
A British millionaire was ordered to
increase his ex-wife’s payout to 8 million pounds ($12.7
million) from 5 million pounds in a case where a judge said
divorces involving rich couples are having an “unfortunate”
effect on U.K. family law.  Gareth Jones, 58, was told to pay the money to his former
wife Victoria Jones, 44, by the Court of Appeal in  London  today.
The three-judge panel ruled that a lower-court judge had
miscalculated the value of the assets accrued during the
couple’s 10-year marriage.  Family law is becoming “dictated by cases which bear no
resemblance to the ordinary lives of most divorcing couples,”
said Nicholas Wall, one of the judges.  The  Supreme Court  in London in a separate case in October
ruled that a divorce settlement between German heiress Katrin
Radmacher and a former  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co . investment banker
could be reduced because of a pre-nuptial agreement. The ruling,
giving greater weight than ever before to pre-nups, has led to
an increase in the contracts, family lawyers have said.  Jones, who is retired and lives in a castle in  Scotland ,
made his fortune by selling a company that supplies equipment to
the oil industry for 32 million pounds in 2007, the ruling said.  “The sums of money -- including the costs -- involved in
this case are well beyond the experience and even the
contemplation of most people,” Wall said in today’s ruling.
“Whether the wife has 5 million pounds or 8 million pounds, she
will still be a very rich woman.”  Alison Hayes, a lawyer for Gareth Jones, didn’t immediately
respond to a message seeking comment. Mishcon de Reya, the law
firm representing Victoria Jones, also didn’t immediately
respond.  The case is Victoria Theresa Jones -and- Gareth Telfer
Jones. Case no. B4/2010/0623  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 