-- Dollar to Fall on Fed Rates, Deficit, Bagguley at Barclays Says
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2011-01-28T12:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/dollar-to-decline-on-low-fed-rates-u-s-deficit-barclays-bagguley-says.html
The dollar is set to depreciate as
the  Federal Reserve  keeps  interest rates  on hold and U.S.
imports outpace exports, Barclays Capital’s head of Group-of-10  currency trading  said.  The decline will stem from “weaker monetary policy, weaker
fiscal policy and a trade deficit in the U.S., none of which is
positive for the currency,” London-based Michael Bagguley, head
of foreign exchange, said in an interview last week. ``People
perceive the deficits, or what's referred to often as structural
imbalances, as reflective of the need for currency exchange
rates to change.”  The Fed is holding to its plan to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June because the economic recovery has been
“insufficient to bring about a significant improvement in
labor-market conditions,” policy makers said after their
interest-rate meeting on Jan. 26. President  Barack Obama 
extended Bush-era tax cuts and called for investment in
innovation, education and infrastructure even as he said this
week that the deficit is “not sustainable,” proposing a five-
year freeze on non-defense discretionary spending.  The dollar will weaken to as little as $1.42 per euro this
year, according to Barclays forecasts on Bloomberg, from $1.3726
as of 12:03 p.m. in London. The greenback will slide more than
10 percent to 92 yen and drop to $1.82 per pound, the bank says.  The greenback fell 3.4 percent last year and 10 percent in
2009, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which
track a basket of 10 developed-market currencies, amid an easing
of the global financial crisis sparked by the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. The euro depreciated 10 percent
in 2010 and 7.7 percent in 2009, the indexes show.    Deficit Reduction   The pound will rally as the British government tackles the
fiscal deficit and accelerating inflation increases the
likelihood of higher interest rates from the Bank of  England ,
Bagguley said. U.S. federal government debt will climb to 99
percent of gross domestic product this year from 93 percent in
2010, while the U.K.’s will total 82 percent, according to
International Monetary Fund forecasts.  Minutes released this week from the  Bank of England ’s Jan.
13 monetary policy meeting showed a second policy maker favored
boosting rates to curb consumer-price growth. Inflation
accelerated to an eight-month high in December, rising 3.7
percent from a year earlier, as fuel and food prices climbed.  “That would lead us to be quite positive on sterling in a
way that we wouldn’t be able to be as positive on the dollar,”
Bagguley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  