-- Some National Carbon Registries May Reopen Within Days, EU Says
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2011-01-28T13:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/hedegaard-says-some-national-carbon-registries-will-reopen-within-days.html
European Union Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said some of the bloc’s carbon registries may
reopen within days while others could stay closed for weeks
after missing emissions permits forced a security upgrade.  The European Commission, regulator for the world’s biggest
emissions market, closed the registries that keep tabs on
permits on Jan. 19. The move, imposed after as many as 30
million euros of allowances were lost in a series of computer-
hacking attacks, halted about a fifth of the carbon market.  “We are in close dialogue with member states on this,”
Hedegaard said in an interview today at the  World Economic Forum 
in Davos,  Switzerland . “They’re working very hard. Some could
open rather soon, some could take a little bit longer. We want
to do this with quality rather than rushing and then something
happens.”  About half of the EU’s member states lack adequate
protection, the commission said after permits disappeared in  Austria , the Czech Republic and  Greece . The EU website, due to
signal the resumption of any national carbon center 24 hours
ahead of the reopening, listed no notices as of 2 p.m. in
Brussels today.  EU futures for delivery in December 2011, which weren’t
affected by the registries suspension, lost as much as 1 percent
to 14.58 euros a metric ton the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . They traded at 14.62 euros as of 1:20 p.m.  Hedegaard declined to speculate on when all the registries
could reopen again. They are now barred from all transactions
except for allocating and surrendering carbon allowance.  Illegal Transfers  CEZ AS, the largest Czech power producer, said yesterday it
lost 10.5 million euros worth of allowances in unauthorized
transfers in last week’s raids on the national registry. It
became the second Czech company to report illegal transfers of
carbon permits after Blackstone Global Ventures, a Brno-based
trader, announced last week that 475,000 allowances were missing
from its account.  The European emissions-trading system, founded in 2005 and
intended as a model for a future global carbon program, covers
the 27 EU nations as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and  Norway .
The region’s carbon market had trading volume of 80 billion last
year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “It’s not the system that is wrong,” Hedegaard said.
“Wherever you have financial assets of some kind, you can
experience fraud. We see that in all sorts of other areas. Just
because someone robs a bank, you do not say the whole banking
system doesn’t work.”  Central Clearinghouse  While the system is set to have a central clearinghouse in
the next trading period starting in 2013, so-called national
registries are now responsible for tracking ownership of
permits.  “Until then, it’s the responsibility of the member states
to take care of security,” Hedegaard said. “We closed it down
last week, had them all in a meeting on Friday. Since then, we
had conferences with them on a daily basis and now we have some
criteria that we all agreed on, security-wise, that you have to
live up to before you can open again.”  The commission requires national emissions trading
authorities to submit independent reports showing their
registries have the minimum protection before getting the green
light from the commission to reopen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in Davos at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  