-- Ackermann Says Bailout Risk Lurks for Hedge Funds
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2011-01-28T12:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/hedge-funds-pose-systemic-risk-without-increased-oversight-ackermann-says.html
  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said unregulated financial companies
such as hedge funds may pose a systemic risk to the economy if
oversight isn’t increased.  “You have an unregulated area which becomes -- as a
consequence of all the regulatory changes -- more and more
important,” Ackermann, 62, said in an interview at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . “You may one day wake up
and realize that the systemic challenges are so big that you
will have to bail out or at least help support the unregulated
sector.”  Ackermann’s warning echoes comments made by former U.S.
Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers, who said this week in Davos
that regulators haven’t paid enough attention to problems that
could emerge in “a large, less healthy buccaneer sector.”
Hedge funds have dodged the brunt of new global banking
regulation aimed at avoiding a repeat of the worst global
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  “If you separate utility banks from casino banking, you
will one day realize that casino banks are also counterparties
to corporations but also to other banks and to asset management
and to governments,” Ackermann said yesterday. “It would be
somewhat naïve to assume that if you have a strong regulated
sector and leave the unregulated in the open, that you will
never have systemic risk.”  Bonus Pay  The biggest U.S. banks such as  Bank of America Corp . and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., also facing tighter scrutiny and
higher capital requirements, argue they’ll be at a competitive
disadvantage if hedge funds, money managers and insurers aren’t
subject to similar constraints.  Representatives for the latter have fought back in meetings
with government officials, saying economic stability wouldn’t be
threatened if one of their firms failed. The Alternative
Investment Management Association, a London-based group that
represents hedge funds, released a statement today that says
it’s “inaccurate” to call the industry unregulated.  “All the major jurisdictions where hedge funds operate,
whether in  North America ,  Europe  or Asia-Pacific, have rigorous
regulation of the industry,” the group’s CEO, Andrew Baker,
said in the statement. “This already rigorous regulation is
being increased by new legislation introduced since the
crisis.”  Dodd-Frank Act  The U.S. Congress in July approved the Dodd-Frank Act,
which forces hedge funds to undergo routine inspections by the
Securities and Exchange Commission and requires firms that
manage more than $1 billion to disclose their investments,
leverage and risk profile to regulators.  European lawmakers in November approved regulations
requiring hedge funds to set limits on their use of leverage and
avoid pay practices that encourage risk taking.  Deutsche Bank, which is scheduled to publish fourth-quarter
and full-year earnings on Feb. 3, will likely pay bonuses that
are in line with other competitors in the market, Ackermann
said.  When asked about considerations by  Credit Suisse Group AG 
to pay parts of bonuses with bonds that convert into equity if
the company’s capital shrinks, he said the German firm sees
“too many challenges” with the so-called CoCos and is not yet
planning to use them for pay.  “I think we are paying the bonus which markets require,”
he said. He declined to comment on whether variable pay for 2010
will be lower or higher than the year before, saying only that
compensation at Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, complies with “all the directives and recommendations”
from policymakers and regulators.  Ackermann said in December 2009 that the big German
financial institutions, including  Allianz SE  and  Commerzbank AG ,
agreed to impose self-discipline on pay based on recommendations
by the Basel, Switzerland-based Financial Stability Board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Davos at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in Davos at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  