-- Lehman, Goldman, Galleon, Deutsche Bank in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-01-28T12:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/lehman-goldman-galleon-deutsche-bank-k1-in-court-news.html
  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . was
sued for an “abuse” of repurchase agreements that effectively
“looted” $450 million from a Bermuda reinsurance unit when the
assets were pledged to the unit’s biggest lender.  Lehman took the cash in 2008 when it was increasingly short
of funds, according to the complaint by Pulsar Re Ltd., which is
claiming the money from defunct Lehman Re in Bermuda. Lehman
saddled the unit with illiquid assets “worth far less than the
inflated market values assigned to them by Lehman personnel,”
Pulsar said in the complaint, filed Jan. 26 in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  New York .  “Lehman’s abuse of repurchase agreements throughout 2008
to create the false appearance of financial health was
rampant,” Pulsar said, citing a report on Lehman’s bankruptcy
by examiner Anton Valukas. Under orders from former Chief
Executive Officer Richard Fuld, Lehman tried to disguise its
leverage by resorting to short term repos secured by
“inflated” or improperly valued collateral, it said.  Pulsar’s lawsuit is one of several that make use of the
Valukas report and other investigations into the largest
bankruptcy in U.S. history. Most of the lawsuits seek money from
former Lehman executives rather than bankrupt Lehman.    James Sprayregen , a lawyer for Pulsar at Kirkland & Ellis
LLP, said his client has been negotiating with Lehman over the
money as part of the liquidation of Lehman Re.  “We are still hopeful of resolving things consensually,”
Sprayregen said a phone interview yesterday. “Pulsar as
creditor is interested in a significant chunk of the cash in
Lehman Re that Lehman seized.”  The lawsuit is Pulsar Re Ltd. v. Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., 11-01283, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). Lehman’s bankruptcy case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  U.S. Sues Boston Scientific Over Faulty Defibrillators  The U.S. Justice Department sued  Boston Scientific Corp .
and its Guidant unit for allegedly knowingly selling defective
implantable electronic heartbeat-regulating defibrillators.  Guidant, which Boston Scientific bought in 2006 for
$27.5 billion, hid problems with its defibrillators from
patients, doctors and the Food and Drug Administration,
according to the lawsuit filed yesterday in Minnesota federal
court. In February 2010, Guidant pleaded guilty to misleading
the FDA about the problems. It paid a total of $296 million.  Guidant knew as early as 2002 that implantable cardiac
devices known as Prizm 2 had a potentially life-threatening
defect, yet it still sold them, the U.S. claimed. The company
also knew as early as 2003 that its implantable cardiac device
known as the Renewal had a similar life-threatening defect, and
it sold them anyway, according to the complaint.  “Patients with serious heart conditions who depend on
these devices should not have to second-guess whether they are
safe and effective,” Tony West, assistant attorney general in
the Justice Department’s civil division, said in a statement.
Concealing the problems wasted taxpayer money and put lives at
risk, he said.  Paul Donovan, a spokesman for Natick, Massachusetts-based
Boston Scientific, said in an e-mail: “We have been aware of
the government’s interest in this civil matter, and we have
previously disclosed it in our regulatory filings. Guidant plans
to respond to the government’s allegations and claims for
damages in the appropriate fashion.”  Boston Scientific, the world’s second-largest heart-device
maker, agreed in 2007 to pay $240 million to settle more than
8,000 lawsuits claiming Guidant hid defibrillator defects.  Guidant LLC pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of
submitting false and misleading reports to the FDA and failing
and refusing to report a medical device correction. The company
was fined $253.9 million and forfeited $42 million. U.S.
District Judge Donovan W. Frank accepted the plea on Jan. 12 in
Minnesota.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Allen v. Guidant LLC, 11-cv-00022,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  For more, click here.  U.K. Arrests Five Over WikiLeaks-Related Cyber Attacks  London police  arrested five males, including three
teenagers, in connection with an investigation of a group that
has performed cyber attacks on companies deemed hostile to the
anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks.  Hours later in the U.S., agents of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation executed 40 search warrants in a similar probe of
the attacks and a group known as Anonymous that took credit for
them, the agency said in a statement.  The British suspects, between the ages of 15 and 26, were
arrested yesterday in connection with online assaults on
corporate websites by the loose-knit group, which enlisted the
computers of volunteers worldwide, the Metropolitan Police
Service said yesterday in a statement.  While the police didn’t name the five or specifically link
their arrests to WikiLeaks, people affiliated with Anonymous
previously targeted EBay Inc.’s PayPal unit, MasterCard Inc.,  Visa Inc . and Moneybookers.com.  The investigation of so-called denial of service attacks is
being carried out in cooperation with law enforcement in  Europe 
and the U.S., according to the London police statement. The
attacks require “minimal knowledge” and consist of
“exhausting the resources of a computer,” the London police
said.  For more, click here.  XO Holdings Sued Over 70 Cents-a-Share Icahn Offer    XO Holdings Inc . was sued by a shareholder who contends a
70 cents-a-share takeover offer from an affiliate of Chairman
Carl Icahn undervalues the telecommunications company.  XO directors have a duty to get the best price for the
shares, which recently have been trading above the offer, said
Cindy Henzel, an investor in the Herndon, Virginia-based
company, in a Delaware Chancery Court complaint filed Jan. 26.  Henzel said the consideration “is indeed a discount to the
company’s shareholders,” and “is unfair and grossly
inadequate” for XO, which reported $1.52 billion in sales for
2009.  Icahn, with 91.5 percent of the stock, said Jan. 21 he
would buy 100 percent of the company through his ACF Industries
Holding Corp., according to the complaint.  XO said Jan. 21 it had formed a special board committee to
evaluate the offer. Icahn didn’t immediately return a call to
his New York office seeking comment on the lawsuit.  XO rose 2 cents, or 2.7 percent, to 76 cents in over-the-
counter trading in New York. The stock has climbed 23 percent in
the past year.  The case is Henzel v. XO Holdings, CA6150, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Goldman’s Tourre Seeks to Halt February Depositions  Fabrice Tourre, the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . trader accused
by U.S. regulators of misleading investors in a product linked
to subprime mortgages, asked a judge to halt depositions
scheduled to begin on Feb. 1.  Tourre can’t “effectively participate” in the depositions
until he gets documents from Dusseldorf, Germany-based  IKB
Deutsche Industriebank AG , a “purported ‘victim’ of the alleged
fraud,” his lawyer said yesterday in a court filing. Tourre
also is awaiting other material and must review about 300,000
documents he has already received, according to the filing.  “If Mr. Tourre is compelled to proceed with depositions
beginning on Feb. 1, 2011, it will be without the benefit of
anything like adequate document discovery,” Pamela Chepiga,
Tourre’s lawyer, wrote in the filing in federal court in
Manhattan.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Goldman
Sachs and Tourre on April 16, accusing them of failing to tell
investors that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick underlying
securities for a collateralized debt obligation and planned to
bet against them. The SEC reached a $550 million settlement with
New York-based Goldman Sachs in July.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  Tourre is awaiting a judge’s ruling on his request to
dismiss the lawsuit because, he said, the transactions involving
the collateralized debt obligations called Abacus 2007-AC1
occurred outside the U.S. Tourre can’t be held liable under U.S.
securities law, his lawyers have argued.  The SEC opposes the request, saying in court papers that
“unlawful securities transactions” occurred in the U.S. Tourre
worked at the Goldman Sachs “headquarters in New York during
the relevant period” and did business in New York, the agency
said.  The court filing provides insight into the course of the
litigation. Tourre’s lawyers have hired 25 attorneys to review 1
million documents with about 10.5 million pages. Attorneys for
the SEC say they plan to depose about 25 witnesses, including
representatives of Goldman Sachs and IKB.  The case is SEC v. Goldman Sachs, 10-CV-3229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Rajaratnam Prosecutors Seek to Offer Pay Evidence  U.S. prosecutors asked a judge for permission to tell
jurors at an insider-trading trial next month about the pay of
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  In a filing Jan. 26 in Manhattan federal court, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter also asked a judge to block
Rajaratnam from challenging the government’s motives for
prosecuting him. Streeter cited a similar ruling in the 2004
trial of Martha Stewart, who was convicted of obstructing
justice.  “Evidence linking a defendant’s financial compensation to
his possible motives for participating in an alleged fraud is
relevant,” Streeter wrote in the filing. “Rajaratnam should be
precluded from attacking the government’s motives, conduct and
investigative methods,” he added.  Rajaratnam, who denies wrongdoing, will go on trial on Feb.
28 on charges that he led an insider-trading conspiracy which
earned his fund about $45 million. Prosecutors say they will
offer wiretaps of his phone conversations and testimony from his
alleged accomplices, while Rajaratnam says there were innocent
reasons for his stock trades.  His spokesman, Jim McCarthy, declined to comment on
Streeter’s filing. On Jan. 26, Rajaratnam’s lawyer, John Dowd,
filed his own request to exclude prosecutors from offering
certain evidence.  Dowd wants to block prosecutors from telling jurors about
statements from Rajaratnam stock tippers who didn’t tell him the
source of their tips, who passed along “general and non-
specific” comments about companies or who fabricated
information about companies. Dowd also wants to exclude evidence
where there were no trades in a stock.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell , who is presiding over
the case, will make the final determination.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Renault Told Spying Suspect to ‘Keep the Money,’ Lawyer Says    Renault SA  told one of three executives accused of selling
company secrets to go quietly and “keep the money,” his lawyer
said. The French carmaker denied making the offer.  Christian Husson, Renault’s legal director, said Matthieu
Tenenbaum could resign and escape punishment during a meeting on
Jan. 3, according to attorney Thibault de Montbrial. “He didn’t
even understand what the proposal meant,” De Montbrial said by
telephone yesterday.  Renault spokeswoman Caroline de Gezelle said Husson had
made no such suggestion. Tenenbaum “had the choice to resign
but not to keep the money,” she said by phone.  Renault said on Jan. 5 it suspended three executives
without pay after an ethics probe. Tenenbaum and the two other
managers, upstream development chief Michel Balthazard and his
deputy Bertrand Rochette, have denied selling electric-car
secrets, contested their subsequent dismissals and filed
criminal defamation claims.  Renault kept the government in the dark about the alleged
leaks until they were reported by the French media, Industry
Minister Eric Besson said Jan. 13. The carmaker filed espionage
charges against persons unknown with Paris prosecutors the same
day.  Renault’s internal probe found that offshore accounts in
their names had received payments traced to Chinese companies, a
French official said Jan. 12. China rejected the allegations as
“baseless and irresponsible.”  Lawyers for Balthazard and Rochette said they had no
immediate comment on whether they received similar offers during
disciplinary interviews.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Milan Used Swap Dealers as Advisers in Past, Witness Says  The city of Milan, which says four banks defrauded it in a
2005 derivatives agreement, hired banks as both advisers and
swap dealers in previous deals, a former city finance official
told a court.  Angela Casiraghi, 44, a prosecution witness who helped
arrange the city’s disputed sale of bonds and swaps in 2005,
said at the Jan. 26 hearing in Milan that the roles had been
assumed by a single lender in at least one previous deal. She
said in testimony last week the city typically sought to split
the roles of advisers and arrangers, and as a result she trusted
the banks on trial were acting in the city’s best interest.  Prosecutor Alfredo Robledo says the banks set out to
mislead the city by treating it as a so-called market
counterparty in the swap and stripping it of protection against
the banks’ potential conflicts of interest.    Deutsche Bank AG , Depfa Bank Plc,  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co . and  UBS AG  are accused of misleading Milan officials into thinking
they could save the city about 55 million euros ($74 million) by
selling the bonds and related derivatives, while they earned 101
million euros in hidden fees.  The banks, which deny the charges, first sold interest-rate
swaps to the city in 2005 on 1.7 billion euros of 30-year bonds.
Officials for the banks declined to comment on the Jan. 26
cross-examination by defense lawyer Giuseppe Iannaccone.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  OMV Chief Ruttenstorfer Acquitted in Insider-Trading Trial    OMV AG  Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer was
acquitted by a Vienna court of charges he used inside
information to buy shares of the company a week before a major
divestment.  The acquisition of 26,500 OMV shares on March 23 by
Ruttenstorfer, 60, was not in conflict with the company’s sale
of a 21.2 percent stake in Mol Nyrt a week later, Judge Claudia
Moravec-Loidolt said at the Criminal Court of Vienna yesterday.
The offense would have been punishable by as long as three years
in prison under Austrian law.  Ruttenstorfer has been CEO of central Europe’s biggest
energy company since 2002 and is due to retire at the end of
March.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  New York to Pursue Corporate Tax Fraud With New Unit  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said he’s
creating a taxpayer-protection unit to target multistate
corporate tax-fraud schemes, corrupt contractors and firms that
rip off public pension funds.  The unit, which also will encourage whistleblowers to
expose corruption, will be empowered by the state’s newly
strengthened False Claims Act, which Schneiderman called “the
strongest anti-fraud statute in the United States.” The revised
act makes New York the only state that can bring false claims
accusations against those who commit tax fraud, Schneiderman
said yesterday at a press conference in Manhattan.  Schneiderman also will bolster his office’s Medicaid Fraud
Control unit, taking advantage of a federal program that matches
state investment three-to-one. The money to expand the unit will
come from recoveries, he said.  The enhanced False Claims Act, sponsored by Schneiderman
when he was a state senator and approved by the Legislature last
year, has a provision aimed at illegal off-shore tax shelters,
he said in a statement when it passed. The provision is a first-
in-the-nation state program to allow whistleblowers to go after
what he called “millionaire tax cheats” that defraud the state
of more than $350,000, he said last year.  Schneiderman said yesterday that the new unit also will
pursue off-shore tax cheats.  For more, click here. For the latest litigation department
news, click here.  On The Docket  K1 Hedge Fund Founder Kiener’s Fraud Trial to Start in March  Helmut Kiener, founder of the K1 Group hedge fund, was
ordered to stand trial over an alleged Ponzi scheme that saddled
investors and banks, including  Barclays Plc  and  BNP Paribas  SA,
with 345 million euros ($473 million) in losses.  A German court allowed the charges to go to trial, Dietrich
Geuder, spokesman for the Prosecutors’ Office in Wurzburg,  Germany , said in an interview yesterday. The trial is scheduled
to start March 2 at the Wurzburg Regional Court.  Kiener was charged in November with tax evasion, 35 counts
of aggravated fraud and 86 counts of forgery. Almost 5,000
private investors in the K1 Global Ltd. and K1 Invest Ltd. funds
lost money, according to prosecutors.  Lutz Libbertz, Kiener’s lawyer, declined to comment, a
spokeswoman for the attorney said yesterday. Kiener has denied
the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 