-- Emerging Equity Funds Have Biggest Outflow Since 2008
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2011-01-28T12:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/emerging-equity-funds-have-biggest-outflow-since-2008-as-inflation-climbs.html
Emerging-market equity mutual funds
had their biggest weekly outflows since mid-2008 as investors
speculated rising  interest rates  will curb economic growth,
according to Citigroup Inc.  The funds lost $3 billion during the week ended Jan. 26,
Citigroup’s Hong Kong-based strategist  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a
report today, citing data compiled by research firm EPFR Global.
The outflows amounted to 0.4 percent of the funds’ assets, the
most since May, Rosgen wrote.  Investors are paring bets on shares in the fastest-growing
economies after pouring more than $90 billion into emerging-
market stock funds last year, the biggest-ever annual inflows,
according to EPFR data.  China  has lifted interest rates twice
since October, while  Brazil  and  India  raised borrowing costs
this month as record food prices and oil above $85 a barrel
boost inflation. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has declined
1.4 percent this year, compared with a 3.1 percent increase in
the MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares.  “Inflation is an excuse for people getting out of emerging
markets,” Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based money manager at
Schroders Plc, which oversaw $286 billion as of September.  The last time weekly outflows reached these levels,
developing-nation shares were in the midst of their worst  bear
market  as the global financial crisis and interest-rate
increases from Brazil to India curbed economic growth. The funds
lost more than $40 billion for all of 2008 as the MSCI emerging-
market index declined 54 percent, according to EPFR.  Food Protests  The 21-country gauge dropped 0.6 percent to 1,134.82 at
7:01 a.m. in  New York  and was poised for its second straight
weekly loss.  Russia’s worst drought in a half-century helped send a
United Nations gauge of food prices to an all-time high last
month, cutting the buying power of 2.8 billion people in the so-
called BRIC countries who spend 19 percent of their income on
groceries, compared with 6 percent in the U.S., Euromonitor
International data show.  Rising milk and flour costs triggered protests in Algeria
this month that left three people dead and 420 injured. Tunisian
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was forced to hand over power
to his prime minister on Jan. 14 and leave the country after
failing to end a month of protests by promising lower prices for
bread and sugar.  Switch to Developed  The Tunisian protests inspired anti-government groups in  Egypt  to hold rallies against the administration of President  Hosni Mubarak , sending the benchmark EGX 30 Index of the
nation’s shares to an 18 percent decline since Jan. 20.  Inflation in seven of the 10 biggest developing nations
accelerated during the most recent month that government reports
were available, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Jan. 24.  This week’s fund flows show that investors are pulling
money out of emerging markets to invest in slower-expanding
developed nations, according to Citigroup’s Rosgen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 3.3 percent
this year as reports showed the housing market is stabilizing
and 132 of the 176 companies in the index that posted quarterly
results since Jan. 10 beat the average analyst earnings
estimate. The  Federal Reserve  kept its benchmark interest rate
at a record low and maintained plans to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June, according to a statement on Jan. 26.  India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index has tumbled
10 percent this year while China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost
2 percent and Brazil’s Bovespa declined 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 