-- Tennessee Titans Say Jeff Fisher Is No Longer Head Coach of the NFL Team
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2011-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/tennessee-titans-say-jeff-fisher-is-no-longer-head-coach-of-the-nfl-team.html
Jeff Fisher has left the  Tennessee 
Titans after 16 seasons, ending the longest tenure of any
current head coach in the  National Football League .  Fisher’s exit follows a coaching review after a 6-10
season and comes less than three weeks after Titans owner Bud Adams said the 52-year-old coach, who has a 142-120 record with
the franchise, would return to Tennessee for a 17th season.  “Since that time, it became evident that consensus was
increasingly hard to find and reality wasn’t matching the
vision we discussed,” Adams said in an e-mailed statement last
night. “We’ve reached the point where change is in the best
interest of both parties.”  Fisher leaves a week after defensive coordinator Chuck Cecil, defensive line coach Jim Washburn and running backs
coach Craig Johnson departed the Titans. Mike Munchak, the
Titans’ offensive line coach, is a leading candidate to succeed
Fisher, the  Associated Press  said.  “We’re confident the coaching pool still has a number of
quality candidates,” Adams said. “We expect to talk to a
broad and diverse group of candidates.”  Fisher spent three years as coach of the Houston Oilers
beginning in 1994 before moving with the team to Tennessee in
1997. He began his NFL coaching career as an assistant with the  Philadelphia Eagles  in 1986.  Fisher led the Titans to the  Super Bowl  after the 1999
season, where Tennessee lost 23-16 to the  St. Louis Rams . The
Titans haven’t won a playoff game since the 2003 season and
last made the postseason in 2008.  ‘Very Proud’  “It’s been a tremendous experience,” Fisher said in the
team’s statement. “We all did our very best and I think I can
look back with fond memories and be very proud of what we
accomplished.”  The coach was involved in a public confrontation with
quarterback Vince Young this season, resulting in Young losing
his starting spot. Adams said this month that Young would not
be returning in 2011 to the Titans.  Fisher’s 142 wins place him third among active NFL coaches
behind Bill Belichick of the  New England Patriots , with 176
wins, and Mike Shanahan of the Washington Redskins, with 160.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 