-- Lenovo Meets Apple Threat With LePad, LePhone
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-01-28T08:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/lenovo-takes-on-apple-with-extreme-focus-on-lepad-lephone.html
  Lenovo Group Ltd ., China’s biggest
maker of personal computers, said it’s counting on its LePad
tablet computer and LePhone smartphone to fend off  Apple Inc .’s
expansion in the country.  “We have an extreme focus on the innovation of LePad and
LePhone because these products will dominate the future
market,” Chairman Liu Chuanzhi said in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos yesterday. “Anyone who loses this
battle will be phased out from the history of this industry.”  Lenovo, which gets half of its sales in China, faces
competition from Apple after the iPhone-maker last year opened
three stores in a market Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  has
called a “top priority.” Consumers may shun Lenovo’s tablet
because it will adopt a modified version of the Android system
that won’t be compatible with programs on Google Inc.’s online
app store, according to analysts such as Vincent Chen.  “Lenovo will have to convince vendors they can grow big,
otherwise consumers will not be interested because there will be
very limited choice of software,” said Chen, a Taipei-based
analyst with Yuanta Securities Co. “Lenovo is the PC king in  China , so they think they can differentiate and attract enough
interest. In my view that’s a challenge.”  Apple didn’t open its first store in China until 2008.
Apple’s four stores in Beijing and  Shanghai  generate, on
average, the company’s highest traffic and highest revenue,
Chief Financial Officer Peter Oppenheimer said last week.  Lenovo dropped 0.9 percent to close at HK$4.61 ($0.59) in
Hong Kong trading today.  NEC Venture  Lenovo, maker of Thinkpad laptops, is diversifying to boost
revenue and seeking to expand outside of China. The company said
yesterday it agreed to invest $175 million to form a venture
with  NEC Corp . and expand in the Japanese PC market.  Lenovo started selling the LePhone in China in May, and
plans to launch the LePad by the end of this quarter, according
to Liu.  When Lenovo launched the LePhone in May, it projected sales
of more than 1 million units in 12 months. Sales were initially
reduced by a supply problem with display screens that wasn’t
resolved until September, Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing 
said in November. At the time, he projected sales of the device
last quarter would be about 120,000 units.  The iPhone is Apple’s top-selling product, accounting for
39 percent of revenue last fiscal year. The iPad, introduced in
April, accounted for 17 percent of sales last quarter.  Catching Up  “History has proved we are good at catching up with the
market’s leaders,” Liu said. “Though Apple is winning a
significant share in the Chinese market, it has not gained a
clearly leading position yet. Our advantage is we know this
market better.”  Apple’s iPhone is the best-selling smartphone in China with
first-half shipments of more than 900,000 last year, according
to industry consultant  BDA China Ltd.  The company will start
selling the iPad 3G model in China this quarter, the Shanghai
Daily reported this week, citing an unidentified official at
China Unicom.  Cupertino, California-based Apple posted a 78 percent jump
in quarterly profit in the three months ended December, helped
by holiday demand.  Lenovo received 98 percent of its 2009 sales from personal
computers, and less than 1 percent from mobile phones. The
company had 10 percent of the world PC market in unit terms
during the first nine months of last year, ranking it behind
Hewlett Packard Co.,  Acer Inc . and  Dell Inc ., according to data
from industry researcher IDC.  The company said yesterday Lenovo and NEC will transfer
their Japan PC assets into the venture, named Lenovo NEC
Holdings BV, in which Lenovo holds a 51 percent stake.  The new venture would help Lenovo gain on  Round Rock ,
Texas-based Dell, the third-ranked PC maker with 12.7 percent of
the global share, IDC data shows.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 