-- Geithner Says U.S. Economic Recovery Still Too Weak to Reduce Unemployment
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2011-01-28T15:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/geithner-ends-davos-treasury-secretary-drought-as-u-s-economy-accelerates.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. economic expansion is still too weak to
slash unemployment or a budget deficit headed for $1.5 trillion.  “There’s much more confidence now that we’ve got a
sustainable expansion,” Geithner told the  World Economic
Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland. “It’s not a boom.
It’s not an expansion that’s going to offer a rapid decline in
unemployment.”  While the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  this week passed
12,000 in intraday trading for the first time since June 2008
and more data suggested the recovery is gathering momentum, the
jobless rate remains above 9 percent. Such weak-spots are
tempering the optimism on display this week as 2,500 executives,
economists and lawmakers meet in the Swiss Alps.  “The good news is in the U.S. we’re seeing renewed
growth,” Joe Saddi, chairman of consulting firm Booz & Co.,
said in an interview in Davos. “There is still an unemployment
situation and it remains to be seen if there is a credible
strategy for dealing with the deficit.”  Geithner, 49, is the first holder of his office to visit
Davos in 11 years and the highest-ranking member of President
Barack Obama’s administration yet to attend the conference.  Deficit ‘Unsustainable’  In an hour-long interview with broadcaster  Charlie Rose , he
said that while the  budget deficit  is “unsustainable,” it
would be a mistake to threaten the recovery by cutting the
shortfall prematurely. He also said pressure on U.S. state
budgets is “diminishing not intensifying” and that he’ll soon
outline a plan for the future of U.S.-owned mortgage companies.  Turning abroad, Geithner said some emerging nations could
soften their links to the dollar and expressed confidence the
euro will be “held together.” Asked if he will remain Treasury
secretary in coming years he said, “I’m tempted to say I hope
not,” before retreating to his traditional stance that he will
serve as long as Obama wants him to.  Geithner met yesterday with chief executive officers of
financial companies to discuss progress in implementing
regulatory reforms. Attendees included  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co .’s
Jamie Dimon,  Bank of America Corp .’s Brian Moynihan, Standard
Chartered Plc’s Peter Sands and Barclays Plc’s Robert Diamond.
Geithner agreed with their request for more clarity on
regulation,  UniCredit SpA  CEO Federico Ghizzoni told reporters
after the session at the Morosani Schweizerhof hotel.  Clarifying Regulation  “We asked that new rules be clarified and implemented
rapidly,” Ghizzoni said. “Geithner agreed with our request for
clarity, which is in the interest of the financial system.”  The last U.S. Treasury chief to make the trip to the Swiss
Alps was  Lawrence Summers  in 2000. His three successors in
President George W. Bush’s administration proved reluctant to
travel the 4,200 miles from  Washington .  Geithner needs to appear at such events to maintain foreign
demand for U.S. securities as the budget gap swells, said
William Browder, chief executive officer of London-based
Hermitage Capital Management.  If Treasury secretaries “didn’t feel like coming to Davos
before, they need to do so now to continue to sell their
bonds,” said Browder.  Economic Momentum  The recovery in the world’s largest economy has picked up
steam since the end of last year, with home sales, industrial
production and consumer spending rising. The economy accelerated
in the fourth quarter, growing 3.2 percent on the back of the
biggest gain in  consumer spending  in more than four years, the
Commerce Department reported today. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had been for a 3.5 percent
expansion.  The improved economic outlook is prompting global investors
to increasingly favor the U.S., with 37 percent of respondents
to this month’s Bloomberg Global Poll naming it one of their
preferred places to invest, up from 23 percent in November. More
than half described the  U.S. economy  as improving, up from a
third. Almost two-thirds predicted the  Standard &amp; Poor’s  500
index will rise over the next six months.  “The optimism is here,” Jeffrey Joerres, CEO of
Milwaukee-based Manpower Inc., said in Davos. “What you are
seeing is an extended recovery that is going to stay extended
for some time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Davos,  Switzerland  at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher in Davos at  jfraher@bloomberg.net  