-- Germany's Temper Tantrums Reduce Risk of Euro-Area Breakup: Davos Diary
-- B y   M a r k   G i l b e r t
-- 2011-01-28T10:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/german-temper-tantrums-indicate-reduced-risk-of-euro-breakup-davos-diary.html
Greece and Ireland will default and
at least one nation will abandon the euro by 2016, according to
the majority of respondents in a Bloomberg Global Poll this
week. I would have agreed last year; now, German anger is
starting to persuade me my money might be safe in Greek debt.  When people get mad, it’s typically due to fear. Working
out what’s scaring someone explains tantrums. German
participants at the  World Economic Forum  meeting in Davos,  Switzerland , are getting grumpier by the day, and I reckon I
know why: They’ve realized they have to shift from doing the
bare minimum to bankroll their near-bankrupt euro neighbors to
spending whatever it takes. And they’re afraid of telling their
taxpayers.  Germany is getting boxed into a corner. Somehow, the ideas
that the bailout-funding European Financial Stability Facility
needs to be much bigger, that it should buy government debt, and
that the interest rates charged on aid need slashing, have all
dodged Frankfurt opposition and moved to the top of the  bond
market ’s agenda. If the European Union -- meaning Germany --
fails to increase the EFSF’s firepower now, investors will trash
peripheral debt.  Many of the Davos meetings are off-the-record, meaning that
pesky journalists aren’t allowed to report what they hear. So I
can’t identify the German official who looked at the Greek
official at a gathering of delegates and said, you need to
introduce more parts of your economy to the concept of taxation,
and you need to do more to cut your debts even if there are
riots on the streets of  Athens .  Exploiting the Lull  And I can’t name the Greek official who said, Germany only
has a  trade surplus  because countries like us are buying its
goods, and if you don’t convince the bond market soon that we’re
all in this together, the lull that the  European Central Bank 
has created by buying bonds will end, and it won’t end well.  And I can’t tell you which eastern European minister said,
the interest rate Ireland is paying for its aid is madness, and
that donor countries should put as much money as needed into the
rescue fund because it will still be cheaper than bailing out
their domestic banks if a euro nation defaults.  The Greek official is correct when he says time is short.
The ECB has created a lacuna by putting a floor under government
bond prices. The window of opportunity to convince fund managers
that the political will to safeguard the euro is to be matched
by funds sufficient to repel attacks, however, is temporary. The
moment of truth for the euro debt crisis has arrived.  Hanging Tough    Germany  is still pretending to play hardball. Economy
Minister Rainer Bruederle says European leaders need to
concentrate on long-term debt mitigation mechanisms before
arguing about making more bailout money available. “One should
only offer liquidity aid when that changes,” Bruederle told
Bloomberg reporter Aaron Kirchfeld in Davos yesterday.  The political will is certainly there, including for
Bruederle’s boss,  Angela Merkel . “Be it Chancellor Merkel or
myself, never -- and listen to me carefully, here --never will
we turn our backs on the euro,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told a Davos audience yesterday. “We will never drop
the euro or abandon the euro.”  Sarkozy must know that he needs to put Germany’s money
where his mouth is. The angrier German officials get, the more
convinced I am that they’ll foot the bill to ensure bondholders
get repaid in full and on time.    Mark Gilbert , author of “Complicit: How Greed and
Collusion Made the Credit Crisis Unstoppable,” is the London
bureau chief and a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  