-- Greek EU-Mandated Pension Work Rebuffed as Bailout Review Looms
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2011-01-28T10:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/greek-pension-review-contract-shunned-on-data-lapses-unrealistic-deadline.html
  Greece ’s biggest actuarial firm says
it won’t bid for work to assess 40 public pension funds in a
study required for the nation’s 110 billion-euro ($151 billion)
bailout because of unreliable data and an unrealistic deadline.  As European Union officials this week began reviewing
Greece’s progress in meeting rescue aid targets, Hewitt
Associates SA told the Greek actuarial authority it won’t bid
for  the contract , in a Jan. 24 letter obtained by Bloomberg
News. It cited a lack of reliable data, time constraints and
poor rewards for completing assessments due one month from the
Feb. 1 bid deadline.  “There won’t be a study like the one that needs to
happen,” said Panagiotis Zampelis, managing director of Hewitt,
the Greek unit of AON Corp., the world’s biggest insurance
broker. “When you’re doing work where your decisions are going
to result in significant cuts in some people’s benefits, you
need reliable statistics and to be careful to avoid mistakes.”  Officials from the EU,  International Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank  are in  Athens  examining whether a 15
billion-euro fourth tranche of aid should be paid in March.
Curbing spending by the state-run pension system is a central
goal in the government’s plans to reduce the  budget deficit  to
less than 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2014 and keep
receiving rescue funds.  Greece’s near-default last year forced the government to
increase the  retirement age  and slash benefits to keep total
growth in public spending on pensions through 2060 below 2.5
percent of GDP. The sweeping reforms prompted street protests
and strikes, including one in which three people died.  Pensioners Affected  The 40 separate studies commissioned by the government will
assess whether to cut supplementary retirement benefits
affecting 1 million pensioners and 3 million wage-earners.
Greece’s population is about 11 million people.  Zampelis, who’s also president of the  Hellenic Actuarial
Society , said one reason for refusing to bid for the contract
was having to work with existing data from the funds provided
through the  National Actuarial Authority , rather than gathering
the data itself. Euphrosyne Kouskouna, chairwoman of the
authority’s board, didn’t return calls and an e-mail today
asking for comment.  The unknown reliability of this data could lead the
contractor “to deadlocks,” Hewitt said in the letter. A
significant problem relates to demographic projections made by
individual funds which don’t match projections for the country
as a whole, Zampelis said.  IMF’s View  Last year’s pension reforms “significantly reduced the
projected increase in pension spending, but uncertainty remains
about the impact of auxiliary pension and welfare funds,” the
 IMF said in a December report , following approval of the third
installment of funds to the country.  The problem of gathering reliable data in a country where
nobody knows exactly how many pensioners there are has hampered
numerous attempts to put Greece’s social security system on a
sustainable footing.  In November,  Eurostat , the EU’s statistics office, cited
“historically weak” source data for social security funds as
one of the reasons for raising its 2009 deficit estimate to 15.4
percent of GDP. That revision came after Prime Minister George Papandreou won national elections in October 2009 and revealed
the country’s shortfall was four times the EU limit of 3 percent
of GDP, sparking the European sovereign debt crisis.  Papandreou told participants at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland  yesterday that last year’s reforms had
created “a viable, a robust pension system.”  Hewitt’s Greek unit has conducted similar studies in
Greece,  Turkey  and the Middle East, including a 2005 contract to
review  Egypt ’s 150-year-old social security system covering 19
million workers and 7 million pensioners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 