-- Growth in U.S. Probably Picked Up on Spending, Export Gains
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-01-28T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/growth-in-u-s-probably-accelerated-on-gains-in-consumer-spending-exports.html
The economy in the U.S. probably
grew at a faster pace in the fourth quarter, driven by the
biggest gain in  consumer spending  in four years and rising
exports, economists projected a report today will show.  Gross domestic product rose at a 3.5 percent annual pace,
up from a 2.6 percent rate in the previous three months,
according to the median estimate of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.    Ford Motor Co . and  Apple Inc . are among companies
benefiting from a pickup in household spending that is forecast
to extend into 2011 as tax cuts put more money in Americans’
pockets. Federal Reserve policy makers this week said the
improvement in growth hasn’t been enough to derail a plan for a
second round of stimulus that will pump $600 billion into
financial markets.  “Consumers were feeling more confident and able to unleash
some pent-up demand,” said Robert Dye, a senior economist at
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. “We’re going to see a
recovery that broadens beyond the manufacturing sector into
services, and from the globally integrated companies into the
smaller companies.”  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast GDP gains ranging
from 2.9 percent to 5.4 percent.  Today’s estimate is the first of three for the quarter,
with the other releases scheduled in February and March when
more information becomes available.  Gasoline Prices  Other reports today are projected to show consumer
sentiment fell in January as gasoline prices rose, while labor
costs rose at a faster pace last quarter.  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, increased at a 4 percent annual pace, the best
showing since the last quarter of 2006, according to the survey
median.  U.S. retailers’ 2010 holiday sales jumped 5.5 percent for
the best performance in five years, data from MasterCard
Advisors’ SpendingPulse showed last month, as shoppers snapped
up clothing and jewelry at stores like  Macy’s Inc ., Tiffany &
Co.  Apple posted record quarterly sales as customers snapped up
7.33 million iPad tablet computers in the first holiday season
for the device, the company said last week.  Ford is among companies planning to increase payrolls this
year as spending picks up, pointing to gains in employment that
may further underpin the recovery.  Ford Hiring  The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker plans to hire more
than 7,000 workers in the next two years, including engineers
with expertise in battery-powered cars,  Mark Truby , a company
spokesman, said in an interview in  Detroit  on Jan. 10.  The government’s extension last month of Bush-era tax cuts,
renewal of emergency jobless benefits for the long-term
unemployed and cuts to payroll taxes of 2 percentage points
prompted economists such as Bruce Kasman at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in  New York  to raise forecasts for 2011.  The measures also let firms depreciate 100 percent of  capital expenditures  over the course of 2011. That will help
sustain demand for equipment, which together with growing
exports to  China ,  Brazil  and other fast-growing countries, has
fueled the factory-led recovery that began in June 2009.  The Obama administration highlighted export deals with
China worth $45 billion during talks with visiting President  Hu Jintao  last week, including purchases of General Electric Co.
locomotives. Other agreements were announced with Caterpillar
Inc., Cummins Inc., Westinghouse Electric Corp., Honeywell
International Inc. and  Alcoa Inc .  Obama on Exports  “We want to sell you all kinds of stuff,” Obama said to
Hu during a joint news conference Jan. 20 at the White House.
“We want to sell you planes, we want to sell you cars, we want
to sell you software.”  Shares of machinery makers have outpaced the broader market
since the Fed announced another round of unconventional easing
on Nov. 3. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index
has climbed 17 percent compared with an 8.5 percent increase for
the  S&amp;P 500 Index .  Measures of  consumer confidence  have been mixed this month,
buffeted by rising fuel prices, improving stock values and a
labor market that’s been slow to strengthen.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s final
sentiment index for January, due at 9:55 a.m., is projected to
fall to 73.3 from 74.5 at the end of December, according to
economists surveyed. That is in contrast to the New York-based
Conference Board’s gauge which rose to an eight-month high in
January.  Finally, a Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. will show
the employment cost index rose 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter
after a 0.4 percent gain in the previous three months, according
to the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  