-- Li Na Seeks Another Chinese Tennis First in Australian Open Women's Final
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-01-28T14:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/li-na-seeks-another-chinese-tennis-first-in-australian-open-women-s-final.html
Li Na will try to add a Grand Slam
singles title to her list of tennis firsts for  China  in today’s
Australian Open women’s final against  Kim Clijsters .  Li, the 28-year-old ninth seed, takes an 11-match winning
run into the championship match at Melbourne Park. She beat
Clijsters in Sydney two weeks ago to become the only Chinese 
player to win a first-tier event on the women’s tour.  “I beat her last time,” Li, who was introduced to tennis
at age 9 after playing badminton for two years, said in a news
conference. “Doesn’t mean anything in here. I know it’s a tough
match.”  While Chinese women have won Olympic gold medals and Grand
Slam titles in doubles, individual bests at the majors have been
limited to semifinal appearances, including Li’s run alongside
Zheng Jie to the last four in  Melbourne  a year ago.  Li, who became her country’s first top 10-ranked player on
the back of that effort, went one step further two days ago,
saving a match point and ousting top seed  Caroline Wozniacki 
of  Denmark . She beat No. 8 Victoria Azarenka in the fourth round
and  Andrea Petkovic  in the quarterfinals.  Petkovic, the No. 30 seed from  Germany  who defeated 2008
champion  Maria Sharapova  in the round of 16, picked Li to win
the championship.  “It’s just the feeling, how she is on court, her
confidence and the way she’s playing,” Petkovic said after her
elimination. “She has a great chance to win the tournament. I
don’t want to put pressure on her. It’s just a feeling.”  Bookies’ Underdog  Bookmakers don’t agree. William Hill Plc makes Clijsters,
the U.S. Open champion from  Belgium , the 1-3 favorite to win her
first Australian Open. That means a successful $3 bet brings in
$1 and the original stake. Li is rated 12-5.  Clijsters, 27, has been to the championship match of a
Grand Slam seven times before, losing her first four finals
before capturing the first of three U.S. Open titles in 2005.
She was the 2004 runner-up in Melbourne.  The Belgian blew a 5-0 lead against Li in Sydney and lost
in straight sets. She said today’s outcome may depend on which
player is quickest to establish dominance from the baseline.  “It’s going to be a matter of who’s going to be able to do
that first,” Clijsters told reporters. “Who’s going to be a
little bit more powerful and with the less amount of unforced
errors is going to have the best chance to win.”  Clijsters, who leads Li  4-2  in career meetings, is trying
to become the first woman to win two consecutive majors since  Serena Williams  won the 2008  U.S. Open  and the 2009
Australian Open.  Since returning to the tour in August 2009 following a
break in which she had a baby, Clijsters has a 26-2 record in
Grand Slam matches.  With Clijsters saying that 2011 is likely to be her last
full season on the tour, today may be her final chance to win
the year’s opening major.  “It’s nice that I’m in this spot to reach the final, to
play for the title,” Clijsters said. “It’s something that is a
great feeling to have, knowing that I’m not going to be able to
come here for five more years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  