-- Microsoft Gets `Little Credit' for Gains Amid Windows Concerns
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2011-01-28T14:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/microsoft-gets-little-credit-for-gains-amid-windows-concerns.html
  Microsoft Corp . shares failed to get
a lift from better-than-predicted second-quarter sales and
profit results yesterday after a shortfall in Windows revenue
raised concerns about future demand for the operating system.  Windows revenue of $5.05 billion missed the $5.2 billion
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
differed from results showing Microsoft’s Office and Server
businesses exceeded projections, and the Xbox unit posted a 55
percent gain.  The contrast suggests that Microsoft may be losing sales as
customers opt for competing devices, such as  Apple Inc .’s iPad
or Macintosh computers, rather than a new Windows-based machine,
said Tony Ursillo, an analyst at Loomis Sayles & Co. in  Boston .
As rival operating systems gain ground, Microsoft’s other
products, such as Office, may also suffer, he said.  “The execution at this company has actually been pretty
good over the last year,” said Ursillo, whose firm manages $150
billion, including Microsoft shares. “The stock has gotten very
little credit for it because the market is worried about the
continued erosion of the Windows franchise and the potential
erosion of the Office franchise.”  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , fell 18 cents to
$28.69 at 9:35 a.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
The shares lost 8.4 percent in 2010.  Microsoft did see a “small impact” from tablets and other
types of computing devices, though it was “not material,”
Chief Financial Officer Peter Klein said in an interview
yesterday.  Tablet Strategy  Apple sold 7.33 million iPad tablet-style machines last
quarter, as well as 4.13 million Mac computers. Apple’s share of
U.S. PC shipments rose to 8.7 percent in the December quarter
from 7.2 percent a year earlier, according to research firm IDC.  Those gains came at the expense of machines that run
Windows. To catch up in tablets, Microsoft said this month it
would make its next version of Windows run on ARM Holdings Plc’s
chip technology for the first time. The aim is to create
smaller, thinner Windows tablets with better battery life.  Klein says the tablet market presents an opportunity rather
than a threat in the long term.  “I’m more excited about the opportunity,” he said. “All
these new devices are market expansive for us.”  Excluding the impact of a $1.71 billion in deferred sales
recognized in the year-earlier quarter, Windows unit growth was
in line with growth overall in the PC market of 2.7 percent as
reported by Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC. Still, some
analysts had projected more.  Windows Phone 7  To address mobile market-share losses to Apple and Google
Inc.’s Android operating system, Microsoft released its
overhauled software for mobile phones -- Windows Phone 7 --
during the quarter. The company said this week it shipped 2
million licenses to use the software in handsets, a number that
analyst Kevin Burden at  ABI Research  called disappointing.  The number was “in line” with what the company was
expecting, Microsoft’s Klein said.  “It’s a good start,” he said. “I recognize that it’s
early and we have a lot of work to do and we’re going to
continue to focus on that.”  Second-quarter unearned revenue, a measure of multiyear
contracts, was $13.4 billion, missing analysts’ $14.1 billion
average estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Results in Windows overshadowed signs that Microsoft is
benefiting from rising demand for gaming devices and products
aimed at businesses.  Net income was $6.63 billion, or 77 cents a share, compared
with $6.66 billion, or 74 cents, a year earlier, Microsoft said
in a statement. Sales rose 4.9 percent to $20 billion.  ‘Way Behind’  The results beat the average projections of 68-cents in
profit and $19.1 billion in sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Microsoft has been executing extremely well on the
business side,” Robert Breza, an analyst in  Minneapolis  for
with  RBC Capital Markets , told Bloomberg Television. “As people
start to really focus on Microsoft and what they are doing in
cloud computing -- with their Azure platform -- also with their
new Office 365 program that sits in the cloud, hopefully that
will get the company a little bit more respect.”  In the Xbox division, the company kept expenses down,
widening margins for a sixth straight quarter.  For some, that doesn’t make up for Windows-related woe.  “Microsoft management has to be frustrated -- they’ve
executed well for five quarters in a row and have got little to
show for it in the stock price,” Ursillo said. “But they have
to take a look at themselves and realize they’re losing share in
their most profitable business and coming from way behind in the
efforts they needed to stem those losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  