-- IMF's Lipsky Won't Rule Out Further Bailout of Indebted European Countries
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-01-28T10:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/imf-s-lipsky-won-t-rule-out-further-bailout-of-indebted-european-countries.html
International Monetary Fund First
Deputy Managing Director  John Lipsky  said the organization may
have to provide further financial aid to so-called peripheral
European countries if the region’s debt crisis doesn’t ease.  “It certainly will depend on circumstances,” Lipsky said
in an interview today with Bloomberg Television at the World
Economic Forum in Davos,  Switzerland , when asked if the IMF may
have to provide assistance to more euro-area members. “Never
say never.”  Lipsky said that the focus of euro-region countries that
are currently “under market pressure” is to enact policy
programs on their own. “If necessary, we stand by with our
European partners to provide support,” he said.  The European Union and the IMF last year approved rescue
packages for Ireland and  Greece  after concerns about mounting
budget deficits pushed up bond yields and eroded confidence in
the single currency. While most investors predict at least one
nation will leave the euro area within five years, according to
a Bloomberg Global Poll published on Jan. 26, Lipsky said the
political will exists to make sure the euro survives.  “There are some strenuous programs that are already in
place that if executed will diminish this risk and change these
minds,” the IMF managing director said, referring to the
survey’s results. “It creates the possibility of some positive
surprises for investors because I think the political will and
the economic possibility is there to make sure that the euro
survives.”  As the  World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting got under way
earlier this week, 59 percent of respondents in Bloomberg’s poll
said one or more of the 17 euro nations will quit by 2016,
including 11 percent who see an exit within 12 months. That
sentiment is intensifying pressure on policy makers to
strengthen their response to the region’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francine Lacqua in Davos at  flacqua@bloomberg.net ;  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  