-- LinkedIn Share Sale Likely to Be First In Wave of Social-Networking IPOs
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2011-01-28T13:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/linkedin-share-sale-may-be-first-in-wave-of-social-media-ipos.html
LinkedIn Corp.’s plan to raise as
much as $175 million in an initial public offering may be the
first in a wave of share sales for U.S. social-networking
companies.  The largest professional-networking site plans an IPO after
turning a profit in the first nine months of last year and more
than tripling revenue between 2007 and 2009, it said in a filing
yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Other companies that foster online interaction may follow
suit. LinkedIn is at the forefront of social-Web startups that
aim to replicate the successes of Internet pioneers, such as
Google Inc. and Amazon.com Inc., and avoid the fate of sites
like Pets.com Inc., which shut less than a year after its IPO.  “LinkedIn is bringing the very hot concept of social
networking to the practical business world,” said Dixon Doll,
co-founder of venture-capital firm  DCM , based in  Menlo Park ,  California . “The whole social-networking phenomenon may be in
the fourth or fifth inning and none of these have gotten public
yet.”  Social deals site Groupon Inc., which rebuffed a $6 billion
takeover approach from Google, is in talks with banks about a
public offering this year, while Facebook Inc. may pursue an IPO
in 2012, three people familiar with the matter said last year.  Earnings, Facebook  For the nine months that ended in September, net income
attributable to common shareholders was $1.85 million, LinkedIn
said. Revenue was $161.4 million, almost double the $80.8
million a year earlier. Total revenue in 2009 was $120.1
million, and the company had $89.6 million in cash and
equivalents as of Sept. 30.  LinkedIn is dwarfed by  Palo Alto ,  California-based
Facebook , the most popular social network, which has more than
500 million users. It had revenue of $1.2 billion in the first
three quarters of last year, up from $777 million, according to
a person who has viewed documents pertaining to its results and
asked to remain anonymous because the company is private.  Even with that growth, Facebook isn’t worth the $50 billion
valuation it derived from a recent round of financing led by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according a poll of 1,000 Bloomberg
customers who are investors, traders or analysts.  Of investors polled, 69 percent say Facebook is overvalued,
the poll showed. Only four percent said it’s worth more.  ‘Lot to Like’  LinkedIn could draw strong demand in the public markets
because it has steadily boosted sales from advertising,
subscriptions and hiring services, said Tom Taulli, an
independent technology analyst.  “There’s a lot to like if you’re an investor,” said
Taulli, who is based in  Los Angeles . LinkedIn is “growing
quickly, it has multiple revenue streams and there’s global
potential here,” he said.  LinkedIn’s biggest shareholders include co-founder  Reid Hoffman  and his family and trust, with 21 percent;  Sequoia
Capital , with 19 percent;  Greylock Partners , which holds 16
percent; and Bessemer Venture Partners, with 5.1 percent.
LinkedIn Chief Executive Officer Jeff Weiner owns 4.1 percent.  Some of the shares sold to the public will be from existing
shareholders and some stock will be issued and sold by  Mountain
View , California-based LinkedIn, according to a post on the
company’s blog. The company didn’t say how many shares would be
sold in either case, or at what price.  ‘Always Danger’  LinkedIn hired Morgan Stanley,  Bank of America Corp . and  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co . to lead the offering, according to the  SEC
filing . Allen & Co. and the investment banking division of  UBS
AG  are also working on the sale.  Jim Breyer, a managing partner at venture capital firm  Accel Partners , said if it was up to him he wouldn’t take
LinkedIn public now. There’s “always danger” of a social-
networking bubble, he said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland .
Accel was an early investor in Facebook and Groupon.  LinkedIn  has more than 1,000 employees and 90 million users
in more than 200 countries. Members use the site to search for
jobs, recruit employees and find industry experts. While users
can create personal profiles for free, LinkedIn introduced paid
subscriptions in 2005, giving recruiters more access to job
candidates and providing business professionals ways to
communicate with one another. The company also makes money by
selling ads on the site.  As LinkedIn’s membership has grown, investment firms have
been clamoring for a piece of the company.  $3 Billion Valuation  Tiger Global Management LLC, a hedge fund founded by Chase Coleman, paid $20 million for a stake in the company in July, at
a valuation of about $2 billion, according to two people
familiar with the matter. SharesPost, a private exchange, is now
trying to auction LinkedIn shares at a valuation of almost $3
billion, three people familiar with the matter said last week.  Pricing of LinkedIn’s stock in its IPO won’t be affected by
trading on speculative markets for private company shares, the
company said in its SEC filing.  LinkedIn was founded in 2003 by former PayPal Inc.
executive Hoffman, 43, and received its first round of funding
that year from Sequoia, the venture firm behind Google Inc. and
Yahoo! Inc. Sequoia’s Mike Moritz is on LinkedIn’s board. The
company has raised more than $100 million from firms including
Greylock, Bessemer and Bain Capital Ventures.  On Jan. 25, in the first venture capital-led U.S. IPO of
2011, Web content company Demand Media Inc. sold 8.9 million
shares at $17 each after originally offering 7.5 million shares
for $14 to $16 apiece. New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and  Morgan Stanley  arranged the IPO.  LinkedIn “is just one of what we view as dozens of high-
quality private companies that represent strong venture capital-
backed, technology IPO candidates,” said  Paul Bard , director of
research at Greenwich, Connecticut-based IPO researcher  Renaissance Capital LLC . “You’re going to see momentum
continue, and we could end up with some pretty big numbers in
terms of IPOs in 2011.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  