-- Ghana Aims to Avoid `Bloodbath' in Neighboring Ivory Coast, Minister Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2011-01-28T12:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/ivory-coast-political-crisis-might-lead-to-civil-war-ghana-s-mumuni-says.html
  Ivory Coast ’s political crisis
threatens to reignite a civil war, leaving its West African
neighbors to deal with a flood of refugees,  Ghana ’s Foreign
Minister Alhaji Mohammed Mumuni said.  “You need a small spark and the worse conflagration can
happen,” Mumuni said yesterday in an interview in the Ethiopian
capital of  Addis Ababa , where the crisis is being discussed at
an African Union summit. “We don’t want to see a bloodbath in
the Ivory Coast. We certainly don’t want to see the Ivorian
people streaming out of their own country. We will be swamped.”  Ivory Coast has been in a political standoff since an
election on Nov. 28, which the Election Commission and the
international community say was won by  Alassane Ouattara , 69.
Incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo , 65, refuses to concede
defeat, alleging voter fraud in his rival’s strongholds.  The election was supposed to reunite the world’s largest
cocoa producer following the 2002 civil war, which divided the
country into a rebel-held north and a government-controlled
south. The rebel forces and government troops both remain
heavily armed, Mumuni said.  At least 271 people have been killed in violent clashes that
followed the vote, according to the  United Nations , which has a
peacekeeping mission in the country.  A Million Ghanaians  “We have 1 million Ghanaians inside Ivory Coast,” Mumuni
said. “We are concerned for their safety. We are concerned that
they will be compelled to come home and that would be a big
issue for us as a society.”  African Union heads of state are due to hold talks on Ivory
Coast today. The 53-nation bloc suspended Ivory Coast’s
membership on Dec. 9, calling on Gbagbo to transfer power to
Ouattara “without delay.”  The Economic Community of West African States, or  Ecowas ,
said on Dec. 24 it may use force to oust Gbagbo if he refused to
leave office. The group’s 15 members include  Nigeria , Ghana,  Senegal  and Ivory Coast.  “We are not in favor of military intervention,”
preferring renewed mediation, Mumuni said. “We believe that it
is very easy to start a war, but not as easy to end it.
Sanctions are one of the peaceful methods that could be used. We
should exhaust all other diplomatic and political avenues for
resolving the conflict. If that fails then of course a military
solution could be the final resort.”  Angola  Angola’s President Jose Eduardo dos Santos said on Jan. 14
that the UN misled the international community when it validated
Ouattara’s victory and called for fresh elections.  “We respect what the regional bodies of  Africa  decide,”
and support the AU’s decision to suspend Ivory Coast’s
membership, Manuel Domingos Augusto, Angola’s secretary of state
for external relations, said in an interview in Addis Ababa
today. “There is recognition that the situation is not that
simple. Who can guarantee that if Mr. Gbagbo steps down, there
will be peace? We need dialogue.”  The European Union has banned most trade with the Ivory
Coast, in a bid to cut off Gbagbo’s access to funds. Ghana is
the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer after Ivory Coast.  “In Ghana we produce premium cocoa,” Mumuni said. “We
have a niche in the international market. If there are
restrictions on the Ivory Coast, it’s likely that smuggling that
has been going on along our border will intensify and therefore
you will have more Ivorian cocoa coming into Ghana. It will
contaminate our cocoa.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 