-- Ivory Coast’s Gbagbo Ordered Power Cuts in North
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2011-01-28T14:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/ivory-coast-s-gbagbo-ordered-power-cuts-in-north-electricity-company-says.html
Ivory Coast’s  incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo  ordered the closely held electricity monopoly to
cut power to some parts in the north, where his rival Alassane Ouattara drew the bulk of his support in the November election.  Members of Gbagbo’s Mines and Energy Ministry “ordered
power cut operations in the north while no operating measures
required it” during the night of Jan. 26,  Compagnie Ivoirienne
d’Electricite  said in a statement published in several local
newspapers today, including Abidjan-based le Patriote.  The disruption affected neighboring countries, the company
said. The outage followed a seizure order by Gbagbo’s government
of a power-distribution facility on Jan. 19, the company, known
as CIE, said in a statement yesterday.  On Nov. 28, voters in the country’s north elected Ouattara
with a wide margin of victory. In Vallee du Bandama district,
which holds the main northern city of Bouake where the outages
were reported by residents, Ouattara  won  more than 85 percent.  Ouattara is the internationally recognized winner of the
election. Gbagbo refuses to cede power to him, alleging voting
fraud in some parts of the north.  CIE is controled by investment fund Emerging Capital
Partners, through its Finagestion unit that also has holdings in  Senegal .  Ivory Coast  is a regional exporter of electricity,
supplying Benin, Togo,  Mali ,  Burkina Faso  and  Ghana . CIE didn’t
say which countries were affected by the northern outage.  No one from Emerging Capital’s office in Paris was
available to immediately comment. Calls made to Gbagbo’s Mines
and Energy Minister Augustin Kouadio weren’t answered and no one
answered the phone at the Abidjan office of CIE today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier and Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 