-- Ivory Coast Investors See Default; Hold for Ouattara
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2011-01-28T13:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/ivory-coast-bondholders-expecting-default-hold-out-for-payment-by-ouattara.html
Felix Dornaus is holding onto  Ivory
Coast  notes trading at 37 percent of face value even as the
world’s biggest cocoa producer slides closer to default on $2.3
billion of debt.  “I expect them to miss the deadline and technically they
will go into default, but at the end of the day they will pay
the debt,” said Dornaus, who helps manage about 1.4 billion
euros ($1.9 billion) in emerging-market debt at Erste Sparinvest
KAG in Vienna. The payment owed is “really peanuts for them,
the money is there,” he said.  President  Laurent Gbagbo , 65, and his rival  Alassane Ouattara , 69, both claimed victory in the November elections,
sparking clashes that have led to the deaths of at least 271
people and thousands of refugees fleeing to neighboring
countries, according to the  United Nations . The African country,
which the  International Monetary Fund  says had $3.28 billion of
foreign-currency reserves as of September, missed a $29 million
interest payment due on Dec. 31 and its 30-day grace period to
avoid default is about to expire.  The 2.5 percent dollar notes that mature in 2032 have
declined 40 percent since they were sold in April. They fell 3
percent to 36.635 cents on the dollar as of 1:24 p.m. in
Abidjan, pushing the yield up 45 basis points, or 0.45
percentage point, to 17.37 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Both Gbagbo and Ouattara say the other is responsible for
paying bondholders.  Cocoa Supply  Ivory Coast produces a third of the global supply of cocoa
and depends on the chocolate ingredient for more than 25 percent
of its export earnings. The economy has expanded 1.7 percent a
year on average since the civil war ended in 2002, according to
the  Africa Economic Outlook report . In October, the  IMF forecast 
that gross domestic product would increase 4 percent this year.
Cocoa production is expected to expand to 1.3 million metric
tons percent this year, from 1.2 million tons last year
according to a Dec. 6  Macquarie Group Ltd . report.  Cocoa prices have hit one-year highs on concern the
political crisis is disrupting exports after the European Cocoa
Association and Federation of Cocoa Commerce Ltd. said there is
a “significant slowdown” in flows from the country.  Civil War  The cocoa industry will help the Ivorian economy recover,
said OB Sisay, the head of Africa research at London-based  FM
Capital Partners Ltd.  “Its natural resources are relatively
solid, which shows there’s a steady flow of cash coming into the
economy,” said Sisay. “It’s a major player in the regional
economies.”  Ouattara, a former deputy managing director of the IMF, is
recognized as the election victor by the UN, the U.S., former
colonial ruler  France , the  African Union  and the regional
 Central Bank of West African States . He is seeking to starve
Gbagbo’s government of funds to pay the army, which has
maintained a blockade on the  hotel  that has become his
headquarters. The region’s central bank, also known by its
French acronym BCEAO, said it shut its offices in the commercial
capital Abidjan yesterday.  Gbagbo would have made the payment by now if he had
intended to avoid default, Ouattara said in a Jan. 18 interview.
Gbagbo, who has ruled since 2000, says a decision by the
Constitutional Council to annul votes in parts of the north
because of fraud allegations should make him the victor.  Ahoua Don Mello, an adviser to Gbagbo, said in interviews
this month that investors must recognize Gbagbo as the winner of
the elections to receive payment or ask Ouattara.  Brady Default  Ivory Coast’s reserves held at the BCEAO mean the country
will be able to pay the money owed on its bonds should a
resolution to the political dispute be found, according to Samir Gadio, a London-based emerging-markets strategist at Standard
Bank Plc. The “significant upside potential” may make the
country’s debt sub-Saharan  Africa ’s best-performer this year,
said  Standard Bank  said in a Jan. 17 report.  “There should be more than enough dollar-denominated
proceeds in the Ivorian accounts with the BCEAO to make the $29
million payment,” said Gadio. “That said, the payment would
still have to be processed by the Ivorian Treasury in Abidjan,
which is controlled by Gbagbo’s side at present.”  Ouattara doesn’t have full control of the nation’s accounts
at the regional central bank and can’t pay the debts, Reuters
said today, citing Ouattara’s spokesman Patrick Achi.  Bondholders had to wait a decade for payment after the
Ivory Coast reneged in 2000 on $3.5 billion of so-called Brady
bonds, securities created as part of a debt restructuring plan
for  developing countries  and named after former U.S. Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady.  The bonds were restructured with an issue of Eurobonds last
April at a yield of 10.181 percent, according to Thierry Desjardins, chairman of the London Club of informal bank
creditors which hold Ivory Coast debt, and data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mutiny  “It’s a country which unfortunately has not only had a
long track record of debt repayment problems and interruptions,
but political conflict and even civil war situations,” said Tom Fallon, who helps manage about $35 billion as head of emerging
markets at UFG-LFP. The Paris-based asset management firm sold
its holdings of Ivory Coast debt in August, before last year’s
elections.  “Clearly the present crisis, with ‘two governments’ and
rising pressures on Treasury funding, does not bode well for a
rapid return to timely debt servicing,” Fallon said.  The default in 2000 followed a plunge in cocoa prices and
three coup attempts.  The country was divided into a government-controlled south
and rebel-held north following a military mutiny in 2002.
Gbagbo, who came to power in the 2000 elections, remained in
control of the south under a peace agreement in 2003. He has
delayed elections since his mandate expired in 2005.  Nationality Issue  The election last year was aimed at reuniting the country.
The conflict has partly revolved around the issue of nationality
with Ouattara barred from participating in the 1995 presidential
election on the grounds that he isn’t Ivorian. Millions in the
Ivory Coast, especially in the north, have parents from
neighboring Burkina Faso and  Mali .  While a default is likely to happen and the price will
drop, the bonds will rebound to 50 cents or 60 cents on the
dollar should a Ouattara-led government get installed “in the
next few months and they pay the bills,” said Phillip Blackwood, head of emerging markets at Sydbank A/S, Denmark’s
fourth-largest bank, which holds Ivory Coast debt. “It really
depends on the timing and nature of any change. It can dig in
for a long time, things can deteriorate, we can still have a
civil war.”  Any default probably would reduce the price of the
Eurobonds to 30 cents on the dollar, said  Stuart Culverhouse ,
London-based chief economist at Exotix Ltd. Should Ouattara take
control, the Eurobonds may jump to 55 cents, he said.  “You buy them at 30 cents with a predicate that Ouattara
will come in and restore normality,” Culverhouse said. “The
worst case is you buy them at 30 cents and nothing happens for
five years. It’s still a very, very divided country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  