-- Japan’s Bonds to Rise on Emerging-Market Tightening, DIAM Says
-- B y   N o b u y u k i   A k a m a
-- 2011-01-28T05:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/japan-bonds-may-rise-as-emerging-markets-tighten-stifle-growth-diam-says.html
Japan’s bond may rise as interest-
rate increases in emerging nations dim global growth prospects,
spurring demand for the safety of debt, according to DIAM Asset
Management Co.  “With emerging nations such as  China  entering a monetary
tightening mode, investors are becoming aware of risks to the
economic outlook,” said Nobuto Yamazaki, an executive fund
manager who helps oversee the equivalent of $12 billion at the
Tokyo-based firm. “They appear to be wondering whether to keep
buying commodities and stocks.”  The yield on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bonds ended 2010 at
1.11 percent, and rose as much as 1.26 percent last week. The
rate fell three basis points to 1.22 percent today.  Gains in yields have been fueled by anticipation of a U.S.
economic recovery and will eventually reach a limit, Yamazaki
said. Demand for Japanese debt may increase if rallies in
equities and commodities halt, prompting 10-year yields to fall
below 1.2 percent, he said.  The yield on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bonds will end the
first quarter at 1.17 percent, according to the average forecast
of five economists who gave estimates this month in a Bloomberg
News survey.    Standard &amp; Poor’s  downgrade of Japan yesterday won’t likely
have a significant effect on the  bond market  in the near term,
Yamazaki said. S&P cut the nation’s rating to AA-, the fourth-
highest level and the same as China’s, from AA.  Emerging Markets  Central banks in emerging markets have been tightening
policy to combat rising inflation. India’s central bank
increased the key interest rate to a two-year high on Jan. 25,
while  Brazil  raised rates on Jan. 19. The People’s Bank of China
boosted benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates twice in
the fourth quarter of 2010.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week raised its
forecast for global economic growth this year to 4.4 percent
from 4.2 percent and urged developing nations to closely watch
the rise of asset price bubbles as inflation risks increase.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index and  India ’s Sensitive Index have
lost 1.8 percent and 9.3 percent in 2011 respectively. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index dropped this week to the lowest level
since Sept. 30. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw
materials rose to 336.29 on Jan. 19, the highest since October
2008, before losing 2.6 percent by Jan. 25.  Doubts about the sustainability of stock rallies in
emerging markets may spread to the U.S., said  Takafumi Yamawaki ,
chief rates strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo. That
will drive down Japanese equities and boost demand for debt,
causing 10-year yields to drop toward 1.1 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nobuyuki Akama in Tokyo at 
 akam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 