-- JPMorgan Says OPEC Acts to Slow Oil, May Raise Later
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2011-01-28T11:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/jpmorgan-says-first-signs-opec-seeking-to-prevent-oil-rising-too-rapidly.html
OPEC will have to raise oil prices
in coming years to maximize revenue even as it acts to quell
crude’s rally toward $100 a barrel in the short term, according
to  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co .  Indications that members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries are raising output unilaterally are the
first signs of a response to rising prices, said analysts at the
second-largest U.S. bank by assets. Crude fell to a five-week
low Jan. 24 after Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of OPEC’s
biggest member, Saudi Arabia, said the 12-member group will
boost supply this year.  “The producer group does not want oil prices to rise too
high, too quickly,” JPMorgan analysts, led by New York-based
Lawrence Eagles, said in a monthly report dated yesterday. “But
we believe the group has little option but to incrementally
raise prices over the coming years to maximize the revenue from
each barrel of oil produced.”  Brent crude has increased 3.4 percent this year on the
London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange amid speculation
strengthening global economic data signals a recovery in fuel
demand. Futures reached $99.20 a barrel on Jan. 14, the highest
since October 2008. Prices, trading near $98 today, are up 0.4
percent this week.  Tightness Subsides  OPEC, which pumps 40 percent of the world’s oil, is moving
to cool oil prices just as “physical tightness looks set to
subside from mid-February,” according to JPMorgan. Refiners on
the U.S. Gulf and West Coast have started shutting plants for
seasonal maintenance and will be joined by operators in Europe
in the coming weeks, it said.  While the group acts to cap oil’s rise now, it will have to
increase prices in years ahead if it wants to protect its
revenue, according to the bank. End-user prices will rise
regardless of OPEC’s actions, as governments in consuming
countries raise taxes for a greater share of revenue, it said.  “A large tax take is a long-standing thorn in OPEC’s
side,” the analysts said.  Gasoline prices in the U.K. are about $320 a barrel and
diesel near $330, leaving OPEC with “less than a third” of
sales revenue, according to JPMorgan.  China , the world’s largest
energy user, has also imposed some oil taxes and introduced
policy to reduce energy intensity, it said.  OPEC, next scheduled to review production policy at a
meeting in June, agreed at its last gathering Dec. 11 to
maintain formal output targets at levels set two years earlier.
Current prices are in a “comfortable zone,” said the group’s
Secretary-General Abdulla El-Badri.  Demand Forecast  JPMorgan increased its forecast for global oil demand
growth next year by 300,000 barrels a day to 1.7 million
barrels. It estimates consumption will average 89.4 million
barrels a day in 2011, higher than the 89.1 million predicted by
the International Energy Agency. It also forecasts oil prices
will increase $15, or about 19 percent, to $95 a barrel.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this week said oil’s rally from
$75 a barrel since September has partially been driven by OPEC
holding back supply. The group should boost supply to prevent
prices threatening the global recovery, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador ,  Iran , Iraq,  Kuwait , Libya,  Nigeria ,  Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  