-- Stoudemire Is First Knick Elected as NBA All-Star Game Starter Since 1992
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2011-01-28T05:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/kobe-bryant-tops-nba-all-star-voting-from-dwight-howard-stoudemire-chosen.html
Amar’e Stoudemire became the first  New York  Knicks player to be chosen to start the National
Basketball Association All-Star Game since 1992.  Stoudemire, who scored a team-high 24 points last night as
the Knicks beat the  Miami Heat  93-88, is the fifth Knicks player
to be named a starter since fan voting began in 1974-75. The
last Knicks player to start was Patrick Ewing, who was elected
again in 1997 though he couldn’t play because of a groin injury.  “If your team isn’t successful, then it wouldn’t happen,
so it’s also a team award,” Stoudemire said in a televised
interview before last night’s game at Madison Square Garden in
New York.  Stoudemire moved to New York from the Phoenix Suns in July.
The Knicks are 24-21 this season, a six-game improvement over
the same stage last year. Stoudemire is averaging 26.1 points a
game to rank second in the NBA on that measure behind  Kevin Durant  of the Oklahoma City Thunder.  Los Angeles Lakers guard  Kobe Bryant  topped the voting for
the 60th All-Star Game, which is scheduled to take place at the
Staples Center in  Los Angeles  on Feb. 20.  Bryant, a three-time All-Star Most Valuable Player,
received almost 2.4 million votes to put him on the Western
Conference team for the 13th straight time. Bryant is one shy of
the record 14 appearances made by  Shaquille O’Neal , Karl Malone
and Jerry West.  Orlando Magic center Dwight Howard was second in voting
with 2.1 million votes.  Western Lineup  Joining Bryant on the Western Conference team are New
Orleans Hornets guard Chris Paul; forward Durant; Denver Nuggets
forward Carmelo Anthony and Houston Rockets center Yao Ming. NBA
Commissioner David Stern will pick a replacement for Yao, who
has a stress fracture in his left ankle.  Miami Heat forward LeBron James and guard Dwyane Wade will
play for the Eastern Conference, the first time two teammates
have been selected to start for the East since Wade and O’Neal
in 2007.    Derrick Rose  completes the lineup, becoming the first
Chicago Bulls player to make the starting lineup since  Michael Jordan  in 1998.  San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich will lead the West,
because the Spurs are guaranteed the best record in the
conference through Feb. 6. The East coach has yet to be
selected.  The NBA’s 30 head coaches will vote on the reserves, who
will be identified Feb. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  