-- Christie Says Stirrings of Recovery No Reason to Delay Debt Fix
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2011-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/new-jersey-s-christie-says-stirrings-of-recovery-no-reason-to-delay-fixes.html
  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said policymakers shouldn’t allow the nascent U.S. economic
recovery to delay them from mending the state’s finances.  “We’re running out of choices,” the 48-year-old
Republican said at a state Chamber of Commerce dinner in
Washington yesterday. “We cannot, now that we are beginning to
see some encouraging signs of economic recovery, take our eye
off the ball. If we do, we will just go back to the days we’ve
just begun to get over.”  Christie took office a year ago on a promise to reverse a
decade of deficits without raising taxes. New Jersey’s debt grew
$1.4 billion to $36.9 billion last year. Its pension fund has a
$53.9 billion gap between assets and anticipated payouts.
Moody’s Investors Service cited the debt load and underfunding
in cutting its outlook to negative last year.  The governor has said he plans to “put a down payment” on
tax restructuring when he presents his budget Feb. 22, without
providing specifics. Economic adviser  Robert Grady  said last
month that Christie is preparing changes to the  tax code .  Christie’s latest remarks echoed his Jan. 11 State of the
State  address  and pronouncements this month at town-hall
meetings as he pressed his case for overhauling state
government. Christie has said he’ll be a “broken record” on
reducing the costs of public pensions, benefits and education as
he seeks to balance the budget without raising taxes.  Christie may face a deficit next year equivalent to more
than a third of his current $29.4 billion spending plan, the
nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services projected in July.  The governor’s pension proposals include rolling back a 9
percent benefits increase from 2001, raising the  retirement age 
to 65 from as low as 60, and suspending retiree cost-of-living
raises. He also wants public workers and teachers to pay as much
as 30 percent of their health insurance cost, instead of the
current 1.5 percent of their salaries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannnenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 