-- Niger Election Next Week Marks Return to Civilian Rule Amid Kidnappings
-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2011-01-28T08:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/niger-election-to-mark-return-to-civilian-rule-amid-spate-of-kidnappings.html
Niger  holds elections on Jan. 31 to
choose a new president and parliament and re-establish civilian
rule as an al-Qaeda-linked group steps up attacks in  Africa ’s
biggest uranium producer.  The elections are being held by the military, which ousted
Mamadou Tandja as president in February after he tried to change
the constitution and abolish  term limits  to extend his 11-year
rule. It was the West African country’s third army-led takeover
since 1996.  “This election is not just a test for the military, it is
a test for the Nigerien political class,” said Paul Melly, an
Africa researcher at London-based  Chatham House , in a Jan. 25
phone interview. “Once the election is over, can they make a
functioning pluralist system work?”  A constitutional referendum approved by voters in October
restored term limits and will force the government to publish
figures for the country’s oil and mining revenue.  Areva SA , the
world’s largest supplier of nuclear equipment and services,
mined 2,296 metric tons of uranium from Niger in 2009.  Seven people including an employee and five sub-contractors
of the company were kidnapped on Sept. 16 in the northern mining
city of Arlit by suspected members of al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb. The group was also responsible for kidnapping two
French nationals from a restaurant in the capital, Niamey, on
Jan. 7, according to the French defense ministry.  ‘No-Man’s Land’  The attacks threaten to hinder investment in the nation of
16 million, which ranks third last in the United Nations
Development Program’s  Human Development Index  listing of 169
countries. Only the Democratic Republic of Congo and  Zimbabwe 
are ranked lower.  “It is neither conceivable nor acceptable that our country
become a no-man’s land that grows crime, trafficking and
terrorism,” said Hama Amadou, a 60-year-old candidate and
former prime minister, during a debate broadcast by state-owned
Tele Sahel on Jan. 17.  Amadou, along with Seini Oumarou, the 60-year-old candidate
for Tandja’s Mouvement National pour la Societe de
Developpement, and opposition leader Mahamadou Issoufou, a 58-
year-old French-trained mining engineer and former prime
minister, are among the front-runners, with a second round
between the top two vote-winners likely.  Issoufou and Amadou are members of the Alliance for
National Reconciliation who, along with five other opposition
contenders, announced Jan. 25 that they would unite behind a
single candidate should the poll go to a run-off, currently
slated for March 12.  Poor and Illiterate  All three leading candidates have promised to improve
education and bolster agriculture in a country where just 15
percent of women are literate and 82 percent of the population
relies on farming and animal herding, according to data from the  World Food Programme  and the CIA’s World Fact Book.  Niger is also recovering from a drought in 2009-10 that put
about 7 million at risk of starvation, the WFP  said  in May.  “I will vote for an honest president, a president who will
protect public assets and redistribute wealth equitably,” said
Santou Douramane, a 54-year-old vegetable seller in Niamey’s
Petit Marche market in a Jan. 25 interview. “Our country must
avoid coups and take the path of democracy.”  Mounting attacks by al-Qaeda will make it hard for the
military to withdraw to the sidelines.  Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden said on Jan. 21 the
hostages kidnapped in September wouldn’t be released unless  France  withdrew troops from  Afghanistan .  ‘Fully Mobilized’  Paris-based Areva is “fully mobilized” to support search
efforts for its kidnapped staff, according to a statement e-
mailed by Maxime Michaut, a spokeswoman for the company. “We
are confident the Nigerien political elite will continue the
long-term partnership built 40 years ago,” she said.  Both of the men kidnapped in January were found dead after
a failed rescue attempt by French forces. Aid agencies including
the  U.S. Peace Corps , which had operated in the country without
interruption since 1962, have pulled out staff in the wake of
the attacks.  The elections are one of the last in a series of votes
organized by the junta, which is not fielding a presidential
candidate.  “Elections do not a democracy make,” says William Miles,
a political scientist at  Northeastern University  in  Boston  who
researches Niger. “The role of the military will remain very,
very strong in the background.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Djibril Saidou in Niamey and Jason McLure in Accra at
   jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 