-- Nigeria Arrests 39 Suspected Attackers in Sectarian Clashes Close to Jos
-- B y   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2011-01-28T12:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/nigeria-arrests-39-suspected-attackers-in-sectarian-clashes-close-to-jos.html
Nigerian soldiers detained 39 people
alleged to have killed six people yesterday in the latest
violence between Christians and Muslims, a military official
said.  The killings occurred last night when dozens of gunmen
suspected to be Muslim Fulani herdsmen attacked three villages
about 25 kilometers (15 miles) south of the Plateau state
capital, Jos, Captain Charles Ekeocha, a spokesman for the
military in the area, said today by phone from the city.  Troops responding to calls for help killed two of the
attackers and arrested others as they tried to flee, he said.
“We handed over 39 people to the police.”  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer and most populous nation
of about 140 million people, is roughly split between a mainly
Muslim north and a predominantly Christian south. More than
14,000 people died in ethnic and religious clashes in the West
African nation between 1999 and 2009, according to the Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group .  More than 200 people have died in reprisal attacks in
Plateau, according to New York-based  Human Rights Watch , since
multiple bomb blasts in Jos on Christmas Eve killed 80 people. A
radical Islamic sect claimed responsibility for the explosions.  At least four people were killed and several churches and
mosques were burned during clashes yesterday between Christians
and Muslims in the Tafawa Balewa district of Bauchi state, just
north of Plateau state. Both states are in  Nigeria ’s so-called
middle belt where mainly Christian ethnic groups live alongside
Muslims.  Bauchi Curfew  Bauchi Governor Isa Yuguda ordered a night-time curfew in
the affected district “in order to curtail the crisis from
escalating to neighboring areas,” he said in a radio broadcast
yesterday.  “These waves of senseless killings risk spreading and have
taken a terrible toll on the people of Plateau state,” Corinne Dufka, senior West Africa researcher at  Human Rights Watch , said
in the statement posted on the group’s website.  The authorities need to act urgently to “break this cycle
of violence,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin  at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 