-- Oil Rises, Capping Weekly Decline, on Demand Growth Optimism
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-01-28T13:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/oil-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-august-on-concern-over-u-s-demand.html
Oil rose, capping its biggest weekly
decline in  New York  in three weeks, on speculation rising demand
may absorb excess inventories in the U.S., the largest consumer
of crude.  A U.S. government report today showed growth in the world’s
biggest economy picked up in the last quarter, suggesting fuel
consumption may erode stockpiles. New York futures narrowed
their discount to North Sea Brent, which reached more than $12 a
barrel after Energy Department data showed stockpiles grew 2.3
percent in the U.S. storage hub at Cushing,  Oklahoma , last week.  “In the long run, we see a rising oil price because of the
rise in energy demand, which clearly will go up significantly,”
Royal Dutch Shell Plc Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser said
today in Davos,  Switzerland . There is a “revolution” in
emerging markets in energy use and there will be “definitely
growth over the next few years” in energy demand, he said.  Oil for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
rose as much as 67 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $86.31 a barrel and
was at $86.15 at 1:48 p.m. London time. The contract is 3.3
percent lower for the week, the biggest drop since the week
ended Jan. 7, and down 5.7 percent this year.  Brent crude for March settlement rose 40 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $97.79 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The contract has gained 0.2 percent this week
and is up 3.2 percent this year.  Economic Growth  Economic growth in the U.S. accelerated in the fourth
quarter, a government report showed. Gross domestic product rose
at a 3.2 percent annual pace, up from a 2.6 percent rate in the
previous three months.  Brent’s premium over Nymex-traded West Texas Intermediate
was at $11.64 a barrel, after widening to a record $12.49.
Investors are buying Brent contracts as a buildup of supplies at
Cushing, the delivery point for New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate oil, skews the U.S. grade’s reliability as an
indicator of demand.  “A combination of oversupply in Cushing and strong demand
from European refineries has pushed the spread to a record,”
said Thorbjoern Bak Jensen, an analyst at Global Risk Management
in Middelfart,  Denmark . “Seaborne exports from OPEC have been
reported higher and it’s said the Saudis are producing more,
though the Saudis themselves deny it.”  OPEC Won’t ‘Interfere’  Secretary-General Abdulla El-Badri of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries said in interview today with CNBC
in Davos he sees no need to “interfere” in the oil market and
won’t hesitate to act if required.  Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report yesterday
there were indications that some OPEC members were raising
output unilaterally.  “We take that as a strong indication that the producer
group does not want oil prices to rise too high, too quickly,”
JPMorgan’s analysts, led by New York-based Lawrence Eagles, said
in the report. “OPEC continues to supply the marginal barrel
and therefore sets the price for crude oil.”  OPEC will boost shipments by 330,000 barrels a day through
the middle of February, the group’s first increase since the
month ended Dec. 25, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Oil will rise to $100 a barrel, possibly in the first half
of this year, and may eventually peak at $140, Duke Energy Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Jim Rogers  said in Davos today.  OPEC’s El-Badri said on Jan. 26 that oil prices are in a
“comfortable zone,” adding that the producer group is
concerned about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. The group, next
scheduled to review its production quotas at a meeting in June,
is also wary that measures taken by  China  to slow its economy
will impede the country’s energy demand, El-Badri said.  Prices in New York may extend their decline next week as
inventories increase amid a decline in refinery utilization
rates and fuel demand, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Seventeen of 37 analysts, or 46 percent, forecast crude oil
will drop through Feb. 4. Fourteen respondents, or 38 percent,
predicted prices will climb and six estimated little change.
Last week, 58 percent said futures would decrease.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  