-- Tombini Says Brazil Needs Macro Prudential Policies
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2011-01-28T13:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/tombini-says-brazil-needs-macro-prudential-policies-update1-.html
  Brazil ’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said policy makers need to put in place
“sound, macro prudential” policies to contain inflation and an
“excessive” appreciation of the currency.  “We have to have an enlarged tool kit” to ensure monetary
and financial stability amid excessive international liquidity,
Tombini said today on a panel at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland . “We have to put in place sound, macro
prudential policies as we’ve done.”  After the speech Tombini said he was referring to measures
already taken.  To slow the fastest inflation in more than two years,
Brazilian policy makers said they will rely on higher  interest
rates  and measures to slow credit, labeled as macro prudential
policies, according to the minutes of their Jan. 18-19 meeting
published yesterday. The central bank raised the benchmark
interest rate by 50 basis points last week and signaled it plans
to maintain the pace of rate increases in March, the minutes
show.  Since December, the government has increased reserve and
capital requirement to slow credit growth, adopted measures to
discourage bets against the dollar and lifted the overnight rate
to 11.25 percent from 10.75 percent. The steps aim to rein in
consumer prices while trying to temper a 39 percent rally of the
real in the past two years.  ‘Excessive Appreciation’  Brazil has “to address the excessive appreciation of one
important asset, which is the  exchange rate ,” Tombini said
today.  The real strengthened to 1.6750 per  U.S. dollar  from 1.6764
yesterday at 8:17 a.m. New York time. Yields on interest rate
futures contracts due January 2013, the most traded in Sao
Paulo, fell four basis points to 12.85 percent.  Inflation, as measured by the benchmark IPCA-15 price
index, quickened to 6.04 percent in the 12 months through mid-
January, the fastest pace since December 2008. The central bank
targets inflation of 4.5 percent with a plus or minus two-
percentage-point leeway to accommodate price shocks.  “We are addressing the issue of inflation, which is
related to commodity price shocks,” Tombini said. “That is not
a huge problem. We are within our target range.”  Tombini said President Dilma Rousseff’s administration
faces the challenge of dealing with “abundance.”  Latin America biggest economy last year expanded 7.3
percent, according to central bank estimates. Growth will slow
to 4.5 percent this year, the bank said.  “We have too much demand today, we have too much capital
flowing in,” Tombini said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  