-- Omnia in Talks to Buy Two of Sasol's Fertilizer Blending Plants, CEO Says
-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s
-- 2011-01-28T05:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/omnia-in-talks-to-buy-two-of-sasol-s-fertilizer-blending-plants-ceo-says.html
  Omnia Holdings Ltd ., southern  Africa ’s largest fertilizer supplier, said it’s in talks to buy
two of the five fertilizer blending plants that  Sasol Ltd . is
selling as part of an antitrust settlement.  “The process is still ongoing,” with negotiations focused
on the price, Omnia Chief Executive Officer Rod Humphris said
yesterday in an interview in Johannesburg. “We wouldn’t be
interested in all of their blending plants” because that would
create an overlap with its existing operations, he said.  Sasol last year offered to dispose of the plants as part of
a settlement agreement to ease concerns that it may have abused
its dominance. Omnia also plans to take advantage of the exit of
Sasol and Yara International Ltd.’s South African unit from the
local retail-fertilizer market, Humphris said.  Omnia, which also runs a chemicals business and supplies
explosives to mines, raised 1 billion rand ($142 million) in
September selling stock to existing shareholders to help pay for
a 1.4 billion rand acid plant and lower its debt costs. The
plant, scheduled to start production in March next year, will
add about 280 million rand to earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, Humphris said.  While Omnia stopped paying dividends following the share
sale, its board will consider whether to resume payments slowly
or at its former rate of 3.5 times dividend cover, he said.
“We’re in the process of spending a lot of money on the
construction of that plant, on which we’re getting no return,”
Humphris said.  ‘Review the Dividend’  The plant will be capable of producing 1,000 metric tons of
nitric acid a day, on top of the 700-ton output from its current
factory. The new plant is the first such investment in the
industry in  South Africa  in almost 30 years, Humphris has said.  “Once that plant starts to operate and generate income,
you can then argue now is the time to review the dividend,” he
said. A year-and-half isn’t an unreasonable time between the
capital raising and the start of output and Omnia’s board could
pay a dividend sooner if the company does “extremely well.”  Shares in Omnia advanced 34 percent during the last six
months, giving the company a market value of about 5 billion
rand. In the fiscal first half, which runs until Sept. 30, Omnia
made about 60 percent of its operating profit from its mining
division. The company has two “hold” and one “sell” ratings
on it, according to analyst recommendations on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net  