-- Orange County Considers $320 Million Pension-Note Sale to Itself
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2011-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/once-bankrupt-orange-county-considers-320-million-note-sale-to-itself.html
Orange County, California, which
suffered the biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history, may
borrow as much as $320 million from itself to pay pension costs
as its expenses for retiree benefits balloon.  The  plan  is to sell taxable pension-obligation notes
maturing in about 16 months to the Orange County Investment
Pool, Chief Financial Officer Robert Franz said. The proceeds
would allow the county to make its annual pension fund payment
ahead of schedule, qualifying for a discount of as much as 7.75
percent, according Board of Supervisors documents.  Orange County, which sought protection from creditors in
1994 after a wrong-way bet on  interest rates , is facing a
shortfall of  $3.7 billion  in its  $10 billion pension  fund after
benefit increases and investment losses during the recession.
Its $6 billion investment pool is managed by the county
treasurer.  “When you think of the concept of borrowing from
ourselves, we ask, ‘Why not?’” Supervisor John Moorlach, a
former county treasurer, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Who’s a better credit than yourself?”  Local-government investment pools are used by states,
counties and cities across the U.S. to put to work cash kept on
hand for agencies such as sewer districts and schools. Orange
County’s pool lost $1.7 billion when then-Treasurer Robert Citron made a wrong-way bet on derivatives. Since then, the
county has adopted rules forbidding the pool from investing in
such risky securities.  Proceeds from the sale would pay for one year’s worth of
the pension’s unfunded liability -- which occurs when a its
total value falls below projected long-term obligations to pay
benefits -- as well as the county’s annual employer contribution
to the Orange County Employees Retirement System, Franz said.  Pension Discount  The pension fund offers the county a discount for paying in
a lump sum at the start of the period, rather than monthly
installments. That discount could save the county about $21
million before interest costs, according to county figures.  The note sale could come in March, if supervisors approve,
Franz said. It would mark the county’s third short-term pension
note offering. In 2006, Orange County sold itself $106 million
of taxable notes with an interest rate equivalent to the London
interbank offered rate plus 0.15 percentage point. In 2007, the
county sold $212 million at an interest rate of 5.38 percent.  “Rates are historically low right now, although they’ve
bumped up a little bit, but they are still pretty low so we
think it’s a good time,” Franz said. “We don’t expect that to
change dramatically between now and March.”  Interest Taxed  Interest income on municipal pension bonds is subject to
federal income tax because the debt finances purchases of stocks
and bonds rather than public projects such as construction of
roads and schools.  A  California  appeals court ruled Jan. 27 that retroactive
increases in retirement benefits for Orange County deputy
sheriffs in 2001 didn’t violate the state’s constitution. The
county board sued in 2008 to overturn the increase.  The court upheld a lower court’s 2009 decision that the
retroactive part of an enhanced formula for calculating the
deputies’ retirement benefits didn’t violate a California
prohibition against municipalities increasing their debt or
liabilities without voter approval.  The county’s board of supervisors in 2009 approved a two-
tier pension system that allows new employees to choose between
a traditional pension or a (401)k-like plan with county matching
funds that requires more years before retiring with a lower
payout.  That plan has been on hold, however, because of concerns
that it jeopardize the tax-exempt status of money deducted from
all county workers’ paychecks for retirement accounts. The
county is waiting on word from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service
before implementing the new system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  