-- Hong Kong Is World's Most Expensive Place to Buy Home on Property Shortage
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2011-01-28T11:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/hong-kong-is-world-s-most-expensive-place-to-buy-home-on-property-shortage.html
  Hong Kong  is the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home because of a shortage of
properties on the market, according to a study of the top four
cities by  Savills Plc .  Hong Kong is 55 percent more expensive than London, based
on an index published today by the property  broker  that compares
the U.K. capital with the other cities. Moscow is 7.4 percent
more expensive than London and  New York  is 15 percent cheaper.    Home prices  in Hong Kong have been driven higher by record-
low borrowing costs, a lack of new supply and an influx of
Chinese buyers, Savills said. They have jumped more than 55
percent since the beginning of 2009, according to an index
compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest
closely held broker.  “Prices will continue to rise over the next year to 18
months,” said Simon Smith, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian
real estate research, at a presentation in  London  yesterday.  In November, Hong Kong’s government stepped up a yearlong
battle to curb inflation with additional taxes and policies.
Chief Executive Donald Tsang pledged to make more land available
to build 20,000 housing units each year and raised property
taxes to deter speculators.  Hong Kong’s “government is trying to cool the market and
isn’t doing a very good job of it,” Smith said.  Stock-Market Rally  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the performance
of the city’s seven-biggest developers, gained 76 percent from
the beginning of 2009, after falling to a more than four-year
low during the global credit crisis.  Savills compiled the data using estimates of what employees
of a company would pay to relocate to each of the four cities.
The index reflects home values for one chief executive officer,
two directors and four administrative workers. The firm based
its calculations on the price per square foot for each type of
property the seven buyers would purchase.  An office worker would have to pay the equivalent of about
659 pounds ($1,050) a square foot for a home in Hong Kong, 76
percent more than their counterpart in London, Savills
estimates.  World’s Biggest Developer    Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd ., the world’s biggest developer
by value and owner of Hong Kong’s two tallest skyscrapers, has
gained 31 percent over the past year.  Cheung Kong  (Holdings)
Ltd., controlled by Hong Kong’s richest man,  Li Ka-shing , and
the builder of luxury housing projects including The Legend, has
risen 45 percent during the same period.  Seventy percent of the Hong Kong land releases are in the
New Territories, aggravating the shortage in desirable districts
like Hong Kong Island, where there are only 2,400 houses, Smith
said. New Territories and  Hong Kong Island  are two of the city’s
three main regions. The other is the Kowloon peninsula.  Hong Kong also leads at the top end of the market, London-
based Savills said. A home in The Peak, an exclusive
neighborhood with only 500 houses, might sell for as much as
6,353 pounds a square foot. That’s more than double the price
for a comparable property in Mayfair or Knightsbridge in London,
the second-most expensive city for high-end homes, the Savills
survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 