-- Moody's Says Time Shortens for U.S. Rating Outlook as S&P Downgrades Japan
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   R i c h a r d
-- 2011-01-28T07:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/moody-s-says-time-shortens-for-u-s-rating-outlook-as-s-p-downgrades-japan.html
Moody’s Investors Service said it
may need to place a “negative” outlook on the Aaa rating of  U.S. debt  sooner than anticipated as the country’s  budget
deficit  widens.  The extension of tax cuts enacted under President  George W.
Bush , the chance that Congress won’t reduce spending and the
outcome of the November elections have increased Moody’s
uncertainty over the willingness and ability of the U.S. to
reduce its debt, the credit-ratings company said yesterday.  “Although no rating action is contemplated at this time,
the time frame for possible future actions appears to be
shortening, and the probability of assigning a negative outlook
in the coming two years is rising,” wrote Steven Hess, a senior
credit officer in New York and the author of the report. The
rating remains “stable,” according to the report.  The warning from Moody’s came on the same day that  Standard
&amp; Poor’s  lowered Japan to AA- from AA, signaling that the
ratings firms are stepping up pressure on the governments of the
world’s biggest economies to curb their spending. The threat of
a lower rating may cause international investors to avoid U.S.
assets. About 50 percent of the almost $9 trillion of U.S.
marketable debt is owned by investors outside the nation,
according to the Treasury Department in  Washington .  U.S. debt has increased from about $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007 as the government increased spending to bail out the
financial system and bring the economy out of recession. The
budget deficit has increased to 8.8 percent of the economy from
1 percent in 2007.  ‘Trajectory Is Worse’  “Because of the financial crisis and events following the
financial crisis, the trajectory is worse than it was before,”
Hess said in a telephone interview.  Moody’s said it expects there will be “constructive
efforts” to reduce the deficit and control entitlement
spending. It predicted 10-year Treasury yields will rise toward
5 percent without surpassing that level.  Yields on the benchmark securities were little changed at
3.39 percent today as of 6:26 a.m. in  London , according to
BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent security maturing in
November 2020 traded at 93 22/32. Demand for U.S. debt has
pushed the rate down from 5.27 percent a decade ago.  The U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against
six counterparts, climbed to 77.791 today from a low during the
global financial crisis of 70.698 on March 17, 2008, as the  U.S.
economy  recovered.  ‘Remote’ Downgrade Odds  The odds of a U.S. ratings cut are remote, said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior investor in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management
Co., which has the equivalent of $42.2 billion in assets and is
part of Japan’s second-largest publicly traded bank.  “I don’t think the U.S. will be downgraded,” Nakamura
said. “The U.S. may try to cut spending. Those kinds of
policies will support the rating.” Mizuho Asset bought
Treasuries in December, he said.  President Barack Obama’s deal with congressional
Republications, announced Dec. 6, calls for a two-year extension
of tax rates in return for extending long-term jobless benefits
for 13 months and cutting the payroll tax for $120 billion for a
year.  The U.S. has the highest government debt-to-government
revenue of any Aaa rated country, Moody’s said yesterday. The
ratio, at 426 percent, is more than double that of  Germany ,  France  and the U.K. and more than four times higher than
Australia, Sweden and Denmark, according to Moody’s.  ‘Trend May Continue’  “Other large Aaa countries have plans to reduce deficits
substantially over the coming few years, indicating that this
trend may continue,” Hess said.  S&P cut Japan’s credit rating for the first time in nine
years, saying the government lacks a “coherent strategy” to
address the nation’s 943 trillion yen ($11 trillion) debt
burden.  The ratings firms also have downgraded  Europe ’s so-called
peripheral countries on rising deficits and slumping growth.    Fitch Ratings  cut  Greece  to BB+ on Jan. 14, following S&P
and Moody’s in lowering the country to below investment grade.
Moody’s began reviewing Portugal and  Spain  in December.  Credit-default swaps on U.S. Treasuries climbed for a
fourth day yesterday, rising 1.5 basis points to 51.57 basis
points, according to data provider CMA. That means it would cost
the equivalent of $51,570 a year to protect $10 million of debt
against default for five years.  Prices of the swaps compare with 59.8 basis points for debt
issued by Germany, 83.1 for Japan, and 897.3 for Greek bonds.  Reduce Fed Borrowing  The U.S. Treasury Department said yesterday it will reduce
its borrowing on behalf of the  Federal Reserve  to $5 billion
from $200 billion because of concerns about the federal debt
limit. The Obama administration and Congress are debating
whether to raise the limit as the government approaches the
current ceiling of $14.29 trillion, which the Treasury estimates
will be reached between March 31 and May 16.  Focus on the debt ceiling, which was increased a year ago,
has risen since Republicans won control of the House of
Representatives in November with pledges to challenge the Obama
administration on spending. Republican lawmakers have told the
president and Democratic legislators that they will insist on
specific cuts as a condition of raising the U.S. debt limit.  Treasuries are poised to fall as the debate on increasing
the U.S. debt limit intensifies,  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.
was quoted by the Associated Press as saying.  U.S. debt “will sell off as this get more press and with
more invective,” Gross said, according to AP. “Investors like
us, we sell now.”  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
is a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Richard in  New York  at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  