-- Tottenham Plans New Bid for Everton's Neville, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-01-28T10:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/tottenham-plans-new-bid-for-everton-s-neville-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Spurs Bid  Tottenham is preparing second bid for Everton captain Phil Neville before the end of the transfer period in three days, the
 Daily Mirror  said.  Neville, 34, is interested in leaving Everton to play in
the Champions League with Spurs, the Mirror said. Tottenham
manager  Harry Redknapp  also wants the defender to provide
leadership in the dressing room, which he feels the club
currently lacks, the newspaper said. Everton turned down a bid
for Neville earlier this month.  Reina Interest  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is considering a 20
million-pound ($31.7 million) move for Liverpool goalkeeper Pepe
Reina to replace Edwin van der Sar, the  Daily Star  said.  Van der Sar, 40, announced yesterday he would retire at the
end of this season and Ferguson is determined to sign a world-
class replacement, the Star said. Liverpool’s new owners are
reluctant to sell 28-year-old Reina, who has spoken of a desire
to play in the Champions League and may be tempted to move to
United, the newspaper said.  Turned Down  West Ham rejected Tottenham’s offer of striker  Robbie Keane 
and 2 million pounds for midfielder  Scott Parker , the  Daily
Telegraph  said.  West Ham has targeted Keane during the current transfer
period and hoped that by agreeing to Tottenham’s demands of a 1
million-pound loan fee plus a permanent 6 million-pound transfer
in the summer should it avoid relegation, a move would go
through, the Telegraph said.  Spurs responded by asking for a permanent move to Keane
now, which included Parker, something the Hammers don’t want to
commit to, the newspaper said.  Capello Regrets  England manager  Fabio Capello  admitted he made a mistake in
leaving Arsenal winger Theo Walcott off last year’s  World Cup 
squad,  the Sun  said.  Walcott was not selected because he was returning from
injury and not fit enough to pay full games, the Sun said.
Tottenham’s  Aaron Lennon , who was also injured before the World
Cup, was taken to  South Africa .  “I made a mistake in not selecting Theo,” the Sun cited
Capello as saying. “He is one of the players who can make a
difference. I should have taken him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  