-- Mozilo Predicted U.S. Housing Collapse as Fed Overlooked Risk
-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 2011-01-28T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/mozilo-predicted-catastrophic-consequence-as-fed-overlooked-housing-risk.html
Former Countrywide Financial Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Angelo Mozilo  warned as early as 2004 of
a possible housing-market collapse while the  Federal Reserve 
overlooked the threat a year later, according to documents
released by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.  “Not only at Countrywide, but also with other lenders,
there is a clear deterioration in the  credit quality  of loans
being originated,”  he wrote  to company executives on Sept. 1,
2004. “The type of loans currently being originated combined
with the unprecedented stretching of all aspects of credit
standards could cause a bump in the road that could bring with
it catastrophic consequences.”  Fed policy makers got a mid-2005 staff briefing suggesting
the mortgage market had “solid fundamentals” and the officials
didn’t believe overvaluation of homes “posed the major systemic
risks that we now know it did,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
wrote to the FCIC last month. The congressionally appointed
panel said this week that the crisis could have been avoided
through better corporate management and government oversight.  “What this shows is that the Fed had blinders on,” said
Geoffrey Miller, director of New York University’s Center for
the Study of Central Banks and Financial Institutions. “They
had some doubts about the market, but they chose to overlook
them because they already had a view. They saw what they wanted
to see.”  David Skidmore , a spokesman for the Fed, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  SEC Settlement  Mozilo agreed in a record $67.5 million settlement to
resolve U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission allegations that
he misled investors by not disclosing deteriorating mortgage
conditions while he sold his Countrywide shares. He wrote in an
e-mail in September 2006 that Countrywide was “flying blind”
and had “no way” to determine the risks of some adjustable-
rate mortgages, according to an SEC complaint.  E-mail released by the FCIC show that Mozilo issued
warnings to his company about the potential for rising defaults
two years before that.  David Siegel , a lawyer for Mozilo, didn’t
immediately return a call to his office.  “Buyers, driven by a strong desire to own a home combined
with rapidly increasing values, are stretching themselves beyond
any historical standards to get into the home of their dreams,”
Mozilo wrote in the September 2004 e-mail released by the FCIC.
“The bottom line of my perspective on this trend is that we
should seriously consider securitizing and selling” the
riskiest portions of the mortgages.  Mozilo didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in accepting the
SEC’s largest-ever fine against a senior executive of a publicly
traded company. He was “increasingly concerned” about credit
quality in 2005, he told executives Aug. 1 of that year.  Florida Condos  “I feel strongly that over the next twelve months we are
going to be facing one of the most difficult and challenging
real estate and mortgage markets in decades,” he said in a
message released by the FCIC. “I have been in contact with
developers who have told me that they are anticipating a
collapse in the condo market very shortly” in South Florida,  Las Vegas  and other “hot” markets.  Countrywide was the third-largest subprime lender in 2006,
with about $40.6 billion in the mortgages, compared with $44.6
billion in 2005, according to data from Inside Mortgage Finance.  Bank of America Corp ., which acquired the lender in 2008, is
still adding to reserves for defaults on loans originated under
Mozilo.  Mozilo said on April 13, 2006, that his company was failing
to follow its own guidelines for safety on some products. “The
loans were originated through our channels with  serious
disregard  for process, compliance with guidelines and
irresponsible behavior relative to meeting timelines,” he said,
and he contradicted an executive who called the mortgages
“milk” by referring to them as “poison.”  ‘Increased Vigilance’  In 2006, Fed officials “expressed nervousness” about some
practices in the mortgage industry, said Bernanke, who became
chairman in February of that year. He said he “had in mind
increased regulatory oversight” and “increased vigilance” for
the implications of housing on interest-rate policy.  Mozilo said in a May 18, 2006 , e-mail  that the company
should “grow our sales force and all other businesses that keep
the top line growing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Sterngold in  New York  at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 