-- Poland's Economic Growth Rate More Than Doubled in 2010, Investments Lag
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2011-01-28T12:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/poland-s-economic-growth-rate-more-than-doubled-in-2010-investments-lag.html
  Poland ’s economic growth rate more
than doubled in 2010 as companies continued restocking and
domestic demand rose, while sluggish fixed investment suggests
the central bank may wait on more interest-rate increases.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.8 percent, compared with
1.7 percent in 2009, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistical Office 
said today in a preliminary estimate. The median estimate of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 3.7 percent.  “This is still growth driven by inventory rebuilding and
not investments, though without a drop in public-expenditure
investment it would be even bigger,” said Jaroslaw Janecki,
chief economist at Societe Generale in Warsaw. “The other
driving power was domestic and consumer demand, helped by the
improving situation on the labor market, which was also
reflected by the contribution of widening negative net exports
to GDP as imports accelerate on strengthening demand.”  Polish corporate employment rose in December at the fastest
pace in more than two years, while wages increased the most in
12 months as companies boosted capacity utilization to meet
rising domestic and foreign demand. Still, data may be neutral
for the  central bank , which raised  interest rates  earlier this
month for the first time since June 2008 as consumer-spending
growth is balanced by lagging investments.  “Full-year growth is definitely positive,”  Maciej Reluga ,
chief economist at  Bank Zachodni WBK SA , said by phone. “While
the economic environment supports further monetary tightening
this year, I think today’s disappointing fixed-investment
figures could make the Monetary Policy Council hold on with the
next hike.”  Zloty, Forwards  The zloty fell to 3.9206 per euro at 12:32 p.m. in Warsaw,
down 0.4 percent from yesterday. Investors in interest-rate
derivatives are betting the central bank will continue
tightening. Three-month forward-rate agreements, used to wager
on changes in interest rates, rose to 4.51 percent today from
4.46 percent yesterday. The contracts are trading above the
three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate of 4.07 percent,
indicating rates will increase further  The Monetary Policy Council increased the benchmark seven-
day rate last week for the first time since June 2008 as
inflation rate hovered in December for a third above 2.5 percent
target.    Monetary Policy   Polish monetary policy maker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka said
after the GDP data release that the central bank would continue
tightening monetary policy.  The largest internal market of the EU’s former communist
members helped Poland avoid a contraction at the height of the
credit crunch as European governments were forced to bail out
banks and households spent less, slashing imports from the
former communist east. Last years’ 3.8 percent growth rate makes
Poland’s economy the third-fastest growing in the 27-member bloc
last year, according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  Private consumption rose 3.2 percent last year, faster than
2.1 percent in 2009, while domestic demand grew 3.9 percent,
after falling 1 percent. Fixed investments fell 2 percent last
year, after declining 1.1 percent in 2009.  Exports, Retail  In 2010, exports continued to recover and domestic demand
bounced back, with retail sales rising a faster-than-expected 12
percent annually in December.  Capacity utilization rose at the end of last year to almost
80 percent. Companies expect strengthening consumer demand and
increasing spending on investments to boost growth, the central
bank survey showed earlier this week.  Manufacturers including  Grupa Kety SA , Poland’s largest
aluminum products maker, ramped up production as industrial
output accelerated in  Germany , the country’s largest export
market. Polish production was 11.5 percent higher in December
than a year earlier.  “December’s strong growth in industrial output and
construction speaks well for the condition of the economy in
late 2010,” Bank Zachodni WBK said in a Jan. 24 note to
investors.  The economy grew an annual 4.2 percent in the third
quarter, the fastest in two years. The statistics office is due
to release fourth-quarter GDP figures in March.  Debt Limit  Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  is depending on economic growth
and a stronger zloty to keep public debt from breaching 55
percent of GDP, a legal limit that would trigger mandatory
austerity measures. The  budget deficit  was an estimated 7.9
percent of GDP last year and will reach 6.6 percent this year,
the sixth-widest in the EU, according European Commission
estimates issued on Nov. 29.  “We’re directing spending so as not to turn off the tap of
EU co-financing,” Tusk said in Nov. 16 speech outlining
government infrastructure projects funded with 67 billion euros
($92 billion) of EU grants earmarked through 2013.  Economists including Leszek Balcerowicz, a former finance
minister and central bank governor, have criticized the
government for hesitating to cut spending and curb public debt
before parliamentary elections in the fourth quarter.  Reviving investment should power the economy to at least 4
percent annual growth this year, said  Piotr Kalisz , chief
economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Bank Handlowy unit in Warsaw.  “It’s one reason investors can ignore the budget deficit
and that sets Poland apart from Portugal and  Spain ,” he said.
“Poland at least has the potential to grow out of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  