-- Rand Slumps to Biggest Monthly Drop in Two Years Before U.S. Growth Data
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2011-01-28T11:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/rand-worst-emerging-currency-heads-for-biggest-monthly-drop-in-two-years.html
The rand slumped toward its biggest
monthly drop in two years as the worst-performing emerging-
market currency today before a report that may show the  U.S.
economy  expanded at the fastest quarterly pace in three.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy declined as much
as 1.5 percent to 7.1465 per dollar and traded at 7.0988 by 1:48
p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of 7.0424. The rand
is heading toward a monthly fall of 6.5 percent, the biggest
since January 2009.  The U.S. economy probably grew 3.5 percent in the fourth
quarter, according to the median estimate of 85 economists
polled by Bloomberg. That compares with 2.6 percent in the three
months through October. Accelerating growth in the world’s
biggest economy increases the appeal of the dollar compared with
emerging-market currencies.  “If it’s at or above expectation then you can very
definitely expect a rebound in your dollar and obviously your
emerging-market currencies will suffer slightly off the back of
that,” Nema Ramkhelawan, a Johannesburg-based currency
strategist at Rand Merchant Bank, said today by phone.
“Commodity prices have also been less supportive then they were
in the latter part of last year, the gold price in particular.”  Gold, which with platinum accounts for about a fifth of  South Africa ’s exports, headed for a 2.1 percent drop this week,
a fourth week of declines.  Bonds, Stocks  South Africa’s benchmark 13.5 percent government bond due
September 2015 fell to the lowest in a week, slipping 23 cents
to 121.604 rand. The yield increased 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 7.835 percent.  Foreign investors have been net sellers of $13 billion of
South African bonds this year to date, compared with $2 billion
over the same period a year ago, according to data compiled by
JSE Ltd., which manages the nation’s stock and bond exchanges.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index dropped the most in
more than a week, losing 1.5 percent to 31,665.08. BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, led declines, dropping
as much as 3.5 percent to 267.49 rand, the biggest intraday
slump since June 29.  “This is profit-taking by foreign investors,” Bruce Main,
a director at Johannesburg-based Ivy Asset Management, said by
phone. “Rand strength is a major issue here. The currency has
done well all of last year, so they made money on the currency
as well.”  Overseas investors were net sellers of South African stocks
yesterday and on Jan. 26.  Intervention Bets  The rand has rallied 40 percent against the dollar in the
past two years as near-zero  interest rates  in developed nations
encouraged investors to borrow cheaply and invest in markets
offering higher returns. South Africa’s 5.5 percent benchmark
interest rate, which compares with deposit returns as low as 0.1
percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in the U.S., makes the country
a popular beneficiary in this strategy, known by traders as the
carry trade.  The rally prompted manufacturers and the Congress of South
African Trade Unions to call for measures to weaken the rand,
which they say is hurting economic growth and job creation.  The rand’s decline this month is because “we have a lot
more speculation of South African Reserve Bank intervention in
the form of more than just reserve accumulation,” Rand Merchant
Bank’s Ramkhelawan said. “The SARB will be very late to the
party compared to other emerging markets in stemming currency
appreciation. We’ve seen a bit more official talk about
alternative mechanisms and that’s why we’ve seen a bit of
pressure on the rand.”  South Korea,  Brazil  and  Turkey  are among emerging markets
in striving to counter capital inflows driving currency
appreciation.  South Korea  has revived taxes on overseas
investors in domestic  government bonds  and tightened scrutiny of
trading in foreign-currency derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  