-- Rand Depreciates to Biggest Monthly Drop in Two Years on U.S. Growth Data
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2011-01-28T14:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/rand-slumps-heads-for-biggest-month-drop-in-two-years-on-u-s-growth-data.html
The rand slumped towards its biggest
monthly drop in two years after a report that showed the  U.S.
economy  expanded at the fastest quarterly pace in three.  The currency of Africa’s biggest economy declined as much
as 1.5 percent to 7.1465 per dollar and traded 1 percent weaker
at 7.1095 by 4:11 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of
7.0424. The rand is heading toward a monthly fall of 6.8
percent, the biggest since January 2009.  The U.S. economy grew at an annual pace of 3.2 percent in
the fourth quarter, falling short of the 3.5 median estimate by
85 economists polled by Bloomberg. That compares with 2.6
percent in the three months through October. Accelerating growth
in the world’s biggest economy increases the appeal of the
dollar compared with emerging-market currencies.  “It sends a signal that the U.S. macro economic recovery
continues to be on the way,”  Benoit Anne , a London-based head
of emerging markets strategy at Societe Generale SA, said today
by phone. “The short-term effect is going to be positive
dollar, so negative for high-beta currencies that are highly
correlated to dollars. The rand is one of them of course.”  Gold, which with platinum accounts for about a fifth of  South Africa ’s exports, headed for a 2.2 percent drop this week,
the fourth of declines.  “Commodity prices have also been less supportive then they
were in the latter part of last year, the gold price in
particular,” Nema Ramkhelawan, a Johannesburg-based currency
strategist at Rand Merchant Bank, said today by phone.  Bonds, Stocks  South Africa’s benchmark 13.5 percent government bond due
September 2015 fell to the lowest in a week, slipping 34 cents
to 121.494 rand. The yield increased 8 basis points to 7.86
percent.  Foreign investors have been net sellers of $13 billion of
South African bonds this year to date, compared with $2 billion
over the same period a year ago, according to data compiled by
JSE Ltd., which manages the nation’s stock and bond exchanges.  The FTSE/JSE  Africa  All Share Index dropped the most in
five months, losing 1.9 percent to 31,539.95. BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s biggest mining company, led declines, dropping as
much as 3.5 percent to 267.49 rand, the biggest intraday slump
since June 29.  “This is profit-taking by foreign investors,” Bruce Main,
a director at Johannesburg-based Ivy Asset Management, said by
phone. “Rand strength is a major issue here. The currency has
done well all of last year, so they made money on the currency
as well.”  Overseas investors were net sellers of South African stocks
yesterday and on Jan. 26.  Intervention Bets  The rand has rallied 40 percent against the dollar in the
past two years as near-zero  interest rates  in developed nations
encouraged investors to borrow cheaply and invest in markets
offering higher returns. South Africa’s 5.5 percent benchmark
interest rate, which compares with deposit returns as low as 0.1
percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in the U.S., makes the country
a popular beneficiary in this strategy, known by traders as the
carry trade.  The rally prompted manufacturers and the Congress of South
African Trade Unions to call for measures to weaken the rand,
which they say is hurting economic growth and job creation.  The rand’s decline this month is because “we have a lot
more speculation of South African Reserve Bank intervention in
the form of more than just reserve accumulation,” Rand Merchant
Bank’s Ramkhelawan said. “The SARB will be very late to the
party compared to other emerging markets in stemming currency
appreciation. We’ve seen a bit more official talk about
alternative mechanisms and that’s why we’ve seen a bit of
pressure on the rand.”  South Korea,  Brazil  and  Turkey  are among emerging markets
in striving to counter capital inflows driving currency
appreciation.  South Korea  has revived taxes on overseas
investors in domestic  government bonds  and tightened scrutiny of
trading in foreign-currency derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  