-- Treasuries Decline as Data Show U.S. Economy Accelerated in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2011-01-28T13:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/treasuries-decline-as-data-show-u-s-economy-accelerated-in-fourth-quarter.html
Treasuries fell, heading for a fifth
monthly decline, after the  U.S. economy  accelerated in the
fourth quarter, driven by the biggest gain in  consumer spending 
in more than four years and rising exports.  The difference between yields on U.S. 2- and 30-year
Treasuries widened to the most on record. The benchmark 10-year
note yield increased three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 3.43 percent at 8:55 a.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The two-year note yield rose two basis
points to 0.59 percent.  “The GDP number was a little bit weaker than expected, but
the mix was good as consumer spending was stronger,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “Unemployment still
matters much more than GDP, so I don’t expect us to break this
range until we get more news.”  Gross domestic product climbed at a 3.2 percent annual pace
from October through December, falling short of the 3.5 percent
median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
restrained by the biggest drag from inventories in two decades,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . Final
sales, which includes all categories except stockpiles, rose at
a 7.1 percent pace, the most since 1984.  Yield Spread  The difference between U.S. 2- and 30-year yields widened
to 4.04 percentage points. It first increased today after
Moody’s Investors Service said its timeframe for possibly
placing a negative outlook on its Aaa rating for the country’s
bonds is shortening as the deficit widens. The fiscal situation
is unsustainable in the long run, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said.  “The yield curve is very steep as inflation expectations
are being priced into the long end,” LeBas said. “The Moody’s
story is also somewhat of a black cloud over the market, even
though they are reiterating what they have already said.”  Geithner, in an hour-long interview with broadcaster  Charlie Rose , he said that while the  U.S. budget deficit  is
“unsustainable,” it would be a mistake to threaten the recovery
by cutting it prematurely. He also said pressure on U.S. state
budgets is “diminishing, not intensifying” and that he’ll soon
outline a plan for the future of U.S.-owned mortgage companies.  The Fed is  scheduled  to buy $7 billion to $9 billion of
Treasuries due between February 2018 and November 2020 today as
part of its plan to spur economic growth by purchasing up to
$600 billion in bonds through June.  Inflation Bets  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the securities, widened one
basis point to 2.25 percentage points. The figure, which has
climbed from 1.47 percentage points in August, has averaged 2.09
percentage points over the past five years.  President  Barack Obama  has increased the U.S. publicly
traded debt to a record $8.86 trillion to sustain the expansion.
Credit-default swaps on Treasuries climbed 1.5 basis points to
51.57 basis points, according to data provider CMA. That means
it costs $51,570 a year to protect $10 million of debt against
default for five years.  Moody’s said yesterday its uncertainty over the willingness
and ability of the U.S. to reduce its debt has increased due to
the extension of tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush , the chance Congress won’t reduce spending and the outcome
of the November elections.  Time Frame ‘Shortening’  “Although no rating action is contemplated at this time,
the time frame for possible future actions appears to be
shortening, and the probability of assigning a negative outlook
in the coming two years is rising,” Moody’s said in its report
yesterday. The rating is stable, the company said.  The Obama administration and Congress are debating whether
to raise the limit as the government approaches the current
ceiling of $14.29 trillion, which the Treasury estimates will be
reached between March 31 and May 16.  Republican lawmakers have told the president and Democratic
legislators that they will insist on specific cuts as a
condition of raising the debt limit.  Treasuries are poised to fall as the fight intensifies,  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., was cited by  Associated Press  as
saying.  “The Treasury market will sell off as this get more press
and with more invective,” Gross was quoted by AP as saying.
“Investors like us, we sell now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  