-- Roche's Tarceva Extends Time to Disease Progession in Lung Cancer Study
-- B y   C a r e y   S a r g e n t
-- 2011-01-28T07:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/roche-s-tarceva-extends-time-to-disease-progession-in-lung-cancer-study.html
  Roche Holding AG ’s Tarceva medicine
extended the time patients with a certain kind of newly
diagnosed lung cancer lived without their disease getting worse
in a late-stage study.  An independent committee recommended stopping the trial
early because the drug was more effective than platinum-based
chemotherapy in recently discovered, advanced non-small cell
lung cancer in patients with a gene mutation called EGFR, Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche said in a statement today.  Roche said it will now ask U.S. regulators to approve
Tarceva as an initial treatment in patients with this type of
cancer. The study, called Eurtac, was the first late-stage trial
in a Western population with this form of lung cancer, Roche
said. A similar study, Optimal, has been carried out in an Asian
population. Tarceva, also known as erlotinib, won U.S. approval
in 2004 to treat non-small-cell  lung cancer  and is also cleared
for pancreatic tumors.  “The Eurtac study demonstrates that testing for EGFR
activating mutations can identify people who may be candidates
to receive Tarceva as their initial treatment for advanced lung
cancer,” Hal Barron, chief medical officer at Roche, said in
the statement.  Roche asked European regulators to extend the current label
for Tarceva to include initial treatment of people with this
form of the disease in June.  The medicine works by blocking a protein called epidermal
growth factor that helps cancer cells spread. Roche said in
November it’s developing a companion diagnostic test for Tarceva
that will identify EGFR activating mutations. As many as 10
percent of lung cancer patients in the Western population and as
many as 30 percent in Asian populations may have the mutation,
Roche said.  The company is developing the medicine with OSI
Pharmaceuticals Inc., which was bought in June by  Astellas
Pharma Inc ., Japan’s second-largest drugmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  