-- Rogoff Says U.S., Spain May Face Political, Social Tensions on Inequality
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2011-01-28T13:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/rogoff-says-u-s-spain-may-face-political-social-tensions-on-inequality.html
  Kenneth Rogoff , a Harvard University
economics professor, said growing inequality may increase the
risk of social tensions in countries such as the U.S.  “Corporate profits are strong, the labor share of income
has been falling, it is a global problem,” Rogoff said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Erik Schatzker at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , today. “There are going
to be political pressures, social tensions, not just African
food riots, but in the United States,  Spain , other countries.”  Egypt restricted Internet and mobile-phone access to
counter nationwide demonstrations today as it became the latest
African country to face social unrest while food prices soar.
Wheat futures in  Chicago , the global benchmark, surged 74
percent in the past 12 months and corn prices jumped 82 percent.  University of Chicago Professor  Raghuram Rajan  told
Bloomberg that policies to mitigate global inequalities are
difficult to implement because they require officials to take a
long-term view instead of a short-term assessment.  ‘Big Problem’  “In the U.S., when you’re talking about inequality, it
really requires rebuilding the skills of a significant part of
the population, so they can compete going forward in the world
economy, they can take the jobs that are being created,” he
said. “That’s going to take a long time.”  Rogoff agreed with Rajan that inequality is not “something
that is so easily addressed,” though “you can hope that there
are longer-term solutions.”  “We’re likely to see continuing high commodity prices as
the global economy continues to grow, and it separates winners
and losers and it exacerbates inequalities,” Rogoff said. “I’m
not sure that alone is going to lead to global instability. But
of course it’s a big problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in Davos at  eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  