-- Sara Lee Names Smits CEO, Plans to Split After Takeover Plans Fall Through
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2011-01-28T15:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/sara-lee-names-smits-ceo-plans-to-split-after-takeover-plans-fall-through.html
  Sara Lee Corp ., the maker of Ball
Park hot dogs and Douwe Egberts coffee, decided to split itself
in two after failing to agree to takeover offers from suitors.  Sara Lee said today that it will seek to spin off the meat
business as a new public company by early calendar 2012. The
board also named Marcel Smits chief executive officer and plans
to declare a special dividend of $3 a share.  Sara Lee decided on the split after spurning recent bids
from  JBS SA  and a buyout group led by Apollo Global Management
LLC, people familiar with the matter said this week. The
separation will make the two new businesses more attractive
takeover targets, according to Consumer Edge Research LLC’s
Robert Dickerson.  Splitting the business gives Sara Lee "much more
flexibility with their assets," said Dickerson, a food analyst
based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Sara Lee, based  Downers Grove ,  Illinois , fell 24 cents to
$17.40 at 9:35 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  The moves represent the culmination of a six-year
transformation of Sara Lee, from a maker of everything from
apparel to shoe polish to a company focused solely on food and
beverages. The spinoff will leave Smits, 49, with a business
focused on beverages, operations that generated about $4.6
billion in the latest fiscal year and include brands like
Senseo.  “Spinning off a company does not inherently create
value,” said  Tim Ramey , an analyst at D.A. Davidson in  Lake
Oswego ,  Oregon . “It’s a long road and it means that they’re not
likely to be able to sell those units any time soon.” He has a
neutral rating on the stock.  Ball Park, Jimmy Dean  The beverage business has yet to be named, while the new
meat and foodservice operations will keep the Sara Lee title
after the spinoff and be led by C.J. Fraleigh, CEO of the North
American retail and foodservice division. The business, which
includes brands like Ball Park and Jimmy Dean breakfast
sausages, generated about $4.1 billion in the latest fiscal
year.  Smits has led Sara Lee on an interim basis since May, when
predecessor  Brenda Barnes  suffered a stroke. Ramey had
previously identified both Smits and Fraleigh as contenders for
the top job at the food maker.  Sara Lee also said today that it appointed Jan Bennink as
chairman effective immediately, and that the executive’s main
responsibility is taking care of the spinoff. Bennink will
replace Crown, who will stay on the board and serve as lead
independent director.  Sara Lee’s sales have dropped for two straight years amid
increased competition for recession-weary shoppers. The company
had sold off businesses like the body-care division to devote
more resources to coffee and meat.  Other Overtures  This week, Brazilian meat processor JBS gave up trying to
raise funding for a Sara Lee bid, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. Sao Paulo-based JBS, the world’s
largest beef producer, had sought to line up financing for an
offer of $20 to $21 a share after Sara Lee rejected a lower
offer in December, people familiar with the matter said this
week.  A group of buyout firms led by Apollo also failed to raise
their offer after a bid of about $19 made last week was snubbed,
people said.  (Sara Lee began a conference call at 10 a.m. New York time
to discuss the moves. To listen, go to  http://www.saralee.com .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  