-- Shell’s Voser Looks to Rosneft for Exploration Deal
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2011-01-28T09:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/shell-s-voser-looks-to-cooperate-with-rosneft-on-exploration-for-crude-oil.html
Peter Voser, chief executive officer
of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , said he’s looking at a partnership
with  Russia ’s state-owned OAO Rosneft to hunt for oil reserves.  “We are talking about potentially exploration” together,
Voser said today in a Bloomberg Television interview in Davos,
Switzerland. “Partnership with national  oil companies  is part
of our business model. This is the way to go, we are driving
this, and we’re quite happy to have these relationships.”  Shell,  Exxon Mobil Corp . and BP Plc are teaming up with
government-controlled companies in oil-rich countries to gain
access to resources. Rosneft, Russia’s biggest energy company,
this month agreed to swap $8 billion in shares with BP and
explore Russia’s Kara Sea. Exxon and Rosneft yesterday signed a
$1 billion agreement to search for oil in the  Black Sea .  “Rosneft is in regular contact with global energy
players,” Rustam Kazharov, a company spokesman, said today by
phone from Moscow. He declined to elaborate or provide details.  The challenge for producers is to expand output enough to
meet global energy demand, which is likely to increase 50
percent by 2030 and double by 2050, Voser said.  “It’s a key race for us to supply the market,” he said.
“In the long run, we see a rising oil price because of the rise
in energy demand, which clearly will go up significantly.”  Shell’s projects are designed to be profitable with an oil
price between $50 a barrel and $90 a barrel, he said. The
company last year agreed to expand cooperation with OAO Gazprom,
the world’s biggest gas producer, both inside and outside of
Russia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francine Lacqua in Davos at  flacqua@bloomberg.net 
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  