-- Siemens Plans Record R&D Spending in 2011 to Harness Clean-Energy Demand
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2011-01-28T07:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/siemens-plans-record-r-d-spending-in-2011-to-harness-clean-energy-demand.html
  Siemens AG ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, plans to raise spending on research and
development to 4.5 billion euros ($6.2 billion) in 2011 as it
pours more money into its range of energy-saving equipment.  This year’s budget represents a record when adjusted for
disposals, and is a 17 percent increase over last year’s 3.85
billion euros, spokesman Ulrich Eberl said in a Jan. 26 phone
interview. The budget for  wind-energy  products has tripled in
the past two years, Rene Umlauft, head of Siemens’s renewable
energy division, said in an interview.  Siemens has invested “hundreds of millions” of euros in
wind energy since entering the industry with an acquisition in
2004, Umlauft said. The division plans to add at least 2,000
employees to its current 7,000-strong force to help work through
a 10 billion-euro backlog.  “We are going to spend a lot of money,” Umlauft said.  The German company, based in Munich, is going head to head
with  General Electric Co . in the market for turbines, products
for the renewable  energy industry , and scanners and equipment
used in healthcare.  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company plans to double
its R&D spending to about $5 billion this year, with an
additional $1 billion in customer-funded R&D development.
Expenditure in past years has tracked between $2 billion and $3
billion, it said on Dec. 14.  Siemens, which had a record 15.66 billion euros in cash in
its most recent quarter, will focus R&D spending on products for
smart grids, controls to make buildings more energy efficient
and storage systems for renewable energy, Eberl said. The
company has doubled the pace of inventions per R&D worker in the
past decade, he said.  Siemens’s industry division, the largest of the three main
units by sales, absorbed the largest proportion of last year’s
R&D funds, or about 1.7 billion euros, Eberl said.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 