-- Singapore Air Net Income Falls 29% on Cargo Fines, Lags Analyst Estimates
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2011-01-28T09:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/singapore-air-net-income-falls-29-on-cargo-fines-lags-analyst-estimates.html
  Singapore Airlines Ltd ., the world’s
second-largest carrier by market value, reported a worse-than-
estimated 29 percent drop in third-quarter profit after it
booked charges relating to antitrust cargo fines.  Net income declined to S$288.3 million ($225 million) in
the three months ended December from S$404 million a year
earlier, the carrier said in a statement to the Singapore stock
exchange today. Profit was expected to be S$299 million, based
on the average of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Singapore Air made a provision of S$199 million for the fines.  The carrier flew fewer passengers and filled a smaller
proportion of seats as budget airlines Jetstar and  Tiger Airways
Holdings Ltd . lured away cost-conscious travelers. New Chief
Executive Officer Goh Choon Phong also faces renewed competition
from Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. and Middle East carriers for
lucrative premium fliers.    Singapore  Air has lagged behind compared with regional
peers,” Kelvin Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa
Institute of Research Pte, said before the earnings. “They need
to focus on improving their margins and work harder on the
traffic side.”  Singapore Air was unchanged at S$15.04 at the close of
trading today. The stock rose 2.4 percent last year, while the
15-member of the Bloomberg Asia-Pacific Airlines Index surged 28
percent. The results were released after the market closed.  SIA Versus Cathay  Passenger yield, the average price a traveler pays to fly
one kilometer, was 12.1 Singapore cents in the quarter compared
with 10.5 cents a year earlier. The carrier flew 4.37 million
passengers in the three months ended December, 0.9 percent fewer
than a year before. It filled 79.7 percent of its total
available seats, down from 82.4 percent.  The decline in passenger numbers contrasts with Cathay
Pacific, which reported increases every month in the quarter.
The Hong Kong-based carrier is also rolling out new business-
class cabins in a bid to win more executive travelers. Dubai-
based Emirates Airline is challenging Singapore Air as it builds
up a fleet of 90 Airbus SAS A380s.  Singapore Air’s advance passenger bookings for the quarter
ending in March are “leveling off,” the carrier said in its
outlook. Growth in air cargo is also expected to slow, it said.  The carrier made the provision after the European Union
imposed a fine last year on its freight unit for coordinating
fuel and security surcharges.  Cargo Fines  While the carrier accepted the plea offer made by the
United States Department of Justice, it is appealing fines
imposed by the European Commission and the South Korean Fair
Trade Commission and intends to contest the charges, it said in
today’s statement.  The airline’s spending on fuel, its biggest expense,
climbed 8 percent to S$1.11 billion in the quarter.  Goh, who took over as Singapore Air CEO on Jan. 1, faces
low-cost competition from Qantas Airways Ltd.’s Jetstar, which
operates a hub in the city-state and plans to boost Asia
capacity 30 percent this year. Tiger Air, also based in
Singapore and parted-owned by Singapore Air, today said profit
jumped 60 percent in the quarter ended December to S$22.6
million.  Singapore Air “is unlikely to shrug off the challenges of
the Gulf and low-cost airlines any time soon,” Andrew Orchard,
an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, wrote in a Jan. 19
report. “As low-cost operators start to expand their networks
into longer-haul destinations, we believe strong demand growth
is unlikely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Sue Ling in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  