-- South Africa's Low Inflation to Curb Wage Increase Demands, Mnyande Says
-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s
-- 2011-01-28T08:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/south-african-inflation-safely-in-central-bank-s-target-mnyande-says.html
South Africa’s inflation rate is
“safely” within the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target range, which should help to contain wage demands,  Monde
Mnyande , the  Reserve Bank ’s chief economist, said.  “With inflation firmly anchored, I have no reason to doubt
that the era of high wage settlements will be a thing of the
past,” Mnyande, who is also adviser to Governor  Gill Marcus ,
said in a speech posted on the Pretoria-based central bank’s
website today.  Wage settlements in Africa’s largest economy amounted to
8.3 percent in the first nine months of 2010 compared with 9.3
percent in 2009, according to  Andrew Levy Employment
Publications . With the  unemployment rate  at 25.3 percent, the
government is seeking to create 5 million jobs over the next
decade with its New Growth Path plan, drawn up by Economic
Development Minister  Ebrahim Patel .  The Reserve Bank increased its inflation forecast for this
year to 4.6 percent from 4.3 percent, and its estimate for 2012
to 5.3 percent from 4.8 percent, on rising oil prices, Marcus
said on Jan. 20. Inflation was 3.5 percent in December. The
economy’s recovery is accelerating, with growth likely to reach
3.4 percent this year as consumer spending rebounds, she said.  “With inflation this low, there is no reason for the labor
market not to campaign vigorously on workable strategies to help
absorb the unemployed citizens in the formal sectors of the
economy to work,” Mnyande said. “Low inflation presents an
opportunity for the private sector to make meaningful
investments in both labor and capital,” increasing production
and the nation’s competitiveness.  The government’s growth plan “epitomizes the realization
and pursuit of a common goal” by calling on private industries
and labor unions to work together, Mnyande said in the speech,
delivered at the Federation of Unions of  South Africa  Collective
Bargaining Conference in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  