-- S. Korean Farm Minister Yoo Offers to Resign Over Foot-and-Mouth Disease
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2011-01-28T05:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/south-korean-farm-minister-yoo-offers-to-quit-over-foot-and-mouth-outbreak.html
  South Korea ’s farm minister said
that he’ll quit his post to take responsibility for the nation’s
worst outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, offering to resign
after the outbreak is brought under control.  “I apologize to the nation as well as livestock farmers
for the damage caused by the foot-and-mouth disease,” Yoo Jeong
Bok, minister for food, agriculture, forestry and fisheries,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The outbreak, the fifth in South Korea since 2000, will
lead to the slaughter of 2.9 million animals, mostly pigs and
cattle. The magnitude of the problem is “unlike anything that
we’ve seen for at least half a century” in  Asia , the Food and
Agricultural Organization said yesterday. U.S. pork prices have
climbed on prospects for increased exports to the region.  “I will flatly leave after containing the spread of the
disease and settling this situation as soon as possible,”
Minister Yoo said in the statement. “I won’t cling to the
minister’s post.” He was appointed to the role last year.  Hog futures touched 92.125 cents a pound on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange yesterday, the highest level for a most-
active contract since at least 1986. The price has risen about
30 percent over the past year to today.  ‘Export Demand’  “Growing export demand is helping support the market,
particularly with South Korea having liquidated about 25 percent
of the breeding herd due to foot-and-mouth,”  Don Roose , the
president of U.S. Commodities Inc., said yesterday.  South Korea’s biggest cull may frustrate President  Lee Myung Bak ’s vow to limit inflation to less than 3 percent as
meat shortages add to record global food costs. Consumer-price
growth in the country accelerated to 3.5 percent in December
from a year earlier, from 3.3 percent in November.  Foot-and-mouth may spread around the region as people
travel for next week’s Lunar New Year holiday, Juan Lubroth,
chief veterinary officer at the  United Nations ’ Food and
Agricultural Organization, said in a statement. The culling
operation has already cost about $1.6 billion, the FAO said.  Foot-and-mouth affects cattle, sheep, pigs and other cloven
hoofed animals. While it isn’t dangerous to people, it can
devastate farms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  