-- Steelers-Packers Super Bowl Wagers May Surpass $90 Million in Las Vegas
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-01-28T14:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/steelers-packers-super-bowl-wagers-may-surpass-90-million-in-las-vegas.html
  Super Bowl  wagers at Las Vegas
sports books may top $90 million for the first time in three
years with a matchup of two of the  National Football League ’s
most popular and successful teams.  The  Green Bay Packers  have won a record 12 NFL
championships, including three Super Bowl titles, while the
Pittsburgh Steelers’ six Super Bowl victories are more than any
other franchise. The Packers are 2 1/2-point favorites for the
Feb. 6 game at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington,  Texas .  Because of the close point spread, the popularity of the
participating teams and the recovering economy, the total amount
legally wagered at Nevada’s 176 sports books is projected to be
closer to the Super Bowl-record $94.5 million of 2006 than last
year’s $82.7 million handle when the  New Orleans Saints  beat the  Indianapolis Colts .  “We should see a pretty decent jump here,” Jay Rood,
sports book director at the  MGM Mirage  in Las Vegas, said in a
telephone interview. “I don’t think we’re going to challenge
the record, but realistically $89 (million) or $90 (million)
would be in reach. That would be a really strong increase.”  After four straight Super Bowls with more than $90 million
in wagers in Nevada from 2005 to 2008, the championship game
failed to eclipse that milestone the past two years, according
to the  Nevada Gaming Control Board .  The Steelers’ 21-10 win over the Seattle Seahawks five
years ago set the record for Super Bowl wagering in  Nevada  and
they remain one of the most popular teams among NFL bettors and
fans, oddsmakers said. The Steelers ranked fourth in a 2010
Harris Interactive poll of the NFL’s most popular teams, one
spot behind the Packers.  ‘Great Tradition’  “We have two of the most attractive teams that we could
wish for,” said Jimmy Vaccaro, director of sports operations at
Lucky’s Race and Sports Book. “I’m pretty positive we’ll top
last year’s statewide handle and I would suggest we’ll probably
reach $90 million. There’s great tradition and a great following
from both teams.”  Frank Streshley, a senior analyst for the Nevada Gaming
Control Board, said gains in the state’s gambling revenue over
the last six months and the narrowest Super Bowl point spread in
27 years also may help produce an increase in betting.  “Those three factors all being positive, it should
definitely be a handle that surpasses last year,” said
Streshley, who declined to estimate a total. “It’s tough
because you just don’t know the five-digit, six-digit wagers
that are going to come in.”  Heaviest Betting  The Super Bowl is annually the most-wagered-upon single
game in the U.S. and more than $10 billion could be bet
worldwide, according to RJ Bell, president of Las Vegas-based
handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  Less than 1 percent of that total is bet legally in  Las
Vegas , Bell said, with hundreds of millions of dollars wagered
at online sports books outside the U.S.  The Packers and Steelers have been the two most popular
teams among bettors in the NFL playoffs.  “We’ve got a good matchup and the fact of the matter is
the NFL (postseason) has been a pretty tough go for us, so
there’s been a lot of people out there cashing tickets,” the
Mirage’s Rood said. “So I’m sure they’re going to have plenty
of money to reinvest in this game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  