-- Sumitomo Mitsui's Third-Quarter Profit Declines 21% as Bond Trading Slumps
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2011-01-28T09:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/sumitomo-mitsui-s-third-quarter-profit-declines-21-as-bond-trading-slumps.html
  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc .,
Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value, posted a 21 percent
decline in third-quarter profit as income from lending and bond
trading dropped.  Net income fell to 97.6 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in the
three months ended Dec. 31, from 124.3 billion yen a year
earlier. Quarterly earnings were calculated by subtracting
first-half profit from nine-month figures reported in a
statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange today.  Japanese  government bonds  lost 0.9 percent in the three
months ended Dec. 31, the worst quarter since 2008, indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch show, slashing
Sumitomo Mitsui’s bond-trading profit 82 percent in the quarter.
While a 13-month slump in bank lending drove net interest income
lower, analysts including Nana Otsuki say demand for credit will
pick up later this year as the economy gains momentum.  “Lending demand may start picking up as soon as
September,” Otsuki, who covers banks at UBS AG in Tokyo, said
before the report.   Capital investment  may be stimulated in the
second half of next fiscal year if deflationary pressure
subsides.”  Income from lending fell 3.9 percent in the October-
December quarter to 330.5 billion yen from a year earlier, based
on Bloomberg calculations derived from the nine-month earnings
statements. Profit from the sale of bond holdings plunged to
9.55 billion yen from 52.98 billion yen a year earlier. Bad-loan
costs fell 43 percent.  New President  Sumitomo Mitsui today named Koichi Miyata as president,
replacing Teisuke Kitayama. Takeshi Kunibe was appointed
president of the lender’s retail unit, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp., taking over from Masayuki Oku.  Miyata, 57, said the bank will continue to expand in  Asia 
as factors such as a declining population damp prospects for
growth at home.  “Our group wants to make all-out efforts to capitalize on
growing infrastructure-related demand in Asia,” Miyata, who
previously served as a director overseeing divisions such as
strategic financial planning, said at a news briefing today.  Sumitomo Mitsui has signed business alliance agreements
with banks in  China , the  Philippines ,  Vietnam ,  Malaysia ,  Indonesia  and  India .  Reports today supported the Bank of Japan’s view that the
domestic economy may soon pick up. Consumer prices slid 0.4
percent in December from a year earlier, the smallest drop since
2009. The  unemployment rate  fell to 4.9 percent, the first
decrease since September.  Banks Lead Drop  Still, banks led a drop in the Topix stock index today
after Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut the nation’s credit rating
for the first time in nine years. Sumitomo Mitsui slid 1.6
percent and bigger rival Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.
lost 2.7 percent. The lenders are among the largest holders of
Japan’s government debt, which S&P now rates AA-.  “The market is still overly cautious about Japanese
megabanks’ prospects,” Yoshinobu Yamada, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, said before the earnings report. “Lending demand is on
the verge of a recovery phase in tandem with economic growth.”  Net income for the nine months ended Dec. 31 more than
doubled to 515.1 billion yen, the report showed. Sumitomo Mitsui
kept its full-year profit forecast at 540 billion yen.  The lender said today that it will make credit card company
Cedyna Financial Corp. a wholly owned unit. In addition, Kunibe
said the bank doesn’t rule out making Promise Co. a subsidiary.  The business environment for Promise, Japan’s second-
largest consumer lender, remains “severe” and Sumitomo Mitsui
will support the company “if needed,” Kunibe, 56, told reporters.  Sumitomo has a 21 percent stake in Tokyo-based Promise,
which today reported a 34 percent plunge in nine-month profit as
a government clampdown on the industry crimped lending and
forced it to pay back overcharged interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 