-- Sundance Filmmakers Hedge Latest Swipes at Markets, Capitalism
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2011-01-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/sundance-film-directors-hedge-their-latest-swipes-at-markets-capitalism.html
Filmmakers pitching a new crop of
movies targeting markets and business at the  Sundance Film
Festival  have taken a page from their subjects’ playbooks and
found ways to hedge their risks.  The movies, featured this week at the annual festival in
Park City,  Utah , face their own economic uncertainty: getting
people still hurting from the recession to buy tickets. Some of
the filmmakers have already covered their costs by lining up
distributors or selling sponsorships.  Small budgets and liberal use of humor and irony may help.
Studios struggle to draw Americans to serious films about
current events, such as the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  or the
2008 global financial crisis.  News Corp .’s   Wall Street : Money
Never Sleeps” and Michael Moore’s “Capitalism: A Love Story”
may have failed to recoup their costs in theaters.  “The key from our standpoint is trying to make something
exciting,” said Morgan Spurlock, who looks at how studios
promote products in films and TV shows with the documentary
“POM Wonderful Presents: The Greatest Movie Ever Sold.”  “The
film doesn’t go down like medicine. You don’t feel like you’re
going to a documentary.”  “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps,”  Oliver Stone ’s 2010
follow-up to the Fox hit “Wall Street,” featured  Michael Douglas  again as the unscrupulous investor Gordon Gekko. The
sequel, made for $70 million, brought in $130.6 million in
theaters worldwide, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.
Studios split ticket revenue with cinema operators.  Where’s The Love?  The September 2009 release “Capitalism: A Love Story”
cost $20 million to produce and brought in $17.4 million in
worldwide ticket sales, including $3.1 million overseas,
according to  Box Office Mojo , based in  Sherman Oaks ,  California .  In addition to Spurlock’s entry, movies dealing with
business and financial markets at Sundance include “ Margin
Call ,” about the machinations inside a Wall Street investment
firm as the 2008 meltdown hit, and “The Flaw,” a documentary
that examines the causes of the crisis.  The films highlight problems in an economic system focused
on personal gain. Bankers in “Margin Call” follow the law
while dismissing broader ethical issues.  Spurlock, director of the 2004 film “Super Size Me,” has
beaten the odds by covering his production costs and attracting
a distributor. “The Greatest Movie Ever Sold” follows Spurlock
visiting with corporate executives to sell rights to have their
products appear in the movie itself.  Advertisers Pitch In  The sales, to companies including juice maker PomWonderful
LLC,  JetBlue Airways Corp . and  Hyatt Hotels Corp ., financed the
film, which cost $1.5 million, Spurlock said.  Sony Pictures
Classics  plans an April release in theaters.  Marketers will help promote the “The Greatest Movie Ever
Sold” with giveaways and advertising as the release date nears,
Spurlock said in an interview.  “Margin Call” features  Kevin Spacey , Jeremy Irons and
Stanley Tucci as Wall Street executives who get an early warning
of the coming crash.  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp . and Roadside
Attractions have purchased rights to the film, which is
scheduled to appear in theaters in October.  The movie was made for $3 million and investors already
have made a profit through the sale, director  J.C. Chandor  said
in an interview in Park City.  “If it was just a bunch of gobbledygook about the
financial crisis, that would be a problem,” Spacey said in an
interview. “But when you make it into a personal story, like we
did, it becomes more attractive to the audience.”  “The Company Men,” one of Sundance’s economy-related
films last year, opened last weekend with ticket sales of
$648,000 in 106 theaters. The movie, featuring Ben Affleck and
Tommy Lee Jones, expands to 211 locations this weekend,
according to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The film, picked up by
Weinstein Co., cost $15 million, according to Box Office Mojo.  Credit Crisis  In “The Flaw” bankers and executives discussing the 2008
financial crisis, including former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan , are unable to explain exactly what went wrong.  Director  David Sington , in an interview, said too many
Americans over-borrowed for their homes and to maintain their
standard of living. As the debt mounted, a higher percentage of
personal income went to bankers.  “You are constantly siphoning spending power out of the
middle class in the form of interest payments,” Sington said.
“It’s like this vast machine that Hoovers up money and pumps it
into bank accounts of a small number of people.”  Sington, who is seeking a buyer for his movie, uses
animation and cuts from Cold War propaganda films to keep the
story from getting dull. He declined to disclose the cost.  “It is possible to make documentaries that have a big-
screen feel about topics people are interested in for not very
much money, for hundreds of thousands of dollars and not
millions of dollars,” Sington said. “You’ve really got to make
it for less than $1 million if you are not relaxed about getting
your money back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 