-- Suzlon Gets Record $1.2 Billion Wind Order From Caparo
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-01-28T09:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/suzlon-signs-1-28-billion-agreement-with-caparo-to-develop-wind-farms.html
  Suzlon Energy Ltd ., India’s largest
wind-turbine maker, won an order to supply $1.28 billion worth
of equipment to  Caparo Energy Ltd . for projects in India,
marking its biggest order to date in the world’s fastest-growing
wind energy market.  Suzlon has received a $49.1 million advance for the 1,000-
megawatt order, Caparo, a Guernsey, U.K.-based renewable energy
project developer, said in an e-mailed statement. A second
installment of $26.1 million will be paid by July 2011.  Ahmedabad-based Suzlon, which is saddled with almost 215
billion rupees ($4.7 billion) in debt, according to Bloomberg
data, is seeking to ramp up orders before a two-year holiday on
principal repayments ends next year.  “If orders flow in like this, there will be less pressure
on Suzlon to sell out,” said Gaurav Oza, a Mumbai-based analyst
with A.K. Stockmart Pvt., which has an “accumulate” rating on
the stock. Suzlon denied a report this month by television
channel  NDTV Profit  that Chairman Tulsi Tanti and family members
were seeking to sell their stake to  Spain ’s Gamesa Corporacion
Tecnologica SA.  Ahmedabad-based Suzlon will complete the first 500
megawatts by March 2012 and the remainder by March of the
following year, Suzlon said in a separate statement.  Loans, Share Sale  Caparo signed a preliminary agreement last year to acquire
as much as 3,000 megawatts of wind farms from Suzlon, securing 
a 4.5 billion rupee ($98 million) loan with Infrastructure
Development Finance Co. to partially finance those plans. Caparo
said today it plans to raise more money through loans or a share
sale.  The two companies have revised that agreement to remove
Caparo’s rights of first refusal on project and “certain non-
delivery penalties,” Caparo said.  The first 100.8 megawatts of projects will be located in
Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra states, Caparo said. The
projects will use Suzlon’s S88 and new S9X turbines, both of
which have 2.1 megawatt of capacity, Suzlon said.  Caparo agreed to pay a higher price to Suzlon for some
models of turbines to reflect the increasing cost of wind power
assets in  India , it said without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 