-- Queensland Flooding to Increase Prices, Slow Economy, Revenue, Swan Says
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2011-01-28T07:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/swan-says-australian-flood-will-increase-prices-slow-economy-tax-revenue.html
Queensland’s flood disaster will
force up prices, slow economic growth and cut government revenue
as food and mining production fall, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  Swan, speaking in a speech in Brisbane today, said
“several billion dollars” would be lost from coal production,
A$1 billion ($990 million) from agriculture and A$300 million
from tourism. Queensland Premier  Anna Bligh  said the floods
would slow the state economy, cut the  budget surplus  and delay
building projects.  State and federal governments are counting the cost of  Australia ’s biggest natural disaster that has killed as many as
32 people, affected 30,000 homes, shut mines and wiped out
crops. Swan and Bligh said their preliminary figures may rise.  “This is an early estimate and we may see a higher cost
than that,” Bligh told reporters today in Brisbane as she
released a budget update. “We are still seeing in some parts of
Queensland the waters have yet to recede and our wet season is
not over.”  Queensland state is bracing for a cyclone expected to hit
its northeastern coast within three days, threatening more
damage to stricken coal mines. Tropical Cyclone Anthony is
likely to hit the coast between Mackay and Cooktown on Jan. 30
or Jan. 31, Bureau of Meteorology forecaster Rick Threlfall said
in a phone interview from Brisbane.  Flood Levy  Prime Minister Julia Gillard yesterday announced a A$1.8
billion levy on middle and high income earners, A$2.8 billion in
budget cuts and A$1 billion in delayed infrastructure projects
for flood rebuilding. The floods would cut 0.5 percentage points
from national economic growth in the year ending June 30, she
said.  “Borrowing to fund the public reconstruction effort would
be the soft option,” Swan said. “With capacity constraints
building, unemployment low, and an impressive pipeline of new
mining-related investment, the right thing to do is to pay-as-
we-go for the public reconstruction efforts.”  He said the flood would add 0.25 percentage point to
inflation this quarter. He added that the government would
deliver on the A$3.1 billion budget surplus in 2012-13 he
forecast in November.    Reserve Bank  of Australia board member Warwick McKibbin
said the government should end its “fetish” with avoiding
budget deficits and borrow to pay for flood damage rather than
impose the levy on taxpayers.  Better to Borrow  “Borrowing is a far better strategy,” McKibbin, a
professor at  Australian National University , said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television in Canberra. “This is a
classic example of where a government should borrow. We have
room to run deficits in the short term when needed for these
sorts of disasters.”  Swan, whose office appoints central bank board members,
said McKibbin’s remarks were “silly.” McKibbin was appointed
in 2001 and his term is scheduled to expire in July, according
to the central bank’s website.  “Mr. McKibbin doesn’t speak for the RBA board at all,”
Swan told reporters after the speech in Brisbane, when asked
about the professor’s remarks. “Mr. McKibbin was making
commentary on the economy last year which is completely
inconsistent with his commentary on the economy this year, so I
don’t take those sort of silly comments seriously.”  Gillard also needs to convince independent lawmakers to
support flood levy laws through parliament when it meets from
Feb. 8. Her minority Labor government needs four non-party votes
to pass laws through the lower house.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  