-- Sweden's Government Will Force Banks to Reduce Risk Post Crisis, Borg Says
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2011-01-28T10:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/swedish-government-will-force-banks-to-reduce-risky-investments-borg-says.html
  Sweden ’s government will ensure the
country’s financial industry reduces its reliance on risky
investments to generate profits, Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said.  “We are pretty much out of the crisis so we are now
thinking what we can do to strengthen the framework because we
will not accept that the banks take the same risks in the future
as they have done in the past,” Borg said today in an interview
with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua in Davos.  Sweden’s largest banks posted profits last year after their
Baltic units rode out the former Soviet region’s property-market
collapse. Still, the pace of Sweden’s economic recovery and
central bank interest rates close to 1 percent have spurred
credit growth in the largest Nordic economy that may encourage
risk-taking, the central bank has warned. Governor Stefan Ingves
said last month he tracks credit growth and the risk of
imbalances when setting rates.  Borg said earlier this month his government is watching
Swiss efforts to rein in risk taking in its financial industry.  “We’ve seen that other countries, such as  Switzerland ,
have raised capital adequacy requirements notably and that is
something we have reason to look at,” he said in a Jan. 19
speech. “A more risky international environment, big Swedish
banks with large foreign exposure, indebted households and
rising house prices all together become a worry.”  Swiss Standards  Switzerland’s banking regulator has set higher  capital
requirements  on the nation’s banks than are required by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . Borg will meet with
Swiss government officials this week to discuss the country’s
measures.    Nordea Bank AB , the Nordic region’s biggest lender, said
on Oct. 27 its third-quarter net income rose 14 percent to 709
million euros ($972 million).  Swedbank AB , the largest bank in
the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania , posted a
2.59 billion krona ($401 million) profit and  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB  increased its profit 11 percent 2.71 billion
kronor.  Sweden delivered the biggest economic rebound in the 27-
member European Union last year, expanding 5.5 percent, and will
grow 4.4 percent in 2011, the central bank estimates. The bank
has raised borrowing costs four times since July, bringing the
benchmark repo rate to 1.25 percent last month, and has signaled
more tightening is needed. Policy makers announce their next
rate decision on Feb. 15.  Accelerating Growth  Sweden’s economic growth will probably continue to
accelerate, Borg said. Gross domestic product expanded an annual
6.9 percent in the third quarter, and is “quite likely to
accelerate substantially from that level in the later part of
last year, the fourth quarter,” Borg said.  The country’s economic success stems from its structural
reforms carried out before the current financial crisis hit, he
added.  European measures to stem its debt crisis need to show
unity in the union, while the region’s most indebted members
also need to take more responsibility for their fiscal distress,
Borg said.  “The countries that are in trouble need to do more
themselves,” he said. “We need to see more fiscal measures
from countries such as Spain and  Portugal . I think it would be
very naïve to think that the fiscal restructuring process will
be ended in 2011 and 2012. This is something that will go on for
at least the next five or six years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tasneem Brogger in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  