-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Plummets Most Since 1994
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2011-01-28T11:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/u-k-consumer-confidence-plummets-most-since-1992-gfk-says.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  plunged the
most since 1994 this month as an increase in  sales tax  hurt
shoppers’ appetite for spending, a report by GfK NOP Ltd.
showed.  The index of sentiment fell 8 points from December to minus
29, the lowest since March 2009, the research group said in a
statement in London today. All five measures of the index fell,
with a gauge on the climate for making major purchases dropping
22 points to minus 29.  Prime Minister  David Cameron , who raised value-added tax to
20 percent from 17.5 percent this month, has vowed to stick to
planned spending cuts to reduce the  budget deficit  even after
the economy unexpectedly shrank in the fourth quarter. Household
sentiment may be further undermined as inflation accelerates and
the economy endures what  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
warned will be a “choppy” recovery.  “Today’s figures, when combined with the bleak economic
forecast, will make talk of a double-dip recession
unavoidable,” GfK Social Research Managing Director Nick Moon
said in the statement. “With inflation on the up and the full
force of the cuts yet to hit, these figures could be the
beginning of a very painful period.”  The pound declined 0.3 percent against the dollar today and
was at $1.5876 as of 11:02 a.m. in London.  Debt Specter  Cameron reasserted his commitment to eliminating the
deficit at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland  today.  “Our first priority is to kill off the specter of massive
sovereign debts,” he said in a speech. “We can’t just flick on
the switch of  government spending  or pump the bubble back up.”  A measure of the general economic situation over the next
12 months fell 7 points to minus 30, GfK said. An assessment of
the economy over the last year dropped 3 points to minus 54.  A gauge of Britons’ views of their personal finances for
the coming year fell 4 points to minus 12, and an index for the
last year declined 2 points to minus 18. GfK NOP conducted the
survey of 2,000 people from Jan. 7 to Jan. 16. The research was
carried out on behalf of the European Commission.  U.K. inflation, which has exceeded the central bank’s 2
percent target for more than a year, accelerated to 3.7 percent
in December. King said on Jan. 25 that it may rise to between 4
and 5 percent in the coming months and domestic spending faces
“strong headwinds,” partly due to a squeeze on incomes.  Inflation Expectations  A separate report today from Citigroup Inc. and YouGov Plc
showed that consumers’ inflation expectations for the coming
year rose to 3.6 percent in January, the highest since September
2008, from 3.5 percent in December.  The drop in consumer confidence is hitting demand at stores
and for property, reports yesterday showed. The Confederation of
British Industry said its retail-sales index fell in January for
the first time in three months, while Hometrack Ltd. reported
that  home prices  dropped for a seventh month as demand plunged.  Still, the National House-Building Council said today that
new housing registrations, a gauge of future construction, rose
3.3 percent to 7,385 in December from a year earlier. NHBC Chief
Executive Officer Imtiaz Farookhi said the “biggest obstacles”
to the recovery in homebuilding are mortgage availability and
“monetary pressures” on consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  