-- U.K. Fraud, FCIC Results, La Caixa, Davos: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-01-28T13:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/u-k-financial-fraud-fcic-results-la-caixa-davos-compliance.html
The U.K. is losing about 38 billion
pounds ($61 billion) a year to fraud, with the finance industry
bearing the largest loss in the private sector of 3.6 billion
pounds, the government said.  The financial-services industry in the U.K., which saw a 14
percent increase in online-banking fraud, is losing 1 billion
pounds a year to mortgage fraud and 2.1 billion to insurance
scams, the  National Fraud Authority , a unit of the U.K. Attorney
General’s office, said in  a statement  yesterday.  The public sector is losing 21 billion pounds to fraud, and
the private sector loses an estimated 12 billion pounds,
according to  the NFA . Fraud costs individuals another 4 billion
pounds a year and charities 1.3 billion pounds, it said.  The estimate “shows that 55 percent of fraud -- a massive
21 billion pounds -- is committed against the public sector,”
Francis Maude, a minister for the Cabinet Office, said in the
statement. “Ripping off the taxpayer will not be tolerated.”  The Serious Fraud Office, which prosecutes complex fraud
and white-collar crime in the U.K., said in a separate statement
yesterday that it has achieved an 80 percent conviction rate in
its cases since April last year, and has 103 open cases.  Compliance Policy  FCIC Publishes Report; Goldman Got $2.9 Billion on AIG Bets  The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, tasked with
determining the causes of the financial crisis, released its
report yesterday in Washington, simultaneously publishing a 545-
page book.  Among its findings, the report said  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc . received $2.9 billion for its own account as a taxpayer
bailout enabled  American International Group Inc . to make good
on credit-default swaps linked to mortgages.  The money was included in about $3.4 billion in swap-
related payments, most of which AIG made following the
government’s bailout, the FCIC said. That was in addition to
about $14 billion that Goldman Sachs collected from AIG and
passed to other counterparties, according to the report.  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable firm in Wall Street
history, acted as a “market intermediary” and bought
protection from AIG to hedge transactions with clients, Chief
Financial Officer David Viniar told reporters on a conference
call in 2009. The trades at issue in the FCIC’s report were
hedged, and most of the payments were used to cover offsetting
bets, a person with direct knowledge of them said, declining to
be identified because the transactions weren’t public.  Michael DuVally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the panel’s findings.  Mark Herr, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment.  For more of this story, click here, click here, and see
Interviews section, below.  For streaming video of the FCIC news conference, click
here.  For a Bloomberg Television report by Peter Cook on the FCIC
findings, click here.  Europe’s Securities Law Proposals Must Go Further, Banks Say  Pan-European rules to bolster legal protection for
investors who hold securities through banks or brokers should be
“more ambitious,” according to a group of lenders, including  UBS AG  and Deutsche Bank AG.  Proposals from the  European Commission , the EU’s executive
arm, should be tightened to prevent differences in the way
national authorities implement the rules, said Werner Frey, a
managing director at the  Association for Financial Markets in
Europe .  The Securities Law Directive, while a good step, “doesn’t
go far enough,” Frey said in an interview. The measures should
be a regulation that can’t be changed at national level after it
has been approved by EU governments and members of the European
Parliament, he said.  The Brussels-based commission sought views in November on
plans to eradicate some of the  difficulties  faced by investors
when they hold securities bought in another EU state. London-
based AFME responded to regulators’ call for comment.  Position Limits Needed in Commodities Markets, EU’s Barnier Says  Commodities traders should be subject to position limits to
curb food price volatility, Michel Barnier, the European Union’s
financial services chief, told reporters yesterday in Brussels.  World food costs rose to a record in December on higher
costs for sugar, grain and oilseeds, the UN reported Jan. 4,
contributing to the uprising that ousted Tunisia’s Zine El
Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14. Protests have spread to Egypt,
Algeria, Morocco and Yemen.  Higher commodity prices are “leading to riots,
demonstrations and political instability,” Nouriel Roubini, the
New York University economics professor who predicted the
financial crisis, said yesterday in an interview with Tom Keene
on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  U.S. Regulators Target Loan Servicers to Fix Foreclosures  U.S. mortgage servicers face a new era of tighter oversight
as  regulators  seek to cut the number of botched foreclosures and
increase loan modifications for struggling borrowers.  The industry, which oversees $10.6 trillion in loans, has
been overwhelmed by more than 3 million foreclosures since 2006.
The housing-market collapse exposed failures -- in the way
servicers are paid, track loans and process property seizures --
that threaten to stall a fledgling rebound in prices and sales.  The topic was raised by Sheila Bair, chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., in a Jan. 19 speech to
mortgage-industry executives in Washington, who described the
problem as “urgent.”  Changes being studied include a new fee structure for
servicers, independent reviews of rejected requests to ease loan
terms and a fund to compensate victims of improper foreclosures,
according to Bair and other federal and state regulators.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association , the industry’s
Washington-based trade group, is seeking a role in developing
new rules, Chief Executive Officer John A. Courson said.  For more, click here.  Country-Level Banks Too Big to Fail Face FSB Rules, Wellink Says  Banks whose failure may cause a national economy to
collapse will be targeted by global regulators for possible
extra rules, said  Nout Wellink , chairman of the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision.  The  Financial Stability Board  will “take on the issue of
how best to treat” banks that pose risks at country-level, said
Wellink, in the text of a speech in Cape Town yesterday. Local
regulators should also consider “appropriate measures.”  The FSB focus on preventing national-level crises will
follow efforts to regulate banks deemed to be systemically
important to the world’s economy, said Wellink, who also heads
the Dutch central bank.  The FSB plans to finish by mid-2011 a first list of lenders
that are systemically important on a global scale.  Wall Street Rocket Scientists Revive CDOs in Derivatives Battle  Three years after collateralized debt obligations helped
trigger the worst financial crisis in 70 years, Wall Street’s
math wizards are exploring how to use them to deflect rules
intended to prevent the next crisis.    Credit Suisse Group AG  traders are testing a risk model
that may help them reduce capital charges imposed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision on derivative products. Claudio
Albanese, a quantitative economist who is advising the lender on
the plan, says it could also help banks to limit one of their
biggest risks by allowing them to offload through a CDO the risk
that one of their trading partners, or counterparties, defaults.
Critics say such CDOs could trigger a new crisis.  Albanese’s plan shows how banks are likely to try and
mitigate rules that impose higher capital requirements on their
operations and threaten profit, according to Charles Freeland, a
former deputy secretary general of the Basel Committee. The
Basel rules may cut the return on equity by more than half for
some derivatives, forcing some banks to stop arranging those
types of transactions, according to Kian Abouhossein, a banking
analyst at  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co . in  London .  Regulators said they will carefully scrutinize banks’
attempts to remove risk from their balance sheets.  For more, click here.  EU Plans to Publish Draft Commodity Proposals on Feb. 2  The  European Commission  plans to publish possible measures
for commodity markets and raw materials on Feb. 2, according to
its website.  The commission will “present an overview of what has
already been achieved at the EU level on the commodities markets
and raw materials areas and on the steps which are planned to
take the work forward,” it said.  Recent “commodities price swings” have had “negative
effects on both producers and consumers,” the commission said.    China  Said to Plan Raising Ratio If Credit Excessive  China may order its biggest lenders, including  Industrial &amp;
Commercial Bank of China  Ltd. and  China Construction Bank Corp .,
to raise capital ratios to as high as 14 percent when credit
growth is judged excessive, said a person familiar with the
matter.  Newly proposed rules would require increasing capital
adequacy buffers by as much as 2.5 percentage points when the
banking regulator determines loan growth to be too fast, said
the person, declining to be identified as the plan isn’t public.
In normal conditions, lenders deemed systemically important will
need to have a minimum 11.5 percent ratio, unchanged from the
current requirement for China’s biggest banks, the person said.  China is tightening oversight of banks, limiting mortgages
and raising interest rates to prevent a record $2.7 trillion of
credit extended in the past two years from inflating asset
bubbles that may saddle lenders with bad loans. Some banks may
need to raise additional capital to meet the new requirements,
the person said.  An official with the regulator’s news department, who
declined to be identified because of the agency’s rules, said a
decision hasn’t yet been made on the ratios and that the process
is still ongoing.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  NYSE Will Require Three Trades for Circuit Breakers    NYSE Euronext  relaxed rules meant to curb volatility in the
U.S. stock market, requiring three trades instead of one to
execute outside price limits before a company is halted.  The circuit breakers last five minutes for Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and Russell 1000 Index companies as well as
more than 300 exchange-traded funds when they rise or fall at
least 10 percent within five minutes. The pauses were
established after the May 6 crash erased $862 billion of value
in 20 minutes.  Starting today, one or two transactions outside the
10 percent threshold on the New York Stock Exchange or NYSE Amex
won’t trigger the pause, according to an e-mail sent to
customers yesterday. Three trades are already required at NYSE
Arca, another venue owned by the New York-based company.  Spain’s Caixa to Turn Criteria Into Bank to Meet Capital Rules    La Caixa , Spain’s second-biggest savings bank, will turn
its publicly traded holding company  Criteria CaixaCorp SA  into a
bank, as it seeks to comply with new banking rules.  Criteria will become CaixaBank, and the lender will sell
1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion) of convertible bonds through
its branch network to boost its core capital ratio to more than
8 percent under Basel III rules by the end of 2012, the
Barcelona-based company said in a regulatory filing yesterday.  For more, click here.  Special Section: Davos  Bank CEOs Convene in Davos to Review Debt Risk, Rules  The chief executive officers of banks including  Bank of
America Corp .,  Barclays Plc , Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and UBS AG met behind closed doors in Davos,
Switzerland, yesterday to discuss regulation, the sovereign
crisis and political intervention in the markets.  Barclays CEO Robert Diamond and Tidjane Thiam, CEO of
insurer  Prudential Plc , co-chaired the gathering, an annual
event on the sidelines of the  World Economic Forum . U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner arrived to speak to the
group after Diamond presented an “industry issue matrix” for
discussion among the participants, who also included top
executives from  Standard Chartered Plc  and Perella Weinberg
Partners LP. The list of issues was visible through a window
into the meeting room.  The matrix contained five items for discussion: Interplay
and unintended consequences of proposals to regulate
institutions; threats of sovereign debt default, fiscal
weaknesses and contagion in the euro zone; reactions to
policymakers’ increasing propensity to intervene in markets;
financial innovation and appropriate institutional structures;
and successful business in a low-yield environment.  Thiam, during a break in the discussion, said executives
planned to ask Geithner for “more certainty” about financial
regulation.  For more, click here.  Regulators Still Can’t Wind Down Biggest Banks, Hildebrand Says  Regulators are “years away” from establishing a process
to wind down the biggest multinational banks if they fail, said
Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand.  While there are some good national resolution regimes,
“we’re years away from a proper global resolution regime,”
Hildebrand said yesterday at a lunch sponsored by Credit Suisse
Group AG, Switzerland’s second-largest bank.  After the 2008 financial crisis led to unprecedented
taxpayer support for the banking system, regulators have called
for banks to hold more capital and reduce some forms of risk-
taking. Still, the regulations haven’t addressed all potential
risks, said Hildebrand and former U.S. Treasury Secretary
Lawrence Summers.  Summers, 56, who left his job as a White House economic
adviser last year and is now a professor at Harvard University,
said regulators are “a long way away” from being able to wind
down the biggest banks because of their multinational
operations. He also said most large banks fail in the middle of
a larger crisis of the financial system, which complicates the
risk factors.  For more, click here.  For an interview of the Indonesian President Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono on Asian emerging economies, click here.  For an interview of Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
on Canada’s banking regulation and the European stability fund,
click here.  Courts  OMV’s Ruttenstorfer Acquitted in Insider-Trading Trial    OMV AG  Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer, 60,
was acquitted by a Vienna court of charges he used inside
information to buy shares of Vienna-based OMV a week before a
major divestment.  “It clearly confirms that we always acted correctly,”
Ruttenstorfer said to journalists, referring to the verdict.  Vienna state prosecutor Michael Schoen said he plans to
appeal the verdict.  Ruttenstorfer still holds the shares he bought in March
2009. Austria’s financial regulator fined Ruttenstorfer 20,000
euros for market manipulation related to the case. Vienna’s
administrative court rejected Ruttenstorfer’s appeal of the fine
last week. He has said he plans a further appeal.  Interviews  Thomas, Hennessey, Holtz-Eakin Explain Dissent to FCIC  Bill Thomas, vice chairman of the  Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission  and Republican commissioners Keith Hennessey and
Douglas Holtz-Eakin spoke on a teleconference about their
dissent to the commission’s assessment of the 2008 market
meltdown.  The dissent detailed 10 causes of the financial crisis.
Topping their list was the credit bubble, which the three
commissioners said was inflated by increased investment in high-
risk mortgages.  For the audio, click here.  Holtz-Eakin also spoke on camera with Bloomberg’s Carol
Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart.”  For the video, click here.  FCIC’s Angelides Says Crisis Avoidable, U.S. Unprepared: Video  Phil Angelides, Democratic co-chairman of the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission, speaks at a news conference in
Washington about the panel’s report on the 2008 market meltdown.
FCIC Commissioners John Thompson, Brooksley Born, Byron
Georgiou, Bob Graham and Heather Murren also spoke.  For the video, click here.  McLean Says Financial Crisis ‘Involved Many Actors’  Bethany McLean, Bloomberg Television contributing editor
and author, discusses the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission ’s
final report released yesterday.  McLean, who spoke with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness,” also talked about her book on the
financial crisis, “All the Devils Are Here.”  For the McLean video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 