-- Treasuries Drop Before GDP Data Release; Geithner Says Debt Unsustainable
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2011-01-28T12:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/u-s-2-to-30-year-yield-spread-near-widest-on-record-before-gdp-report.html
U.S. Treasuries fell, headed for a
fifth month of declines, before a report that may show economic
growth is quickening, spurring investors to demand greater
compensation for potential inflation.  The difference between U.S. 2- and 30-year yields was near
a record after Moody’s Investors Service said its timeframe for
possibly placing a negative outlook on its Aaa rating for the
country’s bonds is shortening as the deficit widens. The fiscal
situation is unsustainable in the long run, U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said.  “Yields should be heading higher,” said Mohit Kumar, a
fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The
deficit consolidation isn’t really happening and that needs to
feed in, and inflation has bottomed out and is going to start
moving up.”  The benchmark 10-year note yield increased two basis points
to 3.41 percent as of 7:23 a.m. in  New York , according to
BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent security maturing in
November 2020 declined 4/32 or $1.25 per $1,000 face value, to
93 1/2. The two-year yield was steady at 0.60 percent.  The spread between 2- and 30-year rates was 3.99 percentage
points, after widening to a record 4.01 percentage points on
Jan. 20. It has increased from a 16-month low of 2.99 percentage
points in August.  “We’re currently in a situation where the yield curve is
very steep and it’s probably going to stay like this for a
while,” said Viola Stork, an economist at Helaba Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt . “We expect yields to remain
rather level in the short term, but starting from 2012 we do
expect rising yields.”  Fed Buying  Gross domestic product grew at a 3.5 percent annual pace in
the last three months of 2010, up from a 2.6 percent rate in the
previous quarter, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The  Federal Reserve  is  scheduled  to buy $7 billion to $9
billion of Treasuries due from February 2018 to November 2020
today as part of its plan to keep the expansion going by pumping
money into the banking system.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the securities, widened one
basis point to 2.25 percentage points. The figure, which has
climbed from 1.47 percentage points in August, has averaged 2.09
percentage points over the past five years.  President  Barack Obama  has increased the U.S. publicly
traded debt to a record $8.86 trillion to sustain the expansion.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Treasuries climbed 1.5 basis points
to 51.57 basis points, according to data provider CMA. That
means it costs $51,570 a year to protect $10 million of debt
against default for five years.  The figure compares with 59.8 basis points for debt issued
by  Germany , 83.1 for Japan, and 897.3 basis points for Greek
bonds, the data show. The swaps make a payment to the buyer if a
borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements. Traders also
use them to speculate on bonds.  Moody’s said yesterday its uncertainty over the willingness
and ability of the U.S. to reduce its debt has increased due to
the extension of tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush , the chance Congress won’t reduce spending and the outcome
of the November elections.  “Although no rating action is contemplated at this time,
the time frame for possible future actions appears to be
shortening, and the probability of assigning a negative outlook
in the coming two years is rising,” Moody’s said in its report
yesterday. The rating is stable, the company said.  ‘Weak’ Market  Moody’s warning came on the same day  Standard &amp; Poor’s 
lowered Japan to AA- from AA, indicating ratings firms are
stepping up pressure on governments to curb their spending.  “We’ll see a bit of weakness in the market,” said  Satoshi Okumoto , a general manager in Tokyo at Fukoku Mutual Life
Insurance Co., which has the equivalent of $67.5 billion in
assets. “The economy is improving. The government is focused
more on expanding the economy than cutting the debt. They’ll
need to issue more debt.”  The rating companies also have downgraded  Europe ’s most-
indebted nations due to rising deficits and slumping economic
growth.    Fitch Ratings  cut  Greece  to BB+ on Jan. 14, following S&P
and Moody’s in lowering the country to below investment grade.
Moody’s began reviewing Portugal and  Spain  in December.  The reductions helped send an index of global bonds down
for a fifth month in January, with the loss totaling 2.2 percent
since the end of August, according to indexes compiled by Bank
of America Merrill Lynch.  Debt Limit  The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks returned 22
percent in the period, according to Bloomberg data. U.S.
corporate bonds gained 1.2 percent, BOA indexes show.  The Obama administration and Congress are debating whether
to raise the limit as the government approaches the current
ceiling of $14.29 trillion, which the Treasury estimates will be
reached between March 31 and May 16.  Republican lawmakers have told the president and Democratic
legislators that they will insist on specific cuts as a
condition of raising the debt limit.  Treasuries are poised to fall as the fight intensifies,  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., was cited by  Associated Press  as
saying.  “The Treasury market will sell off as this get more press
and with more invective,” Gross was quoted by AP as saying.
“Investors like us, we sell now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in  London  at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  