-- Tunisia Sacks Ministers Targeted by Ben Ali Protesters
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2011-01-28T13:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/tunisia-administration-sacks-ben-ali-allies-as-protesters-demand-changes.html
  Tunisia ’s interim administration
sacked more representatives of the ousted regime, bowing to
public demand for Cabinet changes, as reports said  Canada 
arrested a relative of the former president.  Acting Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi named Abdel Karim
Zbidi minister of national defense, sacking Ridha Grira, while
Farhat Arrajhi was named to take Ahmed Friaa’s position heading
the Interior Ministry, Ghannouchi said in an address yesterday
from Tunis, the capital. Foreign Minister Ahmed Wenniss takes
over from Kamel Morjane.  The fired ministers are the latest members of the ruling
party of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali to be pushed out of the
successor government formed on Jan. 17. Ben Ali fled the country
three days earlier, ending more than 23 years in power, after a
month of riots and protests accusing his regime of corruption
and repression. The protests have spread across much of the
Middle East, including to  Egypt , where police clashed with
demonstrators today.  Canada today revoked the residency of Ben Ali’s brother-in-
law, billionaire Belhassen Trabelsi, according to the  Canadian
Press , which cited unidentified government sources. Al-Jazeera
television reported that Trabelsi had been arrested.  Arrest Warrants  Interpol’s bureau in Tunis had issued a global alert
seeking the arrest of Ben Ali and six family members on charges
of property theft and the illegal transfer of foreign currency,
the Canadian agency said.  European Union foreign ministers will agree Jan. 31 to
freeze the assets of Ben Ali and key family members and
associates, a senior EU official said. The EU has asked
Tunisia’s interim government for names of Ben Ali confidants to
put on the banned list, the official told reporters in Brussels
today on condition of anonymity.  Ben Ali’s ouster followed demonstrations that began with
protests over jobs and  living standards  and escalated into a
campaign against his regime. The unrest caused the country’s
benchmark Tunindex to slump 13 percent in the week ending Jan.
14, the most for at least a decade. The country’s stock market
has been closed since then.    Fitch Ratings  cut its 2011 growth forecast for Tunisia
yesterday to 2 percent from 5 percent and said the country’s
deficit may widen and that foreign direct investment may drop.  Elections Due  Ghannouchi has said elections will take place within the
next six months.  Protesters had demanded that the new government remove
members of Ben Ali’s government and his now-dissolved
Constitutional Democratic Party from the Cabinet. Tunisia’s new
government has 40 posts.  As Ben Ali fled to  Saudi Arabia , protests erupted in
several Arab states including Egypt,  Algeria ,  Morocco  and Yemen,
which all face high unemployment and rising living costs. Egypt
today banned prayers and closed a central Cairo square, Al-
Jazeera reported, while Egyptian police clashed with supporters
of Mohamed Elbaradei, an opposition campaigner and former head
of the United Nations nuclear agency, at the airport.  The country is under a near-total Internet blackout and
mobile-phone access has also been cut as opposition movements
prepare to stage further protests seeking to force President  Hosni Mubarak , who has ruled Egypt for almost 30 years, out of
office.  The unrest in Tunisia first erupted more than a month ago
after a man set himself on fire Dec. 17 in the central
governorate of Sidi Bouzid. A total of 78 people died, according
to the government. The UN put the toll at 100.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 