-- Murray Defeats Ferrer, Will Play Djokovic in Australian Open Men's Final
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-01-28T14:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/murray-defeats-ferrer-will-play-djokovic-in-australian-open-men-s-final.html
  Andy Murray  moved within one victory
of becoming Britain’s first male Grand Slam champion in 75 years
by beating  David Ferrer  in the Australian Open semifinals.  Murray, the No. 5 seed, beat the seventh-seeded Spaniard
4-6, 7-6 (7-2), 6-1, 7-6 (7-2) yesterday at Rod Laver Arena in
Melbourne. He’ll face third-seeded Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  for
the title tomorrow.  “It’s great I managed to come through, he’s such a tough
competitor,” Murray said in a courtside interview after
advancing to his second straight Australian final. “He works so
hard, he’s in great shape, and I was expecting an unbelievably
tough match and I got it.”  The 23-year-old Murray lost to  Roger Federer  last year in
Melbourne and also in the 2008 U.S. Open final.  “I hope this one is going to be better than last year’s,”
said Murray, who’s won his last three matches against Djokovic
after losing the first four.  The last British man to win one of the sport’s four major
titles was  Fred Perry , who captured the U.S. National
Championships in 1936.  It will be the first Grand Slam final without top seed
Rafael Nadal or the second-seed Federer since Djokovic beat  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga three years ago in Melbourne.  ‘Very Great Player’  Djokovic beat Federer in their semifinal two days ago,
leaving the Swiss right-hander without a major title for the
first time in eight years. Ferrer ended Nadal’s quest to win
four Grand Slam titles in a row in the quarterfinals.  “Andy in important moments served better than me,” Ferrer
said in a news conference. “So I can’t do nothing more. I fight
a lot, I tried my best game all the time, but Andy’s a very,
very great player.”  Watched from Murray’s box by women’s top seed  Caroline Wozniacki , both players engaged in rallies of as many as 40
shots from the start of the match. Ferrer took the first set as
Murray struggled with his serve.  Murray saved three break points in the sixth game of the
second set with serves of over 200 kilometers per hour (124
miles per hour). He held at 5-4 down, saving a set point with a
service winner.  The set went to a tiebreaker as both men dropped their
serve. Murray raced to a 4-0 lead as Ferrer, 28, made unforced
errors and won the set when the Spaniard hit a backhand wide.  Murray twice broke Ferrer’s serve to win the third set and
took the first two games of the fourth before Ferrer came back
to tie 2-2. After shouting “focus, focus” to himself, Murray
regained his rhythm and the players stayed on serve to force
another tiebreak.  Under Pressure  Murray took a 6-1 lead, putting Ferrer under pressure with
his serve and from the back of the court. He converted his
second match point with a backhand pick-up at the net.  In yesterday’s women’s doubles final, the top-seeded pair
 Gisela Dulko  of Argentina and  Flavia Penetta  of  Italy  fought
back from a set and 1-4 down against Victoria Azarenka of
Belarus and Maria Kirilenko of  Russia  to win their first Grand
Slam title, 2-6, 7-5, 6-1.  The women’s singles final will be played today between U.S.
Open champion Kim Clijsters of  Belgium  and  Li Na , who beat
Wozniacki of Denmark to become the first Chinese player to reach
a Grand Slam singles championship match. The Belgian has won
four of six matches against Li.  Temperatures are set to rise in Melbourne during the finals
weekend. The Australian  Bureau of Meteorology  forecast it will
be 31 degrees Celsius (87 degrees Fahrenheit) today and 40
degrees Celsius tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  