-- Murray & Roberts Shares Fall Most Since 1999; Payment Problems Cause Loss
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2011-01-28T15:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/murray-roberts-blames-delays-securing-project-payment-for-expected-loss.html
Murray & Roberts Holding Ltd.,  South
Africa ’s second-largest construction company, fell the most in
11 years in Johannesburg trading as payment problems on projects
caused a loss in the six months through December.  The uncertain timing of payment for work on the Gautrain
rapid rail-link in South Africa, a coal-fired power station of
South African utility Eskom Holdings Ltd., and a Dubai airport
terminal, led the company to record impairments on the projects,
Murray & Roberts said in a statement today.  The three projects “have all suffered significant
increases in their scope of works,” and “the company’s clients
have certified only limited payment” against the increased
costs, it said.  Murray & Roberts shares fell the most since October 1999,
losing as much as 14 percent to 34.27 rand and trading at 34.60
rand as of 5:36 p.m. in Johannesburg, where the builder is
based. That cut its market value to 11.5 billion rand ($1.6
billion). It was the day’s biggest decliner in the 164-stock
FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index.  The company has seen a “rapid drop in general levels of
activity” in South Africa, Chief Executive Officer Brian Bruce
said on a conference call today. Construction demand in the
Middle East “has not grown,” he said.  Recovery Possible  Australian unit Clough Ltd. “is going to have a
challenging” result in the half-year report published on Feb.
23, while Canadian division Cementation, which provides
underground mining services, is an “area of greater
stability,” Bruce said.  The company can’t yet quantify the size of the impairment,
it said in a stock exchange filing today. The charge will have
“no adverse cash flow consequence and does not limit any rights
of future recovery,” Murray & Roberts said.  “I and my colleagues are in continuous engagement with our
clients,” Bruce said in the statement. “We know our rights and
are confident of an eventual outcome that will meet the
requirements of all parties.”  Diluted headline earnings per share excluding the
impairment charge in the fiscal first half ended Dec. 31 will be
between 35 percent and 45 percent lower than a year earlier
because of “tougher” trading conditions, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  