-- Yen Strengthens as Equities Decline; Sweden’s Krona Weakens
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2011-01-28T12:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-28/yen-rises-as-asia-stock-losses-spur-safety-demand-dollar-gains-before-gdp.html
The yen rose against most of its
major counterparts as a decline in Asian and European stocks
boosted demand for assets perceived to be safer.  The dollar stayed near a two-month low versus the euro as
Moody’s Investors Service said it may need to place a
“negative” outlook on the  U.S. debt  rating sooner than
anticipated. Sweden’s krona fell as household lending slowed and
retail spending fell last month.  “There’s an element of  risk aversion  kicking in as we
close the week; equities are looking a little fragile,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange strategy
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “The Moody’s
warnings about the U.S. tie in with a theme of credit risk
awareness.”  The yen strengthened 0.9 percent to 112.92 per euro at 7:42
a.m. in  New York , the first gain in seven days. The Japanese
currency appreciated 0.8 percent to 82.27 per dollar, erasing
this week’s decline. The dollar was little changed at $1.3727
per euro, after depreciating to $1.3758 yesterday, the weakest
since Nov. 22.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.2 percent today and the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 0.4 percent, snapping a
four-day gain. Futures on the  Standard &amp; Poor’s  500 index were
little changed.  No ‘Major Issue’  Japan’s yen fell to a two-week low against the dollar
yesterday after Standard & Poor’s lowered the nation’s credit
rating one step to AA-.  “The downgrade isn’t a major issue for the yen,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia , the nation’s largest lender. “Virtually all
Japanese  government bonds  are held in Japan so foreigners don’t
hold much. If they did, there would be more implications for the
currency.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against six
counterparts, including the euro and the yen, was 0.1 percent
weaker at 77.657. It has fallen 1.8 percent this month, as
investors bet other central banks will raise borrowing costs
before the  Federal Reserve .  Moody’s said it may need to place a “negative” outlook on
the Aaa rating of U.S. debt sooner than anticipated as the
country’s budget deficit widens.  ‘Negative Outlook’  “The probability of assigning a negative outlook in the
coming two years is rising,” wrote Steven Hess, a senior credit
officer at Moody’s in New York.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.5 percent annual pace in the
three months ended Dec. 31, up from a 2.6 percent rate in the
previous quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists
before the Commerce Department data.  Consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, increased at a 4
percent annual pace, the most since the last three months of
2006, a separate survey showed.  “The fourth-quarter GDP could provide support for the
dollar,” said Audrey Childe-Freeman, a head of European
currency strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s private bank in  London . “We need a very strong number to see a sharp rally but
if we get something in the range around 3.5 percent, which is
the consensus, the dollar should do better.”  The dollar has slid 2.6 percent against the euro in
January, 3.9 percent versus the Swedish krona and 2 percent
against the pound.  Swedish Retail Sales  Sweden’s krona slipped 0.2 percent against the euro to
8.8496 and weakened a similar amount against the dollar, to
6.4468.  The Swedish currency weakened against 15 of its 16 major
trading partners. Retail sales rose 0.1 percent from October,
when purchases increased a revised 0.6 percent, Stockholm-based  Statistics Sweden  said today. Household credit growth slowed to
an annual 8.4 percent from 8.6 percent, the office said in a
separate statement.  The Australian dollar fell for the first time in three days
against the yen on speculation the central bank will slow the
pace of interest-rate increases to help the nation recover from
months of flooding. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  announced
yesterday a one-off levy to help pay for reconstruction.  “The market’s been long Aussie for so long and we’ve got
to expect more flood-related bad news so Aussie’s going to
underperform for a while longer,” said Paul Bednarczyk, a
strategist in London at 4Cast Ltd., a research company that
counts central banks among its subscribers.    Australia ’s currency slipped 0.2 percent to 82.09 yen and
was gained 0.5 percent to 99.74 U.S. cents. It has declined 1.1
percent against the yen so far this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  