-- 
A-Tec, Danish Banks Agreement, ShengdaTeCH: Bankruptcy

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-26T09:46:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/a-tec-danish-banks-agreement-shengdatech-bankruptcy.html
  A-Tec Industries AG (ATEC) ’s supervisory
board has made a decision about the sale of the insolvent
Austrian engineering firm, bidder Penta Investments Ltd. said
yesterday, citing a statement from the company.  A-Tec also said in the statement that the company cannot
provide any further details about the nature of the decisions
that were made or whether the supervisory board chose the winner
of the sale or postponed the procedure, Penta investment manager
Jakub Korinek said in a telephone interview. The supervisory-
board decision needs to be signed off by A-Tec’s insolvency
administrator, he said.  Penta, based in  Prague , submitted a bid to buy and
restructure all of A-Tec assets in June. It was approached last
week by A-Tec’s Chief Executive Officer Mirko Kovats, who asked
it to bid for only the minerals and metals division, Korinek
said on Aug 23. A-Tec, majority owned by Kovats, filed for
insolvency on Oct. 20 last year after efforts by the Vienna-
based company to refinance a bond failed. The insolvency is
 Austria ’s third largest in postwar history.  The supervisory board favored a bid by Pakistani
billionaire Alshair Fiyaz over one from Penta Investments Ltd.,
Format magazine reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  The supervisors believe that Penta would break up the group
and have “misgivings” about its funding, the Vienna-based
weekly said. Fiyaz is bidding via Contor Industries, which was
founded by an A-Tec adviser, Format said.  A joint bid by hedge fund Springwater Capital and Wolong
Electric Group Co. was withdrawn on financing concerns,
according to the report.  A-Tec’s supervisory board won’t make a decision on who to
sell the insolvent Austrian engineering firm to until Sept. 2,
Die Presse newspaper reported separately today, without saying
where it got the information.  This means A-Tec shareholders won’t be presented with a
buyer at the Aug. 31 extraordinary meeting and will need to meet
again later, the Vienna-based newspaper said.  Danish Bank Default Risk Reduced After Rescue Plan, S&P Says 
 Danish legislation aimed at spurring bank industry
consolidation will reduce the risk of default after lawmakers
made it easier for lenders to avoid the Nordic country’s bail-in
rules,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  “This is creating new tools to solve problems,” Per Toernqvist, a Stockholm-based analyst at S&P, said in a phone
interview. “These measures will likely lead to fewer
failures.”  Lawmakers backed the country’s fourth bank bill since 2008,
enabling lenders to sidestep legislation that has twice
triggered senior creditor losses and left most of  Denmark ’s
roughly 120 banks with no access to international funding
markets. S&P said last month 15 more Danish banks could default,
costing as much as $2.3 billion in the next three years.  Denmark’s bail-in law, effective since October, “created
an incentive for good banks to wait for bad banks to fail and
share the losses with senior creditors and the government,”
Toernqvist said. “With this new proposal, you open the door to
a much broader spectrum of solutions. It might be that you have
failures but there are definitely now opportunities to find
other solutions.”  Saab Auto Delays Wages as Union Weighs Bankruptcy-Push Option  Saab Automobile delayed paying wages for the third month in
a row, prompting labor leaders to start a process that may lead
them to seek a bankruptcy declaration against the carmaker in
two weeks.  “Wages are being delayed as we’re still waiting to get new
financing,”  Eric Geers , a spokesman for the Trollhaettan,
Sweden-based company, said by telephone yesterday. “We’re
working hard to resolve it as fast as we can.”  Saab was scheduled to pay factory workers yesterday and
administrative employees today. The company said on Aug. 23 that
it may be forced to postpone the payments as “committed” funds
from investors may not arrive in time. Saab paid salaries about
a week late in June and July.  The automaker, which  General Motors Co. (GM)  sold last year,
suspended production in late March amid a cash crunch, and the
factory at Saab’s Trollhaettan, Sweden, headquarters has been
quiet since early June. The Swedish government’s Debt
Enforcement Agency started collection proceedings this month at
the request of component suppliers with unpaid bills.  IF Metall, Saab’s biggest union with about 1,500 members at
Trollhaettan, started preparing salary-payment requests for
delivery to management today, Veli-Pekka Saikkala, head of wage
negotiations at the labor group’s headquarters in  Stockholm ,
said in a phone interview. If Saab doesn’t respond within seven
days, the union would be able to ask a district court to declare
the carmaker bankrupt, he said.  ShengdaTech CEO Ordered Not to Interfere With Internal Probe  The chief executive of  ShengdaTech Inc. (SDTH) , a Chinese chemical
company that gained access to U.S. investors through a reverse
merger, was ordered by a judge not to obstruct an internal
probe.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce T. Beesley in Reno,  Nevada ,
ordered on Aug. 24 the company’s management and directors not to
interfere with a special committee’s probe of fraud claims,
according to court papers. The panel, comprised of independent
directors on the  audit committee , was formed in March after KPMG
LLP reported “unexplained issues” in ShengdaTech’s books.  The committee sued Chief Executive Officer Chen Xiangzhi,
the owner of about 42.2 percent of the company’s shares, and
some of the company’s directors on Aug. 20. The complaint seeks
to prevent Chen from regaining control of the company and
quashing the investigation of its finances.  The ruling also bars the defendants from trying to change
the composition of the committee, ShengdaTech said in an Aug. 24
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 