-- 
Australian Exchange Taps Ex-Tabcorp Head Kupper to Replace Elstone as CEO

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-26T04:24:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/tabcorp-former-head-funke-kupper-replaces-elstone-as-asx-chief-executive.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX)  named Elmer Funke Kupper,
the former head of Australia’s biggest gambling company, as its
chief executive officer, ending the tenure of Robert Elstone
five months after his attempt to merge with  Singapore Exchange
Ltd. (SGX)  was blocked amid a nationalist uproar.  Funke Kupper, the 46-year-old former chief executive of
 Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH) , will start his new job on Oct. 6, ASX,
operator of Australia’s major stock exchange, said today.
Elstone didn’t seek to extend his contract when it expired in
July.  Funke Kupper, a former banker, became CEO of Tabcorp in
July 2007 and oversaw the spin-off of its casinos into Echo
Entertainment Group Ltd. in June this year. He joins ASX
following its failure earlier this year to merge with  Singapore
Exchange  and at a time when it faces competition from a new
rival, Nomura Holdings Inc.-owned Chi-X Australia Pty.  “It can be a little perplexing when boards favor people
without deep industry expertise to run fairly complex
businesses,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage the
equivalent of $1.7 billion at Sydney-based Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. “Some might well wonder what’s wrong with
bankers running banks and experts in securities trading running
 stock exchanges .”  Share Performance  Tabcorp shares fell 39 percent from June 30, 2007, to June
30 this year on a total return basis, which includes dividends,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 13
percent drop for  Australia ’s benchmark stock index.  On the same basis, ASX shares have risen almost 20 percent
over the five years since Elstone took over in 2006 compared
with about an 8 percent gain for the S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Funke Kupper “shone” in the search for Elstone’s
replacement, ASX Chairman David Gonski told reporters in Sydney
today.  Elstone, 58, has been managing director and CEO of ASX
since July 2006, when the bourse completed its acquisition of
SFE Corp., Australia’s biggest futures exchange, where Elstone
held the same positions. ASX last week posted a 13 percent
increase in second-half profit as trading volume rose amid
global economic uncertainty.  “Robert has been an outstanding steward of ASX,” Gonski
said in today’s statement.  Annual Salary  Funke Kupper was formally appointed Tabcorp’s CEO in July
2007, four months after taking on the role on an interim basis
after the company fired Chief Executive Officer Matthew Slatter
three weeks after reporting a slump in profits. Prior to that,
Funke Kupper ran  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ’s
Asia Pacific business and oversaw its personal banking and
wealth management unit.  Funke Kupper will be paid a fixed annual salary package of
A$1.75 million ($1.8 million) plus a bonus of as much as A$1.5
million, ASX said in today’s statement. Elstone was paid $1.5
million in fixed salary plus bonuses, according to the company’s
latest annual report.  “Funke Kupper’s background is broadly suitable for the
role,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages more than $300 million
at White Funds Management in Sydney. “His work with Tabcorp
gave him solid experience in a heavily-regulated environment and
in strategic transactions. Running the ASX in an increasingly
competitive environment is a different kind of challenge, and
investors may feel uncertain as to his ability to address
this.”  ASX shares rose 0.4 percent to A$29.40 as of 1:53 p.m. in
Sydney today.  Failed Merger  A priority will be to maintain ASX’s performance through
fast-paced change in the industry,” Funke Kupper said today,
adding that he has the experience to “navigate” ASX through
the evolving regulatory and competitive landscape.  Singapore Exchange, led by Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker , offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash-and-share deal
then valued at A$8.4 billion.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan blocked Singapore
Exchange’s bid for the operator of the Sydney-based bourse on
April 8, saying the deal was not in the nation’s interest and
would have left Australia as a junior partner.  The sale ran into vocal opposition from Canberra lawmakers
whom Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s minority government needed
to pass legislation allowing the deal to be approved by
parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 