-- 
African Union Withholds Support From Libyan Rebels, Calls for Peace Talks

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-08-26T15:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/african-union-calls-for-creation-of-inclusive-libyan-interim-government.html
The  African Union  withheld its
support for Libyan rebels battling Muammar Qaddafi’s forces in
Tripoli, calling instead for an “all-inclusive” interim
government.  The 54-member AU can’t give its backing to the rebels’
National Transitional Council because fighting is continuing,
South African President  Jacob Zuma  told reporters in Ethiopia’s
capital,  Addis Ababa , today.  The AU hasn’t changed its view even after rebels entered
the Libyan capital on Aug. 21 in a challenge to Qaddafi’s 42-
year autocratic rule. South Africa, a member of the United
Nations Security Council, opposed the release of $30 billion of
frozen Libyan assets held in U.S. banks to the rebel group
unless the AU recognized them as the legitimate authority in the
North African country.  “The NTC forces are in the process of taking over Tripoli
and they’ve claimed they’ve captured the city, but there’s still
fighting going on, those are the facts,” Zuma said. “If
there’s fighting there’s a fight, so we can’t therefore stand
there and say this is the legitimate one now. The process is
fluid.”  Nigeria and  Ethiopia  broke ranks with the AU this week by
recognizing the rebel group, joining  France , Italy, U.K., U.S.,
 Germany  and the Arab League have already given their backing.  ‘Pie in the Sky’  Some African nations may be unwilling to support the rebels
because Qaddafi bought influence and loyalty through investments
in many countries on the continent, said Tom Wheeler, a research
associate at the South African Institute of International
Affairs. Qaddafi supported the AU financially and paid the
contributions of some member countries, he said.  “The AU plan can only work if the parties are prepared to
talk to each other,” Wheeler said. “There’s no indication of
that. It’s pie in the sky. They’re delaying the reality and
alienating the NTC.”  The UN Security Council yesterday gave the U.S. permission
to release $1.5 billion in frozen Libyan government assets in
three disbursements for emergency aid, fuel and power and for
health and education.  South Africa  agreed to the measure because
the funds would be disbursed mainly through aid agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg on
   nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  