-- 
Taiwan Bonds Post First Weekly Drop This Month as Stocks Rise

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 
2011-08-26T08:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/taiwan-bonds-set-for-1st-weekly-drop-this-month-as-stocks-rise.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds had their
first weekly decline this month as investors favored the
island’s stocks on optimism the global economic recovery is
still intact. The currency strengthened from last week.  The benchmark share index rose 1.4 percent this week,
snapping a four-week loss, as data showed unemployment dropped
in July, and U.S. durable goods orders climbed the most in four
months. Foreign funds bought $207 million more local stocks than
they sold in the past two days, exchange data show. The central
bank has raised its policy rate in the last five quarterly
meetings, lifting it to 1.875 percent in June. The economy
expanded 5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier.  “Financial institutions bought equities yesterday, so this
has probably reduced their holdings of bonds,” said Wai Ho Leong, a Singapore-based senior economist at  Barclays Capital .
“Our call is still for the central bank to hike in September,”
given the island’s strong growth, he said.  The yield on the 2 percent notes due July 2016 rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, this week to 1.026
percent, prices from Gretai Securities Market show. The rate
fell one basis point today.  “Some funds are running away from bonds, as there’s no
demand for safety now,” said George Pu, a Taipei-based bond
trader at President Securities Corp. “There was overshooting in
the market last week, as some speculated that the central bank
might cut  interest rates . The mood was gone this week.”  Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to NT$29.06 today against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The
currency gained 0.1 percent this week.  Taiwan will hold presidential elections in January.  “The central bank is probably happy to see the foreign-
exchange rates stable at these levels for a month,” said
Tarsicio Tong, a Taipei-based currency trader at Union Bank of
Taiwan. “With the election campaign set to start next month, I
don’t think the central bank wants foreign exchange to become a
big issue.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  