-- 
Boeing Sets 787 Delivery Date After Delays

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-08-26T20:26:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/all-nippon-airways-to-receive-first-boeing-787-plane-on-sept-25.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner will be
delivered to Japanese carrier All Nippon Airways on Sept. 25,
three years behind schedule, after today’s regulatory approvals
of the world’s first plastic-composite jet.  The aircraft will arrive in  Tokyo  for its initial customer
on Sept. 28 after contractual delivery three days earlier,
Boeing and All Nippon said in a statement. The plane received
its so-called type certifications from U.S. and European
governments, verifying that it complies with aviation standards,
in a ceremony at Boeing’s factory in Everett,  Washington .  “Once our customers get this airplane, they’ll forgive us
for the fact we’re a little late,”  Jim Albaugh , chief of Boeing
Commercial Airplanes, told customers and employees, a few
hundred of whom gathered for the event.  The 787, Boeing’s first new plane since the twin-aisle 777,
is arriving late and billions of dollars over budget because of
struggles with the new materials and production system the
company developed for it.  “It has been tough, it has been long, but the result is
there,” said Patrick Goudou, executive director of the European
Aviation Safety Agency.  The 250-seat Dreamliner uses lighter-weight plastics and
more electricity to let it fly farther with less fuel. That
allows airlines to open new long-haul routes that wouldn’t
warrant service with jumbo jets.  ‘Hopes and Dreams’  The 787 “will play an important role in our international
expansion strategy,” All Nippon Chief Executive Officer
Shinichiro Ito said. The carrier plans to use the jet on
domestic routes initially and then begin flights to  Europe  with
it next year. Other early customers include  Air India  and  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)   The 787 is Boeing’s fastest-selling plane ever, with more
than 800 ordered before it even flew in December 2009. Still,
there haven’t been any orders for the aircraft this year, while
contracts for 26 have been canceled since January, according to
yesterday’s weekly  update online .  That brings the total to 821 orders, which would be about
seven years of work if Boeing manages to increase production to
10 a month in 2013 from two now.  Boeing had six test jets based out of  Seattle ’s Boeing
Field and flying around the world for 20 months in search of the
right weather and conditions to prove the 787’s airworthiness to
the FAA. They tested high-altitude performance in  Bolivia , noise
in  Montana  and crosswinds in Iceland.  During about 4,800 flight hours, crews dealt with simulated
and real emergencies --including a fire in 2010 -- and sought
out lightning and ice.  “This airplane embodies the hopes and dreams of everyone
fortunate enough to work on it,” Albaugh said in a separate
statement. “Their dreams are now coming true.”  Boeing climbed $1.70, or 2.8 percent, to $62.80 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The increase
was the largest among the 30 companies in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average .  The plane certified today flies on engines from Rolls-Royce
Holdings, one of two options for customers and the first that
will enter service. Tests on aircraft using  General Electric
Co. (GE) ’s GEnx engine are continuing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Everett, Washington, at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  