-- 
Alleged Underpants Bomber Told U.S. Agents He Works for Al Qaeda

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-26T23:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/alleged-underpants-bomber-told-u-s-agents-he-works-for-al-qaeda.html
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, accused
of trying to detonate explosives hidden in his underwear as a
U.S. airliner approached  Detroit , told arresting agents he was
acting on behalf of al-Qaeda, according to federal prosecutors.  Abdulmutallab faces an Oct. 4 trial on charges he tried to
destroy a  Northwest Airlines  plane in flight with 290 people
aboard on Dec. 25, 2009.  Prosecutors responded in a court filing today to
Abdulmutallab’s request that U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds bar from the trial statements he made after his arrest,
They said the agents were reacting to what they believed to be
an imminent threat and weren’t required to advise the defendant
of his rights under the U.S. constitution.  “This was a highly fluid situation,” prosecutors told the
court.  Northwest Airlines Flight 253 originated in Amsterdam and
was nearing Detroit when Abdulmutallab ignited a mixture of
chemicals he’d hidden in his underwear, according to the U.S. He
set fire to his clothes and a wall before passengers subdued
him, prosecutors said.  Eight Criminal Counts  He faces eight criminal counts including conspiracy to
commit an act of terrorism and attempted murder, and a possible
life sentence if convicted. He pleaded not guilty.  Abdulmutallab, 24, is acting as his own attorney with the
assistance of court-sanctioned stand-by counsel, attorney
Anthony Chambers.  The defense earlier this month asked Edmunds to suppress
statements Abdulmutallab made at the University of  Michigan 
Hospital under sedation as he was being treated immediately
after the incident, as well as comments he made while later
imprisoned, which he says were made during plea negotiations.  Prosecutors said in today’s filing Abdulmutallab’s motion
should be denied under U.S. Supreme Court precedent creating a
public-safety exemption to the agents’ obligation to advise him
of his rights.  Northwest Airlines is now part of Atlanta-based  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)   The case is U.S. v. Abdulmutallab, 10-cr-20005, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 