-- 
Alliance Bank Cuts Preferred-Share Dividend Payment 27-Fold

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-08-26T11:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/alliance-bank-cuts-preferred-share-dividend-payment-27-fold-1-.html
Shareholders of  Kazakhstan ’s state-
controlled Alliance Bank cut its dividend payment on privileged
shares almost 27-fold to help the nation’s sixth-largest lender
fund a capital shortfall.  The bank revised its planned dividend payment to 100 tenge
(68 U.S. cents) per preferred share from 2,680 tenge, the
Almaty-based lender said in an e-mailed statement today. The
reduction will provide an additional 60 billion tenge in
capital, according to the statement.  Alliance, the first Kazakh lender to default in 2009, has
completed restructuring $4.5 billion of debt, reducing the
amount owed to about $1 billion, the bank said in March 2010.
The government took control of three Kazakh lenders in 2009
after credit markets froze and a property bubble burst.  Alliance swung to a loss in the first half, according to
its interim audited consolidated statement e-mailed today. The
net loss was 4.4 billion tenge, compared with a profit of 310
billion tenge in the same period last year, the lender said.  KPMG Audit LLC found “material uncertainties that may cast
significant doubt” on the ability of Alliance and its
subsidiaries “to continue as a going concern,” the auditor
said in the earnings statement.  Funding Need  KPMG cited a capital shortfall of 103.6 billion tenge at
the end of the first half and a cumulative funding need of 130
billion tenge in the year ending June 30 as causes for concern.
Under international accounting standards, the bank’s liabilities
exceeded its assets by 105 billion tenge as of Dec. 31, compared
with a surplus of 33.8 billion tenge according to Kazakh rules,
Alliance said April 27.  Even so, the bank’s management estimates it has enough
resources to continue operations, KPMG said in the statement.  The lender raised 14 billion tenge by selling a part of its
bad loans at a discount earlier this month, spokesman Dmitry
Shishkin said by phone today, declining to specify the amount
sold.  The bank plans to cut the share of overdue loans to less
than 50 percent of total lending by the end of this year,
compared with 63 percent in the first half when its loan
holdings were at 587 billion tenge, he said.  Alliance plans to eliminate the capital shortfall by the
end of this year, Shishkin said.  The state-owned National Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna holds
67 percent of Alliance’s ordinary shares after the
reorganization. Samruk-Kazyna also owns 67 percent of its
preferred shares, while the rest is owned by the bank’s
creditors, Shishkin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  