-- 
American Sugar Units Seek $51.2 Million in Compensation From EU

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-26T15:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/american-sugar-units-seek-51-2-million-in-compensation-from-eu.html
American Sugar Refining Inc.’s
plants in  Europe  are seeking 35.5 million euros ($51.2 million)
in compensation from the European Union, saying that regulations
punish refiners that must import sugar cane.  Tate & Lyle Sugars Ltd. and Sidul Acucares Unipessoal LDA
are contesting the regulations, according to a complaint filed
with the Court of Justice of the European Union on May 30. The
refiners must import sugar because of a deficit of the sweetener
in the EU, according to the complaint.  Both companies, owned by  American Sugar Refining Inc.
based in Yonkers,  New York , said they’re contesting regulations
that limit imports of raw-cane sugar and promote domestic sugar
production, according to the complaint. The regulations favor EU
sugar output and punish refiners who must import cane, according
to the complaint.  “Instead of remedying the problem by allowing the
necessary imports of raw cane sugar, they increased the
possibilities of domestic sugar production,” according to the
complaint. “The contested regulations favor domestic producers
to the detriment of importing refiners.”  Raw sugar futures in New York have gained 20.8 percent in
the past year and white sugar in  London  has risen 22 percent on
production declines amid increased global demand for the
sweeteners.  American Sugar, a private company, bought Tate & Lyle Sugar
from London-based  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE)  in 2010. Two phone calls to
Ian Bacon, Tate & Lyle Sugar’s chief executive officer, weren’t
immediately returned. Sidul Acucares Unipessoal is based in
 Portugal .  Shrinking Industry  The EU spent four years shrinking the sugar beet industry
after a World Trade Organization ruling that limited exports.
Importers approved to ship to the EU were able to sell sugar for
more elsewhere as global prices soared.  “We believe that the commission has responded to short-
term market shortages by providing additional market supplies
both through encouraging out-of-quota sugar to be put on the
market already this year and by duty-free import quotas,”  Roger
Waite , a spokesman for the EC, wrote in an e-mail today. “We
have also opened a tender system for reduced-tariff imports.”  Out-of-quota sugar is sweetener that can’t be used for  food
production  and instead is exported or processed for industrial
applications such as biofuels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  