-- 
Hang Lung ‘Capable’ of Doubling Investment, Chan Says

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-09-01T07:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/hang-lung-capable-of-doubling-china-investment-chan-says.html
(Corrects story published Aug. 26 to say Hang Lung is
investing HK$50 billion in  China  in first paragraph.)  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , the Hong
Kong developer that’s investing as much as HK$50 billion ($6.4
billion) building shopping malls in other parts of China, said
it’s “financially capable” of doubling that investment.  “We are debt free at the moment and I’m confident we will
remain debt free when we finish all our existing projects,”
Chairman Ronnie Chan told reporters at the opening of the
company’s 171,000-square-meter (1.8 million-square-foot)
shopping mall in the eastern Chinese city of Jinan today.
Doubling that investment in the next phase “won’t be a
problem,” he said.  Hang Lung, Hong Kong’s third-biggest builder by market
value, has built four shopping malls outside its home city and
is scheduled to open at least four projects in the next three
years in the Chinese cities of Shenyang, Wuxi, Tianjin and
Dalian. Chan said the company is actively looking to add more
developments, declining to identify the locations.  The developer, which has about HK$27 billion in cash, 
hasn’t bought any land in  Hong Kong  in at least 10 years and is 
now shifting its focus to luxury shopping malls in other parts 
of China, where the economy is growing at a faster pace. Hang 
Lung typically targets cities with per-capita income of 40,000 
yuan for its projects, Chan said today.  The Jinan mall, which cost about 3.5 billion yuan, has a
gross yield of about 6 percent in its first year, Chan said. The
mall has about 350 stores. The Chinese city has a population of
7 million and its economy grew 13 percent last year, according
to government statistics.  Hang Lung’s rental income from China will “almost
certainly” overtake that from Hong Kong next year, Chan said.
The company owns the Standard Chartered building and  Hang Lung 
Centre in Hong Kong.  The company lost the tender for the management rights to the
Queensway Plaza shopping mall in Hong Kong’s Admiralty district,
which it has been operating for 30 years, spokesman Kwan Chuk-
fai said separately today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  