-- 
India Said to Skip Oil Purchases on Shell Nigeria Disruption

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-08-26T09:23:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/mangalore-refinery-said-to-skip-crude-purchase-on-high-offers.html
Two Indian refiners skipped crude
purchases after  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said “pipeline
incidents” forced it to suspend some Nigerian oil export
obligations, driving up prices, according to four traders who
participate in the market.  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) , a unit of  India ’s
largest explorer, and Bharat Petroleum Corp., the country’s
second-largest state-run oil refiner, canceled tenders seeking
crude for October because offers were too high, said the
traders, who declined to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak with the media. Two calls made to Mangalore
Refinery’s headquarters in southern India weren’t answered. A
call to Mumbai-based Bharat Petroleum’s media relations
department also wasn’t returned.  Shell’s Nigerian unit declared force majeure on its Bonny
Light crude-oil exports after “several pipeline incidents,”
the company said in an e-mailed statement Aug. 23. The force
majeure, a legal clause that allows the company to miss
scheduled deliveries because of circumstances beyond its
control, covers shipments for the rest of August through
October, the company said.  The premium of benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe crude oil to
Dated Brent has jumped more than $1 to $4.03 a barrel since the
force majeure came into effect, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Bonny Light’s premium has widened 80 cents to $3.72
in the period, the Bloomberg data show.  Reduced Asian Imports  Asian oil refiners plan to reduce West African crude
imports next month by 18 percent to 41 cargoes, nine fewer than
August, according to a survey of seven traders involved in the
transactions.  Bharat Petroleum  bought about 1 million barrels of Qua Iboe
crude for loading in August, three traders said July 8. The
company most recently purchased 1 million barrels each of Agbami
and Nemba oil, two traders said July 27.  Mangalore refinery bought 600,000 barrels of  Yemen ’s Masila
crude for loading in September, according to two traders July
28. Masila’s spot price has gained 1.8 percent since Aug. 23,
Bloomberg data show. The company is seeking to buy 650,000
barrels of crude for loading in November, according to a
document e-mailed to potential suppliers. Oil & Natural Gas
Corp., the country’s largest oil explorer, owns 72 percent of
Mangalore Refinery.  Saboteurs, Attacks  Shell shut its Adibawa pipeline on Aug. 22 in the southern
Bayelsa state in  Nigeria  after saboteurs cut crude lines, the
company said.  Attacks by armed groups targeting the oil industry crimped
more than 28 percent of the country’s crude output from 2006 to
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Attacks subsided
after thousands of militants campaigning for more local control
of the delta’s energy resources accepted a government amnesty
and disarmed.  Nigeria is  Africa ’s biggest oil producer, and Shell
operates a joint venture in the nation in which it holds a 30
percent stake and state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
owns 55 percent.  Total SA (FP)  has a 10 percent share and  Eni SpA (ENI) 
holds 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  