-- 
Anglo Irish May Hand Back Capital to State, CEO Aynsley Says

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-26T11:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/anglo-irish-may-hand-back-capital-to-state-ceo-aynsley-says.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp., whose
lending to real-estate developers helped drive the country’s
financial system to the brink of collapse, may hand capital back
to the state as it winds down within a decade.  Speaking to reporters in Dublin today, Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Aynsley  said he expects the final bill for rescuing
the bank will be between 25 billion euros ($36.1 billion) and 28
billion euros. The government poured 29.3 billion euros into
Anglo Irish since nationalizing the lender in January 2009.  The government is moving to close the bank by 2020 after
its rescue contributed to the state having to see an
international bailout last year. The bank is selling assets,
with Aynsley saying an auction of its U.S. loans has drawn
“enormous” interest.  “We are only interested in sales that will not require more
capital injections,” Tom Hunersen, head of corporate
development, told reporters today. He said the bank will work
through its loans “intelligently.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . are among banks
that made final bids to buy portions of its $9.65 billion U.S.
real-estate loans, said three people with knowledge of the sales
yesterday.  Hunersen said he’s “increasingly optimistic” that the sale
will be concluded by the year end and the bank is now start to
tell winning and losing bidders of the outcome.  Yield  Irish bonds have rallied over the past month, partly on
optimism that the government has now drawn a line under the
banking problems. The difference in yield between Irish and
German 10-year bonds has narrowed 474 basis points, or 4.74
percent, since rising to a record 1,143 on July 18.  Anglo Irish’s first-half net loss narrowed to 105 million
euros from 8.2 billion-euro in the same period last year, it
said today. The year-earlier figure included a 3.5 billion-loss
on the loans Anglo sold to the National Asset Management Agency
and a separate loan loss impairment charge of 4.85 billion
euros.  -- With assistance from Jonathan Keehner and Sarah Mulholland in
 New York . Editors: Dara Doyle, Rodney Jefferson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  