-- 
Anglo Irish Loss Narrows After Sale of Loans to State ‘Bad Bank’

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-26T10:02:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/anglo-irish-loss-narrows-after-sale-of-loans-to-state-bad-bank-.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which helped
drive the country’s financial system to the brink of collapse,
said its first-half loss narrowed on declining loan losses after
the lender sold assets to the country’s so-called bad bank.  The Dublin-based lender’s net loss narrowed to 105 million
euros ($151.7 million) from 8.2 billion-euro in the same period
last year, it said in a statement today. The year-earlier figure
included a 3.5 billion-loss on the loans Anglo sold to the
National Asset Management Agency and a separate loan loss
impairment charge of 4.85 billion euros.  The commercial real-estate lender has reported 30.5 billion
euros of losses since its nationalization in 2009 amid soaring
bad loan losses. The government, which has poured 29.3 billion
euros into Anglo Irish, is now moving to wind up the bank by
2020 after its woes helped push the state into an international
bailout last year.  “The unprecedented market turmoil, market liquidity and
currency issues that currently face euro zone countries present
a challenging background to the bank,” said  Alan Dukes ,
appointed chairman in June 2010, in the statement.  Anglo Irish said today it expects to complete the sale of
its U.S. loan book “in the coming months.” JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . are among banks that made final bids
to buy portions of its $9.65 billion U.S. real-estate loans,
said three people with knowledge of the sales yesterday.  The lenders want to acquire pieces of the $4.52 billion of
performing loans the bank is shedding, the people said. Investor
groups led by private-equity firms Blackstone Group LP, working
with Deutsche Bank AG, and  Lone Star Funds  also submitted offers
for parts of the portfolio, they said.  Sale  Anglo Irish said it is examining the potential sale of its
wealth management business, and has received “a number of non-
binding indicative proposals from potential purchasers” of the
unit.  The bank sold 34 billion euros of assets to NAMA last year,
at a discount of 62 percent, as the prices of offices, malls and
development land plunged. In the first half, Anglo Irish made a
601 million-euro net recovery on previously-reported losses on
assets it sold to NAMA.  Loan impairment charges fell to 778 million euros for the
reporting period. In all, 52 percent of the bank’s loans are
impaired, rising from 48 percent at the end of last year.  With Anglo Irish locked out of lending markets,  central
bank  support is helping keeping the bank alive. The bank’s
reliance on central bank funding fell to 40.8 billion euros at
the end of June from 45 billion euros in December. Within this
figure, the lender’s dependence on the Central Bank of Ireland
rose to 38.4 billion euros from 28.1 billion euros.  -- With assistance from Jonathan Keehner and Sarah Mulholland in
 New York . Editors: Dara Doyle, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  