-- 
Apple Without CEO Jobs Gives Cook $28 Billion to Deal: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-26T20:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/apple-without-jobs-as-ceo-gives-cook-28-billion-to-make-a-deal-real-m-a.html
Without Steve Jobs,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may
start to embrace dealmaking after spending less on acquisitions
than any of its biggest competitors.  Jobs, who transformed the near-bankrupt personal-computer
also-ran into the world’s largest technology company, used less
than a billion dollars for takeovers in the past decade as he
unveiled the iPod, iPhone and iPad. Apple’s largest U.S. rivals
have shelled out more than $15 billion on average to buy
companies over the same span, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  has lost a fifth of its value even
after spending 10 times as much as Apple on acquisitions.  Apple became a $350 billion company as Jobs introduced
devices that revolutionized the computer, music and mobile phone
industries. Jobs, who was diagnosed with cancer and had a liver
transplant, is now turning Apple over to former Chief Operating
Officer  Tim Cook . Boosting acquisitions in entertainment,
patents and security with its $28 billion cash hoard may help
Apple fend off  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Samsung Electronics Co. without
Jobs, the University of  North Carolina  and Stewart Capital said.  “Time will come for acquisitions for sure,” Arvind
Malhotra, an associate professor at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill’s Kenan-Flagler Business School, who has
taught Apple’s business strategies for a decade, said in a
telephone interview. Jobs “always grew from within. If lack of
his vision and availability of his position causes the future
pipeline not to be there, that’s when the acquisition model
comes into play. They’re sitting on a cash pile,” he said.  Acquisition Detail  Steve Dowling, a spokesman at Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment on whether Jobs’s resignation as
chief executive officer this week will encourage the company to
make more acquisitions.  Apple advanced 2.6 percent to $383.58 today, becoming the
world’s largest company with $356 billion in market value. It
eclipsed  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , which ended the day at $353 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  America’s 10 largest technology companies have paid more
than $140 billion on acquisitions of businesses in the past
decade, net of any cash received, data compiled by Bloomberg and
filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission showed.  Apple, which introduced the iPod music player in late 2001,
has accounted for less than 1 percent of those purchases with
$910 million in takeovers, the data show.  Even without a single billion-dollar acquisition, Apple’s
value under Jobs increased by more than $300 billion in the past
10 years. Jobs has also doubled Apple’s net income every two
years since the company reported its last annual loss in 2001,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Apple Versus Microsoft  Microsoft, the maker of the Windows operating system that
was founded by  Bill Gates , fell 21 percent in the past decade
through yesterday even after spending more than $12 billion on
acquisitions to bolster earnings and boost shareholder value.  The total excludes the company’s $8.5 billion agreement in
May to buy Skype Technologies SA, the world’s most popular
Internet calling service, which has yet to close.  Jobs, who  founded  Apple with Steve Wozniak in 1976, was
ousted by the board in 1985 amid differences over strategy. When
he returned 12 years later, Apple had run up $1.86 billion in
losses over two years. It was 90 days away from bankruptcy, Jobs
would later say.  Apple’s shares surged 9,020 percent from July 29, 1997, the
day before the San Francisco Chronicle said that Jobs would be
interim CEO, through his resignation this week.  The company’s equity value rose to $349 billion from $2.1
billion under Jobs, making it the largest technology company.  Smartphones to Music  Microsoft of Redmond,  Washington , which at its peak in
December 1999 was worth more than a half-trillion dollars, is
valued at $212 billion. Armonk, New York-based  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , had a market capitalization of $202
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  After returning, Jobs had led Apple’s transformation into a
seller of everything from smartphones to music. He engineered
the company’s comeback by honing its industrial design, tightly
integrating software and hardware, and pushing into new markets.  The iPhone, introduced in 2007, has become Apple’s best-
selling product and turned the company into the world’s biggest
smartphone maker. After winning customers away from  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Apple is now sparring with Google for
leadership in the market for mobile-phone software.  Jobs was appointed chairman this week after resigning as
CEO and recommended appointing Cook, 50, as his successor. He
was on medical leave since Jan. 17 after combating a rare form
of cancer since 2003 and surviving a liver transplant in 2009.  Day of Reckoning  “I have always said if there ever came a day when I could
no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple’s CEO, I
would be the first to let you know,” Jobs, 56, said in a
statement on Aug. 24. “Unfortunately, that day has come.”  Apple may now need to spend more money acquiring products
to replace those built using Jobs’s ideas, said  Malcolm Polley ,
who oversees $1 billion as chief investment officer at Stewart
Capital in Indiana, Pennsylvania.  Cook, who has worked at Apple for 13 years and focused on
an expanding list of operational roles, including manufacturing,
distribution, sales and customer service, hasn’t yet shown he
can be an inventor like Jobs, Polley said.  “I don’t think it’s clear who the visionary is absent
 Steve Jobs ,” he said in a telephone interview. “Cook has done
a good job operating the company from a business management
perspective, but I don’t know if he’s the product visionary
Steve Jobs is. You could do that via acquisition.”  ‘Blunt the Force’  The company is going to have to add products to “blunt the
force” of Google’s Android platform, said  Michael Yoshikami ,
chief executive officer and founder of YCMNet Advisors, which
manages $1.1 billion in Walnut Creek,  California .  Android was the  best-selling  smartphone operating system
worldwide in the second quarter with sales rising more than
fourfold to give it 43.3 percent of the market, led by Samsung
and HTC Corp., according to Gartner Inc., the research firm
based in Stamford, Connecticut.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , based in Los Gatos, California, would allow
Apple to boost revenue from streaming live videos and television
shows and keep users dependent on its products for a wider range
of media, the University of North Carolina’s Malhotra said.  Steve Swasey , a spokesman for Netflix, declined to comment
on whether it would consider a sale to Apple or whether the
company has been approached by Apple about an acquisition.  Apple may also look at deals to increase security of its
computers as they become more popular, according to Stewart
Capital’s Polley.  ‘Logical Progression’  Howard Ward, who helps oversee $36.1 billion at Gamco
Investors Inc. in Rye,  New York , says that Apple doesn’t need to
pursue more acquisitions to remain successful and that Jobs will
still have influence over the company as its chairman.  “The last thing they want to do right now is make it
appear as if they’re changing their stripes with Steve resigning
as CEO,” he said in an e-mail. “Steve is still chairman.”  Still, Apple is already stepping up its purchases by
leading a group of six companies in acquiring Nortel Networks’
patents for $4.5 billion at the end of June. The $2.6 billion
that Apple is paying is almost three times the amount it spent
on acquisitions in the previous 10 years.  “Apple has been reinvented at least twice already now,”
 Peter Sorrentino , a senior  money manager  at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview. The firm
oversees $14.8 billion, including Apple shares. “Could they
reach a point in time where, without Steve there, they are not
the magnet for creative talent? It would be a logical
progression.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 