-- 
Matt Kuchar Holds One-Shot Lead in Barclays Golf Over Dustin Johnson

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/harrison-frazar-holds-lead-as-weather-interrupts-pga-tour-playoff-opener.html
Matt Kuchar  holds a one-stroke lead
after going into the final round of the Barclays golf tournament,
which was shortened to three rounds as Hurricane Irene
threatened to interrupt the U.S. PGA Tour’s playoff opener.  Kuchar, the event’s defending champion, is 14 under par
overall after two rounds at Plainfield Country Club in Edison,
New Jersey, where a three-hour rain delay during the opening
round forced 51 players to complete more than 18 holes yesterday.  Tournament officials decided yesterday to shorten the
tournament to 54 holes from 72 and said the event could be cut
to just two rounds if play can’t be completed before the effects
of Irene hit the area this afternoon.  “With the extreme weather conditions that we have got
staring us in the face right now, Sunday obviously is not going
to be here,” Slugger White, the PGA Tour’s director of rules
and competition, told reporters. “We are looking upwards to
maybe 10 to 12 inches of rain between Saturday night and Sunday
evening.”  This year is the first time the tournament, the first of
four playoff events on the world’s richest golf circuit, is
being held at the Donald Ross-designed club after moving around
other courses in New York and  New Jersey .  “It kind of makes you want to cry because of all the
effort that went in and all of the energy that surrounded this
event,” tournament director Peter Mele said. “It really is a
shame.”  Kuchar’s Round  After finishing his first 18 holes with an 8-under 63 score,
Kuchar immediately began his second round yesterday morning and
finished with a bogey-free 6-under 65, putting him one stroke
ahead of fellow American Dustin Johnson and Fiji’s  Vijay Singh .
He’s three ahead of Jonathan Byrd of the U.S. and four ahead of
 England ’s  Justin Rose , Aaron Baddeley of  Australia , Ireland’s
Padraig Harrington and American Charley Hoffman.  Rose, the first of the four players tied for fifth place to
finish his opening two rounds, shot 6 under yesterday after an
opening 67.  “It makes me happy,” Rose said of the decision to shorten
the event. “I think if I was 6 under par, I would be
disappointed hearing that it’s a 54-hole event. Everyone is
making the best of it.”  Players will attempt to finish as many holes as possible as
Hurricane Irene approaches. The storm, which has been downgraded
to a Category 2, is posing the largest threat to the U.S.
Northeast since Hurricane Gloria in 1985. Irene is packing winds
of 100 mph (161 kph), the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in
an advisory at 8 p.m.  New York  time. The storm may weaken
although it will remain a hurricane as it moves up the coast.  Of the 125 players who qualified through season-long
rankings for the Barclays, 123 teed off Thursday. The postseason
continues with the 100-player Deutsche Bank Championship, from
which 70 advance to the BMW Championship. After that, the top 30
players contest the Tour Championship, with the winner of the
FedEx Cup receiving a $10 million bonus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  