-- 
Hurricane Delays Dedication of Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/martin-luther-king-jr-memorial-dedication-postponed-by-irene.html
The approach of Hurricane Irene
forced organizers to scrap plans for an Aug. 28 dedication of a
memorial to slain civil rights activist  Martin Luther King Jr .
in Washington.  The formal dedication will instead take place sometime in
September or October, the Martin Luther King Jr. National
Memorial Project  Foundation  said on its website. The ceremony
had been intended to coincide with the 48th anniversary of
King’s “I Have a Dream” speech in Washington.  While the memorial has been open to the public since Aug.
22, the foundation planned the formal dedication as the cap to a
week of ceremonies devoted to King. President  Barack Obama  was
slated to speak.  The new memorial stands at the Tidal Basin, between
monuments honoring former Presidents  Thomas Jefferson  and
 Abraham Lincoln . It was on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial
that King gave his 1963 “I Have a Dream” speech, envisioning a
land free of racial prejudice and segregation.  Obama, 50, the nation’s first black president, has drawn on
King for inspiration. He accepted the Democratic nomination for
president on the 45th anniversary of King’s  Washington  speech
and, on the campaign trail, appealed to voters using King’s
phrase, “the fierce urgency of now.”  Organizers already were forced to move two events because
of a 5.8-magnitude earthquake on Aug. 23 in  Virginia  that shook
Washington and much of the East Coast.  A formal dinner on Aug. 24 was moved to the Washington
Convention Center after the original site, the National Building
Museum, sustained damage in the earthquake. A prayer service
scheduled for tomorrow at the National Cathedral, where three of
four pinnacles on its central tower broke during the tremor,
will instead take place at the Basilica of the National Shrine
of the Immaculate Conception.  “In the words of Dr. King, “we must accept finite
disappointment, but never lose infinite hope,” Harry Johnson
Sr., the foundation president, said in a statement announcing
the postponement of the dedication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  