-- 
Harvard’s No. 1 Ranking Makes Us Wonder: Hacker and Dreifus

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a c k e r   a n d   C l a u d i a   D r e i f u s
-- 
2011-08-26T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/harvard-s-no-1-ranking-makes-us-wonder-commentary-by-hacker-and-dreifus.html
The U.S. News and World Report
“Best Colleges” rankings, which will be  published  next month,
are viewed as a Baedeker and Bible by more than 5 million
American parents considering colleges and universities for their
high-school juniors and seniors.  We think that parents should use this guide with caution.  Our problem with the rankings begins with how they are
produced. An unspecified number of academic leaders --
presidents, chancellors, provosts -- are sent questionnaires and
asked to rate their peers. Though few of those surveyed have sat
in on freshman lectures at  Harvard  or Yale (where students
famously complain about the quality of undergraduate
instruction), they invariably give the brand-name schools their
highest endorsements.  Interestingly, when another college guide, the  Princeton
Review , surveyed students, half of the top 10 schools that U.S.
News lauded for having “a strong commitment to undergraduate
teaching” received a “C” grade or less.  More disturbing is that many of the measurements “Best
Colleges” uses are subject to manipulation. As the survey has
grown in importance, some school administrators have found ways
to game the ratings race. One example: U.S. News ranks a school,
in part, by the number of applications it receives compared with
the number of students it accepts. Schools with higher rejection
rates do better than those that admit a greater percentage of
their applicants. We know of a young woman who was hired by the
admissions office of a highly rated liberal-arts college to
increase application numbers. The school wasn’t increasing its
freshman slots, but was encouraging more teenagers to apply so
that its rejection figures would be boosted.  Blurred Numbers  Acceptance rates, real or manufactured, are one of “16
indicators of academic excellence” the U.S. News editors
consider as they grade the nation’s colleges and universities.
Others are graduation rates, alumni donations and class sizes.
The latter is unquestionably key to any student’s success. But
here, too, U.S. News gives the schools room to blur the numbers.  Stanford University  says 68 percent of its classes have
fewer than 20 students. Strictly speaking, this is true. What
isn’t reported is that these small classes are mainly highly
specialized advanced courses such as “The History of Tobacco
Use.”  Matter of Class  As per the U.S. News survey questions,  Ohio State  claims
that 32 percent of its classes have fewer than 20 students. But
this statistic won’t tell a student much. The way Ohio State
comes up with this number is by rolling its many specialized
seminars along with Psychology 101 -- which jams 623 students
into a lecture hall -- into one reported statistic. A
prospective student wants to know how many of those 600-head
lecture courses exist and how many of them he or she will have
to take; the way the survey is structured, it obscures that
crucial figure.  The report considers “faculty resources,” meaning salary
levels, as a major criterion in scoring. But six-figure pay for
tenured professors doesn’t always translate into benefits for
undergrads.  Often at highly ranked schools, the senior faculty members
teach “one and two,” meaning three courses a year -- and those
may well be graduate seminars. At wealthier research
universities, senior faculty get a sabbatical every three years.
That means a history major at Harvard may not find a mentor for
a senior thesis because 42 percent of the history faculty, was -
- last year -- off campus.  Measuring Ratios  Another questionable rating in the U.S. News survey is the
student-faculty ratio. In it, the  University of Southern
California  can proclaim that it has one professor for every nine
of its students. What it omits, in this self-rendered report, is
that the student pool includes doctoral candidates, who command
most of the faculty’s time. Moreover, the faculty numerator adds
in adjuncts and other part-timers, who make up more than half of
USC’s instructional staff. Students who pay $41,022 a year
expect more than an adjunct, no matter how talented or
conscientious they might be.  Odder yet, the  University of  Colorado  tells U.S. News that
an eye-catching 86 percent of its teachers are full-time. This
is because the U.S. News formula allows the institution to
permute its 959 part-timers into 319 “full-time equivalents,”
which enhances the faculty part of the ratio. Parents genuinely
need to know if their son or daughter is going to be taught by
adjuncts, graduate assistants, college seniors or computer
programs. At the end of the day, these loopholes in “Best
Colleges” don’t just obscure the facts; they distort them.  Helpful Parts  That said, some aspects of the “Best Colleges” report
could be helpful. One useful figure we found was a table on how
many students at a given school paid the full tuition tab. At
Duke, 59 percent pay its $40,472 sticker price, as do 60 percent
at Penn ($40,514) and 67 percent at  Washington & Lee  ($40,387).
Even selective colleges need cash, and despite claims that they
admit in a “needs-blind” fashion, they are more likely to take
you if your parents don’t request a discount. If you’re not
affluent or a potential scholarship student, you might be
wasting your time by bothering to apply at these schools.  Though it doesn’t specifically survey for it, U.S. News
also offers a kind of left-handed index of student satisfaction.
Colleges report how many of their graduates contribute in a
typical year. As we read “Best Colleges,” we were struck by
how many grads don’t send their alma mater even a symbolic
check. At Harvard, 63 percent give nothing at all. At
 Vanderbilt , 74 percent demur, as do 87 percent at UCLA. The non-
donors are probably pleased to have degrees, but could quite a
few have less than fond memories of their campus years?  Or perhaps they feel that they already “gave” when they
paid sky-high tuition bills?  (Andrew Hacker and Claudia Dreifus are the authors of
“Higher Education,” which was published in paperback this
summer. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Claudia Dreifus at  claudreif@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  