-- 
Asian Stocks Snap Losing Streak Before Bernanke Speech

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-08-28T13:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/asian-stocks-snap-four-week-losing-streak-before-speech-given-by-bernanke.html
(Corrects Malaysian Airline System item in story published
Aug. 27)  Asian stocks rose this week,
snapping four weeks of losses, as exporters and commodity shares
gained on speculation U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  would foreshadow measures to shore up the U.S.
recovery.  Asian stocks swung between gains and losses throughout the
week as companies across the region reported mixed profit
results. Bernanke said yesterday the U.S. central bank still has
tools to stimulate an economic recovery, without giving details.
The recovery is likely to improve in the second half of this
year, he told an annual forum in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and clothes to U.S.
retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., increased 3.8 percent.
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-biggest maker of
mobile phones by sales, rose 2.4 percent in  Seoul  after Steve
Jobs resigned as chief executive officer of rival Apple Inc.
China Life Insurance Co., the nation’s No. 1 insurer by market
value, tumbled 11 percent and Chinese automaker BYD Co. sank 20
percent after they reported lower profit.  “Equity markets are not only looking toward the Jackson
Hole speech but also at the real economy,” said Pu Yonghao,
chief investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management in  Hong
Kong . Recent data “are all pointing toward slower growth, if
not recession,” he said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday before Bernanke spoke.  Stocks Rise  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.7 percent this week to
120.31 The gauge tumbled 14 percent in the previous four weeks
as equity indexes in Australia, Hong Kong and Shanghai entered a
so-called bear market, tumbling at least 20 percent from their
peaks. Investors fled equities amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
is worsening and  U.S. economy  will slow following its credit
downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s .  Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at about 12 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 11.8 times for the
S&P 500 and 9.4 times for the Stoxx 600.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 0.9 percent this
week, even after Moody’s Investors Service lowered Japan’s
sovereign-credit rating, citing “weak” prospects for cutting
the country’s debt burden. South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 2
percent.  Factory Output  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced 0.9 percent this week
after a report showed China’s factory output may contract at a
slower pace in August, easing concern the mainland’s economy is
slowing. Shanghai’s Composite Index added 3.1 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index jumped 2.4 percent this week,
after falling as much as 3.5 percent. Singapore’s Straits Times
Index rose 0.5 percent.  Li & Fung rose 3.8 percent to HK$13.20 in Hong Kong, while
 Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest camera-maker by market value,
advanced 2 percent to 3,535 yen in  Tokyo .  Central bankers from around the world met in  Jackson Hole 
at the conference sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Kansas City  on Aug. 26. That’s the same place where Bernanke
triggered financial rallies a year ago when he said the Fed was
prepared to “do all that it can” to ensure economic recovery.
Bernanke’s appearance a year later comes as U.S. manufacturing
weakens, consumer confidence tumbles and the  unemployment rate 
holds above 9 percent.  The introduction of further quantitative easing “will
provide a short-term relief to the market,” Hong Kong-based Pauline Dan, chief investment officer at Samsung Asset
Management, which oversees about $72 billion, said before the
meeting.  Supporting Growth  “Investors are hoping the Fed will show its commitment to
supporting growth,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based
strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., on Aug. 23. The
company manages almost $100 billion. “There’s a real risk of
disappointment if some sort of strong commitment doesn’t
appear.”  Samsung Electronics, Apple’s biggest competitor in
smartphones and tablet computers, surged 6.8 percent to 726,000
won in Seoul this week after Steve Jobs resigned as Apple chief
executive officer.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, gained
3 percent to A$38.64 this week in Sydney, while  Inpex Corp. (1605) ,
Japan’s No. 1 energy explorer, jumped 3.7 percent to 492,500 yen
in Tokyo. Glencore International Plc, the world’s largest listed
commodity trader, surged 5.9 percent to HK$47.50 in Hong Kong.  Oil Advances  Oil advanced for the first time in five weeks on
speculation that economic stimulus in the U.S. will bolster
demand in the world’s largest energy consuming nation. Crude oil
for October delivery rose 7 cents to settle at $85.37 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  The London Metal Index of prices for six metals including
copper and aluminum advanced 2.5 percent this week.  Among stocks that fell,  China  Life tumbled 11 percent to
HK$19.18 this week in Hong Kong after saying first-half profit
fell 28 percent from a year earlier.  Of the 624 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that
reported net income from July 11 to by 6:35 p.m. on Aug. 26, 45
percent reported earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates
while 33 percent fell short.  BYD, an automaker part-owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., dropped 20 percent to HK$15.98 after saying its
first-half profit tumbled 89 percent.  Malaysian Airline System Bhd., the national carrier, sank
9.6 percent to 1.50 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur after posting a
second straight quarterly loss.  Standard Chartered Plc, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by
market capitalization, sank 1 percent to HK$168.30 and French
cosmetics maker L’Occitane International SA sank 5 percent to
HK$17.06 this week in Hong Kong amid concern the region’s
sovereign debt crisis will worsen after German Chancellor Angela
Merkel said she’ll resist pressure to back common euro-area
bonds as a means to solve the region’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  