-- 
U.S. Stocks Close Higher on Bernanke Remarks

-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-26T21:23:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/asia-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses.html
U.S. stocks surged, breaking a four-
week losing streak for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated the economy
isn’t deteriorating enough to warrant any immediate stimulus.
Treasuries trimmed gains and the dollar swung to a loss.  The S&P 500 added 1.5 percent to 1,176.80 at 4 p.m. in New
York after losing as much as 2 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index lost 0.7 percent, trimming its retreat from 2.7 percent.
Yields on Treasury 10-year notes slipped four basis points to
2.19 percent after decreasing 11 points. The Dollar Index lost
0.7 percent after climbing 0.3 percent. Crude added 0.1 percent
following a 2.8 percent retreat.  Markets gyrated following the Bernanke speech, in which he
said the central bank still has tools to stimulate the economy
without signaling he will use them. He echoed comments from
dissenting members of the Federal Open Market Committee who said
data aren’t pointing to a recession. Investors piled into U.S.
equities trading at the cheapest valuations since 2009.  “If they can stick to this and let the market find its own
bottom, they will come out of this stronger,”  James Paulsen ,
chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $340 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “People will start to develop some
confidence that this thing can recover on its own without Fed
assistance.”  Stocks initially fell after Bernanke announced no new plan
to stimulate growth. He foreshadowed a $600 billion bond-
purchase program a year ago at the same event in Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming , helping to stoke a 30 percent surge in the S&P 500
through April 29. The measure has retreated more than 15 percent
since that peak amid concern the economy is stalling.  A Second Day  Bernanke said a second day has been added to the next
 Federal Open Market Committee  meeting in September to “allow a
fuller discussion” of the economy and the Fed’s possible
response. He didn’t close the door in today’s speech to options
he has previously discussed, including a third round of
government bond buying.  “The one bombshell in the speech is that he did say the
September meeting is going to be a two-day meeting, which has
two implications,” John Canally, who helps oversee $340.8
billion as an economist and investment strategist at LPL
Financial Corp., said in a telephone interview from  Boston .
“One, it may mean they’re going to spend more time further
refining the tool they’ve already outlined. Or it means they
have time to talk about something they haven’t done.”  Not ‘Permanently Altered’  The Commerce Department said today that U.S. gross domestic
product expanded at a 1 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, less than the median economist forecast, which called
for a 1.1 percent expansion.  “Although important problems certainly exist, the growth
fundamentals of the  United States  do not appear to have been
permanently altered by the shocks of the past four years,”
Bernanke said in prepared comments. “It may take some time, but
we can reasonably expect to see a return to growth rates and
employment levels consistent with those underlying
fundamentals.”  This year’s decline in the  S&P 500  left the benchmark gauge
for American equities trading at 12.7 times reported earnings as
of yesterday, more than 20 percent below its five-decade
average.  Barton Biggs , founder of hedge fund Traxis Partners LP,
said last week that valuations are so low they could withstand a
15 percent decline in profits.  Profit Forecasts  Earnings for companies in the index may rise 18 percent
this year, according to the average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Economists predict gross domestic product
will expand 1.75 percent this year and 2.35 percent in 2012,
according to a survey of 56 respondents conducted by Bloomberg.  Threats facing the economy aren’t as grave as they were
when Bernanke pledged new stimulus at  Jackson Hole  in August
2010, according to  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based
global chief investment strategist for the IShares unit of
BlackRock Inc. Solutions such as the so-called quantitative
easing program to purchase Treasury notes may be less effective
now, said Koesterich, whose firm oversees $3.66 trillion.  “This is pretty much what we expected,” he said. “The
economic data points are likely going to continue to be weak,
but the market already knows that. If you have period when
economic data is poor, but not as bad as people expect, you can
actually see some relief in the market.”  Rising Prices  Rising consumer prices and signs the economy is still
growing may be restricting Bernanke’s options. Gasoline costs
are about 30 percent higher, consumer inflation is twice as fast
and inflation expectations are above levels since Bernanke
signaled more easing a year ago. While the U.S. expansion has
slowed, the Chicago Fed’s index of 85 economic indicators
improved in July for a third month on gains in production.  The threat of deflation has subsided, with the Labor
Department’s consumer price index, minus food and energy, rising
1.8 percent for the 12 months ending July. It increased at a 0.9
percent 12-month rate in July 2010 before Bernanke’s Jackson
Hole speech last year.  A measure of inflation expectations watched by the Fed is
showing that traders see annual price increases of 2.77 percent
starting in five years, compared with 2.22 percent a year ago.  Plosser, Fisher  Fed bank presidents  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia,
 Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and Narayana Kocherlakota of
 Minneapolis  voted against the Fed’s decision to keep the target
for the federal funds rate at zero to 0.25 percent until at
least mid-2013. Plosser and Fisher said last week the pledge
won’t help spur growth. The last time three policy makers
dissented was in November 1992.  “Our problems are not problems easily addressed by
monetary policy,” Plosser said in an Aug. 17 interview, adding
that the Fed is “risking its credibility because it’s doing
things that don’t work.”  Policy makers this month pledged to keep their benchmark
 interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2013 and said they
“discussed the range of policy tools” available, signaling
they may add to their record stimulus.  Bernanke told Congress on July 13 the Fed has stimulus
options. They may include buying additional securities,
increasing the average maturity of its bond portfolio, lowering
the interest rate on excess reserves and pledging to keep its
balance sheet near a record high for a longer period of time.  Debt Ceiling ‘Drama’  Morgan Stanley analysts have cut their estimate for
expansion worldwide this year to 3.9 percent from a previous
prediction of 4.2 percent. Part of the reason was “the drama”
around lifting the U.S. debt ceiling, which helped depress
financial markets and erode business and consumer confidence,
the analysts said in a report last week.  President  Barack Obama  signed a plan to raise the federal
debt limit on Aug. 2, the deadline to avoid a possible default,
after months of wrangling with Congress. The deal would make
$2.4 trillion in deficit cuts over 10 years.  Treasury yields fell today as Bernanke refrained from
endorsing the immediate use of additional stimulus measures. The
yield on the 30-year bond declined seven basis points to 3.53
percent. Treasuries rose earlier on the GDP report, paring gains
as stocks erased losses.  Dollar, Franc Drop  The dollar fell against 14 of its 16 major counterparts as
demand eased for refuge investments. The dollar lost 0.8 percent
against the euro, and depreciated 1 percent versus the yen. The
yen’s advance was the first in three days as Japanese Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  said he was stepping down after parliament
passed the final two pieces of his legislative agenda.  The Swiss franc tumbled 2.4 percent versus the euro on
speculation Swiss policy makers will introduce new measures to
cap its gains and that local banks may start charging customers
for franc deposits.  Zurich-based UBS said it may levy a temporary excess
balance fee to curb the inflow of Swiss francs, citing “the
prevailing market conditions which in particular affect the
Swiss franc.” It commented in a note to bank clients sent via
the Swift system and confirmed to Bloomberg.  Crude oil gained, erasing declines following Bernanke’s
speech. Crude oil for October delivery climbed 0.1 percent to
settle at $85.37 a barrel. Futures advanced 3.8 percent this
week, for their first weekly gain since July.  Hurricane Irene  Gasoline fell 1.2 percent. Futures climbed 3.1 percent
yesterday on concern that Hurricane Irene will batter refineries
along the U.S. East coast. The region has 10 operating oil
refineries with a capacity of 1.21 million barrels a day,
according to the Energy Department. The area accounts for 7.1
percent of total U.S. operating capacity.  Gold jumped for a second straight day, rising 3.4 percent
to $1,823.90 in electronic after-market trading. Gold futures
slumped as much as 11 percent in the three days through
yesterday, after touching a record $1,917.90 an ounce on Aug.
23. Today’s advance pared the metal’s weekly drop to 3 percent.  Gold is in the 11th year of a  bull market , the longest
winning streak since at least 1920 in  London , as investors seek
to diversify away from equities and some currencies. Before this
week, gold climbed for seven consecutive weeks, the longest
rally since April 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in  New York  at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  