-- 
Asian Currencies Decline, Led by Rupee and Baht, on Concern Growth Slowing

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-08-26T22:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/asian-currencies-decline-led-by-rupee-and-baht-on-concern-growth-slowing.html
India ’s rupee and Thailand’s baht
led declines among Asian currencies this week on signs economic
growth is slowing in the region and speculation cooled that the
Federal Reserve will unveil further stimulus measures.  Taiwan’s industrial output rose less than estimated last
month and consumer confidence in South Korea fell to the least
since March this month, reports showed this week. The  U.S.
economy  grew at a 1 percent annual rate in the second quarter,
compared with a previous estimate of 1.3 percent, according to
the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
Dollar Index traded on ICE Futures in  New York  fell this week
before a speech yesterday by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  “The market is priced for disappointing news, judging by
the price action, given the Fed has limited options,” said Lam Chee Mun, a  fund manager  in Kuala Lumpur at TA Investment
Management Bhd. that manages about $200 million. “Risk appetite
is damped” by slowdown concerns, he said.  Bernanke said yesterday the U.S. central bank still has
tools to stimulate an economic recovery, without giving details.
The recovery is likely to improve in the second half of this
year, he told an annual forum in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index had a second
weekly drop. The index was at 119.11 in Singapore yesterday,
compared with 119.22 at the end of last week.  The baht slid 0.5 percent this week to 29.98 per dollar in
Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee fell
0.9 percent to 46.1575.  Growth Outlook  Singapore reported yesterday that annual growth in
industrial production slowed to 7.4 percent in July following a
revised 10.7 percent increase a month earlier.  Thomas Hoenig , president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of
Kansas City which hosted the meeting in Jackson Hole yesterday,
told Bloomberg TV on Aug. 25 there’s a limit to how much more
the central bank can do to help the U.S. economy. The global
economy has a 50 percent chance of slipping into recession as
 Europe  and the U.S. struggle to grow, Nobel laureate Michael
Spence said in a Bloomberg Television interview in  Hong Kong  on
Aug. 25.  India’s rupee completed a fourth weekly decline, taking its
drop for the month to 4.2 percent. Global investors have reduced
holdings of the nation’s shares by $2 billion this month on
concern Asia’s third-biggest economy is slowing. Gross domestic
product rose 7.6 percent in the three months ended June, the
least in six quarters, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey before official data due on Aug.
30.  ‘Quite Solid’  The baht touched 29.98 per dollar yesterday. International
funds sold $471 million more Thai shares than they bought this
week through Aug. 25, taking net sales this month to $1.2
billion, exchange data show. The currency may be supported by
official data released on Aug. 25 that showed exports rose 38.3
percent in July from a year earlier, the most in 13 months,
according to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  “The global economic uncertainties are making investors
risk averse and put downward pressure on Asian currencies
through stock sales,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on
the Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank in
 Tokyo . “Money may eventually return to  Thailand  as its economy
looks quite solid.”  Elsewhere, the ringgit fell 0.2 percent this week to 2.9888
per dollar and Indonesia’s rupiah declined 0.1 percent to 8,569,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Singapore’s dollar rose
0.4 percent to S$1.2069, the won advanced 0.4 percent to
1,082.50 and the Philippine peso gained 0.3 percent to 42.455.
 China ’s yuan rose 0.1 percent to 6.3872 and Taiwan’s dollar
dropped 0.2 percent to NT$29.06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  