-- 
Arpe Said to Consider Purchase of Popolare di Milano Stake

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-08-26T15:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/matteo-arpe-said-to-consider-purchasing-stake-in-banca-popolare-di-milano.html
Former Capitalia SpA Chief Executive
Officer Matteo Arpe may buy a stake in  Banca Popolare di Milano
Scarl (PMI) ,  Italy ’s oldest cooperative bank, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Arpe, 46, may purchase a holding in the Milan-based lender
through Sator SpA, the private-equity firm he founded in 2007,
when Popolare di Milano sells new shares in September, said the
people, who asked not be named because the plan is confidential.  The investment would be at least Arpe’s second in the
banking industry since he started Sator after being forced out
of Capitalia four years ago. He has been the chairman of  Banca
Profilo SpA (PRO)  since 2009 after buying a 54 percent stake in the
lender.  Popolare fell 5 cents to 1.47 euros at 5:24 p.m. in Milan
trading, paring an earlier gain of as much as 2.8 percent.  Arpe exited Rome-based Capitalia in 2007 after generating
annual stock market returns of about 53 percent after being
named CEO in 2003. His departure followed  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s
agreement to buy Capitalia for 21.8 billion euros, creating
Italy’s largest bank.  Arpe formed Sator from a team of bankers and former
colleagues shortly after leaving Capitalia. The private-equity
firm agreed on Feb. 2009 to buy Profilo for about 70 million
euros, or 20 cents a share. Profilo shares closed yesterday at
about 31 cents.  “We are in favor of Arpe’s investment in the bank,” said
Massimo Masi, general secretary of the UILCA labor union, which
has three seats on Popolare di Milano’s board. “He showed great
skills in running Capitalia and Profilo. That would be helpful
in Popolare Milano.”  A spokesman for Sator SpA declined to comment, while a
spokesman at Popolare di Milano didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  Popolare di Milano, which has a market value of about 607
million euros ($876 million), plans to raise as much as 1.2
billion euros through a rights offer in September after the  Bank
of Italy  urged the lender to bolster its capital. The company’s
second-quarter net income plunged 98 percent as it almost
doubled provisions for bad loans.  The purchase of a stake in the bank may lead Arpe to
replace Massimo Ponzellini, the current chairman and whose
mandate expires in March, one of the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  