-- 
Havens Prove Different This Time as Asset-Backeds Favored: Credit Markets

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-08-26T15:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/havens-prove-different-this-time-as-asset-backeds-favored-credit-markets.html
Securities backed by everything from
auto loans to credit card debt and equipment leases that
plummeted after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008 are proving among the most stable in this month’s credit-
market slump.  While returns on asset-backed securities are trailing those
on Treasuries by 5 basis points, government-backed home-loan
securities are underperforming by 99 basis points, commercial-
mortgage bonds by 349 and investment-grade corporate notes by
397, according to Barclays Capital index data.  U.S. asset-backed bonds are benefiting as investors flee
from riskier assets for cash-like investments and government
debt, allowing the Treasury to sell five-year notes at record
low yields. Securitized debt that isn’t linked to property loans
is in favor as the economy slows and  Europe ’s fiscal crisis
deepens, partly because many of the bonds have projected lives
of three years or less and can easily be traded, according to
RBS Securities Inc.’s Robert Pucel.  “There are investors with money on the sidelines who are
looking to put it to work,” said Pucel, the syndication head
for the debt at the  Stamford , Connecticut-based unit of Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “If we see a reversal in terms of
yields, obviously you’d want to see those assets roll off sooner
rather than later.”  The average yields in excess of Treasury rates that
investors are demanding on high-grade corporate bonds expanded
to 132 basis points more than those on auto-loan bonds as of
Aug. 24, Barclays data show. That’s about the widest gap since
2002 and up from 75 basis points on Aug. 1.  Bond Haven  Investors fled from securitized products as soaring
homeowner defaults starting in 2007 soured mortgage bonds. In
January 2009, spreads on auto-loan securities reached 883 basis
points over corporate debt, forcing the  Federal Reserve  to start
lending to buyers under its Term Asset-Backed Securities Lending
Facility to prevent the market from freezing.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds worldwide instead of similar-
maturity government debt fell 1 basis point from the widest
level since Aug. 21, 2009, to 230 basis points, or 2.3
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged 3.83
percent.  A benchmark measure of U.S. corporate credit risk held at
about the highest level since June 2010 after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank has tools to
stimulate the economy without saying if they will be deployed.  Markit CDX Index  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.7 basis points to a
mid-price of 126.4 basis points as of 10:53 a.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Traders pushed the gauge higher, signaling deterioration in
credit confidence, as Bernanke stopped short of indicating the
central bank will move ahead with a third round of government
bond-buying in comments at a symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “With the possibility of another round of stimulus finally
off the table we are seeing an expected sell off in risk assets
as the market did not get its fix and the Bernanke Put premium
is coming out of the market,”  Adrian Miller , a strategist at
Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New York wrote in a note
to clients.  The index is poised for its fifth weekly increase and is up
from 92.6 on July 22. The measure rose to 126.8 on Aug. 22, the
highest end-of-day price since June 9 2010.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  $600 Billion Market  Sales of asset-backed debt tied to consumer and business
lending may reach $105 billion this year, according to Wells
Fargo & Co. The market, which totals about $600 billion,
includes about $238 billion of student-loan bonds, $176 billion
of credit-card notes and $112 billion of auto debt, according to
 data  from Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.  Yields on asset-backed securities averaged 71 basis points
more than Treasuries as of Aug. 24, compared with as low as 66
basis points in April and 82 basis points at the end of 2010,
according to Barclays Capital’s broadest index for U.S.
securitized debt not linked to real estate. The benchmark is
composed of bonds tied to credit cards, automobiles and
utilities.  Less Exposed  Relative to high-yield company debt and commercial-mortgage
securities, asset-backed bonds represent a smaller market that’s
more difficult to bet against using default swaps, said Richard D’Albert, co-chief investment officer at Seer Capital Management
LP, a New York-based hedge fund overseeing about $400 million.
As a result, the notes are less exposed to general negative
views about the state of financial markets, he said.  Top-rated securities not tied to mortgages are “very
strong from a collateral perspective and they’re just not as
impacted by the broader technical issues,” said D’Albert, also
the former head of securitized products at Deutsche Bank AG.  Typical spreads versus benchmark swap rates on top-rated
two-year fixed-rate credit-card bonds ended last week at 11
basis points, the same as their 10-week average, JPMorgan data
shows. Those on similar securities backed by prime  car loans 
were 21 basis points, also the same, and those linked to near-
prime auto loans were 28 basis points, 1 basis point lower.  Student Loans   Securities tied to government-insured student loans, which
S&P is reviewing for downgrades after stripping the U.S. of its
AAA rating, have been an exception. Spreads on three-year
floating-rate debt widened to 60 basis points, from an average
of 46, the bank’s data show.  Late payments of at least 30 days on securitized U.S.
credit-card debt fell to an average 2.91 percent in July, the
lowest since at least 2002 and down from as high as 5.87 percent
in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Moody’s said it cut loss expectations by 20 percent to 50
percent on average for auto-loan bonds from 2009 and 2010 since
issuance because of an “exceptionally strong used vehicle
market” and delinquencies at “historical lows.”  ‘Bogeys’  About $3.9 billion in securities have been issued this
month, compared with $11.9 billion in July, according to
Bloomberg data. Total sales this year are at $84 billion,
compared with $126 billion in all of 2010.  August deals include a $300 million transaction by Wyndham
Worldwide Corp.’s finance unit backed by timeshare loans, a $600
million deal tied to motorcycle loans by Harley-Davidson Inc.,
and $650 million of bonds linked to rental cars by Avis Budget
Group Inc., according to people familiar with the offerings, who
declined to be identified because they were not authorized to
speak about the transactions.  Swings in credit markets have pushed several issuers, whose
offerings typically take longer than corporate borrowers’ to
complete, to put deals on hold even as demand remains solid,
said Brad Dansker, RBS’s head of U.S. term asset-backed
securities origination.  Investors are seeking a greater increase in spreads on
“esoteric” bonds and those with ratings below AAA, though
that’s partly because the overall yields otherwise would prove
insufficient to meet the “bogeys” of buyers of such debt, said
Pucel, his colleague.  “There is a heavy calendar building for the fall,”
Dansker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  