-- 
Barclays Golf, Yankees, Mets, Red Sox Bow to Hurricane Irene’s Threats

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-27T04:19:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/barclays-golf-shortened-mets-cancel-tennis-center-shuts-as-irene-nears.html
The Barclays   golf tournament  and
Major League Baseball’s  New York  Yankees, Mets and Boston Red
Sox were forced to submit to threats from Hurricane Irene as the
weather disturbance moves up the East Coast.  The hurricane, accompanied by 100 mph (161 kph) winds, is
forecast to reach the mid-Atlantic late today and the New York
area tomorrow. Organizers canceled or postponed sports events
along the Atlantic Coast as state officials closed down transit
systems often used by fans and workers to reach the sports
venues.  The golf tournament, being played at  Plainfield Country
Club  in Edison, New Jersey, was shortened to 54 holes from 72
because of the problems it could cause for post-storm cleanup
efforts, PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem said yesterday in a
statement.  “We realize that ‘waiting it out’ until Hurricane Irene
passes and trying to play golf on Monday or Tuesday would only
add unnecessary strain to those who will be trying to help the
community recover from whatever potential damage this storm
causes,” Finchem said in the statement.  Mets Cancel Weekend  The storm was about 180 miles (290 kilometers) south-
southwest of Cape Lookout,  North Carolina , and 235 miles (380
kilometers) south-southwest of Cape Hatteras, the National
Hurricane Center in Miami said last night in an advisory before
8 p.m. Eastern time. Irene was a Category 3 storm two days ago.  The threat of the storm prompted the Mets to call off its
weekend series against the Atlanta Braves, according to
spokesman  Jay Horwitz . Both games will be rescheduled as a
single-admission doubleheader on Sept. 8, starting at 4:10 p.m.
local time.  More than 65 million people from North Carolina to  Maine 
are in the path of the hurricane, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News. The storm could cause up to $10 billion in
overall economic loss, according to estimates by Kinetic
Analysis Corp.  Governors Andrew Cuomo of New York and  Chris Christie  of
 New Jersey  declared emergencies. Local buses, trains and subways
in New York,  Connecticut  and New Jersey will be shut down today.  Orioles Rearrange Schedule  In Baltimore, the Orioles postponed today’s doubleheader
against the Yankees at Camden Yards. The four-game Major League
Baseball series, which started last night, includes a day-night
doubleheader tomorrow with the final game Aug. 29. The second
game of today’s doubleheader was moved to Sept. 8.  Yesterday’s qualifying matches for the U.S. Open, held at
the National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows, New York, began
early and many players were scheduled to play two rounds,  U.S.
Tennis Association  spokesman Tim Curry said in an e-mail.  The tournament canceled today’s  Arthur Ashe Kids’ Day , an
event of interactive games and musical shows for children at the
tournament site, and said the grounds will be closed for at
least a day starting today at 5 p.m.  The  Philadelphia Phillies  postponed the night half of
today’s doubleheader against the Florida Marlins, previously
rescheduled from tomorrow. The game will be made up on Sept. 15,
the team announced on its Twitter page, leaving the Phillies
with 32 games in 31 days to finish the season.  The New York Giants and Jets moved their preseason game,
scheduled to be played this afternoon, to Aug. 29 at 7 p.m.
local time. Both teams are scheduled to be back on the field
Sept. 1 for their fourth preseason games.  Giants President and Chief Executive Officer John Mara said
he conferred with Christie, Jets owner  Woody Johnson  and NFL
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  and “we have determined the best
course of action for the safety and well being of all is to move
the game to Monday night.”  The  Boston Red Sox  canceled tomorrow’s home game, and will
instead play a doubleheader today. The  New Haven Open at Yale ,
the last WTA Tour tuneup before the U.S. Open, moved today’s
final at  New Haven , Connecticut, to 1 p.m. from 5 p.m. to avoid
the storm and Major League Soccer altered times and dates for a
trio of games in  Washington , Philadelphia and New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  