-- 
Bernanke Scholar Advises Bernanke Fed Chief to Be Bold on Monetary Policy

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-26T14:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/bernanke-scholar-advises-bernanke-fed-chief-to-be-bold-on-monetary-policy.html
Advice from  Ben S. Bernanke ,
scholar, to Ben S. Bernanke, Federal Reserve chairman: Be bold.  As a Princeton economics professor from 1985 to 2002 and a
Fed governor from 2002 to 2005, Bernanke -- a student of the
Great Depression and Japan’s lost decade -- faulted central
bankers for failing to act aggressively in both cases to provide
credit and weed out sickly financial institutions as they tried
to rescue their economies and combat deflation.  Bernanke admonished Japanese officials for their
unwillingness “to experiment, to try anything that isn’t
absolutely guaranteed,” in a 1999 paper on their monetary
policy. “Perhaps it’s time for some Rooseveltian resolve,” he
urged, referring to U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt’s
sometimes unpopular efforts to push through Congress fiscal and
social programs to pull America out of its worst slump.  Such conclusions from Bernanke’s scholarly research have
shaped the 57-year-old Augusta,  Georgia , native’s strategies for
fighting the 2007-2009 U.S. recession and financial crisis, both
the worst since the 1930s, and trying to rejuvenate the
sputtering recovery.  He has used the Fed’s powers to go where no U.S. central
bank chairmen, including Alan Greenspan and Paul Volcker, have
gone before: providing emergency loans to investment firms,
bolstering money-market mutual funds and making sure companies
had access to commercial paper -- short-term financing
businesses use to pay for supplies and salaries.  ‘Activist Chairman’  “He is, by far, the most activist chairman we’ve seen in
modern history,” said former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley . “No
other chairman has had a crisis of this magnitude to deal with,
other than the people running the Fed in the late 1920s and in
the 1930s, and they didn’t do a good job.”  With five of the nine economists on the academic panel that
dates U.S. recessions saying the odds of a new slump are rising,
Bernanke said in a speech today that the Fed still has tools to
stimulate the economy, without providing details or indicating
that the central bank will move ahead with a third round of
government bond-buying.  “Although important problems certainly exist, the growth
fundamentals of the  United States  do not appear to have been
permanently altered by the shocks of the past four years,”
Bernanke said in prepared comments at a symposium in Jackson
Hole,  Wyoming , hosted by the Kansas City Fed. “The  Federal
Reserve  will certainly do all that it can to help restore high
rates of growth and employment in a context of  price
stability ,”  Spur Expansion  Last year, faced with a steadily weakening economy and 9.6
percent unemployment, Bernanke used his Jackson Hole
presentation to signal that the Fed would embark on a second
round of bond purchases to spur expansion and head off
deflation.  While it’s difficult to tell whether the program, which
included $600 billion in assets, helped the recovery, inflation
expectations are higher now. The cost of living accelerated at
an annual pace of 1.8 percent in July, excluding volatile food
and energy costs. The gain was the largest in more than a year,
according to Labor Department data.  Bernanke’s strategies have been driven by his work in
academia, where he’s spent most of his professional life. Before
Princeton in  New Jersey , he taught at  Stanford University  in
 California , New York University and the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in Cambridge, where he earned a doctorate in
economics after graduating from  Harvard University .  Second Term  He served as chairman of the President’s Council of
Economic Advisers from 2005 to 2006, when he became Fed
chairman; he started a second four-year term in 2010.  “His thinking is informed deeply by his scholarly works,”
said economist Matthew Slaughter, associate dean of Dartmouth’s
Tuck School of Business in Hanover,  New Hampshire , who worked
with Bernanke on the economic-advisers council under President
George W. Bush. “He’d rather err on the side of doing too much,
rather than too little, when dealing with the fallout from a
financial crisis.”  Trying to avert a second Great Depression in 2008, Bernanke
has said he was determined not to repeat the mistakes of Fed
policy makers during the 1930s.  “Probably our most important finding is the confirmation
of the view that monetary forces played an important role in the
world Depression in both its early and later stages,” Bernanke
wrote in a 1999 paper about the crisis. Even though the central
bank’s actions were “generally expansionary” after 1931, they
were “insufficient to counter the powerful deflationary forces
that previous policy mistakes had unleashed,” he wrote.  ‘Passivity to Timidity’  The initial responses from the Fed and President  Herbert Hoover ’s administration “ran the gamut from passivity to
timidity,” Bernanke said in an April 8, 2010, speech in
 Washington . They erred by failing to act aggressively to prevent
a wave of bank collapses, sever the link between the U.S. dollar
and gold, and provide credit to stabilize the financial system,
he wrote in essays on the era.  Then, in late 1936 and 1937, the Fed tightened credit too
soon and Roosevelt’s administration made a mistake by tightening
fiscal policy too soon, according to Bernanke, who blamed the
actions for crippling the nascent recovery. The country fell
back into a recession in 1937.  All this taught Bernanke that “policy makers must respond
forcefully, creatively and decisively” and “crises that are
international in scope require an international response,” he
said in the April speech. He’s applied what he learned in
engaging with his Fed colleagues in “what I call blue-sky
thinking, generating many ideas,” he said.  Credit Clogs  Besides developing special lending programs aimed at
breaking through credit clogs, Bernanke has taken other
unprecedented steps. He slashed the Fed’s benchmark interest
rate from 5.25 percent in early August 2007 to a near-zero
record low in December 2008, where it remains.  He forced the nation’s biggest banks to undergo “stress
tests” to see how they would hold up if the economy weakened.
And the Fed, for the first time, bought mortgage securities in
addition to government debt in a bid to revive the crippled
housing market and spur Americans to spend more.  “Bernanke’s studies of the Great Depression taught him
that it is better to jump in with both feet and take action,”
Gramley said. “If he let the crisis spread and feed on itself,
we would have gone down the tubes.”  Payroll-Tax Cut  After the Fed embarked on its $600 billion bond-purchase
program in November, Bernanke called on Congress and President
Barack Obama to follow up with more fiscal stimulus. They did: A
stimulus package, including a payroll-tax cut, was enacted in
late December.  His call echoed similar advice he gave to  Japan  as a Fed
governor in 2003, when the world’s third largest economy was
struggling with deflation and a stagnant economy.  “One possible approach to ending deflation in Japan would
be greater cooperation for a limited time between the monetary
authorities and the fiscal authorities,” he said. “The  Bank of
Japan  should consider increasing still further its purchases of
government debt, preferably in explicit conjunction with a
program of tax cuts or other fiscal stimulus,” he said.  In his 1999 paper, Bernanke had chided Japan for not acting
aggressively to fight deflation and revive its economy, saying
its monetary policy “seems to be suffering from a self-induced
paralysis.”  Inflation Target  He urged the central bank to hold  interest rates  low until
inflation picked up, buy  government bonds  to bolster the economy
since interest rates were already at zero, and consider adopting
an explicit inflation target in the 3 percent to 4 percent range
and maintain it for “a number of years.” A commitment to keep
rates at zero at least until deflationary concerns subsided was
“a problem” because of “its vagueness,” he said, urging the
central bank to link its pledge to achieving the inflation
target.  “I do not see how credibility can be harmed by
straightforward, honest dialogue between policy makers and the
public,” Bernanke said.  He followed his own advice on Aug. 9, when he and a
majority of his colleagues said they would keep the Fed’s target
for the rate on overnight loans among banks at a record low at
least into mid-2013. It was the first time the Fed had made such
an explicit time pledge.  Unconventional Measures  Although Bernanke’s unconventional measures have earned him
recognition, including as Time magazine’s Person of the Year in
2009, they haven’t shielded him from criticism.  Lawmakers including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell,
a Republican from Kentucky, and House Majority Leader John Boehner of  Ohio , have blasted Bernanke for the second round of
asset purchases, saying it could lead to dangerously higher
inflation and ignite a wave of speculative buying that could
feed another asset bubble.  Other Fed chairmen also have been criticized for bold
action. Volcker in the early 1980s pushed interest rates to a
record 20 percent to target inflation above 13 percent. While
prices eventually dropped, the economy fell into a 16-month
recession in July 1981 after emerging from a six-month slump in
July 1980.  Greenspan, after the 2001 recession, slashed the Fed’s
benchmark interest rate to 1 percent in late June 2003, the
lowest since 1958, and held it there for a year in a bid to fend
off what he called a remote chance of deflation. Critics blame
him for inflating the housing bubble that burst in 2007 and
thrusting the economy into recession by holding interest rates
too low for too long.  Even so, Bernanke has presided over even more economic
upheaval.  “Bernanke walked into a hurricane and became the most
activist chairman of the Fed,” said economic historian and
author John Steele Gordon, whose books include “The Great Game:
The Emergence of  Wall Street  as a World Power.” History “will
judge whether his policies worked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  