-- 
Bernanke Doesn’t Signal More Stimulus

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-08-26T17:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/bernanke-says-fed-has-stimulus-tools-doesn-t-signal-their-use.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank still has tools to stimulate a
recovery that has been weaker than forecast while sticking to
his view that growth will pick up.  Bernanke, in a speech today to central bankers and
economists at an annual forum in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , didn’t
give details on the measures the Fed might take or signal when
or whether policy makers might deploy them. A second day has
been added to the next Federal Open Market Committee meeting in
September to “allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and
the Fed’s possible response, Bernanke said.  Bernanke said the recovery is likely to improve in the
second half of this year as he sought to reassure investors and
the public that U.S. growth is safe in the long run and that the
Fed can aid the recovery if needed. Bernanke didn’t close the
door in today’s speech to options he has previously discussed,
including a third round of government bond buying.  “The  Federal Reserve  has a range of tools that could be
used to provide additional monetary stimulus,” Bernanke said.
The FOMC after its Aug. 9 meeting pledged for the first time to
keep its benchmark interest rate at a record low at least
through mid-2013 to energize a recovery that’s “considerably
slower” than anticipated.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index initially extended losses,
then erased them, rising 1.5 percent to 1,177.11 at 1:22 p.m. in
 New York . Stocks rallied earlier this week on speculation that
Bernanke would telegraph more monetary stimulus. Yields on 10-
year Treasuries fell to 2.18 percent today from 2.23 percent
yesterday.  ‘More Optimistic’  Bernanke said that while the slumping housing market and
financial-market volatility still pose challenges for the
economy, his view of the long-term outlook is “more
optimistic.”  “Although important problems certainly exist, the growth
fundamentals of the  United States  do not appear to have been
permanently altered by the shocks of the past four years,”
Bernanke said at the mountainside symposium hosted by the Kansas
City Fed. “It may take some time, but we can reasonably expect
to see a return to growth rates and employment levels consistent
with those underlying fundamentals.”  The FOMC this month said that it was “prepared to employ”
additional tools “as appropriate” to aid the economy.  In today’s speech, Bernanke, 57, repeated that line from
the statement without elaborating on the options, in contrast to
last year’s talk at the Jackson Hole event, when he discussed
several tools, including asset purchases. “We discussed the
relative merits and costs of such tools at our August meeting,”
Bernanke said today.  All It Can  The next FOMC meeting, originally scheduled to begin and
end Sept. 20, will now conclude Sept. 21, Bernanke said. He
closed his remarks with the line that the Fed “will certainly
do all that it can to help restore high rates of growth and
employment in a context of  price stability .”  “Economic performance is clearly subpar, and from that
standpoint the case for some sort of further economic-policy
assistance is just being made by the poor performance,” said
 Keith Hembre , chief economist and investment strategist in
 Minneapolis  at Nuveen Asset Management, which oversees about
$212 billion.  Still, while Bernanke said the Fed has stimulus tools left,
“the threshold to utilizing them is going to require fairly
different conditions than what we have today,” such as lower
inflation or a resurgence in financial instability, Hembre said.  Reducing Deficits  Bernanke, a former Princeton University economist, repeated
his call for Congress to adopt a “credible plan for reducing
future deficits over the longer term” without harming U.S.
growth in the near term.  He also said that the “extraordinarily high level of long-
term unemployment” adds urgency to the need to boost job
growth. At the same time, the Fed can’t do it alone: “Most of
the economic policies that support robust economic growth in the
long run are outside the province of the central bank,”
Bernanke said.  Last year, the Fed chief used his  Jackson Hole  speech to
lay the groundwork for a second round of bond purchases, also
known as quantitative easing. The central bank decided in
November to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June 2011.  “The lack of a QE3 outline today, to the extent that is
disappointing to some, does not mean that outline is not coming
in the future,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at New
York-based brokerage firm BTIG LLC, said in a research note.  Deflation Risk  Bernanke said in June that one difference between this year
and last August was that in 2010, “inflation was very low and
falling” and deflation was a “nontrivial risk.” The Fed’s
asset purchases “have been very successful in eliminating
deflation risk,” he said at a press conference.  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, which excludes food
and energy prices, rose 1.3 percent for the 12 months ending in
June. That’s up from a record-low increase of 0.9 percent for
the 12 months ending in December.  Even with joblessness at 9.1 percent, any push to buy more
bonds risks a backlash from critics inside the Fed and in
Congress who say the Fed’s policies have done little to spur the
economy and may fuel inflation.  “The stage is set for a resurgence of inflation if the Fed
is not careful,” Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the senior
Republican on the Senate Banking Committee, said last month.  Less than two hours before Bernanke’s speech, the
government reported that the economy expanded at a 1 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, compared with an initial
estimate of 1.3 percent growth. The reduction reflected a
smaller increase in inventories and fewer exports.  ‘Moderate Recovery’  “Although we expect a moderate recovery to continue and
indeed to strengthen over time, the Committee has marked down
its outlook for the likely pace of growth over coming
quarters,” Bernanke said today without specifying the forecast.  The housing market, which has been a “significant driver”
of U.S. post-recession growth rebounds since World War II, is
slowing the “natural recovery process” now, Bernanke said.  Also, “financial stress has been and continues to be a
significant drag” on growth, Bernanke said, acknowledging that
“bouts of sharp volatility and risk aversion in markets have
recently re-emerged in reaction to concerns about both European
sovereign debts and developments related to the U.S. fiscal
situation.”  The Fed’s Aug. 9 decision means that in what Fed officials
judge to be the “most likely scenarios for resource utilization
and inflation in the medium term, the target for the federal
funds rate would be held at its current low levels for at least
two more years,” Bernanke said today.  Fed Dissent  Bernanke pushed through the decision over opposition from
three regional Fed presidents who preferred that the Fed stick
with its previous commitment to hold rates for an unspecified
“extended period.”  The dissents from the presidents of the Federal Reserve
banks of Philadelphia,  Dallas  and Minneapolis marked the most
opposition Bernanke has encountered since he took the Fed’s helm
in February 2006.  The FOMC at its August meeting offered a dimmer view of the
economy, noting a “deterioration in overall labor-market
conditions in recent months” and that household spending had
“flattened out.”  Hiring has slowed as employers lost confidence in the
recovery and governments reduced positions. Average monthly
payroll gains dropped to 72,000 in the three months through
July, from 215,000 in the prior three months. The jobless rate
fell to 9.1 percent in July from 9.2 percent in June as
Americans gave up looking for work.  Besides buying  government bonds , the Fed could cut the 0.25
percent  interest rate  it pays bank on the $1.6 trillion in
excess reserves parked at the Fed. It also could replace
shorter-term securities with longer maturities, which may help
lower interest rates on mortgages and other long-term debt. The
Fed also could pledge to keep its balance sheet near a record
high of $2.86 trillion for an “extended period” or for a
specific time period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  