-- 
Biden Says Business Pressure May Have Affected Change in S&P's Leadership

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/biden-says-business-pressure-may-have-affected-s-p-leadership.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said
pressure from U.S. businesses that suffered as a result of the
first downgrade of  U.S. debt  may have influenced Standard &
Poor’s decision to replace its president.  “There were probably an awful lot of businesses out there
going, ‘what the hell did you guys do?’”  Biden said in an
interview with reporters on board Air Force Two yesterday on the
way to his home in Wilmington,  Delaware , after a nine-day trip
to  China , Mongolia and  Japan . There was “a lot of pressure from
a lot of places.”  Biden said S&P’s Aug. 5 decision to downgrade U.S. debt to
AA+ from AAA “rebounded back to impacting on  Wall Street  and
impacting on American business.” Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  has criticized the downgrade, saying the U.S. deserves a
“quadruple A” rating.  Biden said he didn’t know the internal politics that led to
the leadership change within the ratings company and he said he
thinks pressure didn’t come from the government.  “It’s not like we are in a position where American
industry is cash-starved, where there’s no capital available,”
he said. “It’s about getting to the point where consumers start
to purchase. And that requires that they be more confident about
the job environment and the pay scale environment changing.”  Treasuries Rally  Instead of falling in value after the downgrade, Treasuries
rallied and the government’s borrowing costs fell to record
lows. While stocks fell, wiping $2.5 trillion from the market
value of global equities on the first trading day after the
downgrade, the gain in benchmark 10-year government notes sent
yields down more than a quarter percentage point, to 2.19
percent yesterday. The yield was 2.56 percent on Aug. 5, and has
since declined as low as 2.03 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index of U.S. stocks has declined
1.88 percent since Aug. 5. The index closed today at 1176.80, up
1.51 percent for the day.  On Aug. 22 S&P’s parent McGraw-Hill Co. said in an e-mailed
statement that Douglas Peterson, 53, Citibank NA’s chief
operating officer, is taking over as president of S&P from Deven Sharma, 55, who will leave at the end of the year to “pursue
other opportunities.” Peterson, 53, will start Sept. 12 and
Sharma will work on the company’s strategic review in the
meantime.  S&P Process  S&P said earlier this week it started the process for
replacing Sharma before its U.S. downgrade after overseeing a
split of the company into a credit rater and McGraw-Hill
Financial.  “Deven assisted us with the creation of these two high-
growth segments and was then ready for new challenges,” Terry McGraw, chairman, chief executive officer and president of the
company, said in a statement. “Accordingly, we began a process
to identify a new leader for S&P.”  David Beers , S&P’s global head of sovereign and
international public finance ratings, told reporters in
 Singapore  before Biden spoke that it’s an “oversimplification”
to blame the S&P’s downgrade for market volatility.  Amid evidence of a slowing world economy, “markets
digesting all these news have concluded that the near-, perhaps
medium-term, outlook for global growth has become less
certain,” Beers said. “This was all happening before the
downgrade and has continued after some of the noise around the
downgrade.”  “There’s no connection between the downgrade of the U.S.
and Mr. Sharma’s departure,” said S&P spokesman  Edward Sweeney 
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Pace of Recovery  The Obama administration is under fire from Republicans in
the U.S. over the slow pace of the recovery from the worst
recession since the Great Depression and the nation’s long-term
deficit.  When asked if there would be new proposals to stimulate job
growth in the president’s economic plan expected to be unveiled
after Labor Day, Biden said that while he and Obama have “spent
a lot of time talking about this,” he wouldn’t comment on the
plan’s contents. He said in an Aug. 22 interview that a payroll
tax cut for businesses was being considered.  He said since he’s been traveling he hasn’t “seen how it’s
progressed” and whether things that he’s “been pushing” for
would be included in the final plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower on  Air Force  Two at   kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  