-- 
Biden Leaves Asia Offering a No-Apology Message to U.S. Audience

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/biden-leaves-asia-offering-a-no-apology-message-to-u-s-audience.html
With just two hours left in his trip
to Asia, Vice President  Joe Biden  wanted to make something clear
to the audience back home.  “I didn’t come to explain a damn thing,” he told U.S.
military personnel on Aug. 24 at  Yokota Air Base  in  Japan , where
he spent his final days in Asia after four days in China and a
stop in  Mongolia .  Biden was dismissing reports that suggested his trip to
meet with leaders of the world’s second biggest economy after
the U.S. was intended to “explain our economic situation.”  The vice president’s last stop was at Marine Corps Base
Hawaii on Kaneohe Bay yesterday before heading home.  “Asia and the United States are not separated by a great
ocean,” he told the troops and family members. “We are bound by
it. You are the blood and sinew that binds us. Over the last 60
years, no country has done more than the  United States  to
promote the stability and security of the Asia-Pacific region.
And the very growth of China in the Pacific basin is a
consequence” of stability created by U.S. troops.  The Obama administration is under fire from Republicans
in the U.S. over the slow pace of the recovery from the worst
recession since the Great Depression and the nation’s
long-term deficit.  While planned for months, Biden’s three-nation visit came
less than two weeks after Standard & Poor’s Aug. 5 announcement
that it was downgrading  U.S. debt  for the first time to AA+ from
AAA. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, the two next
biggest rating companies, affirmed their AAA ratings on the U.S.  Chinese Commentary  China  is the biggest foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries and
China’s official Xinhua News Agency published a commentary, as
Biden arrived in the country, saying “runaway” U.S. debt was
“a ticking time bomb.”  In an Aug. 22 interview on board Air Force Two, Biden, 68,
said “there were no probing questions about our economy”
during his private meetings with Chinese leaders. Still, in his
public remarks in Beijing with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao at his
side, Biden said he wanted “to make clear you have nothing to
worry about,” adding that he and Wen shared an “absolute and
mutual confidence” in the U.S. economy.  “He is not someone who has been known always to stick
closely to the wording that was given to him by his handlers,”
said  Kenneth Lieberthal , senior fellow and director of the John
L. Thornton China Center of Biden’s remarks. “He probably
didn’t feel that he had to justify what the U.S. had done or
will do but was perfectly happy to give the Chinese his very
well-informed views on the situation in the U.S.”  Confidence in U.S.  Lieberthal said Chinese leaders were careful to publicly
express their confidence in the  U.S. economy  because they have
such a big stake in it.  “They weren’t trying to box him in or humiliate him,”
Lieberthal said in an interview.  While U.S. debt and the global economy dominated the public
portion of his China visit, one of the primary purposes was to
get to know Biden’s official host, Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping, who is likely to succeed President  Hu Jintao  in 2013.  Xi, 58, is the son of a former Communist Party boss and
governor of southern China’s Guangdong Province. Before taking
the vice president’s post, Xi served as Communist Party
secretary for  Shanghai  and prior to that held the same post in
Zhejiang, the second-richest province in China in per capita
terms.  Several Days  Biden spent several days with Xi, who was with the U.S.
vice president in Chengdu and then traveled with Biden to
Dujiangyan, a city in Sichuan Province where tens of thousands
of people were killed by an earthquake in May 2008.  Biden described Xi as “strong” and “pragmatic” and
intent on building a “personal friendship.”  Sources of friction between the U.S. and China did come up
during Biden’s meetings. Those include  Taiwan ,  Tibet  and China’s
currency.  While the Chinese will “continue to let their currency be
revalued marginally, I don’t think we’re going to see any
substantial change” in the next 12 months, Biden said in the
interview. One of the reasons is that China is going through a
transition over the next two years, he said. The year 2012 will
not be “a year of radical change in China.”  While Biden was in China, six U.S-based businesses
completed commercial deals with the Chinese, which the
administration said would increase U.S. exports and new
investment in the U.S. by more than $500 million.  Environmental Review  The deals include an agreement between  St. Louis , Missouri-
based  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal producer, and
the government of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region to start
environmental reviews ahead of a mine project in Xinjiang and a
deal between Carlsbad, California-based  Solatube International ,
which makes devices to capture and distribute daylight for
buildings, through its Chinese subsidiary with China Kunshan
Huaqiao Economic Development Zone.  Biden also visited Mongolia, where he thanked the leaders
of the Alaska-sized nation with fewer than 3 million people for
sending troops to Afghanistan and Iraq, and he stopped in Japan
where he expressed U.S. support for its reconstruction following
the earthquake, tsunami and subsequent nuclear plant meltdown.  Biden stirred criticism in the U.S. for a portion of his
speech on Aug. 21 at Sichuan University in Chengdu, a thriving
city in southwest China. While saying China’s policy of one
child per family isn’t sustainable because the demographic
pressures it’s creating, Biden said it’s “one which I fully
understand -- I’m not second-guessing.”  Leading Contenders  Republicans, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio 
and two leading contenders for the party’s presidential
nomination, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and Texas
Governor  Rick Perry , accused Biden of sanctioning the one-child
policy.  “No government on Earth has the authority to place quotas
on the value of innocent human life,” Boehner said in a
statement.  The vice president’s office released a statement saying the
administration “strongly opposes” China’s birth limits and
that he was arguing against it to a Chinese audience.  Jeff Bader  , who was senior director for  Asia  affairs at
the National Security Council until April and is now a visiting
scholar with the John L. Thornton China Center at the  Brookings
Institution , called Biden’s remarks “accurate” and “sensitive
to his audience.”  “He offered a criticism in a manner that Chinese will
understand and can appreciate,” Bader said.  Another event that clouded the message of Biden’s goodwill
trip was a fight that broke out between the Georgetown
University basketball team and a Chinese team at Beijing’s
Olympic gymnasium the day after Biden’s arrival.  “That kind of thing could happen in a game at home and it
wouldn’t have political consequences,” Biden said in the
interview, calling the brawl “unfortunate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Honolulu, Hawaii at   kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  