-- 
BlackRock Seeks to Run Exchange-Traded Funds Using Own Indexes

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-08-26T22:24:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/blackrock-seeks-clearance-to-run-exchange-traded-funds-using-own-indexes.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
money manager, is seeking regulatory clearance for its iShares
exchange-traded funds to follow proprietary indexes rather than
those developed by third parties such as  Standard & Poor’s .  The application, filed by iShares yesterday with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, would allow future and
existing funds to use in-house indexes the firm will create.
IShares, a San Francisco-based subsidiary of BlackRock, ranks as
the biggest provider of index-based ETFs with some $649 billion
in assets under management in more than 460 funds.  The ETF industry is becoming increasingly crowded,
prompting managers to cut fees in order to attract and retain
assets, according to Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist
for Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC. Offering
funds based on proprietary indexes would help  New York ’s
BlackRock set itself apart from rivals and burnish the company’s
brand name, said George Simon, a securities attorney at Foley &
Lardner LLP in  Chicago  who specializes in ETFs.  “The game here in the ETF world is to find exclusive
licenses that you can offer that other people can’t,” Simon
said today in a telephone interview, adding that he had no
specific knowledge on the iShares application. “What better way
to do that than offer your own, assuming they have some
intrinsic value.”  Christine Hudacko, a spokeswoman for iShares, declined to
comment.  ETFs, typically designed to mimic indexes, hold baskets of
securities while trading throughout the day like stocks.  S&P, MSCI  All of the iShares index funds currently track benchmarks
provided by firms such as S&P, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., and
 MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , both of which are located in New York. BlackRock,
which acquired IShares through its $15.2 billion purchase of
 Barclays Global Investors  in 2009, must pay licensing fees in
order for the funds to use the outside indexes.  The SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, managed by Boston-based State
Street Corp., pays Standard & Poor’s a licensing fee of .03
percent, or about three basis points, of assets, plus an annual
fee of $600,000, according to the fund’s most recent prospectus.
That equaled $21.9 million for the year ended Sept. 30, 2010, or
28 percent of the fund’s $79.2 million in annual operating
expenses, including its management fee, the document shows.  BlackRock, which manages $3.7 trillion in assets, doesn’t
break out licensing fees for outside indexes in its filings.  Affiliate Permission  IShares’ SEC application requests permission to set up
funds that use indexes “created, compiled, sponsored and/or
maintained” by affiliates. Existing funds would also be able to
change their “respective investment objective” from seeking to
track an outside index to seeking to track a BlackRock index
“if deemed appropriate” by the funds’ advisers, according to
the application.  The SEC has limited the ability of ETFs to rely on in-house
indexes out of concern that benchmarks run by affiliates might
be prone to manipulation, said Kathleen Moriarty, a securities
attorney at Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP in New York who
specializes in ETFs. While the agency has granted firms such as
WisdomTree Asset Management Inc. and Russell Investments
clearance to use their own indexes at affiliated ETFs, these
advisers agreed to rely on an outside agent to calculate,
maintain and disseminate information on the benchmark, whereas
BlackRock proposes to handle those functions internally, the
application says.  “What the SEC has always been concerned about is
collusion,” said Moriarty, who helped develop the  SPDR S&P 500
ETF Trust (SPY) , which became the first index-based exchange traded
fund in 1993. “You might call your friendly index provider and
say ‘I want you to change the index tomorrow so I can buy
IBM.’”  Putting Up Firewalls  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC in Washington,
declined to comment.  IShares said in its application that neither the advisers
to the funds nor the internal index provider would have the
ability to manipulate a benchmark, in part because the company
plans to set up “firewalls.” Each BlackRock index would be
rules-based, composed of equity and/or fixed-income securities,
whose methodology would be clearly disclosed, according to the
application.  The indexes will be created and provided by a BlackRock
subsidiary or division that relies on its “own proprietary
model employing intellectual property and industry expertise.”
BlackRock Fund Advisors or an affiliate would pay the indexing
subsidiary a licensing fee on behalf of funds that use its
benchmarks.  “If I’m BlackRock and I have the granddaddy of ETFs with
iShares, how do I continue to make mine stand out with so many
others cramming into the market?” said Luschini at Janney
Montgomery Scott. One way would be to create benchmarks,
Luschini said, that “can be better replicated by an ETF.”  BlackRock rose $2.35, or 1.5 percent, to $160.99 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in  Washington  at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  