-- 
Suicide Car-Bomb Blast at United Nations Center in Nigeria Kills 18 People

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-08-26T17:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/blast-at-un-building-in-nigerian-capital-kills-five-rescue-agency-says.html
At least 18 people were killed today
in a suicide car-bomb attack on a  United Nations  office complex
in  Nigeria ’s capital, Abuja, police said.  The explosion took place after a Honda CR-V crashed into
the main UN building on Independence Avenue in the central
business district, Abuja Police Commissioner Mike Zuokumor told
reporters. More than 30 people were wounded, said Manzo Ezekiel,
a spokesman for the National Emergency Management Agency.  The blast destroyed the reception area and tore out the
first floor of the four-story building, leaving concrete beams
exposed and shattered glass strewn over the compound. At least
12 UN agencies operated in the building, a UN spokeswoman,
Corinne Momal-Vanian, said by phone from Geneva.  The death toll will be “considerable,” UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon told reporters today in  New York . “This was
an assault on those who devote their lives to helping others,”
he said, declining to give an estimate of the number of
casualties. He said it was too soon to determine who was behind
the assault.  A militant Islamic group known as Boko Haram, which draws
inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, claimed
responsibility for today’s the attack, the  BBC  reported on its
 website , citing a phone call by a spokesman for the group.  ‘Barbaric, Senseless’  The blast today was “barbaric, senseless and cowardly,”
President  Goodluck Jonathan  said in an e-mailed statement.  The attack was the deadliest against the UN since 17
workers were killed in the bombing of its offices in the
Algerian capital, Algiers, in December 2007. The worst attack in
the organization’s history was in August 2003, when a bomb
killed 22 people at the UN’s Iraq headquarters in  Baghdad ,
including the head of the mission, Sergio Vieira de Mello.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  condemned the attack as
“horrific and cowardly” in a statement released by the White
House. “An attack on Nigerian and international public servants
demonstrates the bankruptcy of the ideology that led to this
heinous action,” he said.  “Around the world the UN works for peace, security and
international cooperation and an attack on the UN is an attack
on those principles,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said
in a statement e-mailed by the Foreign Office.  Boko Haram has been blamed by Nigerian authorities for a
series of bomb attacks and killings since last year. Gunmen
suspected to be members of the group attacked a police station
and a bank yesterday in the northeastern town of Gombi, killing
16 people, including five police officers, a soldier and 10 bank
customers, said Ahmed Isa, a local official.  Some bank customers were shot dead by the attackers when
they couldn’t recite the Koran, the Lagos-based  Guardian
newspaper  reported today.  Attempt on Police  Police shot and killed a man who tried to drive a car laden
with explosives into their headquarters in the northeastern city
of Maiduguri on Aug. 15 as recruits were being interviewed.  “What the attackers are trying to demonstrate through
these series of coordinated attacks is that the state can’t
protect Nigerians and it can’t protect foreigners,” Jude Uzonwanne, head of the Nigeria office of  Monitor Group , Boston-
based investment advisers, said today in a phone interview from
Amsterdam. “It’s bad for the investment climate as it will make
it feel very uncomfortable.”  Jonathan’s administration is likely to “come down strongly
on Boko Haram” in response to today’s blast, Martin Ewi, a
senior researcher at the  Pretoria , South Africa-based Institute
for Security Studies, said in a phone interview. “The
consequences for Boko Haram will be far-reaching. They will be
condemned by international governments, not just Nigeria.”  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous nation with more than 140
million people, is roughly split between a mainly Muslim north
and a predominantly Christian south. More than 14,000 people
died in ethnic and religious clashes in the West African nation
between 1999 and 2009, according to the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 