-- 
BNY Mellon Said to Plan Sale of $17 Billion Alcentra Unit

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-26T18:10:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/bny-mellon-said-to-plan-sale-of-alcentra-unit-managing-17-billion-assets.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  is
seeking buyers for its Alcentra unit, which manages $17 billion
of loans and high-yield bonds, according to four people with
direct knowledge of the plan.  The world’s biggest custody bank hired  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  to run the sale of the group that manages the majority of its
assets in collateralized loan obligations in both the U.S. and
Europe, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private.  More than $54 billion worth of contracts to manage CLOs
have been sold in the U.S. since the start of 2010 as bigger
managers buy up smaller rivals as issuance of the securities
remains low, according to data compiled by Barclays Plc. New CLO
formation might be at risk due to rules proposed by the Dodd-
Frank Act, which could lead to more consolidation.  “Definitely the most dangerous part of the regulatory
environment is the unknown consequences,” Justin Pauley, a CLO
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a telephone
interview. “If it were to pass as proposed today, several
managers wouldn’t be able to raise CLOs because of the  capital
requirements .”  David Forbes-Nixon, Alcentra chairman, declined to comment.
Kevin Heine, a Bank of  New York  spokesman, said the bank doesn’t
comment on market rumors or speculation. Jack Grone, a Credit
Suisse spokesman, declined to comment.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  Risk-Retention Rules  New risk-retention rules proposed by the Dodd-Frank Act in
the U.S. would force lenders to hold at least a 5 percent stake
in debt they package or sell. The proposed rules could
“basically end CLO formation entirely,” Bram Smith, the
executive director of the Loan Syndications and Trading
Association told a Congressional panel in April.  There have been $7 billion of CLOs backed by widely
syndicated loans issued in the U.S. this year, according to
Bloomberg data. There was only one fund-managed CLO in  Europe 
this year for 858 million euros ($1.2 billion), according to the
data. In 2007 there were $91.1 billion of CLOs arranged in the
U.S. and $55.6 billion in Europe, according to Morgan Stanley
data.  Alcentra became a subsidiary of Bank of New York in January
2006, according to its  website .  Citi Capital Deal  Earlier this month Citi Capital Advisors acquired four CLOs
worth $2 billion from DiMaio Ahmad Capital LLC. There have been
$4.5 billion of CLOs purchased in August, according to Bloomberg
data.  CLOs have been the primary source of new funding for
European loans during the last ten years and the majority of
them will reach the end of their reinvestment period between
2012 and 2014, according to an Aug. 22 report from  Standard &
Poor’s .  “With the prospect of little-to-moderate new CLO creation
and a general paucity of loan and capital market credit in
Europe, this could leave many borrowers short in the coming
years, possibly leading to a second spike up in leveraged-loan
defaults in Europe,” S&P analysts wrote in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  