-- 
BofA Shares Rise as CNBC Says CCB Sale May Close Next Week

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-26T20:16:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/bofa-shares-rise-as-cnbc-says-ccb-sale-may-close-next-week-1-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. bank, gained 1.4 percent in  New York  trading after CNBC
reported that the lender may sell a stake in  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939)  as early as Aug. 29.  Shares of Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
rose 11 cents to $7.76 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, after reaching $7.98 earlier today. The
shares rallied 9.4 percent yesterday after Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. said it would invest $5 billion in the
lender in return for preferred shares and warrants. They fell 43
percent this year through yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan is looking to sell
some of the stake in CCB, the world’s second-biggest bank by
market value, to bolster capital before new international
standards take effect, three people familiar with the matter
said in June. The sale may raise $8.5 billion to $9 billion,
depending on the  exchange rate  and CCB’s closing share price at
the time of the deal, CNBC reported, citing an unidentified
person familiar with the matter.  The stake, which is the U.S. bank’s largest holding by
market value, equaled about 10.6 percent of CCB’s Hong Kong-
listed shares as of Dec. 31, according to Bloomberg data. A
lockup period in which Bank of America is prohibited from
selling most of its shares expires Aug. 29.  Jerry Dubrowski , a
Bank of America spokesman, declined to comment on CNBC’s report.  Bank of America shares tumbled 7.9 percent on Aug. 22 after
CCB President Zhang Jianguo told reporters in Hong Kong that the
U.S. lender agreed to retain at least half its 10 percent
holding.  CCB’s shares have dropped 24 percent this year on the  Hong
Kong  stock exchange amid concern loan defaults may climb. The
Beijing-based bank reported on Aug. 22 that first-half profit
jumped 31 percent to a record as credit demand fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  