-- 
BP Spill Victims Win Judge’s Approval to Seek Punitive Damages

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/bp-spill-victims-can-t-use-state-law-in-loss-suits-judge-says.html
Businesses and individuals suing  BP
Plc (BP/)  and other companies involved in the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil
spill won a federal judge’s approval to seek punitive damages in
pursuing claims of economic and environmental losses.  BP and the other companies claimed the U.S. Oil Pollution
Act prevented plaintiffs from collecting punitive damages. U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  ruled yesterday that
the statute is “silent as to the availability of punitive
damages” and plaintiffs can pursue such claims under maritime
law.  “OPA does not displace general maritime law claims for
those plaintiffs who would have been able to bring such claims
prior to OPA’s enactment,” Barbier said. “These plaintiffs
assert plausible claims for punitive damages against responsible
and non-responsible parties.”  Barbier also allowed boat owners to go forward with
lawsuits under federal oil pollution law contending their
vessels were damaged while working to clean up the spill. The
judge also let companies proceed with claims over revenue lost
because of the government moratorium on deep-water drilling in
the  Gulf of Mexico  that was imposed after the spill.  Barbier dismissed economic loss claims by individuals and
businesses under state law, while allowing the plaintiffs to
pursue these suits under federal maritime and environmental
laws.  100,000 Claims  The Macondo well blowout and the explosion that followed
killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors. The
lawsuits over economic losses and personal injuries have been
combined before Barbier.  ‘There are in excess of 100,000 claims” in the complaint
affected by yesterday’s ruling, the judge said.  Barbier ruled yesterday only on non-governmental economic
loss and property-damage claims. The ruling doesn’t cover claims
brought by state, local and tribal governments.  The lawsuits also name as defendants  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig that exploded; Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
was responsible for cementing services; and  Cameron
International Corp. (CAM) , which provided blowout prevention
equipment. BP’s minority partners in the well,  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, were
also sued.  Barbier has scheduled a nonjury trial for February 2012 to
determine fault.  ‘All Major Points’  “We’re extremely pleased with the ruling,” Steve Herman,
a plaintiffs’ attorney, said in a phone interview. “The court
agreed with us on all major points.”  Dismissal of state law issues brought by individuals and
businesses “may have some minor effects on some claims but it’s
not like they’re getting kicked out of court,” Herman said.
“They still have claims under federal law.”  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, and Beverly Stafford, a
Halliburton spokeswoman, declined to comment on yesterday’s
ruling. Anadarko spokesman John Christiansen and  Guy Cantwell , a
Transocean spokesman, had no immediate comment.  David J. Beck, an attorney for Houston-based Cameron,
didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment yesterday. A Moex spokesman said the company is
reviewing the decision.  Barbier dismissed maritime claims against Anadarko, based
in The Woodlands, Texas, and Moex in the non-governmental suits.
They remain in the lawsuits under the federal Oil Pollution Act.  The case is In Re  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 