-- 
Brazilian Futures Yields Fall Ahead of Central Bank Meeting

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 
2011-08-26T16:14:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/brazilian-futures-yields-fall-ahead-of-central-bank-meeting.html
Yields on Brazilian  interest-rate 
futures contracts fell amid increased speculation that policy
makers will move to cut interest rates for the first time in
more than two years at next week’s monetary policy meeting.  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2013 fell 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to
11.25 percent at 12:09 p.m. New York time. The contract is down
21 basis points this week. The yield on securities due in
January 2012 declined eight basis points today to 12.01 percent.  Brazil’s government is pressuring policy makers to cut the
Selic benchmark interest rate by 0.25 percentage point to 12.25
percent at the Aug. 30-31 meeting, Rio de Janeiro-based
newspaper O Globo reported, without saying where it got the
information. Creating conditions to cut interest rates in  Brazil 
is a “priority,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on Aug.
23. Lower rates would be “very healthy” because they would cut
the cost of servicing the nation’s debt, he said.  The takeaway from stories in the local press is that the
government “wants a rate cut, it’s telling the central bank to
cut rates either at this meeting or the next meeting at the
latest,” said  Tony Volpon , Latin America strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said in a telephone interview from New York.
“The locals are convinced. They’ve been pricing in rate cuts
for the last couple of days.”  The presidential palace declined to comment.  Comments today from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in which he said the central bank still has tools to
stimulate the economy without providing details or signaling
when or whether policy makers might deploy them “reinforce the
idea that it’s a bad economic scenario, and the Fed is kind of
powerless to do anything about it,” Volpon said.  Reassure Investors  While Bernanke sought to reassure investors and the public
that U.S. growth is safe in the long run and that the Fed still
has tools to aid the recovery if needed, he stopped short of
indicating that the central bank will move ahead with a third
round of government bond-buying.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini have increased rates five times this year by a total of
175 basis points. The futures yields indicate traders anticipate
the central bank will cut the benchmark Selic rate, currently at
12.50 percent, by at least 50 basis points this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The real rose 0.4 percent to 1.6027, from 1.6094 yesterday.
It has weakened 0.2 percent this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  