-- 
Brazil’s Federal, Local Primary Surplus Rose to Three-Month High in July

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-08-26T18:40:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/brazil-s-federal-local-primary-surplus-rose-to-three-month-high-in-july.html
Brazil ’s budget surplus before
interest payments widened in July to a record for the month,
pushing the year-to-date total to almost 80 percent of the
government’s 2011 target.  The primary surplus, which includes federal and local
governments as well as state companies, rose to 13.8 billion
reais ($8.6 billion) from 13.4 billion reais in June, the
central bank said in a statement distributed today in Brasilia.
The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a surplus of 14 billion reais.  Brazil needs to “treasure” its sound fiscal position and
strive to maintain it, even if the economic climate becomes more
“challenging,” central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
last week. Such control would create more space for the central
bank to cut  interest rates , said Marina Santos, chief economist
at Squanto Investments in  Sao Paulo .  “If they really commit to maintaining this primary surplus
even with slowing economic activity and lower tax take, that
would be great news for the central bank,” Santos said by
phone. Santos forecasts that policy makers will reduce their
benchmark rate half a percentage point to 12 percent at their
November meeting, due to slower world growth.  The central bank’s forecast that inflation will slow to the
mid-point of its target range next year assumes that President
Dilma Rousseff’s government will hit its target of a 117.9
billion reais primary surplus this year. The central bank
targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage
points.  Maintaining Discipline  “I have been saying that we need to retain that strength
now more than ever,” Tombini told journalists in an Aug. 18
conference call. “We need to make sure that we are in the very
same situation when this new phase of the financial turmoil is
over.”  The central government posted a primary surplus of 10.9
billion reais, while regional governments posted a 1.6 billion
reais surplus and state companies had a surplus of 1.2 billion
reais. The primary surplus in the first seven months of the year
was 92 billion reais, or 78 percent of the government’s target
for the year.  Earlier today, the Treasury, which uses a different
methodology from the central bank, reported an 11.2 billion
reais surplus for the central government.  Including interest payments, the budget was 5 billion reais
in deficit in July, compared with 5.6 billion reais in June, the
central bank said.  Debt Burden  Net debt was 39.4 percent of gross domestic product in
July, the lowest since March 2009 and down from 39.7 percent in
June. The decline in the debt-to-GDP was largely due to the
weakening of the real against the dollar, which raises the value
of Brazil’s dollar assets, said Tulio Maciel, head of the
central bank’s economic research department.  The central bank forecasts a debt-to-GDP ratio of 38.9
percent in August, Maciel told reporters in Brasilia.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2012 fell eleven basis points, or 0.11 percentage point,
to 11.98 percent at 2:21 p.m. New York time. The real
strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.6023 per  U.S. dollar .  The government earlier this year cut 50.7 billion reais
from its 2011 budget. Rousseff’s government is using a mix of
spending cuts, interest rate increases and measures to curb
 consumer credit  to slow inflation which this month exceeded 7
percent for the first time since 2005.  The economy has recently shown signs of cooling. The
central bank’s economic activity index shrank in June for the
first time since December, 2008. Industrial production fell 1.6
percent in June, the second-biggest drop in output since 2008,
and business confidence in the second quarter slid to its lowest
level since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 