-- 
Brevan Howard Macro Fund Said to Rise 6% Amid August Market Rout

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-08-26T09:16:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/brevan-howard-macro-fund-said-to-rise-6-amid-august-market-rout.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP’s
$25 billion Master Fund rose 6.1 percent during the first three
weeks of August as global stock markets suffered their deepest
slumps since 2008, two people with knowledge of the fund said.  The fund’s performance through Aug. 19 brought returns for
the year to almost 12 percent, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the figures aren’t public. London-based
Brevan Howard’s Master Fund is a macro hedge fund, trading
currencies,  interest rates  and bonds to try to take advantage of
broad economic trends.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 13 percent during the
first three weeks of the month and the Euro Stoxx 50 plunged 19
percent as investors grew increasingly concerned that growth may
slow and a European country could default on its debt. Brevan
Howard said in a letter to clients yesterday that it’s “well-
suited to take advantage of this environment.”  “While the rapid changes in risk appetite and existence of
extreme tail risks makes longer-term investment and positioning
difficult, these conditions provide very fertile trading
opportunities,” BH Global Ltd., which raises money for Brevan
Howard’s hedge funds, said in a note to investors.  The Master Fund has responded to volatility this year by
pursuing “tactical trading” because broad economic themes have
failed to take hold in markets, the letter said. Tactical trades
are short-term positions taken by money managers when they
perceive markets have misjudged asset values.  Officials at Brevan Howard declined to comment. The firm’s
Macro Fund gained about 1 percent last year, 19 percent in 2009
and 20 percent in 2008, according to investors.  Brevan Howard is  Europe ’s second-largest hedge fund with
$32.6 billion under management.  Alan Howard , a former Credit
Suisse fixed-income trader, started the company in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  