-- 
Buffett’s BofA Investment Is Latest to Capitalize on Wall Street Weakness

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-26T14:21:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/buffett-s-bofa-investment-is-latest-to-capitalize-on-wall-street-weakness.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $5 billion
investment in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is Chief Executive Officer
Warren Buffett’s latest attempt to capitalize on weakness at one
of Wall Street’s biggest firms.  The deal follows Buffett’s investments in  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  in 2008 and Salomon Inc. in 1987. In the Bank of
America agreement, Berkshire gets preferred shares with a yield
that’s more than 10 times greater than the lender’s common stock
dividend and warrants that allow Buffett to profit from gains in
the share price. Bank of America jumped 9.4 percent yesterday.  “It’s Warren Buffett, that’s how it works,” said Robert Chapman, founder of hedge fund Chapman Capital LLC, which holds
shares of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America.
“This is the price Bank of America pays to have  Warren Buffett 
on this year’s Christmas card.”  Buffett, 80, is scouting deals as profits boost cash at
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire. His biggest transactions of the
last two years came in the public  securities market  with the
takeover of Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  and the agreement to
acquire Lubrizol Corp. The deal with Bank of America, as with
Salomon and Goldman Sachs, was made with the special issuance of
preferred stock not offered to all other investors.  “He’s gotta put cash to work,” said Tom Lewandowski, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co., who has a “hold” rating on
Berkshire shares. Buffett’s “competitive advantage is that he
can do transactions that no one else can.”  Salomon, Goldman Sachs  Buffett came to the rescue of Salomon in 1987 with $700
million as the investment bank, led at the time by John Gutfreund, was fending off overtures from corporate raider
Ronald O. Perelman. The $5 billion Goldman Sachs deal came a
week after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
the emergency takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co. by Bank of
America. As of June 30, Berkshire had $47.9 billion of cash.  Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  got Buffett’s offer
in a phone call on Aug. 24, two weeks after telling investors
for at least the second time this year that his bank didn’t need
to raise capital. In a statement yesterday, Moynihan, 51, touted
the Berkshire investment as a “strong endorsement” of Bank of
America, while reiterating that the lender has adequate funding.  “It’s a sign of weakness,” said  Jeff Matthews , Berkshire
shareholder and author of “Secrets in Plain Sight: Business and
Investing Secrets of Warren Buffett.” “Moynihan didn’t say,
‘You know what, Warren? I really appreciate the call, you’re a
wonderful guy, love to have you as a shareholder. You’re welcome
to buy our stock just like everyone else.’”  BofA’s Decline  Berkshire owned Bank of America’s common stock in the three
and a half years ended in last year’s fourth quarter. The bank
declined by more than two-thirds in that span as it recorded
losses during the recession and faced claims from mortgage
investors who accused the firm of issuing faulty loans. Moynihan
took over as CEO for  Kenneth D. Lewis  in January 2010.  Berkshire’s Bank of America preferred stock will pay a 6
percent dividend, while the warrants give Buffett the option to
buy 700 million common shares at any time in the next 10 years
for $7.14 each. Bank of America pays a quarterly common-stock
dividend of 1 cent, or an annual yield of about 0.52 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  The lender fell 12 cents to $7.53 at 10:13 a.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. Berkshire has a paper profit
of $273 million on its warrants at that price.  “There’s one Warren Buffett, and when Warren Buffett calls
and says he wants to invest in your company, you take it
seriously,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Bank of
America. Buffett didn’t respond to an interview request e-mailed
to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Shareholders Pressured  Bank of America had dropped 48 percent this year before the
announcement of Buffett’s investment, pressuring shareholders
including  Bruce Berkowitz ’s Fairholme Capital Management LLC.
Berkowitz, who was named Morningstar Inc.’s domestic stock
manager of the decade in January 2010, has presided over a
decline of about 26 percent this year at his  Fairholme Fund. (FAIRX)   “Berkowitz and other shareholders are off the cold
linoleum floor,” said David Rolfe, chief investment officer of
Berkshire investor Wedgewood Partners Inc.  “It’s been brutal” for Bank of America investors, Rolfe
said. “And we’re shareholders of Goldman, so trust me, I know
what it feels like.”  Goldman Sachs dropped 35 percent from Dec. 31 through
yesterday, compared with the 7.8 percent slide in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The bank repurchased Berkshire’s preferred
stake in the second quarter. Berkshire received warrants to buy
$5 billion of Goldman Sachs common stock at $115 a share as part
of the 2008 deal, and Buffett’s firm still holds those options.
The New York-based firm fell $1.56, or 1.4 percent, to $108.28.
Berkshire declined $681 to $102,810.  Bump From Buffett  Bank of America was the biggest of four advancers yesterday
in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  Buffett’s endorsement helped
Goldman Sachs on Sept. 24, 2008, to a 6.4 percent increase.  The Bank of America cash injection may have little impact
on capital and doesn’t resolve mounting legal claims linked to
mortgages. The investment will “modestly improve” Bank of
America’s Tier 1 capital ratio and won’t boost the Tier 1 common
ratio, Edward Najarian, head of bank research at International
Strategy & Investment Group Inc., wrote in a note to clients.  “It seems like Moynihan paid up just to get the headline
that Buffett was investing,” said Peter Tchir, founder of hedge
fund TF Market Advisors. “It’s better than nothing, but it’s
not to me a rousing endorsement.”  Buffett got legal advice on the transaction from Robert Denham, who also worked for the billionaire on the Goldman Sachs
and Salomon transactions. Denham, a partner at Munger, Tolles &
Olson LLP, was tapped by Buffett in 1992 to be CEO of Salomon.
Buffett had taken over as CEO of the investment bank in 1991
after Gutfreund resigned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 