-- 
Charles Busch’s Cranky Olive, Tennessee Williams’s Men: Theater

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/busch-s-cranky-olive-tennessee-williams-s-unseen-gay-guys-jeremy-gerard.html
When Olive Fisher, the cranky
complainer of Charles Busch’s new comedy set in a Manhattan
apartment, insists that she’s never started an argument in her
life, eyes roll.  Olive, played with sweet and sour relish by Marcia Jean
Kurtz, would kvetch about wild strawberries in July. What Olive
lacks in lovableness -- a lot -- she makes up for in gumption,
which is the more distinctly  New York  virtue anyway.  Busch operates in two modes. There’s the female-
impersonating camp goddess of such classics as “Vampire
Lesbians of Sodom” and his recent hit, “The Divine Sister.”
And there’s the zinger-maven in the Neil Simon mode of “The
Tale of the Allergist’s Wife,” of which “Olive and the Bitter
Herbs” is the latest example.  The sharp, speedy production at Primary Stages is staged
with empathy and economy by Mark Brokaw.  Olive, an actress whose moment in the spotlight came with a
long-ago sausage commercial, saves most of her abuse for Wendy
(long-limbed Busch muse Julie Halston), a would-be actress who
mostly runs errands for Olive and her ilk.  The new lobby? A crime against Tuscany. The new neighbors?
The odors from their kitchen could fell a horse.  Those neighbors turn out to be a gay couple, the indulgent
Robert (David Garrison) and the truculent Trey (Dan Butler).
Wendy persuades them to come over on an ill-fated peace-seeking
mission.  Man in Mirror  While there, however, Robert notices Olive’s odd attention
to a mirror and he, too, becomes obsessed with the none-too-
blithe spirit she occasionally sees in it (to the accompaniment
of New Agey-music that Olive herself would doubtless find as
irritating as I did).  Another fine stage veteran, Richard Masur, provides welcome
leavening as Sylvan, an unflappable serial widower who falls for
Olive despite her best efforts to put him off. On a set of
keenly observed details (the rainbow afghan draping the
overstuffed couch, the arched entry ways) by Anna Louizos, these
characters divert entertainingly enough for a couple of hot
summer hours.  Through Sept. 3 at 59E59 Theaters, 59 E. 59th St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200; www.primarystages.org. Rating: **  ‘Elysian Fields’  Off-off-Broadway’s Fringe Festival concludes this weekend,
leaving just a few more chances to see  Chris Phillips ’s
intriguing “Elysian Fields.”  The title will be familiar to Tennessee Williams fans, and
indeed Phillips heads into dangerous territory, imagining three
major characters from Williams plays who never actually appear
in them.  First is Allan, the beau Blanche left behind in “A
Streetcar Named Desire.” Next is Sebastian, the poet manque
whose gruesome death drives “Suddenly Last Summer.”  Finally, and most famously, there is Skipper, best friend
of Brick, the distracted, alcoholic husband of Maggie in “Cat
on a Hot Tin Roof.”  I figure if Williams wanted us to meet Allan, Sebastian and
Skipper, he would have taken care of that himself. Phillips
feels otherwise, and he’s reaching, to be sure. Still, he
imagines them as doomed gay men and draws them with empathy and
humor in three extended scenes.  The most realized is the final one, in which Maggie and
Skipper vie for Brick’s love in ways that are suggested in
Williams’s play but brought vividly and explicitly to life by
Aaron Hartzler (Skipper), Daniel Marks (Brick) and Amanda Kruger
(who is also terrific as Blanche, Catharine and the Cat).  Through Saturday at the Kraine Theater, 85 E. 4th St.
Information: +1-866-468-7619;  http://fringenyc.org . Rating: *
1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 