-- 
Attack in Mexico Prompts $2.4 Million Reward

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-26T19:11:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/calderon-denounces-barbarity-of-mexican-attack.html
Mexico  offered up to $2.4 million
for information leading to the arrest of gunmen who set a casino
ablaze in the northern city of Monterrey, killing at least 52
people.  Mexican President Felipe Calderon will send additional
police to northeastern Mexico to crack down on drug cartels
after as many as nine armed “terrorists” burned down the
Casino Royale yesterday in one of the deadliest attacks since he
took office in 2006. Calderon called on the U.S. to halt the
flow of assault weapons and drug profits that is fueling the
violence in Mexico ahead of a visit to the site today.  “I earnestly ask you to end once and for all the criminal
sales of assault weapons to the criminals that operate in
Mexico,” Calderon, 49, said today in Mexico City in a speech
broadcast to the nation.  Yesterday’s attack is the latest in a series of violent
incidents in Monterrey, Mexico’s third-largest city and a
northern industrial hub.  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
has suffered more than 35,000 organized crime-related deaths
since Calderon took office and deployed soldiers to combat drug
gangs. The violence has escalated most in border states such as
Chihuahua and Nuevo Leon, where Monterrey is located.  U.S. President Barack Obama today condemned the “barbaric
and reprehensible attack.” The U.S. is aiding Mexico’s fight
against drug gangs through the Merida Initiative, a three-year,
$1.6 billion assistance package including helicopters and police
training.  Shared Responsibility  “The U.S. is and will remain a partner in this fight,”
Obama said in a statement from the White House. “We share with
Mexico responsibility for meeting this challenge and we are
committed to continuing our unprecedented cooperation in
confronting these criminal organizations.”  The attack began at 3:50 p.m yesterday when the gunmen
arrived at the casino in three vehicles. The suspects left 2
minutes and 30 seconds later, according to  video images  released
today and comments by Jose Cuitlahuac, deputy prosecutor for
Nuevo Leon.  Nuevo Leon Governor Rodrigo Medina de la Cruz said
authorities have no suspects in custody and are interviewing 13
witnesses of the attack. Most of the victims were older women
who died from smoke inhalation after getting trapped in the
burning building, said Reynaldo Ramos, a local civil protection
official. There was also a pregnant woman among the dead, he
said.  Migrant Deaths  The casino attack surpasses the killings of 21 people last
month in a bar in Monterrey as the deadliest single incident
since Calderon became president, Milenio TV said, citing its own
 statistics . A year ago, Mexico’s navy found 72 bodies in a mass
grave near  Texas , the remains of migrants from other Latin
American countries killed as they tried to make their way to the
U.S. border.  News about the drug-violence has hampered a  tourism
industry  rebounding from a swine flu scare in 2009, said Rodolfo
Lopez, chief operating officer of the country’s Tourism Board,
in a June 7 interview. Some high-profile attacks have taken
place in the resort cities of Acapulco and Zihuatanejo. So far,
the news hasn’t had a broader impact on Mexican markets.  The  Mexican peso  has gained 4.7 percent over the past year
while the main stock market index is up 8.8 percent over the
same period.  `Negative Image’  “Investors are used to hearing this kind of news and
separating it from the market,” said Alejandro Urbina, who
oversees $800 million of assets at Silva Capital Management in
 Chicago . “This is unlikely to impact the markets. Still, this
continues to reinforce a negative image, especially for
tourism.”  Army and federal police officials last night closed the
main highways of Monterrey, home to companies including cement
maker Cemex SAB and phone carrier Axtel SAB, as they searched
for the culprits of the attack, Mexico City-based newspaper  El
Universal  reported on its website.                      Shortly before 8 p.m. local time, family members stood
outside the smoking casino searching for their loved ones.
Francisco Flores, 60, awaited news of his daughter Adriana, a
casino employee.  “We don’t know if she’s inside or not,” he said. “They
aren’t giving us information.”  Milenio TV today reported that Flores’s daughter is among
the 39 people identified out of 52 dead. She had started working
at the casino a week ago after a seven-month job hunt, her
father said.  `Keep Them Going’  Angel Oswaldo Guerrero Velasquez, 26, knew his wife of four
years had perished in the casino fire and today claimed her body
at a local Monterrey morgue. His wife, Claudia Edith Castillo
Ramirez, 25, a resident of the Monterrey suburb of Guadalupe,
was working at the Casino Royale when gunmen set it on fire.  “I looked and looked for her and couldn’t find her. I knew
then she was dead,” Guerrero said today in an interview.
Castillo’s death leaves Guerrero to care alone for their 4-year-
old son and 3-year-old daughter.  “There’s nothing that can be done, I need to keep them
going,” said Guerrero, kneeling outside the building amid
relatives of other victims as morgue workers loaded a blue-
sheet-covered body into a hearse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  