-- 
Cameron May Meet Russian Premier Putin on Moscow Trip Next Month

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-08-26T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/cameron-may-meet-putin-on-fence-mending-moscow-trip-next-month.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
may become the first British leader since the 2006 murder of a
dissident Russian intelligence agent in London to meet Russian
counterpart  Vladimir Putin  when he travels to Moscow next month.  “Such a possibility  is being discussed through diplomatic
channels,” Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, told Bloomberg
News in a telephone interview from Moscow yesterday.  Cameron, whose September visit to Russia was announced in
May, will travel to the Russian capital in the first half of the
month for talks with President  Dmitry Medvedev , two people
familiar with the planning said. They declined to be identified
because the exact timing of the trip isn’t public.  Ex-agent  Alexander Litvinenko , a Kremlin critic who died in
November 2006 after being poisoned with the radioactive isotope
polonium-210, blamed Putin for the murder in a deathbed
statement, an accusation the Kremlin called “absurd.”  The killing chilled relations between  Russia  and the U.K.,
culminating in the mutual expulsion of diplomats.  It’s “regrettable” that no leader from the U.K., one of
the largest foreign investors in Russia, has visited the country
in six years, said Chris Gilbert, Russia Director of the Russo-
British Chamber of Commerce. U.K. companies active in Russia
will probably accompany Cameron, he said.  “It’s high time,” he said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “I can understand why it didn’t happen before as
there have been other things affecting the whole relationship,
but it’s very positive that it’s happening now.”  Business Leaders  Cameron’s office never comments on his travel plans, said a
spokesman who declined to be identified in line with official
policy. The Kremlin press service declined to comment on the
details of the visit.  In November 2010, U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable made
a three-day visit to Russia with the largest-ever British
business delegation. The group was composed of 37 companies,
including  BP Plc (BP/) , which has a 50 percent stake in Russia’s
third-largest oil producer TNK-BP,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
 Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) , the world’s second-largest aircraft-
engine maker.  U.K. companies including BP, Shell,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , Kraft
Food Inc.’s Cadbury unit and  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  have invested more
than $11 billion ($17.8 billion) in Russia, about 15 percent of
total foreign investment in the country, according to the UK
Trade and Investment government agency.  ‘Top Two Guys’  “Especially with Russia, the dialogue has to be at the
very top level,” said Gilbert. “If Cameron comes here, and he
has a good, productive period of time with hopefully the top two
guys, that will achieve a great deal.”  Russia refused to hand over ex-KGB bodyguard Andrei Lugovoi, who is wanted for Litvinenko’s murder, as the country’s
constitution forbids the extradition of Russian citizens.  The dispute sparked the expulsion of four Russian and four
U.K. diplomats and Russia’s closure of U.K. cultural offices
outside Moscow. The U.K. also froze cooperation with Russia’s
Federal Security Service, the domestic successor agency to the
KGB.  Former U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , who took over as
British leader in June 2007, never met with Putin during the
former president’s tenure, which ended May 2008. Putin, who
hasn’t ruled out returning as president in next year’s
elections, became prime minister in 2008.  Medvedev met Brown at a Group of Eight industrialized
nations’ summit in Japan in 2008, the first such high-level
contact since the Litvinenko assassination. He held talks with
Cameron at another G-8 summit in France in May this year.  U.K. investigators believe Lugovoi poisoned Litvinenko on
Nov. 1, 2006, by putting the radioactive isotope polonium-210 in
his tea during a meeting in  London ’s Millennium Hotel. Lugovoi
denies any role in Litvinenko’s death.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  