-- 
Canadian Dollar Rises as Bernanke’s U.S. Outlook Spurts Appetite for Risk

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-26T21:08:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/canada-s-dollar-trades-within-cent-of-parity-on-view-u-s-economy-slowing.html
Canada’s dollar rose, reversing an
earlier decline, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s prediction that U.S. growth will resume buoyed the
outlook for higher-yielding assets.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known, fell
earlier today to within a cent of parity with its U.S.
counterpart as Bernanke said the central bank still has tools to
stimulate the economy without signaling whether policy makers
might use them.  “It’s a huge turnaround in the Canadian dollar, led by
equities,” said C.J. Gavsie, managing director for  currency
trading  at Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “It looked
like a mass sell equity, buy dollar, run for the gates, and then
people started to say, ‘Hey, why are we running?’”  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 98.14
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 98.83 cents
yesterday. It earlier declined to 99.24 cents, the weakest level
since Aug 19. The loonie last fell below parity with the
greenback on Aug. 9. One Candian dollar buys $1.0190.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 1.5 percent after
dropping 2 percent earlier. The S&P/TSX Composite Index gained
0.4 percent.  Government 10-year bonds rose, with the yield down one
basis points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.40 percent. The
price of the 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021
gained 8 cents to C$107.42. The yield dropped on Aug. 18 to 2.25
percent, the lowest in Bloomberg data beginning in 1989.  U.S. Growth  The loonie fell earlier today after the Commerce Department
reported that the gross domestic product of the U.S.,  Canada ’s
biggest trading partner, climbed at a 1 percent annual rate from
April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate.  While Bernanke sought in his address in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , to reassure investors and the public that U.S. growth
is safe in the long run and that the Fed still has tools to aid
the recovery if needed, he stopped short of indicating that the
central bank will move ahead with a third round of government
bond-buying.  “Although important problems certainly exist, the growth
fundamentals of the  United States  do not appear to have been
permanently altered by the shocks of the past four years,”
Bernanke said in prepared comments. “It may take some time, but
we can reasonably expect to see a return to growth rates and
employment levels consistent with those underlying
fundamentals.”  The Canadian currency has weakened 3 percent in the past
month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, a gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The
greenback has gained 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  