-- 
Centrica Said to Weigh Purchase of North American Gas Assets

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-08-26T14:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/centrica-said-to-weigh-buying-north-american-gas-assets-on-surge-in-shale.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s largest
energy supplier, is exploring purchases of gas assets in  North
America  as supplies from shale formations surge, four people
familiar with the process said.  A decision on how and whether to proceed may occur in
October, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
as discussions are ongoing. Centrica has earmarked 2 billion
pounds ($3.25 billion) to spend on U.S. assets by 2015.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  of Melbourne, Norway’s Statoil SA and
Mumbai-based  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  also are among foreign
companies that have bought U.S. shale gas properties in the last
year. Shale gas, drilled from rock using injections of water,
sand and chemicals, may make up almost 50 percent of total U.S.
natural-gas output by 2035, more than three times the proportion
in 2009, according to government data.  Julian Mears, spokesman for Windsor, England-based
Centrica, said the company does not comment on specific deals.  Centrica, which owns the British Gas brand in the U.K., is
looking to expand in the U.S. through its Direct Energy unit.
The company agreed to buy New York-based Gateway Energy Services
Corp. for $90 million in March, adding more than 275,000 gas and
electricity customer accounts.  Centrica’s Direct Energy unit, which operates in 46 U.S.
states,  Washington , D.C., and ten Canadian provinces, may spend
as much as 2 billion pounds to acquire power and natural-gas
assets in North America by 2015, Chief Executive Officer  Chris Weston  said in May 2010. The unit is seeking to double profits
from 2009 levels within five years.  Alberta Fields  The division bought  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s natural-gas
assets in Alberta for C$47 million ($47.5 million) in April this
year. By adding gas supplies, Centrica can rely more on its own
fuel than on wholesale market purchases, curbing the effect of
energy price fluctuations.  Centrica is better placed that some of its peers to finance
acquisitions because it has less debt. The company’s ratio of
debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of 1.36, compared with an average of 4.13 for
utilities in the U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 350 index.  Shale gas production is environmentally controversial
because of concern that drilling fluids could pollute drinking
water, holding up exploitation of the resource in some areas.  New York  regulators may start processing permits to drill
for natural gas using hydraulic fracturing in the Marcellus
Shale formation by the end of the year, the state’s Department
of Environmental Conservation said in July.  Since 2008, 2,864 wells have been drilled in the
Pennsylvania portion of the Marcellus Shale, stretching from New
York to  West Virginia .  The utility said July 28 it’s “on track” to boost
earnings in 2011 because of rising revenue from the exploration
and production business and price increases. Centrica plans to
spend 1.3 billion pounds in 2011, mainly on upstream oil and gas
output and its 270-megawatt Lincs offshore wind farm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  