-- 
China Calls U.S. Report on Military Strength ‘Cock-and-Bull’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-26T10:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/china-channels-shakespeare-to-pan-pentagon-report-on-military.html
China  said a U.S. report on its
military “severely distorted the facts” by portraying the
country as a threat to regional peace, with the official Xinhua
News Agency describing it as a “cock-and-bull” story.  China’s military continued to improve its capabilities for
a potential conflict with  Taiwan  “even as cross-Strait
relations have improved,” the Pentagon said in the report
released Aug. 24. The goal is “to deter Taiwan independence and
influence Taiwan to settle the disputes on Beijing’s terms.”  China’s defense ministry said the report played up the
threat to Taiwan. “China unswervingly adheres to the path of
peaceful development, and its national defense policy is
defensive in nature,” Xinhua cited Yang Yujun, a spokesman for
the deparment, as saying.  The report to Congress is an annual point of tension
between the world’s two biggest economies, whose leaders have
pushed to improve military and diplomatic ties. U.S. Vice
President  Joe Biden  spent four days last week traveling in China
with his counterpart Xi Jinping in a visit aimed at building
ties with the next generation of Chinese leaders.  The U.S. has the world’s biggest military budget, with more
than $600 billion in annual spending, and has more than 60,000
service personnel in Asia. China’s defense spending ranks second
in the world, and its maritime forces are an increased presence
in seas that the U.S. patrols. This year China plans to spend
601.2 billion yuan ($94.1 billion) on defense, the government
announced in March.  ‘Stabilizing Force’  The Pentagon report was released the same day Biden told
American troops in  Japan  that China’s economic growth was made
possible by the U.S. military presence in the region.  The U.S. is “a stabilizing force in the Pacific Basin,”
he told the troops. “An American focus in  Asia  is only going to
grow in the years to come as Asia plays an ever-increasing role,
particularly in the global economy but also in international
affairs.”  U.S. claims that China’s naval expansion had implications
for the regional balance of power were “based on a wild guess
and illogical reasoning,” Xinhua said. “The allegation is an
utterly cock-and-bull story.”  As of December, the  People’s Liberation Army  had deployed
between 1,000 and 1,200 short-range ballistic missiles to units
opposite Taiwan, the Pentagon report said. These included
missiles with improved ranges, accuracies and payloads, it said.  Expanding Military  “Relations have continued to improve over the past couple
of years, but, despite this political warming, China’s military
shows no signs of slowing its effort to prepare for a cross-
Strait contingency,” Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for
East Asia Michael Schiffer told reporters at the Pentagon on
Aug. 24.  China’s military, besides its Taiwan focus, is expanding
its capability for missions as far away as the  Indian Ocean  and
further into the Pacific region, according to the Pentagon.  “China’s sustained military investments have allowed China
to pursue capabilities that are potentially destabilizing to
regional military balances,” the report said.  In the past year, “China made strides toward fielding an
operational anti-ship ballistic missile, continued work on its
 aircraft carrier  and finalized the prototype of its first
stealth aircraft,” the report said.  The report said the anti-ship missile, the DF-21D, has a
range exceeding 1,500 kilometers (932 miles) and a maneuverable
warhead designed to provide “the capability to attack large
ships, including aircraft carriers, in the western Pacific.”  Taiwan Sales  Tensions rose last year after the U.S. announced plans in
January to sell $6.4 billion of missiles, helicopters and ships
to Taiwan, which China considers a renegade province that should
be reunited with the mainland by force if necessary.  China broke off military-to-military talks with the U.S.
until late 2010, ahead of visits by former Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  to Beijing in January this year and Chinese
President Hu Jintao’s state visit to the U.S. that same month.  Chinese General Chen Bingde, chief of staff of the People’s
Liberation Army, visited the U.S. in May, further driving
efforts to improve ties.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  