-- 
China Reserve-Ratio Move to Lock Up $140 Billion, Bank of America Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-27T00:49:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/china-broadened-reserve-requirements-for-banks-today-bofa-says.html
China ’s central bank broadened
lenders’ reserve requirements to cover margin deposits, a move
that may drain 900 billion yuan ($140 billion) from the banking
system over six months, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  The measure will be phased in from Sept. 5 and take full
effect Feb. 15, economist Lu Ting said in an e-mailed note
yesterday, without saying where he got the information. Reuters
earlier  reported  such a move, citing unnamed banking officials.
In Beijing, a central bank press official declined to comment.  China has already raised reserve ratios to record levels to
counter inflation running at the fastest pace since 2008.
London-based Capital Economics Ltd. said yesterday that the
reported move may mean no further increases this year, after
previously anticipating that the requirements would rise 1
percentage point by the end of December.  Forcing lenders to set aside more cash may put “some
upward pressure on interbank rates,” Bank of America’s Lu said.
At the same time, the central bank can “neutralize” that
effect by altering its program of bill sales, another tool for
locking up cash, he said.  Reserve requirements for China’s biggest lenders stand at
21.5 percent as Premier  Wen Jiabao  seeks to cool consumer and
property prices and limit the risk of asset bubbles after record
lending. The central bank has held off for two months in
boosting the ratios, the longest pause since the latest series
of increases began in November, amid turmoil in global financial
markets.  Monetary Tightening  Reuters reported yesterday that reserve requirements will
now cover margin deposits paid by banks’ clients to secure
issuance of bankers’ acceptance, letters of guarantee and
letters of credit. Such deposits were 4.4 trillion yuan ($689
billion) at the end of July, the news service reported.  The new rules will start to take effect for the biggest
banks from Sept. 5, according to Lu.  The net effect of the reported rule change “if everything
else was unchanged,” would be to tighten monetary policy,
 Capital Economics  said in a note yesterday. “But in fact, we
think any such move would be designed as an alternative to
further reserve-requirement increases over the rest of the
year.”  Lu calculated that the latest move may have an effect
equivalent to a 130 basis-point increase in reserve requirements.
Capital Economics’ estimate was “roughly 125 basis points.”  Less Cash to Lend  Reserve requirements force lenders to park a proportion of
their deposits with the central bank, reducing the amount of
money available for lending. Policy makers aim to restrain
inflation that accelerated to 6.5 percent in July, the fastest
pace since 2008.  They are also monitoring the risks from the surge in
lending that fueled the nation’s rebound from the global
financial crisis. One focus is the credit that has been extended
to local-government financing vehicles.  China’s five biggest banks posted first-half profits that
surpassed the total of their 14 largest U.S. and European rivals,
with Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. reporting last
week that net income rose 29 percent to a record $17 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  