-- 
China’s Growth Depends on Innovation, Harvard’s Rodrik Says

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-26T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/china-s-growth-depends-on-innovation-harvard-s-rodrik-says.html
China,  India  and other  developing
countries  need to create incentives for innovation if they want
to achieve robust economic growth during the next decade, a
Harvard University economist said.  “Continued rapid growth in the developing world will
require pro-active policies that foster structural
transformation and spawn new industries,” Dani Rodrik, a
professor of international political economy at Harvard, said in
a paper released today at a conference at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  Industrialized economies, including the U.S., used
innovation incentives “on the way to becoming rich,” Rodrik
said. “Such policies have never been easy to administer.”  Growth in developing countries nearly tripled from around 2
percent per capita in the 1980s to almost 6 percent before the
global economic crisis of 2008, Rodrik said. This expansion
occurred mostly in  China  and the rest of developing  Asia , he
said.  The conference, attended by central bankers including
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke as well as economists,
academics and financial officials, focuses on how countries can
achieve maximum, long-term economic growth. The gathering is
sponsored by the Kansas City Fed.  Sustained, rapid growth in developed countries hinges on
whether governments create policies promoting diversification in
the economy, Rodrik said.  More Pressure  Developing countries will face more pressure over the next
decade from the U.S. and other advanced economies to open their
financial markets, let their currencies move with market forces
and abandon industrial policies and subsidies supporting
domestic industries, he said.  The U.S.,  Europe  and the  International Monetary Fund  for
years have prodded China to let its currency rise in value,
arguing that the country keeps its currency artificially low to
give its companies a competitive edge. The U.S. has also pushed
China to open its markets so that U.S. companies can more easily
do business there.  “One of the paradoxes of the last two decades of
globalization is that its biggest beneficiaries have been those
countries that have flouted its rules -- countries like China
and India,” Rodrik said. “But as such countries become large
players and turn into targets for emulation, the tensions become
too serious to ignore,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  