-- 
China Broadens Lenders’ Reserve Requirements to Include Margins, BofA Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-26T14:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/china-broadens-lenders-reserve-requirements-to-include-margins-bofa-says.html
China’s central bank extended
lenders’  reserve requirements  to cover their margin deposits to
reduce liquidity, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The measure will be phased in from Sept. 5 and take full
effect on Feb. 15, Lu wrote in an e-mailed note today, without
saying where he got the information. The broader rules may drain
900 billion yuan ($140 billion) from the banking system, the
equivalent of an increase of about 130 basis points in the
reserve requirement ratio, he said.  Reuters  reported  today that the central bank planned to
widen the base for calculating reserve requirements, citing
unnamed banking officials. A central bank press official, who
declined to be identified because of the agency’s rules,
wouldn’t comment on the note or the report.  China  has boosted banks’ reserve requirement ratio nine
times since November to a record 21.5 percent for the biggest
lenders to curb inflation and asset prices. The last increase
was eight weeks ago, the longest gap since the current series
began, as smaller companies complain of funding shortages.  Under the new rules, commercial banks’ reserves must
include margin deposits paid by their clients to secure the
issuance of guarantees such as banker’s acceptances, according
to Lu. “Misuse” of bankers acceptances has boosted deposits,
he said.  Banks ‘Punished’  “What we heard is that the PBOC did punish some mid-sized
banks for too aggressively expanding bankers’ acceptances,” Lu
said in the note.  Total margin deposits for corporate guarantees, of which
most are bankers’ acceptances, were 4.4 trillion yuan as of
July, with about half of that at small and medium-sized banks,
Lu said.  The broadening of reserve requirements may add pressure for
interbank rates to rise, according to the note. At the same
time, the central bank can cut back on bill sales, another
method for draining cash from the financial system, so the
economic impact may be “quite limited,” the economist said.  China is unlikely to change its benchmark  interest rates ,
reserve requirement ratio, M2 money supply target or annual loan
quota this year, he said.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Bank of China
Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd. and the national postal bank will start paying reserves to
the central bank from September 5, Reuters reported, citing
people it unidentified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  