-- 
Coast Guard Restricts Ports as Hurricane Threatens East Coast

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-08-26T15:58:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/coast-guard-restricts-ports-as-hurricane-threatens-east-coast.html
The U.S. Coast Guard has issued
restrictions for ports along the East Coast as Hurricane Irene
threatens to bring damaging winds and flooding to the region.  The Port of Hampton Roads in  Virginia  was shut to inbound
commercial vessels as of 8 a.m. today unless the port captain
grants permission, according to a posting on the U.S. Department
of Homeland Security’s  Homeport  website. The port may be closed
on Saturday, the posting said.  The Coast Guard will issue a hurricane alert today for the
Port of New York, Petty Officer Third Class Erik Swanson said in
a phone interview. All commercial vessels and barges over 500
gross tons must advise the port of plans to stay or depart. The
port is still open to commercial traffic, Swanson said.  The Coast Guard closes ports when gale-force winds are
forecast to arrive within 12 hours. The winds, which are 39
miles (63 kilometers) per hour or greater, may arrive at the
port within 72 hours, Swanson said. The captain of the Port of
 New York  may decide to close the port “if conditions are bad
enough,” he said.  The Coast Guard has issued alerts for ports in  North
Carolina , Chesapeake Bay, the Long Island Sound and the ports of
Philadelphia and  Boston .  Hurricane Irene was forecast to strike North Carolina later
today before making landfalls on the Delmarva Peninsula and  New
Jersey . Governors from North Carolina to  Connecticut  issued
emergency declarations.  Irene was a Category 2 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale with maximum sustained winds of 105 miles (165
kilometers) per hour as of 11 a.m. New York time, according to
the National Hurricane Center in Miami. The storm was moving
north at 14 miles per hour and was about 330 miles south-
southwest of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina.  More than 65 million people from North Carolina to  Maine ,
or about one in five Americans, are in the path of the
hurricane, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  