-- 
Colorado Refunds Transport Debt as Yield at Lowest Since 1994: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/colorado-refunds-transport-debt-as-yield-at-lowest-since-1994-muni-credit.html
The  Colorado  Department of
Transportation, which borrows to build highways and bridges,
refinanced $104.7 million of revenue bonds as yields on five-
year AA+ transport bonds reached the lowest since at least 1994.  The cheap rates enabled Colorado to refund AA rated Series
2004A bonds maturing in 2016 for net-present savings of at least
3 percent,  Benson Stein , the department’s chief financial
officer, said in a telephone interview from Denver.  “We never thought that there would be an opportunity to
refund the Series 2004A bonds, but  interest rates  actually went
down enough that we could finally achieve 3 percent savings,”
Stein said.  Yields on five-year tax-exempt AA+ rated transportation
debt fell to 1.12 percent this week, the lowest in at least 17
years, according to a Bloomberg index dating to 1994. The
Colorado deal priced with all debt maturing in 2016 with a 1.41
percent yield, or 28 basis points above the index, according to
Bloomberg data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The refinancing resulted in net-present savings of $3.28
million, according to the department’s sale documents.  The bonds are limited obligations of the department.
Federal gas-tax revenue from the federal Highway  Trust Fund  and
state motor-fuel taxes and vehicle registration fees back the
debt, Stein said.  Garvee Bonds  Standard & Poor’s  said Aug. 19 that bonds secured by the
federal trust fund allocations, called grant anticipation
revenue vehicle bonds, or Garvee bonds, may face rating cuts if
Congress fails to address the possible expiration of the federal
gasoline tax. A reduction in funding, a delay in extending the
gasoline tax or postponing vital road surfacing programs “could
all have an impact on our ratings on Garvee bonds,” according
to an S&P report.  Permanent funding for the trust fund expired in September
2009 and Congress has approved temporary extensions. The status
of that finance does pose “some risk,” John Hallacy, head of
municipal research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York,
said in a telephone interview from  San Francisco .  “And there is concern about whether the federal gas tax at
least will be continued,” Hallacy said. “There’s some risk
there, although we don’t think it’s a very big one.
Transportation programs are very popular.”  Colorado’s Garvee bonds don’t rely primarily on federal
highway funds as the state pays principal and interest costs on
the bonds before receiving the federal allocation, Stein said.  “These are not what are called naked Garvees, where the
sole pledge is the Federal Highway Administration revenues,”
Stein said. “We actually pay with state funds and then seek
reimbursement from the federal government.”  Tax-Exempt Yields  Yields on top-rated 10-year tax-exempt debt were 2.2
percent yesterday, below the year-to-date average of 2.9
percent, and higher than the 2.17 percent 2011 low on Aug. 23.
Yields on top-rated 30-year tax-exempt bonds yesterday were 3.84
percent, following a year-low two days before of 3.84 percent.
The 2011 average is 4.55 percent.  Investors withdrew about $148 million from U.S. municipal-
bond mutual funds through Aug. 24, the fifth straight week of
outflows, Lipper US Fund Flows said yesterday.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  FULTON COUNTY, GEORGIA, which encompasses Atlanta and is
the state’s most populous county, will sell as soon as next week
$257.6 million of water and sewer revenue refunding bonds.
Previously sold water and sewer bonds are rated Aa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service’s, its fourth-highest grade. Citigroup Inc. is
the senior manager of the sale. (Added Aug. 26)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  