-- 
Cordish Can Press Defamation Lawsuit Against CEO of Indianapolis Downs

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-26T19:25:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/cordish-can-press-defamation-lawsuit-against-ceo-of-indianapolis-downs.html
Cordish Co., a real-estate developer
building a casino near Baltimore, can pursue a defamation
lawsuit against the chief executive officer of its bankrupt
former business partner, Indianapolis Downs LLC, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon, in
Wilmington,  Delaware , today ruled CEO Ross J. Mangano can’t
delay a lawsuit against him in  Maryland  in order to concentrate
on reorganizing Indianapolis Downs. The lawsuit, which had
temporarily been on hold, can proceed 30 days from now, Shannon
said.  “Involving him in this litigation is not going to affect
the debtor’s ability” to reorganize, Cordish attorney Kenneth
Oestreicher said in court today.  After Indianapolis Downs, based in Shelbyville  Indiana ,
filed for bankruptcy in April, Shannon temporarily halted the
Cordish litigation against Mangano. That protection is no longer
necessary, Shannon said today.  Cordish sued in February, claiming it was defamed by
competing casino companies and their executives, including
Mangano and horse-track owner  Frank Stronach .  Mangano and Stronach allegedly were “part of an ongoing
campaign designed to smear, defame and otherwise falsely portray
the Cordish Entities for the purpose of harming them
economically and influencing both the Maryland State legislature
and lottery commission.”  Under Construction  Baltimore-based Cordish is demanding $600 million in
damages it said it suffered to its attempts to build a casino in
Maryland. The company needs the support of the commission and
state lawmakers to open its casino, which is under construction
near Baltimore.  The company had once held a contract to manage Indianapolis
Downs’ casino until it was canceled by Mangano.  Indianapolis Downs filed for bankruptcy after failing to
pay interest on time on $375 million in second-lien notes, the
company said in court papers. It owns Indiana Downs, a casino
with 2,000  slot machines  and a racetrack that is about 25 miles
from Indianapolis.  Indianapolis Downs denied Cordish’s allegations in court
papers. In a statement in February, Stronach’s company, MI
Developments Inc., called the suit meritless.  The temporary restraining order case is Indianapolis Downs
LLC v. Power Plant Entertainment Casino Resorts, Indiana, LLC
11-51996. The bankruptcy case is In re: Indianapolis Downs LLC.
11-11046. Both are in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 