-- 
Hot Summer Erodes Corn, Soy Harvest

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n ,   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-08-26T09:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/corn-soybean-yields-shrink-in-hottest-u-s-summer-since-1955.html
The hottest summer since 1955 in
 Iowa  and Illinois is eroding yield prospects for corn and
soybean crops in the U.S., the largest grower and exporter.  Signs of diminished output appeared this week during a
four-day, seven-state sampling of about 2,000 fields in the
Midwest organized by the Professional Farmers of America, which
will report its findings later today. A Bloomberg survey of 25
tour participants showed all expected the government to cut its
corn-harvest forecasts and 21 predicted a reduction for
soybeans.  Corn prices have jumped 24 percent since July 1 and
soybeans touched a five-week high on Aug. 24 as crops in parts
of the Midwest were damaged by more than 35 days of temperatures
above 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius), government
data show. Corn, the biggest U.S. crop, is the main ingredient
in livestock feed and ethanol, a gasoline additive.  “Mother nature has proven once again to be a cruel
temptress,” Peter Meyer, a former agricultural specialist for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in an interview yesterday in Austin,
 Minnesota , after completing his fifth Pro Farmer tour. “2011
may go down as the year she destroyed both the cattle industry
and the ethanol industry.”  Corn futures on the Chicago Board of Trade were little
changed at $7.4325 a bushel and soybeans were steady at $13.935
a bushel by 10:27 a.m. in  London .  Meyer, the publisher of Opening Print, a food and
agriculture newsletter in  New York , correctly forecast a smaller
corn crop and rising prices after last year’s tour. Corn
production may fall 6.5 percent below the government’s estimate,
Meyer said.  Lower Yields  The more than 100 farmers, analysts, agronomists, grain
buyers and journalists who took field samples on this year’s
tour reported corn yields below last year’s in Iowa,  Illinois ,
Minnesota, Ohio,  Nebraska ,  Indiana  and  South Dakota . Soybean-pod
counts were also smaller in all those states except Ohio.  Iowa  and  Illinois , the two biggest U.S. corn- and soybean-
growing states, had their hottest July since 1955, according to
state climatology departments. Areas of western Iowa, central
Illinois, southern Minnesota and western Indiana had a quarter
of normal rainfall this month, said the  National Weather
Service .  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Aug. 11 that corn
production may total 12.914 billion bushels, 4.1 percent below
its July estimate and still 3.8 percent more than last year. The
national yield may average 153 bushels per acre, compared with
158.7 bushels estimated in July and 152.8 bushels a year
earlier, the agency said.  ‘Much, Much Worse’  “The crop tour is telling us what we already know, which
is that the yields for soybeans and corn may be much, much worse
than what the USDA said on Aug. 11,”  Tim Hannagan , a grain-
market analyst for PFG Best Inc., said by telephone from
 Chicago . “We had the  fourth-hottest July  in recorded history
and very little rain. Something is wrong with this crop, which
is what farmers have been telling us from the beginning.”  The government’s corn-crop estimate will be cut 10 percent
by October, said Byron Jones, a 70-year-old farmer from
Saybrook, Illinois, who participated in the Pro Farmer tour
since 1993.  “The soybean crop is smaller than the USDA said this month
because it was planted late,” Jones said in an interview
yesterday while examining fields in Grundy County, Iowa. “There
is still about 20 percent of the area in the heart of the
Midwest that is too dry and that will hurt final yields.”  Iowa, Illinois  In Iowa, the tour estimated corn yields at 164.6 bushels an
acre, based on 368 field samples. That’s 2.8 percent below the
findings in the same area last year, and less than the USDA
forecast of 177 bushels for the state this year. In Illinois,
the tour estimated yields at 156 bushels an acre, 6.3 percent
below last year and less than the USDA forecast of 170 bushels.  The government estimates U.S. soybean production may
decline 8.2 percent this year to 3.056 billion bushels, with
yields averaging 41.4 bushels per acre.  Crop-tour participants counted an average of 1,159.3 pods
per 3-square feet in western Iowa, down 14 percent from the
findings last year, when the state yielded 51 bushels per acre.
The USDA projects an average state yield of 52 bushels this
year.  Soybeans “still could see further problems,”  Jerry Gidel ,
a market analyst for North American Risk Management Services
Inc. in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “Depending on
what moisture comes in the next two or three weeks, that could
have a huge impact on soybeans.”  Higher corn prices are increasing costs for companies
including Sanderson Farms Inc., the fourth-largest U.S. chicken
processor, which yesterday reported a third-quarter net loss of
$55.7 million. The company’s cash-market corn costs were 85
percent higher in the third quarter than the same time a year
earlier, while soybean-meal expenses rose 26 percent, Laurel,
Mississippi-based Sanderson said in a statement.  ‘Challenging Markets’  “We remain subject to very challenging markets,” Chief
Executive Officer Joe Sanderson said on a conference call. The
U.S. harvest “might still not be large enough to satisfy the
needs of corn users next year without price rationing.”  Denatured-ethanol futures are up 66 percent in the past
year on the Chicago Board of Trade. U.S. inventories dropped to
17.6 million barrels as of Aug. 12, the lowest since January,
before climbing to 18.243 million the next week, Energy
Department data show.  About 57 percent of the corn crop was in good or excellent
condition as of Aug. 21, compared with 60 percent a week earlier
and 70 percent a year earlier, USDA data show. It was the
lowest-rated crop for that time of year in six years. For
soybeans, 59 percent got the top rating, down from 66 percent at
the beginning of July and 64 percent a year earlier.  Worsening conditions in July and August reflect the extreme
heat and increasing dryness in the Midwest, the largest growing
region, said Kyle Tapley, an agricultural meteorologist for
Rockville, Maryland-based MDA Information Systems Inc. Average
temperatures in the Midwest were as much as 8 degrees Fahrenheit
above normal in July, and farms from south-central Minnesota to
 Ohio  got less than a third of normal rain since July 1, he said.  The corn-ear size is determined early in the plant’s life
cycle, when Midwest flooding and cool temperatures stunted
growth, said Tapley, who participated in this week’s tour and
sees corn production falling to 12.223 billion bushels. Heat in
July damaged reproduction, reducing the number of kernels on
each ear. Soybeans probably won’t get the rain needed in the
next 10 days to prevent further yield loss, he said in an
interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  