-- 
Corporate Bond Sales Dive in U.S. on Economy, ‘Haywire’ Yields

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-08-26T10:37:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/corporate-bond-sales-diving-in-u-s-on-faltering-economy-haywire-yields.html
U.S. company bond sales are falling,
with speculative-grade issuance headed for the slowest month
since December 2008, on growing signs the economy is faltering.  PepsiCo Inc., the world’s biggest snack-food maker, and
Glenview, Illinois-based  Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW)  led $5.7
billion of sales this week, a 72 percent decline from $20.4
billion in the period ended Aug. 19, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. There were no offerings of high-yield, high-risk
bonds this week, leaving August’s total at $1 billion, compared
with the monthly average this year of $28.5 billion.  Yields on corporate bonds have soared to the highest level
since March as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens and economists from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduce their
forecasts for U.S. growth. Central bankers are meeting this week
in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last year hinted at a second round of bond purchases,
or quantitative easing.  “A lot of issuers are staying away from the market because
they’re tired of seeing this volatility and they’re waiting for
it to die down,” said Jody Lurie, a credit analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “With yields going
haywire, investors don’t feel comfortable putting their money in
riskier assets without knowing what the economy has in store.”  Overall corporate bond yields rose to 4.85 percent as of
Aug. 25 from 4.68 percent at the end of last week, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield
Index. The measure ended July at 4.5 percent. Yields touched
4.91 percent on Aug. 24, the highest since March 3.  ‘Wait-and-See Mode’  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate debt
instead of Treasuries expanded 11 basis points in the week to
338 basis points as of Aug. 25, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. The index reached 339 on Aug. 24, the most
since October 2009.  “Yields are so expensive that a lot of people, like
myself, are sort of in a wait-and-see mode,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  at Salem, Massachusetts-
based Cabot Money Management, which oversees $500 million.
“There’s a lot of concern over what the Fed may do. Right now,
cash is probably not a bad investment to hold.”  Borrowing costs are rising as reports this week showed  home
prices  in the U.S. fell 5.9 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier for the biggest decline since 2009 and overall
business activity in the mid-Atlantic region factories fell to
minus 10 in August.  Lower Forecast  The U.S. will expand 1.5 percent this year, down from a
previous forecast of 1.7 percent, Goldman Sachs economists in
New York including Jan Hatzius said in an Aug. 19 note. For the
fourth quarter, JPMorgan predicts 1 percent growth in U.S. gross
domestic product, versus an earlier projection of 2.5 percent,
the bank said last week.  “Corporates are fine, there’s a lot of good positive cash
flow and cash on balance sheets,” Cabot’s Larkin said. “It’s
the economic direction, the bigger picture, that’s very
confusing right now and things are very expensive. That creates
a wait-and-see attitude.”  PepsiCo sold $1.25 billion of debt on Aug. 22, Bloomberg
data show. The Purchase, New York-based maker of the namesake
soda issued $500 million of three-year, 0.8 percent notes that
pay 57 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and
$750 million of 10-year, 3 percent bonds at a spread of 97 basis
points, Bloomberg data show.  Ilinois Tool Works  Illinois Tool Works, the maker of Hobart food mixers and
Duo-Fast nail guns, sold $1 billion of bonds on Aug. 24 split
between 10-and 30-year debt, the data show.  The shutdown of the market for speculative-grade borrowers,
graded below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , came as the debt faces its worst
monthly loss since November 2008.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds have declined 5
percent this month through Aug. 25, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  Investment-grade bonds have declined 0.3 percent in August,
poised for the second monthly decline this year after losing 0.8
percent in June, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  An announcement by Bernanke of further monetary easing
would bolster confidence among fixed-income investors and help
reverse some of this month’s under-performance, said Wilmer Stith, who manages $3 billion of bonds for MTB Investment
Advisors in Baltimore.  “If they do it, that would help risk assets, including
investment-grade and high-yield bonds,” Stith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  