-- 
Crude Oil Futures Advance After Bernanke Says Fed Has Stimulus Tools

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-08-26T19:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/crude-oil-falls-in-new-york-after-u-s-economy-grows-less-than-estimated.html
Crude oil rose after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said growth will resume and the central
bank had tools to stimulate the economy.  Futures rebounded from a drop of more than $2 a barrel and
stocks climbed after Bernanke said U.S. growth is safe in the
long run and the Fed still can aid the recovery. Oil fell as
much as 2.8 percent when he failed to announce new stimulus at
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where a year ago he disclosed that the
Fed would spur growth through Treasury purchases.  “We are tracking the stock market,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “You saw a big
drop at first on disappointment that there wasn’t an additional
announcement of quantitative easing. Stocks soon climbed as
cooler heads prevailed, and oil followed.”  Crude oil for October delivery rose 7 cents to settle at
$85.37 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
increased 3.8 percent this week, the first weekly gain since
July, and are up 16 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 74 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $111.36 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark gained 2.5 percent this
week. The contract traded at a $25.99 premium to U.S. futures,
down from a record $26.21 on Aug. 19, based on settlement
prices.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 1.4 percent to
1,175.28 at 3:53 p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  advanced 1.1 percent to 11,270.69.  Hurricane Irene  Gasoline gained 3.3 percent this week on concern that
Hurricane Irene will batter refineries along the U.S. East
coast. The region has 10 operating oil refineries with a
capacity of 1.21 million barrels a day, according to the Energy
Department. The area accounts for 7.1 percent of total U.S.
operating capacity.  Irene is a Category 2 storm, down from the Category 3 power
it had when it whipped the Bahamas yesterday, and isn’t likely
to regain much strength before it crosses  North Carolina ,
according to a National Hurricane Center  advisory  at 2 p.m.
Eastern time. Irene was 300 miles south-southwest of Cape
Hatteras, North Carolina.  Irene has forced evacuations along the coasts from North
Carolina to New York and prompted governors of states from North
Carolina to  Connecticut  to declare states of emergency.  “Traders will be cautious ahead of Hurricane Irene because
we’ve not had a storm like this before,” Flynn said. “It could
have a major impact on the entire economy, not just oil. The
refineries and everything else around New York harbor could be
flooded and damaged.”  Mandatory Evacuation  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  ordered residents of low-
lying coastal areas to leave their homes in advance of Hurricane
Irene’s arrival Aug. 28, the first time a mandatory evacuation
order has been imposed. Residents in the affected neighborhoods
must leave by 5 p.m. tomorrow, the mayor said during a City Hall
news briefing.  CME Group Inc. has no current plans to shut or delay
trading on the Nymex because of the hurricane, said Chris Grams,
a Chicago-based spokesman, in a telephone interview. The
exchange’s trading floor is in Battery Park City, one of the
low-lying areas by the mandatory evacuation order.  Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest lender, cut its price
forecasts for West Texas Intermediate, the grade traded in  New
York , and Brent oil for 2011 amid a “significant rise in
worries” that the global economy will slow.  WTI will average $94.25 a barrel this year, down from a
previous estimate of $100, according to the report today by
 Adam Sieminski , the bank’s chief energy economist. The Brent
outlook was reduced to $112 from $114. The bank cut its forecast
for oil-demand growth in 2012 by 400,000 barrels a day to 1.2
million barrels daily.  Economic Problems  “The biggest economic problems will occur between now and
the end of the year,” Sieminski said in a telephone interview
from  Washington . “Things should improve in 2013.”  Crude oil may drop next week as Libyan rebels consolidate
their hold on the country and begin taking steps to restore
exports, based on a separate Bloomberg News poll.  Seventeen of 34 analysts and traders, or 50 percent,
forecast oil will decline through Sept. 2, the survey showed.
Nine respondents, or 26 percent, predicted an increase and eight
estimated there will be little change during the period.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 422,177
contracts as of 3:53 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 621,591
contracts yesterday. Open interest was 1.47 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  