-- 
Rasmussen Calls Danish Election as Stimulus Bill Lacks Votes in Parliament

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-08-26T11:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/danish-prime-minister-loekke-rasmussen-calls-general-election-for-sept-15.html
Danish Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen, whose government is trailing the opposition in most
polls, called an election for Sept. 15 as a stimulus bill
proposed this week looks set to lack lawmaker backing to pass.  Rasmussen, who has led the country since 2009 when his
predecessor, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, became secretary general of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, will hold a vote two
months before his term ends.  “In the middle of a global debt crisis, Danes face a clear
choice: uncontrolled debt or sustainable welfare,” Rasmussen,
47, said at a press conference at his official residence outside
Copenhagen today. “I haven’t hidden the realities.”  Denmark’s frozen housing market and regional bank crisis
threaten to prolong a recession in Scandinavia’s worst-
performing economy. House sales have dropped to their lowest in
more than six years, while two regional  bank failures  since
February have triggered a liquidity crisis that  Standard &
Poor’s  warns may force more lenders to default.  Rasmussen’s Liberal Party-led coalition introduced measures
this month to combat the housing slump and beat back the banking
crisis while calling for fiscal restraint. The 10.8 billion-
krone ($2.1 billion) stimulus plan won’t get the lawmaker
backing needed to pass through parliament, Finance Minister
Claus Hjort Frederiksen told newswire Ritzau. The opposition,
led by Social Democrat leader Helle Thorning-Schmidt, presented
similar housing measures days before the government and wants to
spend more to revive economic growth.  ‘Catching Up’  “The opposition had already proposed a package with more
spending than the government, so they were just catching up,”
said Kasper Moeller Hansen, a professor at the University of
Copenhagen. “The polls have been more or less stable for the
past year. It looks very uphill” for Rasmussen, he said.  A Voxmeter poll published Aug. 23 by Copenhagen-based
newswire Ritzau showed the Liberal Party-led coalition and its
allies would lose an election. The bloc would get 44.5 percent
of the vote, while the Social Democrat-led opposition would win
53.5 percent, Ritzau said.  “The crisis has been very harsh on  Denmark ,” Thorning-
Schmidt said today at a press meeting. “We have a very
ambitious growth package. It will jumpstart the Danish economy
but also offer initiatives to ensure sustainable growth. Without
growth we can’t pay down our debt, and without growth there’s no
money for welfare.”  Yield Spread  Polls indicate voters are drawn to the opposition’s push for
more public spending, putting Thorning-Schmidt in line to become
Denmark’s first female prime minister after a decade of Liberal-
Conservative rule.  “The differences between the economic policies of the two
sides won’t be particularly big no matter what the result of the
election,” Jacob Graven, chief economist at Sydbank A/S, said
in a note. “Not least because none of the main parties will
manage a majority without the help of other parties.”  The yield difference between Denmark’s 10-year bond and
German bunds of a similar maturity was little changed at 23
basis points today. The spread between Danish and German 10-year
debt is smaller than the yield difference for any euro member.  Denmark’s central bank uses monetary policy to keep the
krone pegged to the euro in a 2.25 percent band. The bank
yesterday cut the rate it offers on certificates of deposit by
0.1 percentage point to 1.1 percent after investor purchases of
the krone threatened to strengthen the currency too much
relative to its euro peg, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  