-- 
Dave Matthews Band, Egyptian Pharaoh, Brainy Love: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/dave-matthews-egyptian-big-brainy-love-moma-h-d-vienna-n-y-weekend.html
Before going out on the town, check
the latest Irene update.  On Friday, the world’s most famous college jam band rolls
into town for a stint on  Governors Island .  (Since Governors Island is closed for the weekend, the DMB
is urging Saturday and Sunday ticketholders to attend Friday’s
show. The DMB Caravan will also be rescheduled.)  To celebrate 20 years of total road warriordom, the Dave Matthews Band has created special three-day events in four major
cities.  Along with full sets from Dave every night, O.A.R., Citizen
Cope, Soulive, the Wood Brothers and Vieux Farka Toure will also
appear today.  Take the free ferry from the Battery Maritime Building at
10 South St. beginning at 1 p.m.  Information:  http://www.dmbcaravan.com/governors-island -
lineup.  Saturday  Stroll through a 60-foot tall white translucent labyrinth
while listening to the susurration of voices.  This is Carlito Carvalhosa’s “Sum of Days,” an
installation at the Museum of  Modern Art . The sensuous hangings
are seeded with microphones recording each day’s noise and
speakers that play the sounds back the following day.  It’s the North American museum debut of one of  Brazil ’s
most prominent contemporary artists.  Runs at MoMA, 11 W. 53rd St., until Nov. 14. Information:
+1-212-708-9400;  http://www.moma.org .  Saturday Afternoon  Grab a balloon, write your truth on it and watch it float
among the others.  Join the project on Governors Island by  The Cause
Collective , where the lines of a poem, beginning with “The
truth is I am you,” are installed on the walls of a gallery and
translated into  New York City ’s 24 most frequently spoken
languages.  (Since Governors Island is closed for the weekend, the
reception will be rescheduled.)  It’s part of a series commemorating the tenth anniversary
of 9/11 and runs through Sept. 25. The opening reception is from
3-5 p.m. at The Gallery at Building 110, the  Lower Manhattan
Cultural Council ’s Art Center.  Take the free ferry from the Battery Maritime Building at
10 South St.  Information:  http://mocada.org .  Saturday Night  The Mostly Mozart Festival draws to an end with a
performance of the composer’s last piece, his “Requiem in D
minor,” which he didn’t get the chance to complete.  Young Russian soprano Julia Lezhneva makes her U.S. debut -
- she’s said to be dazzling -- while Louis Langree conducts the
orchestra, joined by the Concert Chorale of  New York .  Rounding out the program are Stravinsky’s “In Memoriam
Dylan Thomas,” and Schubert’s “Unfinished” Symphony.  Avery Fisher Hall ,  Lincoln Center . Information: +1-212-875-
500;  http://mostlymozart.org .  Sunday  Pay a visit to Egyptian royalty: Amenemhat II awaits your
humble presence in the great hall of the  Metropolitan Museum .  The 10-foot tall, 9-ton colossus carved out of a single
chunk of granodiorite sits on a throne covered in hieroglyphics,
hands on his strong knees.  The third king of the 12th Dynasty, Amenemhat reigned from
1919 to 1885 B.C.E., and is on a 10-year loan from the  Egyptian
Museum in Berlin , which is undergoing renovation.  At 1000 Fifth Ave. and 82nd St. Information: +1-212-535-
7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  Sunday Matinee  Check out the brainy love affair at the center of
“Completeness,” a new play by Itamar Moses about grad
students.  Molly is studying molecular biology, while computer
scientist Elliot is trying to focus on the gnarly Traveling
Salesman Problem. The two veer between attraction and repulsion,
and the pyrotechnics are not entirely verbal -- the production
also contains nudity.  At  Playwrights Horizons , 416 W. 42nd St. through Sept. 25.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://playwrightshorizons.org .  Then stop in at Esca for a glass of prosecco and the crudo
tasting menu: six small plates of raw seafood, like fluke with
jelly belly cucumber and Alaskan King Salmon with pickled
blueberries.  402 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-212-564-7272.  Sunday Evening  The  Metropolitan Opera ’s free Summer HD Festival featuring
Placido Domingo as Simon Boccanegra, has been canceled.  The Festival will open Monday, Aug. 29 at 8:30 p.m. with a
showing of Gluck’s “Iphigenie en Tauride.”  Lincoln Center Plaza. The Festival runs through Sept. 5.  Information: +1-212-362-6000;
 http://www.metoperafamily.org .  Looking Ahead  The Met is not the only free HD show in town: the Vienna
Music Film Festival comes to  Brooklyn Bridge Park  Monday night.  A favorite in cities across  Europe  for two decades, the
film festival features great performances from Europe’s premier
venues, including the Wiener Musikverein and Staatsoper, the
Salzburg Festival, the Waldbuhne Berlin and the Zurich Opera
House.  This year’s stars include Anna Netrebko, Jonas Kaufmann and
Lang Lang.  Feast on Austrian cuisine and wine offered by vendors and
then lie back and savor some great music.  Opens at 7 p.m., film at 8:30 p.m., in the Tobacco
Warehouse at the park.  Information:  http://www.imz.at .  (With assistance from Lili Rosboch. Zinta Lundborg is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 