-- 
Dollar Gains as Fed Chief Fails to Signal New Measures to Bolster Economy

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-26T14:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/dollar-pares-loss-as-bernanke-in-speech-fails-to-signal-further-stimulus.html
The dollar gained versus the
currencies of major U.S. trade partners after  Federal Reserve 
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  failed to signal new measures to shore
up the economy that would risk debasing the greenback.  The Dollar Index reversed losses after Bernanke said the
central bank still has tools to stimulate the economy without
signaling when or whether policy makers might deploy them. Data
showed the  U.S. economy  grew more slowly than previously
estimated. The yen gained against most major peers as investors
sought haven assets.  “The key point from the speech was that he didn’t signal
any new Federal Reserve easing,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of
currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “There was
no real expectation for any new signal or policy measures today,
but there was some hope that Mr. Bernanke could have pulled a
rabbit out of the hat and given the markets something.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and yen, rose 0.1 percent to
74.342a at 10:53 a.m. in  New York , compared with 74.279
yesterday. Earlier it fell 0.5 percent.  The dollar gained 0.1 percent to $1.4362 per euro and was
up 0.2 percent for the week. It weakened 0.6 percent to 76.98
yen and climbed 2.4 percent to 81.16 Swiss centimes. The yen
appreciated 0.8 percent to 110.55 per euro.  The U.S. currency has traded within a two-cent range
between $1.4328 and $1.45 against the euro this week as
investors considered what Bernanke would say today.  ‘Range of Tools’  “In addition to refining our forward guidance, the Federal
Reserve has a range of tools that could be used to provide
additional monetary stimulus,” Bernanke said today to central
bankers and economists gathered at an annual forum in  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming.  Last year at the conference, Bernanke said the Fed would
“do all that it can” to ensure a continuation of the economic
recovery and that buying more debt might be warranted if growth
slowed. Two months later, policy makers announced a $600 billion
second round of asset purchases that ended in June.  Policy makers pledged after a meeting Aug. 9 to hold the
benchmark  interest rate  at almost zero until at least mid-2013
after growth that was “considerably slower” than anticipated.  Grew More Slowly  The euro pared earlier gains after Commerce Department data
showed U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1 percent annual
rate from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior
estimate. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 1.1 percent increase. The expansion
capped the weakest six months of the economic recovery that
began in mid-2009.  The global economy has a 50 percent chance of slipping into
recession as the economies of  Europe  and the U.S. struggle to
grow, the Nobel laureate and New York University professor
 Michael Spence  said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television
interview in  Hong Kong .  The dollar has declined 1.4 percent in the past three
months against nine developed-nation peers, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro has
appreciated 0.3 percent and the yen has gained 4.8 percent.  The yen advanced for the first time in three days versus
the dollar as  Japan ’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said he was
stepping down after parliament passed the final two pieces of
his legislative agenda.  ‘Difficult Conditions’  “I feel I’ve done everything I could under these difficult
conditions,” Kan told Democratic Party of Japan lawmakers at a
nationally televised meeting today in Tokyo.  Japan’s government will outline measures on Aug. 29 to help
the nation cope with a stronger currency, the Nikkei newspaper
reported, without citing where it obtained the information.  The euro strengthened earlier against the greenback after
the Financial Times reported officials from the 17-nation
currency union will discuss a new version of  Finland ’s
collateral agreement with Greece.  The “euro working group” is examining a non-cash
collateral arrangement through which Greece would put up either
property or equity in state-owned enterprises and financial
institutions as a guarantee against euro-area bailout loans,
citing unidentified European officials.  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings all said yesterday they continue to rate German
government debt at AAA with a stable outlook. That supported the
euro, said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy in
Hong Kong at Credit Agricole CIB.  “The talk about collateral for Greek debt also perhaps
helped,” Kotecha said.  The Swiss franc weakened against most major counterparts
after an index of leading indicators dropped more than
economists forecast, adding to signs the currency’s recent
strength may be damaging the nation’s growth.  The franc tumbled 2.2 percent to 1.1655 per euro today and
has lost 3 percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  