-- 
The U.S. Needs a Jobs Policy, Not More Cheap Money: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-26T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/the-u-s-needs-a-national-jobs-policy-not-more-cheap-money-by-fed-view.html
It’s a big day for Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . In a much-anticipated speech in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , he will try to reassure the world that
the U.S. has the tools and the political will to rescue a
rapidly deteriorating economy.  The recent turmoil in financial markets reflects a harsh
reality: The global recovery is faltering, and central bankers
are severely limited in their ability to help. In the U.S.,
consumer sentiment has fallen to its lowest point in almost
three decades -- lower, even, than in the scary months after the
September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Inc. The latest
manufacturing surveys point toward recession. The Fed has
already taken  interest rates  as low as they can go and promised
to keep them there through mid-2013. Stimulus, meanwhile, has
become  Washington ’s newest third rail.  Markets expect Bernanke to signal his readiness to
intervene. The main hope is for a third round of quantitative
easing, in which the Fed would either buy more  government bonds 
or shift existing holdings toward longer-term securities.  The odds of success are long. Quantitative easing is
supposed to help the economy three ways: By weakening the
dollar, it makes U.S. exports more competitive; by lowering
interest rates, it boosts the housing market and allows owners
to cut mortgage payments or borrow more; and by pushing
investors into riskier assets such as stocks, it prompts a rise
in the stock market that puts consumers in a mood to spend more.  Clogged Channels  The first channel, exports, might work but the others are
clogged. Many mortgage borrowers can’t refinance. Ephemeral
stock gains won’t do much to improve the national disposition.
Investors might choose commodities over stocks, adding to a rise
in food and fuel prices that would weigh on consumers. For some
of these reasons, analysts at Goldman Sachs estimate that the
economic impact of a QE3 would be almost 40 percent smaller than
the effect of its predecessors.  There are also larger questions regarding monetary
stimulus. Does the Fed really want to encourage people to borrow
more and take on more risk when they’re still struggling with
too much debt and when troubles in  Europe  threaten to slam stock
markets? And does the Fed really want to keep punishing savers,
especially older Americans who depend on safe, fixed-income
investments that have been  yielding  close to zero for two years,
largely to the benefit of bankers?  Options Limited  With the Fed’s options limited, the responsibility for
fending off another painful recession falls on the federal
government. While the Fed can only print money, the government
has the power to create jobs directly. And jobs are what the
economy needs now, to break the chain in which high
unemployment, weak consumer demand and low business confidence
reinforce one another. Bloomberg View has laid out some of the
best options available for a national jobs policy:  -- Public-works spending can lift demand and put people to
work in capital-intensive industries such as construction.  -- A tax credit for companies that increase their headcount
can encourage hesitant employers to hire at minimal cost to
taxpayers.  -- Programs that pay the wages of new hires as they gain
on-the-job training can efficiently target the long-term
unemployed.  -- Allowing the unemployed to collect benefits while
starting up new businesses can prompt older, better-educated
people to create their own opportunities.  -- For some entry-level jobs, scrapping the reporting of
criminal records on applications can help qualified workers get
a foot in the door and stay out of prison.  -- And to make the spending more palatable to congressional
opponents, President  Barack Obama  could offer to cut some of the
red tape holding back hiring and economic growth, such as the
outdated Davis-Bacon Act, which artificially raises the cost of
public-works projects.  Altogether, a meaningful jobs package might cost taxpayers
more than $200 billion over a couple years. To provide the
government the leeway it needs to support the economy in the
short term, it’s crucial that the congressional supercommittee,
which must find $1.5 trillion in  deficit reduction  over the next
10 years, recommend a combination of new revenue, spending cuts,
tax reforms and entitlement changes that would put the
government’s long-term finances on a sustainable path.  Whatever Bernanke says today, he can’t rescue the economy
alone. Nor should he try. America’s best hope of avoiding a
Japan-like fate of mounting debt and decades of stagnation is a
national jobs policy, one whose coordination falls, for better
or worse, squarely on the shoulders of the federal government.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 