-- 
Diageo’s East African Breweries Unit Profit Rises 2%; Inflation Cuts Spend

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-08-26T12:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/east-african-breweries-diageo-s-kenyan-unit-says-full-year-sales-rise-8-.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s Kenyan unit said full-
year profit climbed 2 percent even as rising inflation in East
 Africa  and drought cut  consumer spending .  Net income increased to 7.35 billion shillings ($79
million), or 9.3 shillings per share, in the 12 months through
June, compared with 7.18 billion shillings, or 9.08 a share, a
year earlier,  East African Breweries Ltd. (EABL)  said in an e-mailed
statement from Nairobi, the capital. Earnings for  Kenya ’s
biggest company by market value met the median forecast of five
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “The weakening economic fundamentals continued to
deteriorate across the eastern Africa region, reflecting the
tough operating environment,” the company said. “This has in
turn affected disposable incomes, diminished per-capita income
and raised the costs of living.”  EABL, as the company is known, has operations in  Uganda  and
 Tanzania  where it owns 51 percent of Serengeti Breweries Ltd.,
that country’s second-biggest beer maker. The currencies of
Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania are Africa’s worst performers this
year against the dollar as a drought raised the need for imports
amid a surge in international food and fuel prices. Inflation in
Uganda is at an 18-month high, while in Tanzania, it climbed at
the fastest pace in 15 months in July. Price growth in Kenya,
the region’s biggest economy, is more than triple the targeted
rate.  Shares Increase  “The performance was slightly above expectation in light
of the tough economic environment,” Judd Murigi, head of
research at Nairobi-based African Alliance Kenya Investment Bank
Ltd., said in an interview today. “The outlook is positive if
you look at the top-line growth.” Revenue advanced 16 percent
to 44.9 billion shillings.  Shares in EABL climbed for the first time in eight days,
adding 1.8 percent to 173 shillings by the 3 p.m. close in
Nairobi. The company’s directors maintained the full-year
dividend at 8.75 shillings per share.  East Africa  Breweries controls 95 percent of Kenya’s beer
industry. Diageo, the world’s biggest liquor maker, owns 50.03
percent of EABL.  EABL registered a unit in  South Sudan , where it currently
exports its products to, Managing Director Seni Adetu told
reporters in Nairobi today. The company has also bought land and
is determining whether to operate through a joint venture or on
its own in the state that became independent on July 9, Adetu
said.  “South Sudan remains a key market for us,” he said.
EABL’s market share in the nation could be as much as 70
percent, Adetu said.  Exports to South Sudan,  Rwanda  and Burundi contribute about
6 percent of the company’s total sales, Finance Director Peter
Ndegwa told reporters in Nairobi today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  