-- 
EasyJet Founder Stelios Plans More Steps After Michels Leaves

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-08-26T12:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/easyjet-founder-stelios-plans-more-steps-after-michels-leaves.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  founder Stelios Haji- Ioannou said he’ll announce “further steps to protect
 shareholder value ” next week after Deputy Chairman David Michels quit following the enterpeneur’s push for his ouster.  Michels, who was scheduled to leave at the end of 2011,
will step down immediately to spare the airline the cost and
distraction of a shareholders meeting that Stelios, who is known
by his first name, sought to convene, EasyJet said today.
Stelios wanted investors to vote on Michels’s departure for his
part in a plane order that the founder says will hurt profit.  “The unwillingness of Michels and the rest of this board
to put this matter to a shareholder vote proves that they have
lost all legitimacy to run this company,” Haji-Ioannou said in
a statement. “They no longer enjoy the trust of the majority of
the shareholders.”  Stelios, who is Easyjet’s biggest stockholder, has been at
loggerheads with the Luton, England-based airline’s management
about its expansion plans since November 2008, when he called
for prudence in spending and refused to sign off on annual
accounts.  The airline,  Europe ’s second-largest discount carrier, said
today that it rejects Stelios’s allegation on Aug. 5 that
Michels had agreed to buy 145 Airbus SAS narrow-body airliners
without showing any return on the investment, or that he had
failed to obtain competitive bids from other planemakers.  EasyJet fell as much as 2.6 percent to 318.8 pence and was
down 2 percent as of 1:24 p.m. in London trading. That extended
the stock’s decline this year to 27 percent, valuing the airline
at 1.38 billion pounds ($2.25 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  