-- 
Economy in U.S. Expands at 1% Annual Pace, Less Than Economists Estimated

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-26T20:28:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/economy-in-u-s-expanded-at-1-annual-pace-in-second-quarter.html
The  U.S. economy  expanded less than
previously estimated in the second quarter, underscoring the
weakness that has prompted the Federal Reserve to mark down its
growth forecasts.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1 percent annual rate
from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate,
revised Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking today at a
conference in  Wyoming , said the central bank still has tools to
spur the economy without signaling whether policy makers are
likely to deploy them. Another report showed consumer sentiment
this month fell to the lowest level since November 2008 amid
financial-market turmoil and political wrangling over the  budget
deficit .  “The consumer is clearly unnerved,” said  John Herrmann ,
senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets
LLC in  Boston . “With growth so tepid and the economy so
fragile, any kind of shock could tip us over into a double-dip
recession.”  Stocks erased early losses after Bernanke’s comments. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which broke a four-week losing
streak, rose 1.5 percent to 1,176.8 at the 4 p.m. in New York.
 Treasury securities  also climbed, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 2.19 percent from 2.23 percent
late yesterday.  The median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 1.1 percent increase in GDP. Estimates ranged
from 0.3 percent to 1.6 percent.  Recovery Weakens  Combined with the 0.4 percent annual rate of growth in the
first three months of the year, the past two quarters were the
weakest of the recovery that began in mid 2009. At $13.26
trillion, GDP has yet to surpass the pre-recession peak.  The report also contained some positive news as corporate
profits grew and wages and salaries were revised up at the start
of the year to show the biggest gain in more than four years.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment
measure fell to 55.7 this month from 63.7 in July, pointing to
little pickup in the biggest part of the economy.  “Consumers don’t look like they’re in much of a mood to
buy,” said  Robert Brusca , chief economist at Fact & Opinion
Economics in  New York . “The economy continues weaker than we
thought. It looks like it’s losing momentum.”  Consumer spending , about 70 percent of the economy, grew at
a 0.4 percent annual rate in the first quarter, the smallest
gain in more than a year. Nonetheless, the reading was revised
up from the 0.1 percent previously estimated, reflecting more
outlays for financial services, insurance and health care,
today’s GDP report showed.  Cutting Forecasts  Economists have cut growth forecasts as the  S&P 500  slumped
18 percent between April 29 and Aug. 8, following S&P’s
downgrade of  U.S. debt  amid wrangling over deficit-cutting
measures and on rising concerns of a euro zone default.  IHS Global Insight Inc., a Lexington, Massachusetts-based
research firm, this week raised the odds of a recession to
around 40 percent from a prior 20 percent to 25 percent
probability. It cut its growth forecast for 2011 to 1.6 percent
from 2.5 percent, adding that a “double-dip downturn is still
not the most likely scenario.”  “It appears that the U.S. economy is losing further
momentum,”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said Aug. 19. While several
indicators for July were “surprisingly strong,” economist  Zach
Pandl  wrote that “timelier survey-based data have turned down
sharply, and weakness in the hard statistics seems likely to
follow.”  No Pickup Seen  Goldman Sachs cut its GDP forecast to 1 percent in the
third quarter and 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter, both from
prior 2 percent estimates. The bank’s economists said on Aug. 5
that they saw a one-in-three chance of another recession.  Lack of jobs is discouraging shoppers. Payrolls grew by
about 95,000 in August, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed so far by Bloomberg before the Sept. 2 jobs
report. That would compare with 117,000 in July which brought
the average gain over the past three months to 111,000.
Employment gains averaged 204,000 in the first four months of
the year.  “Although important problems certainly exist, the growth
fundamentals of the  United States  do not appear to have been
permanently altered by the shocks of the past four years,”
Bernanke said in prepared comments at Jackson Hole symposium
hosted by the Kansas City Fed. “The  Federal Reserve  has a range
of tools that could be used to provide additional monetary
stimulus,” he said.  Falling Sales  Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, said profit in its fiscal 2011 will be less than it
previously projected as sales drop at stores open more than a
year. The company also announced it would close seven “under-
performing” stores.  “Recent headlines regarding slowing growth and the U.S.
credit rating downgrade underscore the continued weakness in the
U.S. economy,” Robert A. Niblock, chairman and president, said
on an Aug. 15 conference call. “The volume of negative news and
the unsettling impact on equity markets is having a significant
effect on an already fragile consumer mindset.”  Wages and salaries climbed by $101.2 billion from January
through March, the biggest increase since the last three months
of 2006 and up from a prior estimate of $82.8 billion, today’s
GDP report showed.  Today’s report also offered a first look at profits.
Earnings climbed 3 percent from the prior quarter, after rising
1 percent in the prior period. They climbed 8.3 percent from the
same time last year.  Inventories, Exports  The cut in second-quarter growth reflected a smaller
increase in inventories and fewer exports. Inventories
subtracted 0.2 percentage point from growth last quarter,
instead of adding 0.2 point. Fewer exports also meant trade
added 0.1 point to GDP rather than 0.6 percentage point.  The bigger increase in consumer spending and more business
investment prevented growth from being revised down even more.  The economy last quarter was also hurt by a drop in
 government spending  as state and local agencies tried to close
budget gaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  