-- 
Eskom May Use Price Increases to Boost Profit Excessively, User Group Says

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-26T15:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/eskom-may-raise-power-costs-by-as-much-as-60-in-3-years-users-group-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)  and
other industrial energy users in  South Africa  estimate the
country’s power utility will boost tariffs 60 percent by 2016, a
level they say is unsustainable.  “Electricity prices must not be ‘overcooked’ or South
Africa will suffer,” the Johannesburg-based Energy Intensive
Users Group said in an e-mailed statement. Eskom Holdings SOC
Ltd. may already have excess cash and is seeking returns that
will increase “profitability to unnecessarily high levels.”  Eskom, based in Johannesburg, couldn’t immediately comment
when contacted today by e-mail.  The state-owned supplier of about 95 percent of the
nation’s electricity raised tariffs 26 percent this year after
doubling charges in the previous three years, saying prior
increases didn’t match costs. Eskom has boosted borrowings as it
struggled to fund a 500 billion rand ($69 billion) expansion to
overcome a shortage that temporarily halted platinum, gold and
other mining in 2008.  Eskom’s profit more than doubled to 8.4 billion rand in the
year ended March.  “We’ve reached a tipping point where we have to balance
the fundability of Eskom’s build program and the affordability
of electricity by industry,” Mike Rossouw, head of the energy
users group, said by mobile phone today. The group represents
most large metal producers and accounts for about 44 percent of
the electricity consumed in the nation.  Labor Costs  The company may raise the average electricity tariffs to
about 75 cents to 80 cents per kilowatt hour by 2016 from about
50 cents this year, the users group said.  Metal producers also face labor costs and water tariffs
increasing at rates faster than inflation, which was 5.3 percent
in July. Gold producers ended a five-day strike earlier this
month after agreeing to raise wages as much as 10 percent.  Eskom’s cash position is “looking good” and it’s spending
less capital than expected, said the group. Eskom added 315
megawatts of capacity in the 2011 financial year, more than half
the 625 megawatts it had targeted, the utility said in June.  Eskom said in June its primary energy costs, which are made
up mainly of the coal that fires most of its  power plants ,
jumped 23 percent to 35.8 billion rand. South Africa’s regulator
should investigate why Eskom’s primary energy costs rose as much
as they did, the group said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  