-- 
European Stocks Advance for First Week in Five; Logitech Leads Swiss Rally

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-08-26T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/european-stocks-advance-for-first-week-in-five-logitech-leads-swiss-rally.html
European stocks rose for the first
week in five as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
indicated the economy isn’t deteriorating enough to warrant any
immediate stimulus.  Logitech International SA, the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, led a rally in Swiss shares as the weakening
franc boosted the value of exports. Ageas, the insurer formerly
known as Fortis, surged 15 percent after announcing a buyback.
 National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  dragged the benchmark ASE Index to a
15-year low as the country’s government bonds tumbled.  The Stoxx 600 Europe Index advanced 1.1 percent to 225.52
this past week. The gauge had fallen to the lowest level in two
years on Aug. 19 amid concern the global economic recovery is at
risk, driving its valuation to near the cheapest relative to
estimated earnings since March 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The measure has still fallen 23 percent from this
year’s peak on Feb. 17.  “The fact that the Fed didn’t announce a third round of
stimulus is a sign that the economy isn’t doing too badly,”
said  Arnaud Scarpaci , a  fund manager  at Agilis Gestion SA in
Paris, which oversees about $110 million. “It’s good news and
is reassuring the market. The encouraging thing is that a lot of
people were speculating about a recession and the economic
statistics only show a slowdown.”  Durable Goods  The Stoxx 600 climbed to a one-week high on Aug. 24 after a
Commerce Department report showed that U.S. orders for durable
goods rose more than forecast in July. Bookings for goods meant
to last at least three years rose 4 percent, the most in four
months, after falling a revised 1.3 percent in June. The index
declined in the final two days of the week.  The Fed still has tools to stimulate the economy, Bernanke
said in a speech yesterday at an annual forum in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, without signaling when or whether policy makers might
deploy them. He said a second day has been added to the next
policy meeting in September to “allow a fuller discussion” of
the economy and the Fed’s possible response.  At last year’s conference, Bernanke’s signaling of a second
round of asset purchases buoyed markets. The Stoxx 600 rose 16
percent from Aug. 27, 2010, to this year’s high in February
after Bernanke hinted at the $600 billion Treasury program.  Growth, Employment  “It looks like some market participants see the Jackson
Hole comments as somehow positive in that Bernanke reaffirmed
that the ‘Fed will certainly do all it can to help restore high
rates of growth and employment in a context of  price
stability ’” said Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at
Market Securities in  London . “But will it be enough, or is the
market just blinding itself because it doesn’t want to lose hope
or faith?”  Less than two hours before Bernanke’s speech yesterday, the
government reported that the  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1
percent annual rate in the second quarter, compared with an
initial estimate of 1.3 percent growth.  The global economy has a 50 percent chance of slipping into
recession as  Europe  and the U.S. struggle to grow, according to
Nobel laureate  Michael Spence , who spoke in a Bloomberg
Television interview in  Hong Kong  on Aug. 25.  “I’m quite worried,” Spence, a professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business, said. “A combined
downward dip in Europe and America, which is a good chunk of the
industrialized economies, I’m quite sure will take down growth
in  China  particularly, and that will then immediately spread to
the rest of the emerging economies.” He put the likelihood of
such a scenario “at about 50 percent.”  Swiss Stocks Soar  National benchmark indexes gained in 15 of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 rose 3.1 percent, the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 added 1.8 percent and  Germany ’s DAX advanced 1.1
percent. The Swiss Market Index rallied 4.5 percent, the most in
18 months, while  Greece ’s ASE sank 8.5 percent to the lowest
level since August 1996.  The DAX tumbled 4 percent in 15 minutes on Aug. 25 amid
speculation that regulators planned to impose further
restrictions on equity markets, before rebounding to close 1.7
percent lower. Futures on the index plunged as much as 4.1
percent as a cascade of trades pushed the volume in the
contracts to a quarter of the daily average between 3:45 p.m.
and 4:15 p.m. in Frankfurt.  DAX futures have fallen more than peers since bans on short
selling in France,  Spain , Italy and Belgium made them the
security of choice to hedge against declines in euro-region
stocks. French, Italian and Spanish regulators extended their
prohibitions on short selling financial shares after the close
of trading on Aug. 15.  Logitech Jumps  Logitech rallied 22 percent in Zurich, the most since 2002
as the Swiss franc weakened for a third week against the euro
and the dollar. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the Geneva-based
maker of Jaeger-LeCoultre watches, advanced 9 percent, the
biggest gain in 15 months, and drugmaker  Roche Holding AG 
climbed 6.6 percent, the most in two years.  Ageas jumped 15 percent in Brussels, the largest increase
since May 2010, after announcing plans to buy back as much as
250 million euros ($360 million) of stock.  Financial-services companies rose 2.9 percent for the
second-biggest gain among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx
600, led by  IG Group Holdings Plc. (IGG)   IG Group climbed 10 percent as the owner of the IG Index
financial spread-betting brand said sales for the first quarter
may increase by 19 percent as more people place bets because of
recent market swings. ICAP Plc, the world’s largest broker of
trades between banks, gained 10 percent.  Man Advances  Man Group Plc (EMG)  also surged 10 percent as HSBC Holdings Plc
raised its recommendation on the hedge-fund manager to
“overweight” from “underweight,” citing a “stellar
performance” from the AHL Diversified Plc computer-driven
investment program since the end of June.  Charter International Plc, a welding and automation-
equipment maker, rose 15 percent as the company said it’s in
talks with a potential bidder other than Melrose Plc.  Greek banks tumbled as the nation’s bonds slumped, pushing
the 10-year yield up to a euro-era record, amid concern that
Finland’s demands for collateral on loans to the nation may
jeopardize a second European Union bailout package and trigger a
default.  National Bank of Greece, the country’s largest lender, slid
25 percent, the biggest drop since 2008. Alpha Bank SA slid 26
percent and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA lost 22 percent.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  sank 9 percent, the most since 2008 after the
world’s third-largest brewer by volume said full-year profit is
unlikely to grow. So-called organic adjusted net income for 2011
will be “broadly in line” with last year, the company said.  Admiral Group Plc, the U.K. car insurer that owns the
Confused.com website, lost 12 percent. The company reported
first-half pretax profit that missed analyst estimates after it
held back more cash to cover claims from previous years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 