-- 
Hewlett-Packard Reshuffles Communications After Stock Slide

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-08-26T20:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/hewlett-packard-reassigns-its-head-of-communications-bill-wohl-to-new-job.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  has reshuffled
its public-relations department, a week after a lower forecast
and plans for a shakeup sent the company’s stock plummeting.  Bill Wohl  will step down as chief communications officer,
shifting to a “special assignment,” said Michael Thacker, a
spokesman for the Palo Alto, California-based company. For now,
Chief Marketing Officer Marty Homlish will represent the
corporate communications team on Hewlett-Packard’s executive
council, while Lynn Anderson will lead the day-to-day operations
of the department.  Wohl, 49, was hired in January to handle communications
under Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker . The two men had
previously worked together at SAP AG, where Apotheker was CEO.
Homlish, who also worked under Apotheker at SAP as chief
marketing officer, joined Hewlett-Packard in April in the same
role. This week’s changes were communicated to staffers in an e-
mail late yesterday, Thacker said.  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest computer company, saw
its shares tumble 20 percent on Aug. 19, a day after releasing
lower-than-anticipated sales and profit forecasts and saying it
would explore a sale or spinoff of its personal-computer unit.
It also announced plans to acquire software company Autonomy
Corp. for $10.3 billion and discontinue production of its WebOS
tablet computers and smartphones.  Investor Tour  This week, Apotheker was in  New York ,  Boston  and London
meeting with investors to quell their unease about the changes,
the company said.  Hewlett-Packard fell 21 cents to $24.82 today in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have lost 21
percent since Aug. 17, the day before the forecast and spinoff
plan was announced.  Anderson, who joined Hewlett-Packard in 1983 as a systems
engineer, is vice president of influencer marketing at the
company. As part of that job, she works with the media and
analysts.  Wohl said in an e-mail that he wasn’t at liberty to comment
on the changes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  