-- 
Ex-Marvell Technology Accountant Ng Released on $50,000 Bond

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-26T17:41:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/ex-marvell-technology-accountant-released-after-arrest-on-tipping-charge.html
Former  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
accountant Stanley Ng, charged in a nationwide crackdown on
 insider trading , made an initial court appearance in New York
and was released on a $50,000 bond.  Ng, 42, didn’t enter a plea today at his first federal
court appearance in  Manhattan . U.S. Magistrate Judge James Francis agreed to release Ng on a bond secured by one
financially responsible person and his California home and
ordered him to surrender his passport. Both Ng and his lawyer,
Silvia Serpe, declined to comment after court.  He was arrested Aug. 10 for allegedly leaking material non-
public information to Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with
expert-networking firm Primary Global Research LLC. He’s charged
with one count of conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud
and faces as long as five years in prison if convicted.  Jiau, 43, was convicted in June of one count each of
conspiracy and securities fraud after being caught in Manhattan
U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ’s probe of insider trading involving
so-called expert networking firms and hedge-fund managers.  Prosecutors said Jiau passed earnings and other information
about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and Marvell to fund managers Noah Freeman, a
former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management LP.  Befriended Ng  At Jiau’s trial, a witness testified that Jiau befriended
Sonny Nguyen, a former Nvidia Corp. financial analyst, and Ng to
obtain information she sold to Barai and Freeman. Ng tipped her
about Marvell’s earnings in May 2008, prosecutors said.  The portfolio managers paid Primary Global $10,000 a month
for exclusive access to Jiau, Freeman testified. She earned at
least $208,000 from the scheme, prosecutors said.  Barai and Freedman have pleaded guilty and are cooperating
with prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Ng, 11-02096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 