-- 
Texas A&M Asks Big 12 to Outline Procedure to Withdraw From Conference

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/texas-a-m-asks-big-12-to-outline-procedure-to-withdraw-from-conference.html
Texas A&M University  asked the Big
12 to outline its exit procedure should the school decide to
move to another conference.  The Aggies have inquired about joining the  Southeastern
Conference  and are examining other possibilities for their
athletic programs. The SEC, whose teams have won the past five
national football championships, on Aug. 15 said it will remain
a 12-school conference for the time being.  In  extracts  of a letter posted on A&M’s website last night
to Big 12 Commissioner Dan Beebe,  Texas A&M  President R. Bowen
Loftin wrote that any exit would be done in compliance with the
conference’s bylaws. The school would also support efforts to
seek a replacement, Loftin said.  “We’re seeking to generate greater visibility nationwide
for Texas A&M and our championship-caliber student-athletes, as
well as secure the necessary and stable financial resources to
support our athletic and academic programs,” Loftin wrote.  The Big 12 will begin the football season Sept. 2 with 10
schools after the defection of the University of  Nebraska  to
the Big Ten and the University of  Colorado ’s move to the  Pac-
12 . Both schools said in June 2010 they would be leaving the
 Big 12  and began play in their new conferences last month.  College Station , Texas-based A&M hasn’t set a deadline to
leave the Big 12 and any decision on its future will follow a
“lengthy” process, Loftin said Aug. 15.  “As a public university, Texas A&M owes it to the state’s
taxpayers to maximize our assets and generate additional
revenues both now and well into the future,” he wrote in his
letter to Beebe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  