-- 
Facebook to Shut Deals Feature After Four-Month Test of Web-Coupon Service

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-26T23:40:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/facebook-to-shut-deals-feature-after-four-month-test-of-web-coupon-service.html
Facebook Inc. is shutting its Deals
local-discount feature, opened in April to help the social
network compete with daily-deal sites including Groupon Inc. and
LivingSocial.  “After testing Deals for four months, we’ve decided to end
our Deals product in the coming weeks,” said Annie Ta, a
spokeswoman for  Palo Alto , California-based Facebook. “We’ve
learned a lot from our test and we’ll continue to evaluate how
to best serve local businesses.”  Deals was introduced earlier this year to help Facebook
harness demand for daily discounts, a market BIA/Kelsey predicts
will generate $3.93 billion in 2015, up from $873 million last
year. Facebook is adding services in its tussle with Google Inc.
and Twitter Inc. for users and ad revenue.  Facebook’s closure “suggests that large media and tech
companies can’t just ‘turn on’ daily deals and expect them to
work,” Vinicius Vacanti, co-founder of daily-deal market
researcher Yipit Inc., wrote in an e-mail. “It has to be more
thoughtfully integrated into their existing product.”  Besides offering its own deals, Facebook’s service boasted
discounts from partners including ReachLocal, Gilt City, Tippr,
HomeRun.com, PopSugar City, KGB Deals, Plum District and Zozi.
Facebook said in April it would run Deals in five cities,
including Atlanta,  Dallas  and San Francisco.  “Gilt City is focused on exclusive experiences and insider
access in the great cities in the U.S., and Facebook Deals
performed well for us,” Nathan Richardson, president of Gilt
City, said in an e-mail. “We still believe in the Facebook
platform.”  The daily-deal industry, led by Chicago-based Groupon, had
a 7 percent decline in revenue in July from the previous month
in top North American markets, Yipit said this week.  Groupon Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  said
Facebook’s deal sales are "less significant’’ than those of
other rivals, according to an internal memo sent to employees
and obtained by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net 
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor  responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  