-- 
Fannie Mae Conservator Sued by Pension Funds Over Recovery Limit

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/fannie-mae-investors-sue-conservator-over-rule-limiting-recovery.html
A pension fund investors group sued
 Fannie Mae ’s conservator over a rule that could limit their
recovery for damages stemming from securities fraud.  The  Ohio Public Employees Retirement System  and the  State
Teachers Retirement System of Ohio  asked a federal judge in
 Washington  yesterday to throw out the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  rule, which sets the priority for payment of unsecured
claims against Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the home mortgage
finance companies now under government control.  The pension funds argue that the rule, which took effect
July 20, violates the Appointments Clause of the U.S.
Constitution and the Housing and Economic Recovery Act because
Edward DeMarco, FHFA’s acting director, who imposed it, has been
in his position for almost two years without Senate
confirmation.  “If Fannie Mae’s officers -- the very individuals
responsible for the fraud -- sued the company to recover their
attorney’s fees, their claims would receive priority over
plaintiffs’ valid  securities fraud  claims,” the shareholders
allege in the lawsuit.  Stefanie Johnson, an FHFA spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the filing.  Safety and Soundness  The FHFA is charged with protecting the safety and
soundness of the two companies while they are reliant on
 government aid .  Paying damages on securities lawsuits could leave fewer
resources to pay higher priority claims, the FHFA wrote when it
proposed the rule a year ago.  “Indeed, paying such claims on a first-come, first-served
basis during conservatorship could induce a ‘run on the
conservatorship’ with severe adverse repercussions” on efforts
to rehabilitate the companies, the FHFA wrote.  The pension funds are the lead plaintiffs in a lawsuit
filed in 2004 related to a $6.3 billion overstatement of
earnings. The defendants include Fannie Mae, its former Chairman
 Franklin Raines , two other former executives and KPMG, a former
company auditor.  Federal investigators in 2006 accused Raines and other
executives of overstating profit from 2001 until June 2004 to
meet targets and trigger bonuses. Raines denies the accusation.  Stock Purchase  In 2008, the U.S. Treasury Department took control of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac through a stock purchase that
promised government aid to the companies to keep them solvent.  The stock purchase, made possible by the Housing and
Economic Recovery Act of 2008, allowed Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac to draw funds to maintain a positive net worth.  In the rule, FHFA subordinated certain claims, including
damages arising from shareholder lawsuits.  Richard Cordray , then
 Ohio ’s attorney general, raised objections to that design as it
was being considered last year.  The rule “would have a devastating impact on millions of
beneficiaries of public, union and private pension plans and
taxpayers in Ohio and other states who suffered substantial
damages as a result of the fraud at Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac,” Cordray wrote in an August 2010 letter to FHFA.  Cordray is now the nominee to head the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  When it issued its final rule in June, the FHFA called
shareholder plaintiff concerns “unfounded.”  The case is Ohio Public Employees Retirement System v.
Federal Housing Finance Agency, 11-cv-01543, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  