-- 
FCC Restarts 180-Day Clock on Review of AT&T Bid for T-Mobile

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-08-26T15:32:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/fcc-restarts-180-day-clock-on-review-of-at-t-bid-for-t-mobile.html
The Federal Communications
Commission today restarted its informal clock for reviewing  AT&T
Inc. (T) ’s proposed purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. after receiving
new evidence from AT&T about the deal’s public benefits.  The FCC’s 180-day timeline for examining the $39 billion
transaction was halted on July 20 after AT&T announced that it
intended to submit new economic models of the deal’s impact on
consumers and competition. The new data were submitted July 25.  The review clock will resume effective today, after agency
officials and third parties had the chance to examine AT&T’s new
assessments, Rick Kaplan, chief of the FCC’s wireless bureau,
wrote in a letter to lawyers representing
AT&T. The letter was posted today on the FCC’s website.  “The engineering and economic models we have provided the
Commission confirm the extensive capacity gains and
corresponding consumer benefits that the combination of AT&T’s
and T-Mobile’s complementary assets will produce,” Bob Quinn,
senior vice president of AT&T’s federal regulatory division,
said in an e-mail.  If completed, the merger proposed March 20 would combine
the second- and fourth-largest carriers to create a new market
leader, ahead of current No. 1  Verizon Wireless . The FCC and the
 Justice Department  are vetting the deal in a review that AT&T
officials estimate will last until early 2012.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the nation’s third-largest wireless
provider, urged U.S. regulators during an Aug. 16 meeting to
ignore AT&T’s new filings. Sprint opposes the merger, saying it
would damage competition.  ‘Second Bite’  AT&T “should not get a ‘second bite at the apple’ (let
alone a third or more)” after “failing” to show the
transaction “will promote the public interest,” Sprint told
regulators, according to a  disclosure filing  posted on the
agency’s website.  With the FCC’s clock restarted, the review is at day 83 of
the agency’s 180-day timeline, Kaplan said.  “Our understanding is that, unless specifically prompted
by a request from the Commission or the Department of Justice,
AT&T will not be submitting any further revisions to the
models,” Kaplan said.  U.S. lawmakers have expressed concern that the deal may
harm wireless competition. Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin
Democrat and chair of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on
antitrust matters and Democratic Representatives  Edward Markey 
of  Massachusetts , John Conyers of  Michigan  and Anna Eshoo of
California have sent letters to Attorney General Eric Holder and
FCC Julius Genachowski regarding their unease.  The FCC has no further comment beyond its letter, Neil
Grace, a spokesman for the commission, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  