-- 
Fed Faces ‘Terrible Risks’ If It Pursues QE3, HSBC’s King Says

-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-26T09:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/fed-faces-terrible-risks-if-it-pursues-qe3-hsbc-s-king-says.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve will face
“terrible risks” if it chooses to pursue a third round of
quantitative easing, HSBC Holdings Plc chief economist  Stephen King  said.  “It’s an option that’s out there, but it’s an option that
is beset with terrible risks,” King said in an interview with
Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” in
 London  today, when asked if the Fed will extend its emergency
asset-purchase program. “The most obvious risk, which we’ve
already seen over the last year or so, is if you print money to
try and stimulate the economy, you end up with more inflation
and not much in the way of growth.”  Investors are awaiting a speech by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at the Kansas City Fed’s annual symposium in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , today for any indications of whether the central
bank will embark on further stimulus as the U.S. recovery slows.
He used the same event a year ago to indicate his willingness to
undertake a second round of asset purchases.  “There were fears of deflation last year and those fears
of deflation have now gone,” King said. “I think at the moment
there’s a chance perhaps of thinking rather calmly about what is
possible and what is simply a triumph of hope over reality.”  “What is possible is actually more limited than perhaps
the markets think, because what we’re seeing at the moment is a
significant structural loss in the pace of economic growth in
the U.S. and  Europe ,” he said. “You can try to persuade the
markets that something can be done, but the reality is that
markets will wake up themselves to what is actually the truth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  