-- 
Bullard Says Two-Day Meeting Gives FOMC Time to Mull Options

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 
2011-08-26T23:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/fed-s-bullard-says-2-day-meeting-allows-fed-to-consider-options.html
St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank
President  James Bullard  said adding a second day to the central
bank’s September meeting gives officials time to review easing
options, though rising inflation may prevent near-term action.  “If the economy is weaker and the inflation picture
moderates, we could consider more action,” Bullard said today
in a Bloomberg Radio interview in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. “The
call is much more difficult this year than last year. We have a
much different inflation situation than last year.”  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said today in a speech at a Fed
conference at Jackson Hole that the central bank still has
stimulus tools, while not providing details or committing to
deploying them. Policy makers will meet for two days next month
to “allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and the Fed’s
possible response, he said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will be able to review
additional economic reports before its Sept. 20-21 meeting,
which may confirm or conflict with policy makers’ view that
growth will accelerate in the second half, Bullard said.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1 percent annual rate from
April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate,
revised Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .  “A lot of forecasters have been marking down” their
outlooks, he said. “Is that really what’s going to happen? We
want a better feel for where the economy is headed.”  Bullard said he disagreed with the assessment of Harvard
University economist  Martin Feldstein  that the U.S. faces a
“better-than-even chance” of recession, saying none of the
forecasting models he looks at suggest such odds.  Bond Buying  A third round of asset purchases by the Fed may be
considered if the inflation outlook moderates, Bullard said.  “I have called it our most potent tool,” though
purchasing bonds carries risk and can generate higher prices, he
said. “I think it is still on the table.”  Any new easing could face more opposition from Fed
presidents. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher ,  Charles Plosser 
of Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota of Minneapolis voted
against the August statement that pledged to keep rates near
zero at least until mid-2013. The last time three voters
dissented was on Nov. 17, 1992, under Bernanke’s predecessor,
 Alan Greenspan .  Fiscal policy must play a role in supporting growth, along
with monetary policy, Bullard said.  “Monetary policy cannot do everything,” Bullard said.
“We can do our part, but that is only one part of the
macroeconomic picture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hays in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  