-- 
Fed’s Plosser Says 2012 Outlook Hasn’t Changed, Opposes More Asset Buying

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-26T13:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/fed-s-plosser-says-2012-outlook-hasn-t-changed-opposes-more-asset-buying.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said his growth outlook for 2012
hasn’t changed much in recent weeks and that he opposes a third
round of asset purchases by the Fed.  “I am not sure it would be beneficial to the kind of
problems we are facing,” Plosser said today in an interview
with CNBC television in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. While first-half
growth has been weaker than expected, he said his “forecasts
for 2012 really haven’t changed very much.”  Plosser’s comments reflect his dissent from the decision by
U.S. central bankers this month to specify for the first time a
date for their commitment to low borrowing costs, saying the
benchmark rate will stay in a range of zero to 0.25 percent at
least through mid-2013. The new language replaces their prior
promise to keep rates low for an “extended period.”  “I thought we were overreacting to the events,” Plosser
said. “The data had been very volatile. The stock market had
been very volatile.  Monetary policy  needs to be focused on the
intermediate to longer term.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  lowered its economic
assessment Aug. 9, saying it now “expects a somewhat slower
pace of recovery over the coming quarters.” It left the door
open for more action, saying it discussed “the range of policy
tools available to promote a stronger economic recovery.”  “I thought our description of the economy was overly
pessimistic,” Plosser said in the interview from Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, where the Kansas City Federal Reserve is hosting an
annual conference.  Economy, not Calendar  “I have never believed this economy would grow like
gangbusters,” he said. “Monetary policy should be dictated on
the state of the economy, not the calendar.”  “I have been saying for some time it would be a very weak
recovery,” Plosser said. “The nature of the shocks and
disturbances that have hit the economy are going to make it very
slow to recover. I think that is just the reality we face right
now.”  Plosser said additional monetary easing could be justified
in the event of a “financial meltdown” similar to 2008 or
renewed concerns about falling prices. Neither are in his
forecast, he said.  While seven members of the panel favored the action,
Plosser,  Richard Fisher  of the Dallas Fed and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of Minneapolis voted no. The last time three voters
dissented was on Nov. 17, 1992, under Bernanke’s predecessor,
 Alan Greenspan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  