-- 
For Texas `Miracle,’ Cut the Cost of Doing Business: Brian Barry

-- B y   B r i a n   B a r r y
-- 
2011-08-26T00:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/for-texas-miracle-cut-the-cost-of-business-commentary-by-brian-barry.html
Unemployment is high across the
U.S., but some states are better than others at creating
jobs.  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  cast a spotlight on this
when he entered the presidential race. His fast-growing
state  accounts  for as much as half of all net U.S. jobs
since mid-2009. Texas is part of a broader pattern, from
which all states can learn.  Research shows that states keeping costs low for
business have enjoyed better job growth during the past
couple of decades. The low costs appear to be more
important than other advantages often associated with
higher spending, including infrastructure and an appealing
quality of life.  Those findings emerge in a  recent paper  by Jed Kolko
and Marisol Cuellar Mejia of the  Public Policy Institute of
California , along with David Neumark of the  University of
California  at Irvine. The researchers compared states by
digging into almost a dozen indexes that rank business-
climate attractiveness.  These indexes are only rough guides to policy, and
vary in the importance they place on factors such as
education, taxes and regulation. Comparing them, though,
does highlight important differences across states.  Five indexes have much in common, broadly capturing
the cost of doing business, including taxes, regulations
and the courts. States ranking highly on one such index
tend to score well on other indexes in this group. Five
other indexes give less weight to the cost side. They
instead emphasize factors ranging from policies trying to
nurture startups to those leaning against  income
inequality .  Texas Rankings  Many states do well on some indexes and poorly on
others. From 1992 to 2009,  Texas  had the fifth-best
business climate, according to one cost-centered index, but
scored third-worst on an index that didn’t emphasize costs.
 Massachusetts , on the other hand, ranked poorly on the cost
indexes but was in the top four on several others.  The cost-based indexes do a better job of explaining
employment growth. In one such ranking, controlling for
other factors, the researchers found that the 10th-worst
state could boost job growth by 0.3 percentage point a year
if it could match the business climate of the 10th-best
state. As the average employment growth for states was 1.15
percent a year, that is a huge potential gain.  Much of a state’s relative economic success is beyond
the control of its lawmakers and governor, of course,
especially in the short term. Nice weather attracts
workers. Geography and history influence where industries
are situated, and thus a state’s exposure to different
types of boom and bust. High-tech zones in  California  were
hit hard by the dot-com recession a decade ago. Energy-rich
Texas suffered in the oil-and-gas bust of the 1980s.  More subtly, cultural and institutional factors that
make a place ripe for growth tend to go hand-in-hand. The
effects of specific policies can be hard to isolate.  Keeping Costs Down  Still, the low-cost pattern stands out. States scoring
well on business-cost indexes have had faster growth in
wages and economic output. Their faster rates of net
employment growth include a better record of creating jobs
by startups. This mechanism is important:  Research  by John
Haltiwanger of the University of  Maryland  and co-authors at
the Census Bureau has found that startups and other young
companies disproportionately drive  job creation .  By scrutinizing the cost-based indexes, the California
researchers pinpointed which costs most affect job growth.
An efficient corporate  tax code , with a broad, simple base
and low rates, helps a great deal. In particular, the
relative absence of special tax credits, or different tax
treatment for certain firms, seems crucial.  Some companies may move to states where their taxes
are simple and low; others may find it easier to get
started in those states. Both types of employer may create
jobs faster in states where the tax code isn’t distorting
their activity as much.  A Few Caveats  Before America’s governors rush to cut business taxes,
they should consider a few caveats. First, a state may have
higher taxes and spending (especially on programs that
address unemployment and poverty) because its job growth is
slow, not the other way around. The researchers cannot rule
out that possibility. But they think they have limited this
prospect by comparing across states over two decades, so
short-term slumps that boost welfare spending shouldn’t be
driving their findings.  Second, leaders must make trade-offs. Creating
employment is a compelling goal, especially during a fierce
slump. Still, spending money to counter poverty, or to make
a state more pleasant to live in, is also important to
voters in many places.  Even for states very different from Texas, however,
lessons still hold. One is that the corporate tax code
matters. If you’re going to tax more so you can spend more,
you had better do it with simple taxes on a broad base, to
mitigate the effect on job growth.  Another is that if states with high  government
spending  are creating fewer jobs, they should look closely
at where that money goes.  A well-educated workforce is
good, for example, but high education spending doesn’t
automatically create one. Schools must be well run, and the
money well spent.  Even with good policies, states can create only so
much employment in a slumping national economy. But they
can take steps to help themselves.  ( Brian Barry  is an economics professor and executive
director of the Initiative on Global Markets at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business, and a
contributor to Business Class. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Brian Barry at  brianbarry.chi@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
George Anders at   ganders1@bloomberg.net . 