-- 
FSA International Unit Chief Thomas Huertas Will Leave for Ernst & Young

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-08-26T12:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/fsa-international-unit-chief-thomas-huertas-will-leave-for-ernst-young.html
Thomas Huertas, the head of the U.K.
Financial Services Authority’s international division, is set to
leave the watchdog for accounting firm Ernst & Young.  Huertas, who is also alternate chairman of the London-based
 European Banking Authority , becomes at least the sixth senior
official to leave the FSA since the government said in 2010 it
would abolish the agency.  Sally Dewar , the managing director of risk, resigned last
year and joined JPMorgan Chase & Co. Two former FSA department
heads, David Strachan and Jon Pain, left the regulator to take
jobs at separate accounting firms.  Dan Waters , the FSA’s former
director of conduct risk, stepped down in November of last year.  “During his seven years at the FSA, Tom has made
significant contributions to both the way we regulate the
financial sector and to our approach to supervision,”  Hector Sants , the FSA’s chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The FSA has restructured into two divisions to prepare for
a government-mandated handover of lender supervision to the  Bank
of England . The agency has split internally into a prudential
regulatory authority and a consumer protection agency to ready
itself for a formal transition next year.  Huertas was also a member of the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , the group of regulators and central bankers who
have formulated global rules on bank capital. Before taking the
international unit, Huertas headed the FSA’s U.K. banking
supervision department, a post now held by  Andrew Bailey , the
Bank of England’s former executive director of banking services.  ‘Crucial Work’  “A lot of the crucial work and negotiations on devising
new capital and liquidity regimes has been done and the
foundations of recovery and resolution planning are now being
built,” Huertas said in an e-mailed statement.  The FSA said this month that banks should prepare so-called
living wills setting out how they may be broken up with the
least possible disruption to the economy if they collapse.  Failed lenders’ bondholders should also bear part of the
costs of closure, the regulator said, as part of plans to shield
taxpayers published on its  website .  “After seven years at the heart of U.K. and EU regulation
and supervision, the time is right for a new challenge,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 