-- 
Gasoline Declines as U.S. Economic Growth Less Than Expected

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-08-26T13:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/gasoline-declines-as-u-s-economic-growth-less-than-expected.html
Gasoline fell after a report that
the  U.S. economy  grew less than previously estimated in the
second quarter, marking the weakest six months of the economic
recovery that started in mid 2009.  Futures dropped as much as 1.6 percent as gross domestic
product climbed at a 1 percent annual rate from April through
June, down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate, revised Commerce
Department figures showed. Gasoline rose to a three-week high
yesterday on speculation that Hurricane Irene may disrupt East
Coast refinery production and fuel distribution.  “When the revised GDP came out for the second quarter and
it was revised downward, that put pressure on the oil market,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston.  Gasoline for September delivery fell 4.03 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $2.9276 a gallon at 9:38 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking today at
a central bank conference in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, may indicate
what methods policy makers may employ to spur growth.  Hurricane Irene  Hurricane Irene, downgraded to a Category 2 storm, moved
north at 14 miles (22 kilometers) per hour toward the coast of
 North Carolina . The National Hurricane Center’s forecast track
shows the storm will make landfall in North Carolina’s Outer
Banks tomorrow, skirt the East Coast and reach New England on
Aug. 28.  Irene is packing maximum sustained winds of 110 mph, the
agency said in an advisory at 8 a.m. Miami time. The storm may
grow again to a Category 3 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale tomorrow, the center said.  The U.S. East Coast, or  Padd 1 region , has 10 operating
refineries with a capacity of 1.21 million barrels a day,
accounting for 7.1 percent of total U.S. operating capacity,
according to Energy Department data.  “I’m expecting to hear during the course of the day that
some refineries begin their shutdown procedures,” Lipow said.  Heating oil for September delivery lost 0.46 cent to
$2.9809 a gallon on the exchange.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 1
cent to $3.592 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  