-- 
Pelicans, Ponies Signal ‘We’re Getting Spanked’

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-08-26T18:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/gathering-of-pelicans-ponies-in-carolina-signals-we-re-getting-spanked-.html
Buddy Goodwin, a commercial
fisherman and hunting guide on Cedar Island,  North Carolina ,
doesn’t need to watch the Weather Channel to know Hurricane
Irene is bearing down. The pelicans told him so.  “Yesterday, they started gathering in a big old flock,”
Goodwin, 41, said as his Chevy pickup bumped along N.C. 12, a
desolate two-lane strip cutting through tidal marshes where
Irene is expected to come ashore tomorrow. “Usually those
pelicans are flying everywhere.”  As millions of Americans are glued to television weather
reports, Goodwin checks his barometer first thing every morning.
Pressure is falling, signaling the approach of Irene, forecast
to slam into North Carolina before trekking northward and
possibly causing the most damage in the northeastern U.S. since
Hurricane Gloria in 1985.  Along North Carolina’s coast, boaters and outdoorsmen began
seeing signs days ago that Irene was shaping up to be powerful.  Mourning and ring-neck doves flew onto the widow’s walk of
the tallest house on Beaufort’s waterfront, according to Chris
Davis, 58, owner of a home there. Nearby, wild ponies gathered
on Carrott Island, seeking shelter in the cedar trees, he said.  For two days, cicadas “have been screaming their heads off,”
 said Peter Magee, 57, who put his 41-foot sailboat up on a dock
rack in Morehead City. “When I hear them, I know we are going 
to have weather.  ‘‘This time it looks like we’re in the bull’s eye,” he
said. “We’re getting spanked.”  Headed to Hatteras  Forecasters said Irene will probably strike the coast of
North Carolina with winds of 105 miles (169 kilometers) per hour
tomorrow. It is now a Category 2 storm, down from the Category 3
power it had when it whipped the Bahamas yesterday.  It isn’t likely to regain much strength before it crosses
North Carolina, according to a National Hurricane Center
advisory at 11 a.m. Eastern time. Irene is 330 miles south-
southwest of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina.  The downgrade provided little relief to residents in low-
lying North Carolina communities with names such as Atlantic and
Sea Level, suggesting their vulnerability to wind and rain.
Tides are unusually high, according to Chris Wettberg, a boat
captain and fishing guide on Harkers Island.  “It looks like high tide even though it is midtide,” said
Wettberg, 54, as he secured his boats beside his yellow, two-
story house.  Deadly Cyclones  “Even if we don’t see the eye of the hurricane, there will
be hundreds of tornadoes -- some as small as a water spout and
some as big as the Midwestern ones,” Wettberg said. “That’s
what turns boats over, rips off roofs and kills people.”  Low-lying clouds were moving counterclockwise slowly,
signaling Irene’s approach, as rain began falling.  Wettberg said he’s gone through 15 hurricanes since the
late 1990s, with Irene shaping up to be the fourth direct hit.
He’s boarded up windows and tied down his boats. He expects
birds to stop chirping.  The fishing guide plans to hunker down in the second floor
of his home. His border collie, Pup, will ride out Irene on the
bathroom floor.  “He’s getting real quiet and spooky,” Wettberg said.
“He’s reading my anxiety. It’s a warning sign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Cedar Island at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  