-- 
German Bund Yields Set for First Advance in Five Weeks on Bernanke Speech

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-08-26T10:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/german-bund-yields-approach-one-week-high-on-bernanke-speech-asia-stocks.html
German 10-year bond yields were
headed for their first weekly gain in five as investors waited
to see whether Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
signal further steps to support the  U.S. economy .  Yields on the benchmark securities have added nine basis
points this week on speculation the U.S. economy is growing
enough to keep Bernanke from announcing a third round of
quantitative easing today. Italian securities were little
changed as the nation sold 8.5 billion euros ($12.3 billion) of
six-month bills and 2 billion euros of two-year zero-coupon
bonds. Greek two-year notes rose, paring their biggest ever
weekly decline.  “If the bund market has priced in a fresh round of
quantitative easing and that is not announced today, there could
be a selloff,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income
strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “It’s hard to
tell how much quantitative easing has been priced in. If
equities fall after Bernanke then that may be supportive for
bunds.”  The 10-year German yield was little changed at 2.19 percent
at 10:50 a.m. in  London . It reached 2.28 percent yesterday, the
most since Aug. 17. The 2.25 percent security due September 2021
fell 0.07, or 70 cents per 1,000-euro face amount, to 100.500.
The yield fell to a record low 2.03 percent on Aug. 18.  Two-year yields were at 0.66 percent. They dropped to 0.54
percent on Aug. 18, the least since June 2010.  Greek Yields  Bernanke used his Jackson Hole speech last year to announce
the Fed would “do all that it can” to spur growth. He went on
to implement a $600 billion debt-purchase plan in November.  “Bernanke will probably not announce more quantitative
easing, and that could put upward pressure on bund yields
because investors have been expecting him to,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist at UniCredit Global
Research in Milan.  Greek two-year note yields were 69 percentage points lower
at 44.76 percent, after rising to a euro-era record 45.91
percent yesterday. They have gained 6.96 percentage points this
week amid concern Finland’s demands for loan collateral will
jeopardize a second bailout package for the nation and may
trigger a default.  Greece received a three-year, 110-billion-euro rescue from
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  last year.
The nation sought a second package this year as its economic
woes stymied plans to return to the capital markets in 2012.  Collateral Talks  Euro-area finance ministry officials will discuss today a
new version of the collateral agreement with  Greece  that allows
other European creditor countries to participate, the Financial
Times reported today, citing three European officials it didn’t
identify.  Euro-area governments are “looking for a solution” to the
dispute over collateral for further aid to Greece,  Bertrand
Benoit , a German Finance Ministry spokesman said.  Benoit declined to comment in an e-mailed statement on the
Financial Times report.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the issue
of providing collateral to Finland was an obstacle to the new
Greek aid program as well as to the European Financial Stability
Facility activating its new role.  Bilateral Solution  Venizelos told lawmakers in  Athens  today that Greece was
effectively told by the EU summit on July 21 to seek a bilateral
solution to  Finland ’s demands for collateral. Greece is aware
there are “very serious, delicate” legal issues involved in
the matter, he said. He repeated that any agreement was pending
approval by euro area finance ministers.  The  European Central Bank  has bought government bonds in
the past three weeks in a bid to stop the debt crisis -- which
has engulfed Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  -- from spreading to
Spain and  Italy  by holding the 10-year yields of those nations
close to 5 percent.  Italy’s 10-year yield fell one basis point to 5.05 percent,
while the yield on similar-maturity Spanish yields slipped four
basis points to 4.96 percent.  Italy sold six-month bills at an average yield of 2.14
percent. Investors bid for 1.66 times the amount of securities
on offer. That compares with a so-called bid-to-cover of 1.56 at
the previous auction of similar-maturity bills on July 26, which
were sold at 2.269 percent.  Irish Notes  The nation also sold zero-coupon notes maturing in April
2013 at an average yield of 3.408 percent.  Irish two-year notes advanced, pushing the yield on the
securities as much as 66 basis points lower to 7.90 percent, the
least since March 4. Yields on the nation’s 10-year bond fell
five basis points to 8.84 percent.  German bunds stayed little changed as a report showed the
nation’s import prices rose 0.8 percent in July. That compares
with the median forecast of a 0.3 percent increase in a
Bloomberg News survey.  German  government bonds  have returned 5.5 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, while Treasuries
have returned a gain of 7.1 percent. Greek bonds have lost 23
percent and Spanish bonds have gained 5.4 percent, the indexes
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  