-- 
Ghana Lawmakers Approve $3 Billion China Infrastructure Loan After Debate

-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 
2011-08-26T16:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/ghana-lawmakers-approve-3-billion-china-infrastructure-loan-after-debate.html
Ghanaian  lawmakers approved a $3
billion loan, the biggest in the country’s history, from the
 China Development Bank  after four hours of debate today, said
Edward Doe Adjaho, first deputy speaker of Parliament.  Opposition politicians, headed by Minority Leader Osei Kyei Mensah Bonsu, abstained from the vote in the capital, Accra.  “Clearly there are issues not yet clarified in the
agreement,” Kyei Mensah Bonsu, a member of the opposition New
Patriotic Party, said in an interview after the vote. There are
“issues of cost, double payments, and in some cases, due
diligence had not been done,” he said, without giving details.  The money was pledged to Ghana, which became Africa’s
newest oil exporter in December, following a trip by President
John Atta Mills to  China  in September. He signed concessionary
loan deals worth $10.4 billion during that trip, the government
said.  Ghana  plans to spend $800 million of the funds on projects
to develop a natural gas industry in the Western region, where
the Jubilee oil field that began production last year is
located, George Sipa Yankey, chief executive officer of the
Ghana National Gas Co., said in an interview Aug. 18. The funds
will also be used to construct a railway, a fishing harbor and
roads, among other projects.  Lawmakers from the ruling National Democratic Congress
party, which has a majority in Parliament, were enough to pass
the measure.  “Indeed this is a victory for development and victory for
democracy,” said Information Minister John Tia, a member of the
NDC. “The opposition had their say and it was all factored into
the deliberations so it’s all good,” he said in an interview
after the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Emily Bowers  at   ebowers1@bloomberg.net . 