-- 
Gold Fields Says Peru Tax in Line With Industry Preference

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-08-26T18:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/gold-fields-says-peru-tax-in-line-with-industry-preference-1-.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ,  Africa ’s second-
biggest gold producer, said  Peru ’s decision to base a new mining
windfall tax on operating profit rather than revenue meets
companies’ expectations.  “The new tax will retain Peru’s competitiveness and will
guarantee the government’s support for the growth of mining
investment,” Johannesburg-based Gold Fields said in an e-mailed
response to questions today.  The  mining industry  in Peru, the world’s third-largest
copper and zinc producer and No. 1 in silver, agreed to pay a
total tax of 3 billion soles ($1.1 billion) a year to finance
President  Ollanta Humala ’s plans to boost public spending,
Cabinet Chief Salomon Lerner said yesterday.  “We managed to get all the mining companies to take part
and achieved a tax six times higher than the previous one,”
Energy & Mines Minister Carlos Herrera said today in an e-mailed
statement. “We’ve kept the industry competitive without killing
the goose that lays the golden eggs.”  Humala, a former army rebel, won the June 5 election on
pledges to raise mining royalties and tighten state control over
natural resources. Peru, which has lined up $42 billion in
mining investment projects, boosted first-half mining export
revenue by 31 percent to $13.2 billion on surging metals prices.  The tax replaces a previous levy during former President
Alan Garcia’s mandate from 2006 to 2011, when mining companies
agreed to a 2.5 billion-sole tax over five years.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and Anglo American Plc, which have
operations in Peru, declined to comment, company spokesmen said.  Copper futures for December delivery rose 1.95 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $4.1175 a pound at the 1 p.m. close on the Comex
in  New York . Gold futures for December delivery rose $34.10, or
1.9 percent, to $1,797.30 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Emery  in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  