-- 
Gold Advances for Second Day, Narrowing Weekly Loss on Bernanke Comments

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-08-26T20:27:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/gold-advances-as-bernanke-fails-to-offer-easing-plan-spurring-equity-drop.html
Gold rose in New York for a second
straight day after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
offered no plan to provide further stimulus for the economy.  While Bernanke said the central bank has the tools to spur
growth, he refrained from outlining a plan for a third round of
so-called quantitative easing. The Fed pledged on Aug. 9 to keep
the benchmark  interest rate  between zero percent and 0.25
percent through at least 2013 to help stimulate the economy. The
next policy meeting is Sept. 20. Gold futures slumped as much as
11 percent in the three days through yesterday, after touching a
record $1,917.90 an ounce on Aug. 23.  “The gold camp wanted to hear more about easing and more
stimulus, but we just got put on hold until September,”  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading LLC in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. “All the problems that drove the price of
gold up are still out there. All Bernanke did today was move the
decision to a proper time.”  Gold futures for December delivery gained $34.10, or 1.9
percent, to settle at $1,797.30 at 1:58 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices are down 3 percent the past five days, the first
weekly loss in eight weeks. In after-hours electronic trading,
prices jumped as much as 3.7 percent to $1,828.90.  “Although important problems certainly exist, the growth
fundamentals of the United States do not appear to have been
permanently altered by the shocks of the past four years,”
Bernanke said today in prepared comments at a mountainside
symposium in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, hosted by the Kansas City
Fed. “It may take some time, but we can reasonably expect to
see a return to growth rates and employment levels consistent
with those underlying fundamentals.”  Extending Rally  Gold is in the 11th year of a  bull market , the longest
winning streak since at least 1920 in  London , as investors seek
to diversify away from equities and some currencies. Before this
week, gold climbed for seven consecutive weeks, the longest
rally since April 2007. Prices are up 26 percent this year.  “At the end of the day, they’re still going to have to do
something to push up this economy,”  Frank McGhee , the head
dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview.  Traders are buying gold to hedge against financial turmoil
in case European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
signals any policy changes in  Europe  at Jackson Hole over the
weekend,  Adam Klopfenstein , a strategist at MF Global in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  “Stocks are like spoiled kids who want daddy Bernanke to
keep bailing them out, but he doesn’t feel the need to step
in,” said Klopfenstein. “Everyone’s now fearful of what Papa
Trichet can say to move markets.”  Silver futures for December delivery rose 20.8 cents, or
0.5 percent, to close at $41.001 an ounce on the Comex, down 3.5
percent this week.  Platinum futures for October delivery gained $4.50, or 0.2
percent, to $1,826.90 an ounce on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. Palladium futures for December delivery rose $4.90, or
0.7 percent, to $758.10 an ounce on the Nymex.  This week, platinum lost 2.6 percent and palladium gained
1.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  