-- 
Google Plans to Start Web TV in Europe Next Year, Schmidt Says

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-26T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/google-plans-to-start-web-tv-in-europe-early-next-year-schmidt-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  plans to start its
online television service in  Europe  early next year as the
world’s largest Internet-search company seeks to expand its TV
customer base, Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said.  The company, based in Mountain View, California, also will
continue to help fund broadcasting content, though will stop
short at producing any itself, Schmidt told television
executives in Edinburgh. Google TV started in the U.S. last year
with partners Sony Corp. and Logitech International SA.  “Just as smart-phones sparked a whole new era of
innovation for the Internet, we hope Google TV can help do the
same for television, creating more value for all,” Schmidt, 56,
said, according to a transcript before his lecture at the annual
 Edinburgh International Television Festival  in the Scottish
capital.  Google TV works with an Internet television or a set-top
box, according to the company’s  website . Logitech said in April
it would cut the price of its Revue device by 17 percent to
attract buyers after a “slow start.” Logitech began selling
Revue in the U.S. in the final quarter of 2010.  Schmidt told the audience today he wanted the U.K.
television industry to work with Google on developing content
for broadcast. He rejected what he called an “accusation” that
Google aimed to make all content free for users.  “We’re agnostic when it comes to whether free or paid
content models are best,” Schmidt said. “It’s up to content
owners to decide if they want to charge, and it’s up to users to
decide if they want to pay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net 
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  