-- 
Granny’s Fate Rides With Bernanke in Jackson Hole: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-08-26T00:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/granny-s-fate-rides-with-bernanke-in-jackson-hole-caroline-baum.html
Investors around the world are
waiting to find out whether Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  puts any QE3 in his opening remarks today at the Kansas
City Fed’s  Jackson Hole  conference. It was one year ago at the
same event that he outlined the Fed’s policy options for an
ailing economy, including a second round of quantitative easing
that started in early November.  A second audience will be listening to Bernanke -- not as
closely, perhaps, nor in real time, but with no less a stake in
the outcome: retirees living on fixed incomes who have watched
their returns dwindle to almost nothing.  Bernanke has already told this group to forget about
earning a higher rate of interest anytime soon. At the
conclusion of its Aug. 9 meeting, the Fed  announced  it would
keep the benchmark rate near zero “at least through mid-2013.”
What’s a small saver to do?  Monetary policy  isn’t offering much solace in the short
run. That’s because the Fed adjusts  interest rates  and, in so
doing, changes the incentives to spend and to save.  When inflation-adjusted interest rates are high, the public
is induced to forego current consumption in favor of future
consumption. In plain talk, we’re being paid to save.  Alternatively, when real rates are low or negative, as they
are now, the incentive is to spend today and forget about saving
for a rainy day. Interest rates act as a guide to our choices.  Risk Management  That’s one explanation of how monetary policy works. There
are others. While currently out of favor, monetarism teaches
that if the Fed creates more money than the public wants to
hold, people will spend it. It’s akin to dropping money from a
helicopter, the metaphor adopted by the late  Milton Friedman  to
teach his  University of Chicago  students how monetary policy
works.  Bernanke explains it in a different way. Once short-term
rates hit zero, monetary policy works through the  portfolio
balance channel,  a theory he outlined at Jackson Hole last year.
Specifically, when the Fed buys risk-free Treasuries, it
depresses the yields and forces investors to buy other assets
that carry increased credit and interest-rate risk -- long-term
corporate bonds or stocks, for example.  In a Nov. 19  speech , he even argued that there was no Q in
quantitative easing. The thrust of QE, he said, comes from
changing the quantity of bank reserves, a channel he called
weak. Securities purchases, on the other hand, work through
portfolio substitution.  “The Fed should talk in terms of reserves, not asset
prices,” said  Marvin Goodfriend , a professor of economics at
 Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh and a former research
director at the Richmond Fed.  Bad Marketing  The reason? To remind the public of the Fed’s unique
authority, independent of the political process, “to stabilize
the purchasing power of money,” Goodfriend said.  Maybe it’s just a case of bad marketing, although the Fed
has been emphasizing the asset side of its  balance sheet  since
December 2008, when it lowered the funds rate to near zero. For
an institution that is so concerned with its communication
policy, the Fed could do better. The talk about forcing
investors to assume more risk sounds as if the Fed is
encouraging Gram and Gramps to redeem those six-month Treasury
bills, cash out of the money-market fund and let the CDs mature,
and go out and buy stocks and high-yield bonds.  Small savers and retirees have reason to be upset. It’s as
if monetary policy has been personalized to punish one group
that behaved well (savers) and reward another that over-borrowed
and over-spent.  Daily 400-point swings in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
aren’t for everyone. Most octogenarians, I’d venture to say,
prefer less volatility.  Bubble Blindness  Goodfriend says the Great Inflation of the 1970s soured
many savers on owning long-term bonds. They opted for short-term
instruments instead, which left them vulnerable to periodic
bouts of ultra-low rates (the periods seem to be getting
longer).  Besides, the Fed’s extended policy of zero-percent interest
rates is apt to spark a bubble in some unexpected asset class.
( Farm land  and  student loans  have been mentioned as possible
candidates.) When it comes to bubble identification, the Fed is
the last one to know and even slower to admit to a role in its
creation.  The Fed tries to be neutral in its conduct of monetary
policy, buying Treasuries only and no other asset classes. (The
various lending facilities created in 2007 and 2008 to deal with
the financial crisis are the exception.) In the same spirit, the
central bank needs to communicate that it’s running monetary
policy for everyone, not just sophisticated investors.  Don’t Forget Gramps  “A policy that is effective in getting the economy to grow
more rapidly will improve the lives of most people,” says former
St. Louis Fed President Bill Poole.  Stronger growth means more hiring, more income, bigger
profits, higher stock prices and higher real interest rates.  Figuring out what’s “effective” isn’t so easy. I doubt that
Bernanke will offer any new solutions today. After all, three
members of the Fed’s policy committee dissented from the Aug. 9
decision to commit to near-zero rates through mid-2013.  Inflation readings are much higher than they were a year
ago: 3.6 percent versus 1.2 percent for the  consumer price
index ; 1.8 percent versus 0.9 percent for the core CPI, which
excludes food and energy and is given more weight by policy
makers. The bar for additional Fed action has been raised.  Whatever Bernanke says or doesn’t say is sure to have a
market impact. Stocks, for example, will probably be
disappointed without the prospect of a Fed fix.  As for Gram and Gramps, who won’t be attending this or any
Fed symposium, Bernanke will have nothing to offer. At minimum
he could acknowledge their predicament and stop encouraging them
to buy  junk bonds .  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  