-- 
Greece Government Says it Could Drop Debt Swap Plan on Weak Participation

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-08-26T11:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/greece-government-links-debt-exchange-to-reaching-90-participation-level.html
Greece  solicited support from 57
countries for private investor involvement in a rescue plan for
 Europe ’s most-indebted nation, saying it could scrap the debt
swap if participation by banks didn’t reach 90 percent.  “We are moving ahead with preparations for private-sector
involvement,” Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told
lawmakers in  Athens  today. “All euro-zone countries and
institutions as well as international banks are taking part in
this effort under our coordination.”  Greece outlined the plan in a document sent yesterday to
the finance ministries of 57 countries where banks and insurers
hold Greek debt. Venizelos said earlier this month that Greece
was seeking a participation rate of 90 percent, or 135 billion
euros ($195 billion) of bonds.  “If these thresholds are not met, Greece shall not proceed
with any portion of the transaction described in this letter if
it determines” there isn’t enough private sector involvement
“to permit the official sector to support the new multi-year
adjustment program,” the document says.  Rescue Package  Germany ’s push for private investors to foot part of the
bill for a new aid package for Greece delayed an agreement on
the rescue until a July 21 summit and contributed to debt crisis
contagion to Spain and  Italy . The swap, under which investors
would exchange debt at a discount for new Greek bonds, was due
to contribute about a third of the 159 billion-euro package
agreed to at the July meeting.  Greece needs to wrap up the debt swap to secure final
approval for the new aid package by euro-region governments in
September. The  Institute of International Finance , a trade
association of more than 400 banks and insurers, has been
leading the talks on the swap and has said it was also seeking a
90 percent participation rate.  The yield on the country’s two-year notes topped 45 percent
this week for the first time on concern that the rescue package
may founder. Greece needed the aid after a 110 billion-euro
bailout in May of last year failed to bring down borrowing costs
enough for the country to return to markets, leaving the country
at risk of default.  ‘Proceeding Well’  “We have reasons to think that the talks are proceeding
well,” European Commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told
reporters in Brussels today. He said he expected participation
to be in line with the plan announced in July.  Approval of the aid plan has also been complicated by
 Finland ’s demands that it receive collateral for its share of
the new loans for Greece. A collateral agreement between Finland
and Greece, prompted other nations to demand similar treatment,
threatening to delay or scuttle the new aid plan.  The Greek government asked the finance ministers to prepare
information on ownership of Greek bonds maturing through Dec.
31, 2020, according to the document released in an Athens bourse
filing today. Financing terms of the four debt-exchange options
agreed upon for the July summit were outlined in the document.  “At first glance, the four instruments are similar to what
had been outlined” by the Institute of International Finance,
said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income strategy at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . They are “setting the hurdle
high” on the 90 percent participation rate.  Greece’s debt is forecast to peak at 161 percent of gross
domestic product next year, according to European Commission
data released on July 4. Venizelos said the economy will shrink
more than 4.5 percent this year. In 2012, a “drastic reduction
of the recession” is expected even if there isn’t growth,
Venizelos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  