-- 
Groupon Has ‘Never Been Stronger’ With Revenue Soaring, CEO Says in Memo

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-26T22:12:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/groupon-has-never-been-stronger-as-sales-soar-ceo-mason-says.html
Groupon Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Mason  said the digital-coupon company is growing and
widening its lead over rivals, addressing concerns raised about
the business as it prepares for an initial public offering.  “When I read some of the press this weekend, I realized a
rational person could read this stuff and wrongly conclude that
we’re in trouble,” Mason wrote in a memo sent to employees
yesterday that was obtained by Bloomberg News. “The irony is
hopefully clear: We’ve never been stronger.”  Groupon forecasts U.S. sales in August will increase about
12 percent over the previous month. Marketing expenses, expected
to fall 20 percent this month, will continue to decline as the
company shifts its focus from acquiring new subscribers to
converting them into paying customers, Mason said in the letter.  The Chicago-based company amended its IPO filing earlier
this month, stepping back from a controversial approach to
accounting. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was
examining the earlier numbers, which relied on adjusted
consolidated segment operating income, or adjusted CSOI, a
person familiar with the matter said on July 27. Groupon plans
to raise $750 million in the IPO.  “The reason everyone in the world seems to hate ACSOI is
that it makes us look magically profitable by subtracting a
bunch of our customer acquisition marketing costs from our
expenses,” Mason said in the memo, first reported by
AllThingsDigital. “We think it actually does a pretty good job
at describing our marketing expenses in a steady state.”  Market Share  Mason also accused daily coupon rival LivingSocial.com of
buying gift certificates from national retailers and reselling
them to users “to give the appearance of a 50 percent off
deal.” Groupon gained market share at the expense of
LivingSocial in July, according to data released yesterday by
website Yipit Inc.  LivingSocial said today that Groupon wasn’t privy to its
operations.  “No Groupon executives have access to our internal revenue
or financial numbers, and thus any claims made by such
executives should be met with deep skepticism,” Brendan Lewis,
a spokesman for the Washington, D.C.-based company, said in an
e-mail.  Internationally, Groupon is improving profitability in
every country it operates, Mason said. “Every country is either
losing less or making more.”  The company’s joint venture in  China  recently fired a large
number of workers for poor performance, a person with knowledge
of the matter said earlier this week.  Groupon Getaways, a service for discounted airfare started
last month in partnership with Expedia Inc., generated revenue
of $10 million in its first month, according to Mason’s memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  