-- 
Gundlach’s DoubleLine Will Hold Cash Until Everyone in ‘Fear’

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-08-26T13:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/gundlach-s-doubleline-waits-to-buy-until-everyone-in-fear-adds-to-cash.html
Jeffrey Gundlach ’s DoubleLine
Capital LP is favoring cash over almost all investments
including corporate bonds, wagering that relative yields will
widen even after expanding to the most since October 2009.  “I want fear,” Gundlach, the founder and head of Los
Angeles-based DoubleLine, said in an Aug. 24 telephone
interview. “I want to buy things when people are afraid of it,
not when they think that it’s a gift being handed to them,” he
said of speculative-grade bonds.  Some of DoubleLine’s funds, which usually don’t hold any
cash, currently are allocating 15 percent, said Gundlach, who
managed the top-rated intermediate-term U.S. bond mutual fund
for 15 years. DoubleLine’s Multi-Asset Growth fund, which can
invest across asset classes and market sectors, holds 30 percent
in cash, he said.  DoubleLine has attracted about $14 billion since its
December 2009 inception. Gundlach previously co-managed the  TCW
Total Return Bond Fund (TGLMX)  with Philip Barach. Gains averaged 7.5
percent annually in the five years ended Dec. 4, 2009, which
compares with 7 percent for the Total Return Fund run by  Bill Gross  of  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s largest bond fund. Barach is also at
DoubleLine.  The firm, which has grown from $3.1 billion in June 2010,
increased cash holdings as a rally in U.S. Treasuries pushed
down yields, Gundlach said.  Spreads Widen  U.S. investment grade corporate bonds are paying 3.78
percent down from 4.16 percent in April, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master Index. The debt
has lost 0.3 percent in August, paring 2011 gains to 5.3
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The extra premium investors demand to hold the debt instead
of U.S. Treasuries expanded to 227 basis points on Aug. 24, the
most since October 2009, the index data show. Relative yields
rose 59 basis points this month to 225 basis points through
yesterday. Spreads peaked at 656 basis points in December 2008
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. failed and credit markets
seized up.  Waning confidence in the economy and  Europe ’s worsening
sovereign debt crisis have sent investors fleeing from risky
assets and made it harder for companies to access capital
markets. Sales of corporate debt in the U.S. have dropped to
$46.6 billion this month, compared with $98.4 billion in the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This week, there were no offerings of junk bonds, ranked
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s . That’s left sales in August at $1 billion,
compared with the monthly average this year of $28.5 billion,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘Something Looks Broken’  “Something funny is going on in the world of corporate
bonds now -- something looks broken,” he said. “It seems
there’s less willingness all of a sudden to be lending money to
corporations, maybe because the absolute yields are so low.
You’re starting to see that saturation point.”  Junk bonds  have plunged 5 percent this month paring gains
for the year to 0.9 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. Spreads on speculative-grade company notes, rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s, have widened 185 basis points this month to
743 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  