-- 
Libyan Rebels Mass for Attack on Sirte

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-27T14:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/libyan-rebels-plan-to-attack-qaddafi-hometown-if-loyalists-don-t-surrender.html
Libyan rebels prepared to attack
Muammar Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte as their ruling council
worked to solve the growing humanitarian crisis in the country.  The National Transition Council called on utility workers
to return to their jobs, rebel spokesman Mahmoud Shammam said at
a press conference broadcast today from Tripoli, the capital.
Electricity may return “fairly soon” and the Interior Ministry
was trying to open police stations, he said.  Tripoli was quieter after a week of fighting, while much of
the city was without water and electricity, the  Associated Press 
reported yesterday. A BBC correspondent reported seeing more
than 200 bodies of men, women and children in a hospital which
doctors and nurses abandoned during intense fighting in the Abu
Salim neighborhood near Qaddafi’s captured Bab Al Aziziya
compound.  Since entering the city this week, backed by airstrikes
from the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization , rebel leaders are
trying to consolidate gains, find Qaddafi and bring stability to
the country. The rebel council officially transferred its
headquarters from the eastern city of Benghazi to Tripoli on
Aug. 24, the council’s Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril said during
a visit to Italy.  A local council will be established in the capital within
48 hours, the rebel’s Justice Minister Mohammed al-Egely said at
the press conference. The opposition will also work to repair
the country’s health care sector, al-Egely said.  Elders of Sirte  Rebels are in talks with elders of Sirte to try to
negotiate a peaceful surrender, the  BBC  said today, without
saying where it got the information. Qaddafi may have been
traced to Sirte, his birthplace,  Le Parisien  reported today,
citing unidentified officials in the Elysee palace, the French
president’s office.  Fighters in rebel-held Misrata are heading east to join
forces moving west from the main opposition stronghold of
Benghazi, to converge on Sirte, Abdullah Maiteeg, from a unit
based in Misrata, said yesterday. “We have to wait until the
guys from Benghazi come,” he said.  Rebels equipped with tanks, heavy artillery and pickup
trucks mounted with anti-aircraft guns are massing around a road
junction about 60 kilometers (40 miles) south of Misrata,
Maiteeg said. The rebels said taking Sirte, which had a pre-war
population estimated at about 100,000, is an urgent task because
Qaddafi may be hiding there and to prevent further Scud missile
launches from the area.  NATO struck targets including 29 armored vehicles in Sirte
and a surface-to-air missile launcher, the organization said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. NATO special forces are now
based in Misrata, from where they call in airstrikes and advise
the fighters, a rebel officer said Aug. 25.  Emergency Aid  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon urged international
organizations to help Libyan authorities deliver immediate
emergency aid and support a democratic transition.  Libya  faces
widespread destruction of property, shortages of fuel, food and
medical supplies, Ban said yesterday in a  video conference  from
UN headquarters in New York.  “As do other international leaders we have consulted in
recent days, they expect the UN to play an essential, pivotal
role in the country’s future,” Ban said. “In addition to
immediate humanitarian assistance, they placed special emphasis
on early support for elections, transitional justice and
policing.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  favors the UN, the  Arab
League  and the  African Union  taking the lead in creating
sustainable peace in Libya, the Bild-am-Sonntag newspaper
reported today.  Germany  would, if asked, consider participating
in any peacetime role of the UN, she is cited as saying in an
interview published tomorrow.  The U.K. announced plans for “urgent humanitarian
support,” including medical help and food, for people affected
by the conflict in Libya, International Development Secretary
 Andrew Mitchell  said today. The support will include surgical
teams and medicines for the treatment of up to 5,000 war-wounded
patients, and food for nearly 690,000 people, Mitchell said in
an e-mailed statement.  Killed Detainees  Amnesty International  said it has uncovered evidence that
loyalist forces killed detainees at two military camps in
Tripoli on Aug. 23 and 24. Rebels have also targeted suspected
African mercenaries in retribution killings in the capital, the
London-based  The Independent  said, citing its correspondent.  Pro-Qaddafi forces attacked the capital’s airport after he
urged supporters to “cleanse Tripoli of the rats.” At least
four planes, including an  Airbus A330 , were destroyed by rocket
fire,  Al Arabiya  reported. Loyalists continued to shell the
airport yesterday, the broadcaster said.  In Bin Jawad, near Ras Lanuf, home to Libya’s biggest oil
refinery, there were clashes yesterday between the two sides, Al
Arabiya said. Rebel forces claimed the capture of strategic
positions around the city, including a military warehouse where
the embattled regime stored tanks, Al Arabiya reported.  British military aircraft carried out a “precision
attack” on a brigade headquarters and helicopter facility on
the southern outskirts of the capital, the Ministry of Defence
in  London  said today in an e-mailed statement.  Oil Industry  The conflict has all but halted oil exports from Libya,
which has the largest proven reserves of any African country.
Output dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July, down from the
1.6 million barrels pumped before the uprising started.  Libya’s oil industry will need at least $25 billion in
investment to increase its oil production to 2 million barrels a
day, the chairman of drilling-rig operator Challenger Ltd. said.  “Fields need to be developed, others redeveloped,” Hassan
Tatanaki said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The Libyan
oil industry needs a lot of revamping. We have to reinvest to be
able to get the proper cost effective amount into the industry
in terms of the country’s production level.”  The conflict has all but halted oil exports from Libya,
which has the largest proven reserves of any African country.
Output dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July, down from the
1.6 million barrels pumped before the uprising started.  Crude oil for October delivery rose 7 cents to settle at
$85.37 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange yesterday.
Futures increased 3.8 percent this week, the first weekly gain
since July, and are up 16 percent in the past year.  Frozen Assets  Rebel leaders are working to retrieve assets frozen by the
 United Nations  and individual countries in an effort to obtain
funding for food and humanitarian and medical needs,
transitional council Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil said at a
press conference in Benghazi on Aug. 25.  The UN Security Council gave the U.S. permission to release
$1.5 billion in frozen Libyan government assets in three
disbursements for emergency aid, fuel and power and for health
and education. About $30 billion in Libyan assets is held in the
U.S. and has been beyond the reach of the rebels.  Italy  has freed up 350 million euros ($507 million) in
Libyan assets, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said on Aug. 25.
Germany, which holds about 7.3 billion euros in Libyan assets,
is providing a loan of $140 million to the rebels’ National
Transitional Council as an advance.  The U.K. yesterday asked the UN sanctions committee to be
allowed to release about 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in
frozen assets to the NTC. The U.K. is proposing to make
available seized Libyan dinar currency, manufactured by a
British printing company, according to the Associated Press,
which cited British government officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 