-- 
Libya Needs $25 Billion in Investments for Oil Production, Challenger Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-26T16:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/libya-needs-25-billion-in-investments-for-oil-production-challenger-says.html
Libya ’s oil industry will need at
least $25 billion in investment to increase its oil production
to 2 million barrels a day, the chairman of drilling-rig
operator Challenger Ltd. said.  “Fields need to be developed, others redeveloped,” Hassan
Tatanaki said in a telephone interview today. “The Libyan oil
industry needs a lot of revamping. We have to reinvest to be
able to get the proper cost effective amount into the industry
in terms of the country’s production level.”  The armed conflict in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest
proven reserves, has reduced the nation’s output to 100,000
barrels a day in July from the 1.6 million barrels pumped before
the uprising started in February. A full recovery of production
may take as long as three years, according to analyst estimates.  Tatanaki, 53, said he intends to play a role in rebuilding
Libya’s oil industry, of which Challenger’s 35 rigs across the
country “are the core.” His  Libya El Hurra  charity, set up
shortly after the unrest began, has been providing humanitarian
aid and relief to refugees and those displaced by the conflict
in Libya operating out of Egypt, Tunisia, Libya and the U.S.  “We’re not just concentrating on just medical and food
supplies,” Tatanaki said. “We also want to play a part in
other ways so that in the next year or so we have a proper
constitution, transparency that helps create a democracy.”  Forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  continued to battle rebels
in the Libyan capital, Tripoli, as the opposition National
Transitional Council said the North African nation’s
humanitarian aid needs are “urgent.”  Rebel leaders worked to retrieve assets frozen by the
 United Nations  and individual countries in an effort to obtain
funding for food, and humanitarian and medical needs,
transitional council Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil said at a
press conference in Benghazi yesterday. Since fighting began in
Libya, the number of people killed has “exceeded 20,000,”
Abdel Jalil said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  