-- 
Libyan Rebels Seek Aid as Qaddafi Invokes Jihad

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-08-26T11:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/libyan-rebels-seek-aid-as-qaddafi-calls-on-muslim-clerics-to-incite-jihad.html
Forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi 
battled rebels in the Libyan capital, Tripoli, as the opposition
National Transitional Council said the North African nation’s
humanitarian aid needs are “urgent.”  Security is “a top priority, but we cannot achieve such a
goal without being able financially and economically to
establish our power and the NTC rule,” the council’s prime
minister, Mahmoud Jibril, told reporters today in Istanbul.  Since entering Tripoli this week, after breaking a
stalemate in a six-month effort backed by airstrikes from the
 North Atlantic Treaty Organization , rebel leaders say they are
trying to establish a working administration and are moving the
council’s headquarters from Benghazi in the east to Tripoli.  Pro-Qaddafi forces attacked the capital’s airport during
the night after he urged supporters to “cleanse Tripoli of the
rats.” At least four planes, including an  Airbus A330 , were
destroyed by rocket fire, Al Arabiya reported. Loyalists
continued to shell the airport today, the broadcaster said.  Qaddafi’s audio message, issued from hiding while rebels
were hunting him with intelligence help from NATO, included a
call for Muslim clerics to incite Libyans for “jihad” against
his enemies. The audiotape was aired by Syria-based Al Oruba TV.  Targeting Authority  “As the Libyan regime and its forces begin to melt away
you have residual groups who are going to continue to fight,”
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said by
phone yesterday. “They will start to target airports, seaports,
oil and gas infrastructure and anything that represents the
authority of the new government.”  Rebel leaders worked to retrieve assets frozen by the
 United Nations  and individual countries in an effort to obtain
funding for food, and humanitarian and medical needs,
transitional council Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil said at a
press conference in Benghazi yesterday.  The UN Security Council gave the U.S. permission to release
$1.5 billion in frozen Libyan government assets in three
disbursements for emergency aid, fuel and power and for health
and education. About $30 billion in Libyan assets is held in the
U.S., and has been beyond the reach of the rebels.  Assets Released  Italy has freed up 350 million euros ($505 million) in
Libyan assets, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said yesterday.
 Germany , which holds about 7.3 billion euros in Libyan assets,
is providing a loan of $140 million to the transitional council
as an advance.  Council officials will travel to Cairo tomorrow for a
meeting with the Arab League foreign ministers where they hope
to formally fill  Libya ’s seat, Jibril said today.  “We call on Qaddafi, his family and his supporters to
bring an end to their continuing violence for the sake of the
Libyan people and Libya’s future,”  U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said in a statement from  Washington  yesterday.  Amid the fighting in parts of Tripoli, medical staff were
unable to reach hospitals to treat the injured, though areas of
the city secured by the opposition are calm and have water and
electricity, said Robin Waudo of the  International Committee of
the Red Cross  in a telephone interview from the capital
yesterday. Since fighting began in Libya, the number of people
killed has “exceeded 20,000,” Abdel Jalil said yesterday.  Push Toward Sirte  To the east of the capital, rebel fighters pushed toward
Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte. They were negotiating with tribal
leaders to enter the city without violence, council defense
spokesman Colonel Ahmed Bani said from Benghazi, while fighting
continued yesterday in the southern city of Sabha between
Qaddafi loyalists and the rebels.  British aircraft attacked a bunker in Sirte, the Ministry
of Defence in  London  said today. NATO struck targets including
29 armored vehicles in Sirte and a surface-to-air missile
launcher, the organization said in an e-mailed statement today.  In Bin Jawad, near Ras Lanuf, home to Libya’s biggest oil
refinery, there were clashes today between the two sides,  Al
Arabiya  said. Rebel forces claimed the capture of strategic
positions around the city, including a military warehouse where
the embattled regime stored tanks, Al Arabiya reported.  NATO special forces are now based in Misrata, from where
they call in airstrikes and advise opposition fighters, a rebel
officer from the city said yesterday. Two teams, one British and
one French, have been guiding alliance warplanes in attacking
government targets around the city for several weeks, said
Mohammed Subka, a communications specialist in the Al Watum, or
My Home, brigade.  Holding Gains  “Rebel fighters are doing the bulk of the work,” said
Karasik. “No one has thought through yet the aftermath of
taking Tripoli, so this next week will be very telling as far as
their ability to hold on to their gains.”  The conflict has all but halted oil exports from Libya,
which has the largest proven reserves of any African country.
Output dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July, down from the
1.6 million barrels pumped before the uprising started.  Crude oil for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 70 cents to $84.60 a barrel at 12:19 a.m. London
time. Brent oil for October settlement dropped 49 cents to
$110.13 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Rome-based  Eni SpA (ENI)  will begin supplying the transitional
council with gasoline and diesel fuel in the coming days that
will eventually be paid for with crude oil, Chief Executive
Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said yesterday after meeting Jibril. Eni,
the biggest foreign investor in Libya, saw most of its
production halted by the conflict.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 