-- 
Midsized Manufacturers Beat Slump by Embracing China, India

-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 
2011-08-26T14:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/midsized-manufacturers-beat-slump-by-embracing-china-india.html
On his frequent trips to Shanghai,
 Timken Co. (TKR)  Chief Executive Officer James W. Griffith sees cars
on freeways and cranes at construction sites powered partly by
the steel bearings his company has made for 111 years.  “Tepid economic growth and unemployment dominate the
headlines in the U.S., but there are opportunities for our
products in  developing countries ,” he said. “In China, even in
a bad year, the economy will grow 6 percent to 8 percent.”  At a time when factory production at many manufacturers is
slowing, Timken, hydraulics supplier  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH)  and
machinery component maker  Kennametal Inc. (KMT)  posted three of the
top four profit increases among 32 U.S. industrial companies in
the two years ended June 30, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its Aug. 29 issue. That beats  Deere & Co. (DE) ,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and
 Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , which ranked sixth, seventh, and
16th, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Timken, Kennametal and Parker Hannifin are benefiting from
their focus on high-end niche products, which are difficult for
competitors to duplicate or to undercut on price. In addition,
the companies’ industrial components for transportation, energy
and construction equipment are in high demand in fast-track
economies including China and  India .  Profit gains at these midsized, Midwest companies also have
exceeded those of larger manufacturers, after aggressively
shedding low-margin products and costs during the recession.  Jobs Move Overseas  The downside of their success is that it hasn’t translated
into many U.S. jobs. During the recession, Cleveland-based
Parker Hannifin cut its U.S. workforce to 24,000 employees from
30,000. Its U.S. payroll has been partially restored to 27,500
employees, while the headcount in  China , now totaling 3,600,
tops the pre-recession level.  The U.S. manufacturing sector shed about 2.3 million jobs
from the end of 2007 to December 2009, regaining 289,000 since,
said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist of the Manufacturers
Alliance/MAPI in Arlington, Virginia. While he said
manufacturers are likely to add some U.S. jobs in the coming
months, they will invest far more aggressively in people and
plants in emerging markets.  “The medium-size companies are big enough to be cost-
competitive and develop technology but small enough to be in
niche markets and be fast,” said Bala Balachandran, dean of the
Great Lakes Institute of Management in  Chennai , India. “It’s
the guys who are flexible who’ll win the race.”  Midsized Outperform  Midsized companies in the S&P MidCap 400 Index, to which
Timken and Kennametal belong, have  market capitalizations 
ranging from $40 million to $11.5 billion, with an average of
about $2.5 billion. Before today, the index had jumped 23
percent in two years, outperforming the  S&P 500 Index (SPX) , which
gained 13 percent.  Canton, Ohio-based Timken had a loss in 2009 of $134
million and Kennametal $120 million, while Parker Hannifin’s net
profit dropped 46 percent to $508 million. In their quarters
ended June 30, all posted record earnings, with operating profit
gains of 32 percent to 82 percent. They have told investors that
orders remain strong despite the slowing economy.  Competing Globally  Kennametal Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso
maintained a robust budget for the Latrobe, Pennsylvania-based
company’s nine global research and development centers during
the recession, even as he cut the workforce in the U.S. and
 Europe  by 20 percent, to 11,000 employees. The company employs
about 2,200 in  Asia . Now, 40 percent of Kennametal’s sales are
derived from products developed in the last five years.  The company said it has strong orders from automotive and
aerospace clients for its new “Beyond Blast” cutting tools,
which inject coolants into materials as they’re cut and boost
users’ productivity.  “This wasn’t a reaction to the recession; it was how you
can compete globally,” Cardoso said.  While Parker Hannifin was slashing U.S. employment by 20
percent in 2009, its new hose manufacturing plant in Qingdao,
China -- one of 14 it now operates on the mainland -- boosted
sales eightfold in its second year. Commercial Aircraft Corp. of
China’s contract for fuel systems and hydraulic equipment is
contributing to a projected tripling of Parker Hannifin’s sales
in China, to $1.2 billion by 2014.  ‘Follow Your Consumer’  “Some people say, ‘You’re sending all our jobs
overseas,’” said Parker Hannifin’s CEO Donald E. Washkewicz.
“That’s a bunch of crap. You’ve got to follow your customer
wherever he goes.”  Timken’s Griffith, a 27-year company veteran and former
plant manager, has pushed productivity gains through increased
use of robotics and other automation improvements. The company
generated $204,421 in sales per employee in 2010, an 8 percent
gain from $188,493 the prior year.  “Instead of playing defense, we went on the offense,” he
said.  While in  Shanghai  six years ago, Griffith recalls telling a
colleague, “I’m not sure we can manufacture fast enough to keep
up with the demand here.” Now, he said, “we’ve figured out how
to move at China speed.”  Timken, whose main customers used to be U.S. automakers in
 Detroit , derived 12 percent of its $4 billion of revenue last
year from markets in Asia.  The company’s Chennai factory is getting an $8 million
expansion to boost production of roller bearings for
construction and power transmission equipment. In contrast,
Timken last year completed the shutdown of its bearings-
manufacturing operation in Canton, which once employed 1,100
workers.  The company hasn’t entirely abandoned its Rust Belt roots.
Since 2006, Timken has invested almost $300 million to upgrade
and expand two  steel mills  in Canton, which employ 2,300 workers
-- a scrap of good news in an otherwise hard-hit U.S.
manufacturing sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Helyar in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock at 
 epollock@bloomberg.net  