-- 
Higher Tax Revenue Needed to Aid Poor in India, Duflo Says

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-08-26T15:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/higher-tax-revenue-needed-to-aid-poor-in-india-duflo-says.html
Government programs funded by
higher  tax revenue  are needed in developing countries such as
India to open up opportunities for the poor, economist Esther Duflo said in a paper presented at the  Federal Reserve ’s annual
symposium in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  “Countries that are growing have a window of opportunity
to increase taxes without creating major political
difficulties,” Duflo, an economics professor at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, said in the paper released today. This can occur
naturally -- without raising tax rates -- as incomes rise and
more workers become eligible to pay taxes, she said.  India, the third-largest economy in Asia after  China  and
Japan, will probably grow 8 percent in the current fiscal year
that ends March 31, according to the country’s central bank.
Duflo’s paper supports the idea of redistributing wealth as more
citizens pay taxes and expand the tax base. The Fed conference
is focusing on ways to maximize long-run economic growth.  “Balancing growth with equity in  developing countries  will
be achieved, not by trying to affect the sources of growth, but
by designing policies that will allow the poor access to the
opportunity generated by growth whenever it happens,” Duflo
wrote. To some extent, “it will require some redistribution
through government programs.”  “It seems that balancing growth with equity will require,
for India and many other countries in similar shoes, a re-
thinking of taxation policy, to make it both more transparent
and more progressive,” she said.  The MIT economist said in an e-mail that she would like to
see these changes take place in “every” developing country so
that “as they become middle income, then richer, they become a
modern tax system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  