-- 
Northeast Utilities Prepare for Widespread Power Failures Ahead of Irene

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n ,   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-08-27T10:07:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/millions-may-lose-power-as-irene-carves-destructive-coastal-path.html
Millions of homes and businesses are
likely to lose power for several days as Hurricane Irene plows
up the eastern coast of the U.S., ripping down  power lines  and
flooding underground natural gas and electric equipment.  The outages may dwarf those caused by U.S. Gulf Coast
Hurricanes Ike, Rita and Katrina because of the storm’s path
through residential areas, said Jim Nowak, manager for emergency
restoration planning with American Electric Power Co., in an
interview.  Power companies as far west as Kansas,  Texas  and  Oklahoma 
are organizing repair workers to send east to help with
repairing the damage, said Nowak, who is a member of two
regional utility groups that are coordinating cleanup efforts.  “Everybody across the  United States  is on alert,” he
said.  Utilities in the storm’s path were warning customers to
brace for extended blackouts beginning with Irene’s landfall
today. Baltimore Gas & Electric Co., a subsidiary of Baltimore-
based  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) , is planning for 500,000
or more potential customer outages, the company said in a
statement.  Full restoration of power “could take between one and
three weeks,” Public Service Electric & Gas Co., which provides
electricity to about 75 percent of New Jersey’s population, said
in a statement.  Underground Flooding Risk  “Our state has never before experienced a storm of this
magnitude,” said Ralph LaRossa, president and chief operating
officer of the Newark-based utility, in a statement.  Many of  New York ’s electric transformers and substations
are located underground, putting them at risk of flooding from
Irene’s rains and tidal surge, said Chris Olert, a spokesman for
 Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , which provides electricity to 3.2
million customers in  New York City  and Westchester County, New
York. Any area adjacent to the ocean, harbor or rivers may
flood, with the highest risk in parts of South Brooklyn, Queens
and  Staten Island  that face the harbor.  “Let’s face it, New York is a city of islands,” Olert
said. The utility may have to pre-emptively shut down parts of
the electrical network to protect them from damage and to speed
restoration when danger has passed, he said.  65 Million People  Irene, classified as a Category 1 storm by the National
Hurricane Center with winds of 85 miles (137 kilometers) an hour
as of 10:52 a.m. New York time, is projected to cause $6.5 billion
in overall economic losses according to estimates by Kinetic
Analysis Corp. If the storm takes a more easterly track and is
less intense than forecast, the company expects insured losses
of $3.1 billion. A  hurricane warning  extends from Little River
Inlet,  North Carolina , to Sagamore Beach,  Massachusetts .  The storm may affect more than 65 million people, or one in
five Americans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
population density along Irene’s path means damage will affect
more people than storms such as Ike, which hit Houston in 2008,
or Katrina, which hit  New Orleans  in 2005, Leonardo Duenas-
Osorio, assistant professor of civil and environmental
engineering at  Rice University  in Houston, said in a telephone
interview.  Hurricane Ike slammed into the Texas coast on Sept. 13,
2008, causing the biggest loss of power in the state’s history.
 CenterPoint Energy Inc. (CNP) , Houston’s electricity distributor, said
more than 95 percent of its customers lost power, or 2.15
million homes and businesses at the height of the storm.  Ike’s Power Punch  The company’s entire 5,000-square-mile service territory
was affected by Ike’s 300-mile-wide wind field, and it took 18
days to restore power to all customers who could accept
electricity, Leticia Lowe, a CenterPoint spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. Two days after Ike made landfall, more than 4 million
U.S. homes and businesses remained without electricity from
Texas to New York as the storm swept into the middle of the
country.  As state and federal officials stepped up disaster-planning
efforts for Irene, utilities hundreds of miles from the storm
region began dispatching crews to help, said Dan Riedinger, a
spokesman for the Edison Electric Institute, a Washington-based
industry group.  Consolidated Edison is bringing in 600 repair workers from
as far west as Kansas and Texas, Olert said.  American Electric Power, a Columbus, Ohio-based utility and
transmission company, is sending 542 line mechanics, tree
contractors and support staff to utilities in North Carolina,
 Virginia ,  New Jersey , New York City and central  Vermont , Nowak,
the spokesman, said.  ‘Multi-day’ Outages  The bulk of those workers are headed to assist Dominion
Resources Inc. in Virginia and North Carolina, where Irene is
expected to first make landfall, Nowak said.  Richmond-based Dominion, is bracing for storm damage and
“multi-day” outages across almost its entire service area,
which covers nearly 2.5 million customers, said Karl Neddenien,
a Dominion spokesman, in an interview.  The Long Island Power Authority canceled employees’
vacations and arranged for 2,150 extra workers to help with
repairs, Vanessa Baird-Streeter, a spokeswoman for the
authority, said in an interview.  Trees, still covered with leaves that make them more
vulnerable to high wind than in winter, are expected to cause
the heaviest damage outside urban areas, Baird-Streeter said.  “Our system can withstand winds north of 90 miles per
hour, but it’s the trees that can’t withstand that,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net 
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  