-- 
Irene’s Approach Doesn’t Dampen Summer Social Plans for Hamptons Residents

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-08-26T21:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/irene-s-approach-doesn-t-dampen-summer-social-plans-for-hamptons-residents.html
Hurricane Irene hasn’t stopped all
social plans in the Hamptons.  Guild Hall ’s ‘Garden as Art Tour,’ which includes several
hours of outdoor garden viewings set for Aug. 27, is scheduled
to happen as planned, according to Barbara Jo Howard, the art
and performance center’s director of marketing and
communications.  “The funny thing about it is, the perfect weather for
truly viewing a garden is indeed when it’s overcast, because all
the colors are enhanced,” Howard said yesterday. “Granted,
we’re hoping there will not be a torrential downpour.”  As Irene battered the Bahamas yesterday with winds of up to
113 miles per hour (182 kilometers), most  East Hampton  residents
were taking a few precautions and generally remaining optimistic
the storm’s bark would be worse than its bite.  “We’re making sure our generator is working, and we’re
preparing to tie things down,” said Bonnie Munshin, general
manager at Nick & Toni’s, a restaurant on North Main Street in
East Hampton.  The restaurant hasn’t canceled any reservations for Aug.
28, when Irene is projected to pass Long Island. “We plan to be
open, if we can get here,” Munshin said yesterday.  Yacht owners with boats docked at Sag Harbor’s Waterfront
Marina were advised Wednesday to begin making storm plans, said
Nancy Haynes, 66, dockmaster for the marina.  “By tomorrow evening this place will be empty,” said
Haynes, from a hut overlooking the 100-foot or greater “mega
yachts” still docked at the marina.  High-Wind Risk  The vessels are at risk from high winds and storm surges,
as well as from ships moored in Sag Harbor that could break
their moorings and crash into docked boats. That’s what happened
during Hurricane Bob in 1991, Haynes said.  “It was a disaster,” she said. “There were boats on the
breakwater, on the beaches.” She declined to name any of the
owners of yachts docked at the Waterfront Marina.  Almost 1.9 million properties in Irene’s projected path are
at potential risk of storm surge flooding, according to an
analysis of 12 major metropolitan coastal areas by  Santa Ana ,
California-based CoreLogic. Long Island is most at risk with
almost 400,000 properties in the projected path, the data
provider said. The storm is expected to cross Long Island,  Tom Kines , senior expert meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania , said today.  There were no visible signs of hurricane preparations
yesterday among the mansions of East Hampton’s Lily Pond Lane,
where  Martha Stewart  and  Carl Icahn  have purchased homes.  Remaining Optimistic  “People here are optimistic,” said Michelle Leclair, 39,
a caretaker of an oceanfront mansion on Drew Lane, off of Lily
Pond Lane.  She said she planned to move deck furniture and “anything
that could fly around” indoors and may close window shutters,
before Irene passes.  “When they’re calling for evacuations in  New Jersey  it
starts to make you think it’s a little more serious,” Leclair
said.  Ron Grant, 38, today was boarding up his beachfront home in
 West Hampton Dunes , and said he would be leaving at the end of
the day to ride out the storm in New Jersey.  Not Sticking Around  “Nobody is sticking around here,” he said. “Everybody
knows better.”  Grant said Irene would be the first significant test of the
dunes, which were rebuilt by the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers
during the 1990s after the barrier island was breached by storms
in  1991 and 1992 .  “The next time I’m here, it might be by boat,” he said.  He said the Dunes’ newer homes have generally been built at
least 17 feet above  sea level . “They’re calling for 15 foot
storm surges and a high tide,” he said.  His own home was built with steel beams, he said. “I don’t
see the house going anywhere,” Grant said. “Everything around
it might.”  More than 65 million people, or one in five Americans, may
be affected by the storm, which is forecast to snake from  North
Carolina  to  Maine  in the coming days, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Everybody thinks we’re going to get something, the
question is how bad it’s going to be,” said realtor Jan
Robinson, president and owner of Hampton Homes, based in East
Hampton. Robinson said she’s arranged to have deck furniture
moved indoors and for pools to be covered on behalf of several
owners of rental properties she manages.  Rental Losses  “A branch could break off a tree and destroy a vinyl
liner” on a pool, she said. “And some of these houses are
rented, so if their pool gets a ripped liner and it’s not
functional for Labor Day then they’re giving money back to those
tenants.”  It wasn’t all business-as-usual in downtown East Hampton
yesterday. Customers were stocking up on batteries and
flashlights at the TrueValue Village Hardware store, and others
were pushing carts filled with bottled water through the parking
lot of the Waldbaum’s grocery store.  Alex Goren, 71, who has owned a home in the area for 23
years, was buying batteries and a transistor radio at the
hardware store, and said he planned to stock up on nonperishable
milk before the weekend.  “The last big storm was 20 years ago,” said Goren. “We
ate everything in the freezer.” He said his home is already
equipped with a gas-powered generator, and he had 30 gallons of
Poland Springs water delivered yesterday.  Out of Plywood  “The lumberyards are out of plywood,” said Tom Downing,
owner of Westhampton Beach, New York-based Coastal Management
LLC, who was working on a home he was building in West Hampton
Dunes today.  Downing said he’s received about 25 requests this week from
clients whose homes he either built or has worked on to board up
their properties in the area. He said he was trying to get as
much done as he could today, since he expected winds to pick up
tomorrow.  “Carrying a sheet of plywood is like carrying a sail,”
Downing said.  Trains Canceled  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said the Metropolitan
Transit Authority will institute a system-wide shutdown of
trains and buses starting at about noon local time tomorrow. The
suspension will include subways, buses, the  Long Island  Rail
Road and Metro-North Railroad.  Guild Hall has canceled a play reading scheduled for Aug.
28. The reading of “Side Man” by Warren Leight was going to
star actors Melissa Leo and Zachary Quinto, said Howard.  “Even if it doesn’t hit New York it could still hit the
Hamptons and Montauk,” said Robinson, the realtor. “The bottom
line is that the end of this island does stick out into the
Atlantic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Rick Levinson
in New York   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net  