-- 
Irene Threat Spurs Repo Traders

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-26T19:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/irene-threat-spurs-repo-traders.html
Rates for borrowing and lending
securities in the repurchase-agreement market rose and investors
sought to extend maturities on concern power outages and
closings of mass transit will keep traders home after Hurricane
Irene strikes.  Overnight general collateral Treasury repurchase, or repo,
rates, opened today at 0.10 percent and traded at 0.13 percent
at 10 a.m.  New York  time, according to data from ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. The majority of repo transactions take place
on an overnight basis, with those current funding positions
maturing on Aug. 29. Diminished staffing and computer-related
problems following the hurricane may make it difficult to roll
over such transactions.  “Traders want to fund some of their positions through
Tuesday -- expecting some co-workers might be out on Monday --
to ease the funding burden in case they are short-staffed,”
said Scott Skyrm, senior vice president and head of repo and
money markets at NewEdge USA LLC in New York.  Transportation agencies in the New York City metropolitan
area plan to begin halting service at noon tomorrow. More than
65 million people from  North Carolina  to  Maine , or about one in
five Americans, may be in the storm’s path.  Securities that can be borrowed at  interest rates  close to
the  Federal Reserve ’s target rate are called general collateral.
Those in highest demand have lower rates and are called
“special.”  Repo Average Level  The average level of overnight general collateral repo
rates traded through 10 a.m. New York time today with ICAP was
0.06 percent today, up from a 0.05 percent average yesterday,
and 0.01 percent the day before that.  “Given there is a chance that on Monday some people can’t
get into the office due to the hurricane, it is prudent to get
some longer-term funding locked up over the weekend,” said
Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in New York at
Jefferies Group Inc., one of the primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed. “There is no indication of any type of
panic in the markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  