-- 
Hurricane Irene Threatens North Carolina Landfall Tomorrow

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-26T19:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/irene-churns-toward-north-carolina-landfall-tomorrow-with-northeast-next.html
Hurricane Irene weakened as it moved
toward the coast of  North Carolina  on a path to the Northeast,
where New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg ordered the first
mandatory evacuation in the city’s history.  Irene’s top winds dropped to 100 miles (161 kilometers) per
hour, down from 110 mph earlier today, as it churned about 300
miles south-southwest of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina,
according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami. Irene is a
Category 2 storm on the five-step Saffir Simpson scale, down
from a Category 3 yesterday.  “Little change in strength is forecast before Irene
reaches the coast of North Carolina,” the hurricane center said
in  an advisory  at about 2 p.m. New York time. While some
weakening is likely after that, Irene “is expected to remain a
hurricane as it moves along the Mid-Atlantic coast Sunday.”  Irene may cause $10 billion in overall economic losses,
according to estimates by Kinetic Analysis Corp. A more easterly
track and less intensity puts the company’s projected insured
losses at $5.6 billion.  The threat of storm surge rushing ashore in  New York 
prompted Bloomberg to order 270,000 residents of low-lying areas
of the city, including Battery Park City and Coney Island, to
leave their homes. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Transit Shut  Governor  Chris Christie  ordered all rail service in New
Jersey suspended as of noon tomorrow. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said the Metropolitan Transit Authority will close New
York’s subways, buses and trains at noon.  Irene whipped the Bahamas yesterday. Losses on the island
are likely to be between $500 million and $1.1 billion,
according to an estimate by  AIR Worldwide  in Boston.  “The storm itself is a pretty big storm and obviously the
number of people that get affected by this are going to be in
the millions,” said  Tom Kines , senior expert meteorologist with
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . “I suspect a
good chunk of southern  New England  is also going to get hit
pretty hard by Irene, maybe not as hard as the Outer Banks” of
North Carolina.  Irene has forced evacuations along the coasts of New Jersey
and North Carolina and prompted governors of states from North
Carolina to  Connecticut  to declare states of emergency.  Alerts Posted  Hurricane warnings are posted from Little River Inlet,
North Carolina, to Sandy Hook, New Jersey. A hurricane watch has
been posted from the Merrimack River in  Massachusetts  south to
Sandy Hook, according to the hurricane center.  Irene’s hurricane-strength winds stretch 90 miles from its
center, about the distance from Philadelphia to New York.
Tropical storm-force winds of at least 39 mph extend 290 miles
from the core.  More than 65 million people, or about one in five
Americans, from North Carolina to  Maine  may be in the way of the
hurricane, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 3.5
million live in the North Carolina counties in the storm’s path,
according to Governor Bev Perdue.  The storm may weaken after it hits North Carolina.  “It is going to hug the coast and that is going to take a
lot of punch out of the storm,” said  Arthur DeGaetano ,
professor of earth and atmospheric sciences at Cornell
University.  Storm Outlook  Gary Best, a meteorologist at Hometown Forecast Services in
Nashua,  New Hampshire , agreed.  “The good news is that the storm is weakening and
weakening all afternoon,” Best said. It may not be a hurricane
by the time it reaches New York, he said.  “As it moves up the coast, half of its circulation is
going to be over land,” he said. “It’s probably not going to
be a historical storm but it is going to cause some damage.”  The Northeast is experiencing higher tides because of a new
moon, so a  storm surge  now will be higher than it would at other
times of the month, said Michael Schlacter, chief meteorologist
at Weather 2000 Inc. in New York.  In addition, the storm will be striking Long Island and
southern New England perpendicular to the coast, which means
more water will be pushed on shore, he said.  “The biggest impacts obviously will be the storm surge,”
Schlacter said.  Obama Action  President  Barack Obama  signed a federal emergency
declaration for North Carolina, authorizing the Homeland
Security Department and Federal Emergency Management Agency to
coordinate disaster response and mobilize resources.  Gasoline advanced to the most in more than three weeks
yesterday on speculation that Irene may disrupt East Coast
refinery production and fuel distribution.  Irene could produce rainfall of 6 to 10 inches and as much
as 15 inches in isolated areas from eastern North Carolina to
southeastern  Virginia  and along the Eastern Seaboard from
 Delaware  and  New Jersey  to southeastern New York, Long Island
and western Massachusetts by Aug. 29, the NHC said.  Across  New York City , winds may reach 50 to 60 mph as the
storm passes, Kines said. Long Island may have wind gusts as
intense as 100 mph along with 5 to 9 inches of rain.  Kines said some people may dismiss winds that are less than
74 mph, the threshold for hurricane strength. They shouldn’t, he
said. The rain will loosen the roots of trees and hours of high
winds can push them over, Kines said.  “A 70-mile-per-hour wind can do a lot of damage,” Kines
said. “These winds can do a lot of damage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  