-- 
Japan Says Radiation Clean-Up to Cut Children’s Exposure by 60%

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M a k o t o   M i y a z a k i
-- 
2011-08-26T05:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/japan-says-radiation-clean-up-to-cut-children-s-exposure-by-60-.html
Japan ’s government said stepped up
efforts to clean-up radioactive fallout from Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s crippled nuclear power plant will reduce children’s
 radiation exposure  by 60 percent within two years,  Japan aims to lower the annual radiation exposure among
children to 1 millisieverts or less through a “thorough
decontamination” of areas including schools and parks, a
government task force said today in a  statement . The central
government will decontaminate areas where radiation exceeds 20
millisieverts a year while local governments will clear less
toxic areas, it said.  The government has been criticized for a slow response
after the March 11 earthquake and ensuing tsunami knocked out
cooling systems at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station,
triggering three meltdowns and radiation leaks. Japan said
earlier this week that it plans to expand airborne radiation
monitoring to 22 prefectures.  “This kind of grand design should have been released one
month after the disaster at the latest,” Yoshihisa Matsumoto,
an associate professor of radiobiology at  Tokyo  Institute of
Technology, said by phone. “The contamination was greater at
the beginning of the crisis and they should’ve been able to
estimate earlier the changes in radiation levels.”  Thyroid Tests  Medical tests on children living in three towns near the
nuclear plant found 45 percent of those surveyed suffered low-
level thyroid radiation exposure, the government said in a
statement on Aug. 17. The tests between March 24 and 30 showed
none of the children’s thyroid glands exceeded the safety
threshold of 0.2 microsievert per hour set by the Nuclear Safety
Commission of Japan, according to the statement.  Children are susceptible to poisoning from radioactive
iodine, which can accumulate in the thyroid and cause cancer,
according to the  World Health Organization .  The central government will take responsibility for
securing the final disposal site for contaminated materials,
 Goshi Hosono , Japan’s minister in charge of the response to the
nuclear crisis, told reporters in Tokyo today.  “For now, it is realistic that cities, towns and village
store it at temporary sites,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Makoto Miyazaki in Tokyo at 
 mmiyazaki8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  