-- 
Japanese Stocks Rise for First Time in Five Weeks as Weaker Yen Expected

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-08-26T07:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/japanese-stocks-advance-first-week-in-five-on-prospects-for-jackson-hole.html
Japanese stocks snapped a four-week
losing streak as investors bet the yen will weaken from near
record highs amid speculation U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke won’t unveil new measures to prop up the world’s
largest economy in a speech today  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  rose 0.3 percent to 8,797.78 at the 3 p.m.
close after swinging between gains and losses more than 10 times.
For the week, the Nikkei advanced 0.9 percent. The yen slipped
0.6 percent against the dollar, boosting the earnings outlook
for exporters.  “Everyone is paying attention to what Bernanke will say,
and they expect nothing,” saidMitsushige Akino, who oversees
about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. “If Bernanke says nothing, the yen will weaken and that’s
the best outcome for Japan.”  Treasuries headed for their steepest weekly loss in almost
two months on speculation the  U.S. economy  is growing enough to
keep Bernankefrom announcing a third round of bond purchases
today when he speaks at an annual conference in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming . Bernanke used his speech last year to announce the Fed
would “do all that it can” to spur growth. He went on to
implement a $600 billion debt-purchase plan in November.  The broader Topix gained 0.6 percent to 756.07 today,
advancing 0.6 percent for the week. Stocks also inched up after
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , whose popularity had plunged
below 20 percent, said he’s resigning.  ‘The Next Leader’?  “Investors aren’t paying too much attention to politics,”
said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee $6 billion at Shinkin
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “There aren’t strong
expectations for the next leader.”  The Topix has lost about 10 percent this month amid concern
U.S. growth is slowing and  Europe ’s debt crisis will damage the
banking system, damping demand in two of  Japan ’s biggest export
markets. The decline has cut the price of shares on the index to
88 percent of book value, the lowest since March 2009.  Trading volume was below average ahead of the Jackson Hole
meeting, the focal point of investor concern for the week. The
value of shares traded today on the first section of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange was 1.13 trillion yen ($14.7 billion),
about 20 percent less than this year’s daily average of 1.4
trillion yen.  ‘Holding Pattern’  “Nobody knows what the actual outcome will be and
everything is speculation at this point, so it’s difficult for
investors to take a clear position,” said Hitoshi Asaoka,
senior strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest bank. “Investors are in a holding
pattern.”  Exporters gained late in the day as speculation mounted
Bernanke would announce nothing. Sony Corp., an exporter of
consumer electronics that has seen profit squeezed by the yen’s
rise to a postwar high, rose 0.7 percent. Mazda Motor Corp.,
which gets about a quarter of its sales in  North America ,
advanced 1.3 percent to 162 yen.  Bernanke triggered a 28 percent rally in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index last year at the same conference when he
signaled the Fed would buy more bonds to prop up the economy.
That policy -- known as quantitative easing -- was a mix-
blessing for Japanese exporters because, while it boosted asset
prices, it also undermined the dollar.  Failed Intervention  The U.S. currency has weakened about 9 percent against the
yen since Aug. 26, 2010 when Bernanke hinted he would flood the
economy with liquidity. Three rounds of yen sales by the
Japanese government in the last year have failed to stem the
currency’s rise.  Among stocks that moved today,  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , a maker
of semiconductors that has lost more than 40 percent of its
value this year, surged 18 percent to 535 yen.  The rally may have been triggered by a rise in the price of
dynamic-random-access-memory chips used to help personal
computers juggle multiple programs, said  Tsuyoshi Segawa , a
strategist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. The spot price of
some DRAM chips rose 3.2 percent yesterday, the first gain in
almost five months, according to Taiwan-based Dramexchange.  Kyowa Hakko Kirin, the drugmaker majority owned by Kirin
Holdings Co., climbed 3.8 percent to 789 yen after the company
said it plans to buy back as much as 4.39 percent of its
outstanding shares, according to a statement.  AOC Holdings Inc. (5017)  lost 2 percent to 434 yen. Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. cut its investment rating on the
oil explorer to “neutral” from “outperform,” citing a delay in
starting production at a field in the  North Sea . The brokerage
also lowered the stock’s price target to 480 yen from 680 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 