-- 
Jets, Giants, Red Sox Change Schedules as Hurricane Irene Heads Up Coast

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-26T05:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/jets-giants-red-sox-change-schedules-as-hurricane-irene-heads-up-coast.html
The  New York  Giants and Jets brought
forward by five hours the starting time of their National
Football League preseason game tomorrow ahead of the arrival of
Hurricane Irene.  In other changes to the sporting calendar, the Red Sox and
 Philadelphia Phillies  each canceled their Major League Baseball
games scheduled for Aug. 28 and will instead play doubleheaders
in their home stadiums tomorrow.  The U.S. PGA Tour’s first playoff tournament, the Barclays,
may end after three rounds or continue into Aug. 30, while the
New Haven Open moved up its tennis championship match at  Yale
University  by four hours tomorrow and Major League Soccer
altered times and dates for games in  Washington , Philadelphia
and New York.  Irene, a Category 3 hurricane, is expected to peak with
winds of 120 miles (193 kilometers) per hour, according to the
National Hurricane Center. The forecast calls for moderate to
heavy rain and strong winds to move into New England tomorrow
and Sunday. Irene was 490 miles south-southwest of Cape
Hatteras,  North Carolina , at 11 p.m. eastern time last night,
moving north-northeast at 14 miles per hour.  More than 65 million people from North Carolina to  Maine 
are in the path of the hurricane, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  Emergencies Declared  Governors  Andrew Cuomo  of New York and  Chris Christie  of
 New Jersey  declared emergencies yesterday, with Christie urging
people to leave the shore by midday today.  Tomorrow’s game between the Giants and Jets at MetLife
Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, will begin at 2 p.m.
local time.  “There are, obviously, many issues to consider. Our
players played a game on Monday night, the stadium personnel has
to secure the building post-game and, most importantly, the
safety and welfare of Giants and Jets fans,” Giants President
and Chief Executive Officer John Mara said in an e-mail. “We
felt like this is the right thing to do.”  The  Red Sox  will play the first game against the Oakland
Athletics at noon tomorrow at Fenway Park in Boston instead of
1:35 p.m., with the second scheduled for 5 p.m.  “It was necessary and prudent to move the Sunday game to
Saturday,” Red Sox President and Chief Executive Officer Larry Lucchino said in a statement. “This will not only give us the
best opportunity to play the scheduled games, but also help to
insure that traveling conditions are safer for our fans.”  Phillies Doubleheader  The Phillies decided to bring forward by one day their
contest against the  Florida Marlins  at Citizens Bank Park in
Philadelphia from Sunday. A day-night doubleheader will instead
be played tomorrow at 1:05 p.m. and 7:05 p.m. tomorrow.  The New York Yankees travel to Baltimore today for a five-
game series against the Orioles that includes a doubleheader
tomorrow. There has been no decision to change the schedule,
Yankees spokesman Michael Margolis said.  Rain caused a 3 hour, 16 minute delay in first-round play
at golf’s Barclays tournament at Plainfield County Club Edison,
New Jersey, yesterday. Organizers will try to complete the
remainder of the first round plus the second round today.  Stewart Williams, the PGA Tour’s on-site meteorologist,
told the Golf Channel there could be as much as 10 inches (25cm)
of rain on an already soaked course and possibly hurricane
strength winds.  Course Concern  “If this place gets 10 inches of rain two weeks in a row,
I don’t know how playable this golf course is going to be,”
 Charley Hoffman , who is 5-under par after an opening round of
66, told reporters.  The  New Haven  Open, the last WTA Tour tuneup before the
 U.S. Open , moved tomorrow’s final at New Haven,  Connecticut , to
1 p.m. from 5 p.m. to avoid the storm.  “Right now it looks like the hurricane is not going to hit
until early Sunday morning,” said Anne Worcester, the
tournament’s director. “But it’s not just the actual playing
time of the final, our staff has to break down the site, so it
has a lot to do with their safety.”  In soccer, D.C. United’s game against the Portland Timbers
at RFK Stadium in Washington tomorrow was moved to 2 p.m. from
7:30 p.m. The Philadelphia Union’s matchup at PPL Park with the
 New England  Revolution was postponed until Sept. 7 from Aug. 28,
while the New York Bulls put back their game against the Los
Angeles Galaxy at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, New Jersey, to
Oct. 4 from Aug. 28.  “We expect that Hurricane Irene will likely cause
hazardous travel and unplayable conditions throughout the
northeast,” Nelson Rodriguez, executive vice president of MLS
competition and game operations, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  