-- 
Jobs’s Departure as CEO Puts Product Vision in Hands of Ive

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/jobs-s-departure-puts-pressure-on-ive-to-become-apple-s-product-visionary.html
Steve Jobs ’s departure as chief
executive officer this week leaves  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  without the full-
time attention of its technology visionary, putting pressure on
head product designer Jonathan Ive to fill that gap.  While new CEO  Tim Cook  comes from an operations background,
Ive has been Jobs’s foremost creative partner within Apple, said
Eric Chan, who  runs   Ecco Design Inc. , an industrial design firm.
Ive, who goes by Jony, oversaw the exacting development that led
to devices such as the iMac, iPod, iPhone and iPad.  “You need the combination of the chemistry that Jonathan
and Steve have,” Chan said. “They have trust and they have the
kind of quality vision that you need. They push each other.”  The company aims to prove it can still churn out successful
products without as much oversight from Jobs, who is now serving
as chairman. Ive drew inspiration from the former CEO’s
legendary attention to detail and aesthetic sense -- something
that Cook hasn’t had to demonstrate in his previous roles.  “The greatness of Apple has a lot to do with Steve’s
commitment to design -- the willingness to spend amounts of
money on design that would be crazy to most other companies,”
said Robert Brunner, a former Apple design chief who hired Ive.
“There’s no better place to be to do great design. If Steve
drops out of the picture, will Tim have the same religion?”  Close Relationship  Jobs and Ive honed a close working relationship since the
British native began running Apple’s design in the late 1990s.  In a typical scenario, Jobs or one of Apple’s engineers
would come up with a concept. Jobs would then commission Ive,
44, to produce a variety of prototypes to turn the idea
into a physical model. Since his return to Apple in 1997, Jobs
frequently disappeared into the design studio Ive shares with
his team of designers.  Once Jobs made his choice, Ive oversaw the painstaking
development that led to Apple’s computers and devices. While
each process was different -- the team visited a confectioner to
perfect the candy-colored enclosure on the iMac -- Ive
consistently created products that were functional, reliable and
melded with Apple’s software.  If Jobs steps aside altogether, it raises the possibility
that Ive may leave Apple as well, said Brunner, who now runs a
design company called  Ammunition LLC . That would make it harder
for Cook to preserve the company’s product vision.  Nothing to Prove  “Jony doesn’t have anything else to prove at Apple, and
he’s made a lot of money,” Brunner said.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment on Ive’s plans. The company has no
additional personnel changes to announce, he said.  A design prodigy who won a British student award twice
while attending  Northumbria University  in the 1980s, Ive is
quiet and avoids cameras but shares Jobs’s intensity for
creating stylish products. His goal, he said in a 2006 speech,
“is not self-expression. It’s to make something that looks like
it wasn’t really designed at all -- because it’s inevitable.”  That’s been the case since his college days, said Clive
Grinyer, who went to school with him.  Grinyer  recalls visiting
Ive’s apartment, and being shocked to see hundreds of foam
models of a single product. Each one was good enough to have
been the final product, he said.  “They all looked bloody good to me,” said Grinyer, who
later formed a design firm with Ive called Tangerine. “He
doesn’t rest on his laurels. He does everything to the nth
degree.”  Designing Toilets  In 1992, Ive moved from projects like designing toilets at
Tangerine to Apple. He no longer wanted to sell his services to
clients who then refused to let him turn his ideas into reality.
By the time he was put in charge of Apple’s design effort in
1996, the company was struggling and he once again was spending
much of his time lobbying  executives  for resources, said former
Apple designer Thomas Meyerhoffer.  That changed when Jobs returned to the helm in 1997. He
needed the yet-to-be-released  iMac  to be a hit. To make sure it
stood out, Jobs approved Ive’s plan to use a candy-colored
translucent plastic enclosure -- a major expense given rapidly
falling prices for computers at the time.  In the years since, Ive and his team have achieved rarified
status at Apple. They do their work in a lab deep within Apple’s
 Infinite Loop  campus. Filled with expensive prototyping
equipment -- often with music playing -- the room is locked off
from all but the highest-ranking executives. While industrial
design is seen as cost to be minimized at many companies, Ive
has latitude to specify features that require his team and
Apple’s hardware engineers to create new production techniques.  ‘Antennagate’  Often they work well, as with the unibody design that helps
make Apple’s laptops thinner. On some occasions, Jobs has
demanded things that Ive’s team can’t execute perfectly, as
occurred when Apple designed the antenna of the iPhone 4 into
the bezel of the device. Some consumers complained of dropped
calls when they held the bezel in certain ways, setting off an
imbroglio known as “Antennagate.”  Apple’s approach to design goes beyond cosmetics. Ive is
known to travel to  Asia  for weeks, studying intricacies of
metal-bending equipment, Meyerhoffer said. The result is that
Apple’s products have unique shapes, textures and thinness. The
solid feel of products such as the iPhone is due in part to
Ive’s insistence on miniscule tolerances -- the tiny gaps around
each part and screw in a product.  Choosing Your Victories  Like Jobs, he is private, living a low-key existence with
his wife, a historian he’s known since childhood. While he
matches Jobs’s passion for products, he’s not widely regarded as
a CEO candidate. Ive lacks operations, marketing and sales
skills, something he doesn’t regret, he said in the 2006 speech.  “Victories from your ability to sell are very short-lived,”
Ive said. “Victories from things you’ve really worked hard at
can have a lasting impact.”  The question now is whether Cook will make design as high a
priority as in the past, said Meyerhoffer, who is head of  his
own firm  in Montara,  California .  Cook -- who has spent 13 years at Apple, six of them as
chief operating officer -- reassured employees in a memo
yesterday that “Apple is not going to change.”  “I cherish and celebrate Apple’s unique principles and
values,” he said in the memo. “Steve built a company and
culture that is unlike any other in the world and we are going
to stay true to that -- it is in our DNA.”  Still, Cook is a spreadsheet junkie and operations wonk,
who may be more likely to pinch pennies on a new iPad enclosure
or iPhone, Meyerhoffer said.  “Even a subtle shift might unsettle the balance,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows  in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  