-- 
Joey Barton Leaves Newcastle, Joins Queens Park Rangers in Four-Year Deal

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-26T17:34:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/joey-barton-leaves-newcastle-joins-queens-park-rangers-in-four-year-deal.html
Queens Park Rangers signed Newcastle
midfielder Joey Barton to a four-year contract, the Premier
League club said on its website.  Barton, 28, was in the final year of his contract with
Newcastle and became available on a free transfer after
criticizing the club on his Twitter account.  “It’s been quite a whirlwind, so to get things finally
sorted and draw a line under it all is a great relief,” Barton,
who is signed through the 2015 season, said on QPR’s  website .  Barton becomes manager Neil Warnock’s first signing since
QPR was bought last week by  Tony Fernandes , chief executive
officer of  Malaysia ’s AirAsia Bhd. The club is back in the
Premier League for the first time since 1996 after winning the
second-tier Championship last season.  Barton has scored 22 goals in 191 league matches with
Newcastle and  Manchester City  since 2002. He made his lone
appearance with the England national team in 2007 against  Spain .  “We’ve got a very, very good player on our hands,”
Warnock said. “He’s a winner. Even without the armband on, he’s
a captain every week.”  Barton was involved in two incidents in Newcastle’s season
opener against Arsenal on Aug. 13, which resulted in the
Gunners’ Alex Song and Gervinho being suspended. He had his leg
stomped on by  Alex Song  and then was struck in the face by
Gervinho after grabbing the Arsenal winger by the shirt in a
melee.  “He’s very enthusiastic,” Warnock said. “People will say
one of two things about him, but they’ve said stuff about me in
the past too, so I won’t worry about that.”  Barton spent 77 days in prison in 2008 after committing an
assault in his native Liverpool, and was convicted of a
training-ground attack on former Manchester City teammate
Ousmane Dabo but was spared a jail term. Those convictions
prevented him from being granted a visa to accompany Newcastle
on its preseason tour of the U.S. last month.  QPR, which has a win and loss in its first two games,
visits Wigan tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 