-- 
JP Morgan, Workplace Rules, Data Protection, Insider Trading: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-26T11:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/jp-morgan-epa-workplace-rules-insider-trading-compliance.html
The U.S. Treasury Department
announced an $88.3 million settlement with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
for apparent violations of international sanctions programs,
including Cuban assets control and anti-terrorism regulations.  The Treasury said that JPMorgan through its correspondent
banks maintained prohibited financial transactions with
sanctioned entities in countries including Cuba and Iran.  The JPMorgan payment agreed upon by the Office of Foreign
Assets Control, known as OFAC, involves “egregious” violations
for five years, according to a Treasury Department statement.  “The civil settlement resolves a number of OFAC
allegations dating back to 2005, none of which involved any
intent to violate OFAC regulations,” Jennifer R. Zuccarelli, a
JPMorgan spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. “These
rare incidents were unrelated and isolated from each other. The
firm screens hundreds of millions of transactions and customer
records per day and annual error rates are a tiny fraction of a
percent.”  The OFAC enforcement action covers actions from December
2005 to March 2011 involving multiple violations of sanctions
programs, the Treasury said. The violations include processing
1,711 wire transfers totaling $178.5 million from December 2005
to March 2006 involving Cuban persons and a trade loan of $2.9
million with a blocked affiliate to the Islamic Republic of  Iran 
Shipping Lines.  OFAC said the $88.3 million payment from JPMorgan is based
on the bank’s cooperation, transaction review and the absence of
an OFAC notice or finding of violation during the five years of
the transactions.  Compliance Policy  EPA Delays Mandate to Report Products Leading to Carbon Releases  The Environmental Protection Agency said it would put off
reporting requirements for manufacturers and power plants on the
products they use that lead to greenhouse-gas emissions.  In a Federal Register notice yesterday, the EPA said that
companies would have until at least 2013 to submit information
about the raw materials. Representatives of chemical makers, oil
refiners and other manufacturers have tried to scuttle the EPA’s
proposal, saying it would force them to disclose confidential
information.  The rules were set to take effect this year. The EPA
proposed in December that they be deferred and yesterday’s
notice makes that decision final. The rules will be delayed
until March 31, 2013, for some substances and two years later
for others.  Facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more a year of
greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide, are required to submit
annual reports to the EPA on those releases. On Aug. 22, the EPA
started a new program that lets 7,000 power plants, refiners and
other manufacturers file their emissions data electronically.
The information must be submitted by the end of September.  Employers Must Tell Workers of Right to Unionize, NLRB Says  U.S. employers must post notices informing workers about
their legal rights to form a union and bargain on contracts, the
National Labor Relations Board said in a rule that may help
efforts to organize employees.  Companies that use posters to tell employees about
personnel rules or policies must add a notice about their
collective bargaining rights, according to a statement yesterday
from the NLRB. The posting must be completed Nov. 14.  “The notice does make it easier for labor to make
inroads,” Doreen Davis, a partner in the labor and employment
practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP in  New York  and
Philadelphia, said in an interview.  The board proposed the rule to spell out for employees
their rights under federal laws that let workers choose to form
and join a labor union. Business groups protested the proposal
and said the rule shows that the agency favors unions.  “It’s arbitrary, it’s capricious,” Peter Schaumber, a
former NLRB chairman appointed by Republican President George W.
Bush, said in an interview. “It shows just how activist they’re
prepared to be.”  “The NLRB rule simply brings the National Labor Relations
Act in line with other workplace laws that require employers to
post a notice in the workplace of their employees’ rights,”
Peter Colavito, director of government relations at the 2.2
million-member Service Employees International Union, said in a
statement.  For more, click here.  U.S. Banks Said to Seek Relief From Regulators as Deposits Swell  U.S. regulators have asked some banks to take more deposits
from large investors even if it’s unprofitable, and lenders in
return are seeking relief on insurance premiums and leverage
ratios, according to six people with knowledge of the talks.  Deposits are flooding into the biggest U.S. banks as
customers seek shelter from  Europe ’s debt crisis and falling
stock prices. That forces lenders to raise capital for a growing
balance sheet and saddles them with the higher deposit insurance
payments. With short-term  interest rates  so low, it’s hard for
financial firms to reinvest the new money profitably.  Regulators have asked banks to take the deposits anyway,
three people said, with one lender accepting $100 billion. The
regulators want lenders to take the deposits because it improves
the stability of the financial system, according to one of the
people, who said U.S. banks are viewed as places of strength.  Some of the largest ones have talked with regulators about
softening rules for ratios that measure capital and assets,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
talks are private. At least one asked for a waiver on paying
higher premiums to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which is
less likely to be granted, one of the people said.  “If the helicopter comes raining money on your bank and
it’s only temporarily there, it could be excessively costly and
disruptive,” said  Robert Litan , a vice president of research
and policy at the Kansas City, Missouri-based Kauffman
Foundation, which promotes entrepreneurial business practices.  The extra deposits are problematic because they’re subject
to withdrawal, so banks have to park the money in low-yielding
short-term investments, Litan said. With few other choices
available, banks have stashed their excess deposits at the Fed,
which means the cash gets counted as assets.  This expands their balance sheets and thus pushes down
their leverage ratio, which measures Tier 1 capital divided by
adjusted average total assets; the lower the ratio, the weaker
the bank, at least in theory. In reality, regulators regard U.S.
lenders as relatively strong with sufficient capital cushions,
the people said.  Lenders have held discussions with officials at the Fed,
FDIC, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Treasury
Department, according to four of the people. Spokesmen for the
four agencies declined to comment.  Shannon Bell, a Citigroup spokeswoman,  Howard Opinsky  at
JPMorgan, Ancel Martinez at Wells Fargo and Bank of America’s
Jerry Dubrowski declined to comment.  Relaxing the rules or enforcement could be a slippery
slope, said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC,
a Jersey City, New Jersey-based unit of London-based ICAP Plc,
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  “Asking for a free pass on the leverage ratio for bank
deposits by itself isn’t something that regulators would
consider,” Crandall said. “The question is whether banks
should be able to exclude reserve balances since they are a
risk-free asset.”  For more, click here.  Facebook Faces Confusion From Multiple Privacy Agencies, EU Says  Facebook Inc. and other Internet companies face legal
confusion from local and national European regulators with
different approaches to data protection, the European Commission
said.  These differences “show the risk that the same company and
services will be treated in an inconsistent manner by different
authorities,” said  Matthew Newman , a spokesman for the European
Commission, in an e-mail. The Brussels-based regulator will
propose draft rules later this year for all data protection
agencies across the 27-nation bloc to follow.  Facebook’s like button and facial-recognition features were
criticized by two German regional regulators this month, with
officials in Schleswig-Holstein saying the like button may
 violate  European Union and German data protection law while
Hamburg’s data protection agency said the company may break
privacy rules by recording biometric data.  Facebook is among U.S. companies that have faced scrutiny
in the EU for possible privacy breaches.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and Yahoo! Inc. have been pushed by European data-
protection officials to limit the amount of time they store
online users’ search records. The group of regulators, known as
the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, has also
criticized Facebook for policy changes that could harm users’
privacy.  Compliance Action  National Century’s Poulsen Conviction, 30-Year Term Upheld  A federal appeals court upheld the 30-year prison term of
Lance Poulsen, founder of National Century Financial Enterprises
Inc., as well as his convictions at separate trials on
obstruction of justice and fraud charges.  Poulsen was found guilty by jurors in federal court in
Columbus, Ohio, in October 2008 of fraud, conspiracy and money
laundering for defrauding investors of $2.9 billion. Seven
months earlier, a separate jury convicted him of trying to bribe
the main witness against him. U.S. District Judge Algenon
Marbley sentenced him to 30 years in the fraud case.  The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati
yesterday rejected Poulsen’s claims that Marbley made several
improper rulings at each trial and that his prison term was too
long. Poulsen had said he shouldn’t get a longer sentence than
the chief executive officers of WorldCom Inc. and Enron Corp.,
who got 25 and 24 years, respectively.  “Poulsen cites a number of sentences given to those whom
he refers to as ‘the most notorious financial fraudsters in
corporate America,’” according to the opinion by a three-judge
panel of the appeals court. “Poulsen presents no coherent
argument as to why his sentence is substantively unreasonable.”  Poulsen, 68, is incarcerated at the Williamsburg Federal
Correctional Institution in South Carolina, according to the
U.S. Bureau of Prisons  website . His release date is listed on
the site as Dec. 4, 2033.  The appeals panel ruled that Marbley properly determined
the loss to investors as $2.89 billion, even though prosecutors
had said once to jurors that the loss was only “over $2
billion.”  Poulsen’s attorneys William Terpening and Peter Anderson
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  Poulsen’s 30-year term for the fraud case is concurrent
with his earlier 10-year term for the obstruction case.  The appeals are U.S. v. Poulsen, 08-4218 and 09-3658, 6th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Cincinnati).  For more, click here.  Drimal Should Get 70- to 80-Month Prison Term, U.S. Says  Craig Drimal, the former Galleon Group LLC trader who
pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges, should get a prison
term of 70 to 80 months, which is within federal sentencing
guidelines, the U.S. said in a memo.  Drimal pleaded guilty last month in federal court in New
York charges of conspiracy and securities fraud. Drimal admitted
that he and others at Galleon traded on inside information
obtained from lawyers working on transactions involving 3Com
Corp. and Axcan Pharma Inc. in 2007. Drimal said the information
was obtained from Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas, lawyers at
Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP.  Drimal has suggested that the court impose community
service or home confinement in lieu of a “substantial” prison
term, prosecutors said. The request should be denied in order to
send a “strong message of deterrence to others in the hedge
fund community” and because the “nature and extent of his
criminal conduct doesn’t warrant community service,”
prosecutors said.  Drimal is scheduled to be sentenced by U.S. District Judge
 Richard Sullivan  on Aug. 31. Drimal’s attorney, Jane Anne
Murray, said she filed a memorandum last week asking the judge
to impose a sentence below the federal guidelines.  “We’re not surprised by their position; it’s been
consistent,” Murray said in a telephone interview. “We
disagree with the government on a number of issues including the
applicable guidelines. And we’re seeking a sentence that is
substantially lower than the one the government is seeking.”  Prosecutors also asked the court to obtain a judgment
against Drimal to recover the amount of the proceeds of his
crimes, which they said are at least $7 million.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Courts  Fuld, Lehman Executives to Settle Lawsuit for $90 Million  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  executives including former
Chairman Richard Fuld will settle an investor lawsuit using a
$90 million payment from the defunct firm’s insurers, according
to a court filing.  The investors blamed Lehman officers and directors for
losses on Lehman stock and options from June 12, 2007, to Sept.
15, 2008, according to the filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Manhattan. Fuld, 65, was chief executive officer of New York-
based Lehman, once the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank,
before its 2008 bankruptcy.  A bankruptcy examiner said Lehman foundered because of too
much debt, which it tried to hide from investors, and risky real
estate investments.  Patricia Hynes, a lawyer for Fuld, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Lehman said in November that Fuld would get $10 million
from insurers as part of an officers-and-directors program
paying for the costs of lawsuits. It also said insurers would be
asked to pay as much as $90 million in costs for unidentified
defendants in civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings.  Lehman has asked the judge to modify bankruptcy law on nine
previous occasions to tap its directors-and-officers insurance,
according to the Aug. 24 filing.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  New Suits  Bank of America Depressed Libor Rates, Schwab Says in Suit  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , the largest independent brokerage by
client assets, sued Bank of America Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
other banks claiming they manipulated the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, starting in 2007 in violation of U.S.
antitrust law.  The lawsuit filed Aug. 23 in federal court in San
Francisco, where Schwab is based, claims the banks conspired to
depress Libor rates by understating their borrowing costs,
thereby lowering their interest expenses on products tied to the
rates. The banks “reaped hundreds of millions, if not billions,
of dollars in ill-gotten gains,” Schwab wrote.  In separate suits in April, three European asset-management
firms and the Carpenters Pension Fund of West Virginia sued the
banks claiming they manipulated Libor. U.S. and U.K. officials
are cooperating in a probe of possible Libor manipulation, a
person close to the investigation said in March.  The Schwab suit seeks unspecified damages, which may be
tripled under antitrust law. It also includes claims for
racketeering and securities fraud.  Shirley Norton, a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, and Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, didn’t immediately
return calls for comment.  The case is Schwab Money Market Fund v.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , 11-cv-4186, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  Guaranty Financial Trustee Suit Accuses KBW of Short Sales  The liquidation trustee for  Guaranty Financial Group Inc. (GFGFQ) 
sued  KBW Inc. (KBW) , claiming that the investment bank used inside
information about the Texas lender to short its stock before KBW
collapsed.  Kenneth Tepper, the trustee, is seeking to recover $20
million in fees KBW obtained as Guaranty Financial’s investment
banker, profit it received from betting against the company’s
shares and other damages, according to a suit filed Aug. 24 in
New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “KBW’s disregard of its contractual obligations and
illegal and improper use of GFG’s and the bank’s material, non-
public, confidential, inside information undermined GFG’s
efforts to raise capital, one of the very purposes for which KBW
had been engaged,” Tepper alleged.  Guaranty Financial, based in Austin, Texas, filed for
bankruptcy protection in 2009.  Krista Eccleston, a spokeswoman for New York-based KBW,
declined to comment.  The trustee on Aug. 22 sued cardboard-box maker Temple-
Inland Inc., which spun off Guaranty Financial in 2007.  The case is Tepper v. Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.,
652349-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 