-- 
JPMorgan, Wells, Lone Star Said to Win Anglo Irish U.S. Loans

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u ,   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-26T23:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/jpmorgan-wells-fargo-lone-star-said-to-win-anglo-irish-real-estate-loans.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  Lone Star  Funds won the bidding for Anglo Irish Bank
Corp.’s $9.65 billion portfolio of U.S. real estate loans,
according to three people briefed on the auction’s results.  JPMorgan and Wells Fargo each won pools of mainly
performing loans, said one of the people, who asked not to be
named because the results haven’t been made public. Lone Star,
the Dallas-based investor in distressed mortgages, will buy
subperforming and nonperforming loans that account for about
half of the portfolio, the person said.  The auction, which included loans backed by buildings from
Manhattan to Beverly Hills,  California , underscores the appetite
for property in higher-quality locations by private-equity firms
and banks seeking to expand their assets. The winning bids for
the loans averaged about 80 cents on the dollar, said two of the
people who were told of the results.  “If you’re looking at quality assets in good, strong
markets, I’d say 80 cents on the dollar sounds pretty
reasonable,” said Tom Craig, founder of TSC Realty Partners, a
commercial-property broker in Seattle who wasn’t involved in the
sale. “One of the barriers to entry on a big deal like this is
how many people can put the capital together to buy this and
close quickly.”  Blackstone Bid  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan in  New York , and
Alan Elias, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo,
declined to comment, as did Andy Brimmer, a spokesman for Lone
Star. Martha Kavanagh, a spokeswoman for Anglo Irish in Dublin,
also declined to comment.  A message for Martha Wallau, a spokeswoman for Eastdil
Secured LLC, the Wells Fargo unit that conducted the auction,
wasn’t returned.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  was a final bidder for at least a
portion of the loans, according to people with knowledge of the
situation.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for the New York-based
private-equity firm, declined to comment.  Anglo Irish is seeking to unload loans after being seized
by the Irish government in January 2009 amid a surge in souring
debt. The U.S. loans are backed by properties including the
Apthorp apartments in Manhattan, Chicago’s Palmer House Hilton
hotel and the Two Rodeo Drive shopping center in Beverly Hills.  Anglo Irish expects to complete the U.S. portfolio sale by
year’s end, Tom Hunersen, the bank’s head of corporate
development, said at a press briefing yesterday.  “We had a large group of interested parties,” Hunersen
said, declining to disclose details of the auction. The bank
achieved “the best possible value,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  