-- 
Go-Playing Kan Loses as Resignation Sparks Successor Race

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-08-26T17:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/kan-resigns-as-japan-ruling-party-head.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
sparked a succession race after announcing his resignation,
undone by a backlash over his handling of the March earthquake
and tsunami that spawned the nation’s deepest postwar crisis.  “I feel I’ve done everything I could under these difficult
conditions,” Kan, 64, yesterday told  Democratic Party of Japan 
lawmakers in Tokyo after parliament passed the final two pieces
of his legislative agenda.  The ruling party will select his replacement Aug. 29 in a
race pitting former Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  against
finance chief  Yoshihiko Noda , Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda ,
Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano and former Transport
Minister  Sumio Mabuchi . The candidates hold the first of two
weekend debates today.  Having built a reputation as a maverick by taking on
bureaucrats in a 1996 blood-supply scandal, Kan was already
under fire over campaign financing when the record 9.0 quake and
tsunami struck March 11, killing almost 16,000 people. He failed
in attempts to form a coalition with the opposition, and saw his
own party press for his resignation over perceptions he was slow
to react to the worst atomic disaster since Chernobyl.  “Kan was just totally overwhelmed,” said  Koichi Nakano , a
political science professor at  Sophia University  in Tokyo,
adding there is a “rocky road ahead” for his successor.
“Japanese are so disappointed and disgusted that they don’t
look for politicians to solve their problems anymore.”  Third DPJ Premier  Kan’s resignation will usher in the nation’s sixth head of
government in five years, and the DPJ’s third since it unseated
the  Liberal Democratic Party  in August 2009. The party’s
historic win over the LDP, which dominated Japan for half a
century, came with pledges to restore a country burdened by
deflation, an aging population and the world’s largest debt.  Japan’s next leader will inherit an economy threatened by a
potential exodus of companies beset by power and supply-chain
challenges after the quake. The yen, meanwhile, is near a
postwar high against the dollar. With  tax revenue  eroded by
three straight quarters of declines in gross domestic product,
the next premier will also need to fund rebuilding after the
quake leveled whole towns and sent 15-meter (49-foot) waves
crashing into the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant.  Stocks had little reaction to Kan’s announcement. The
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 0.3 percent yesterday and the
yen rose 0.5 percent to 77.01 per dollar. The Nikkei has
declined 8 percent since Kan took office on June 8, 2010.  “Go” Fan  Kan, a devotee of the strategy game “go,” which he plays
on the Internet, pledged in June he would resign after the Diet
passed three bills that will help craft his legacy. The upper
house yesterday approved the final two, including legislation
that will subsidize electricity from renewable sources as the
country reduces its dependence on atomic energy.  The countdown to Kan’s departure began June 2, at a time
when his popularity had plunged below 20 percent, as criticism
from the opposition and some in his own party prompted a no-
confidence vote that he fended off.  He at first won plaudits for a swifter response to the
disaster than the government’s reaction in 1995 to the Kobe
temblor. His strategy started coming apart less than 10 days
after the catastrophe, when LDP head  Sadakazu Tanigaki  rejected
an overture to join a coalition government.  The administration also struggled to respond to the
escalation of the Fukushima crisis. More 60,000 people had to be
evacuated as the crippled plant spewed radiation into the water,
air and food.  Party Divide  The nation’s new leader will face a party divide over
whether to raise taxes to pay down the world’s largest debt.  Maehara, who at 49 would be the youngest premier since
World War II, said in a June interview that deflation should be
defeated before raising taxes. Noda supports tax increases to
pay for reconstruction as well as doubling the sales levy to 10
percent by the middle of the decade to contain the debt burden.
Kaieda and Kano have yet to specify their positions.  With the DPJ leadership race likely to be determined by
backroom deals, public popularity doesn’t ensure Maehara will
win. Party powerbroker  Ichiro Ozawa , who attempted to oust Kan
in June, retains the loyalty of more than 100 of the 407 DPJ
legislators. Ozawa told supporters yesterday he would back
Kaieda, two DPJ lawmakers told reporters.  “Ozawa may hold the balance of power,” said Steven R. Reed, a professor of political science at Chuo University in
 Tokyo . Maehara must try to placate Ozawa’s followers without
seeming under his influence or risk losing public support, Reed
added.  Faked Safety Reports  While Kan’s commitment to overhaul Japan’s  energy policy 
put him in sync with opinion polls that indicated rising public
unease over the country’s reliance on nuclear reactors, he was
unable to translate that into backing for his leadership,
according to Richard Samuels, a political-science professor at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who follows Japan.  The disaster at Fukushima capped decades of faked safety
reports and fatal accidents in Japan’s atomic industry. The
regulator was in a conflict of interest as it was under the
control of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which
had a mandate to promote nuclear power.  “Had Kan been a more a more skilled politician, he might
have capitalized on this, and his plans for a fundamental shift
in energy policy could have paved a path back to popularity,”
Samuels said in remarks to the Seattle-based National Bureau of
Asian Research this month.  Donation Scandal  Kan’s leadership had already been at risk hours before the
quake, when he had begun attempting to defuse a scandal over a
political donation he received. His tenure was also blighted by
the DPJ’s loss of an upper-house election in July 2010 after he
signaled he aimed to raise the national  sales tax .  Yesterday marked the third time Kan has stepped down as
head of the party that he helped found in 1998. In May 2004, he
quit as DPJ chief after disclosing he didn’t make 10 months of
compulsory pension payments while head of the health ministry,
which supervises pensions.  During his tenure there, Kan forced bureaucrats to
surrender documents that shed light on their role in causing
thousands of Japanese to contract HIV through contaminated blood
products.  As prime minister, Kan oversaw an economy that lost its
mantle as the world’s second-largest to  China . Japan’s GDP,
unadjusted for price changes, is about 17 percent smaller today
than at its peak in 1997.  Yen Intervention  The yen’s 18 percent appreciation against the dollar since
Kan took office has threatened manufacturing companies that are
also coping with challenges to long-term power needs after the
quake. Japan abandoned a six-year policy of refraining from
currency-market intervention as Kan’s government implemented
three rounds of yen sales in an effort to arrest the advance.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the nation’s biggest carmaker, says
every one-yen gain against the dollar cuts operating profit by
34 billion yen ($440 million), according to its current full-
year outlook, which is based on 80 yen to the dollar. Nissan
Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. expect the same  exchange rate .  Kan also oversaw downgrades to Japan’s sovereign credit
rating. Moody’s Investors Service cut it one step to Aa3 this
week and  Standard & Poor’s  lowered it to AA- in January.  “Kan lacked vision in a time of crisis,” said  Jeff Kingston , head of the Asian Studies program at Temple
University’s Tokyo campus. “It looks like the political elite
of  Japan  is always inclined to squander their opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  