-- 
Kenyan Leaders Needs to Do ‘More’ Before Holding Next Election, Annan Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-26T16:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/kenyan-leaders-needs-to-do-more-before-holding-next-election-annan-says.html
Kenya ,  East Africa ’s biggest
economy, needs to enact “key” political reforms before it holds
another election, former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan said today.  Marking the one-year anniversary of the enactment of
Kenya’s constitution, Annan, who led talks to end violence that
followed a poll in 2007, said the country needs to end delays
and appoint new commissioners to the Independent Electoral and
Boundaries Commission.  “The endorsement of the new constitution was without
question one of the finest national achievements since Kenya’s
independence,” Annan said in an e-mailed statement today. “But
much more needs to be done.” Kenya gained independence from
Britain in 1963.  The charter was promised in a power-sharing accord reached
in 2008, ending two months of post-election clashes that left an
estimated 1,500 people dead and displaced another 300,000 more.
Peace returned after President Mwai Kibaki signed an accord with
his rival,  Raila Odinga , who was named prime minister. They
committed to improving governance and overhauling the police and
courts. No date has been set for the next election.  “The national charter has ushered in unprecedented change
in our society within a very short span of time,” Kibaki said
in a statement e-mailed from Nairobi, the capital. “It has
given Kenya a facelift.”  Twenty-five pieces of constitutional legislation have been
approved by parliament and a new chief justice and deputy put in
place, he said. Kenya has also started establishing oversight
institutions for revenue collection and public wages, as well as
to vet judges and magistrates, Kibaki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 