-- 
Naspers to Invest in Acquisitions Rather Than Return Cash With Buybacks

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-26T13:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/naspers-to-invest-in-acquisitions-rather-than-return-cash-with-buybacks.html
Naspers Ltd. (NPN) , South Africa’s largest
media company, has no plans to return cash to shareholders
through stock buybacks, preferring to invest in acquisitions,
Finance Director Steve Pacak said.  Naspers has “lots of opportunities” and the challenge is
to find the right ones, Pacak told investors at the annual
 shareholders’ meeting  in Cape Town, where the company is based.  “The acquisitions we have made have provided us with a
good return on capital,” Pacak said in answer to a question
from an investor. “It is better for shareholders in the long
run to invest the cash as opposed to buying back shares.”  Naspers, which has operations in 131 countries including
 China  and  Brazil ,  held  cash and equivalents of 8.73 billion rand
($1.2 billion) at the end of its fiscal year on March 31. The
company aims to grow at existing businesses, though it was in
talks with about 30 companies on potential acquisitions, Chief
Executive Koos Bekker said on June 27.  Naspers rose as much as 2.4 percent to 337.50 rand and was
up 1.4 percent as of 3:27 p.m. in Johannesburg trading. That
pared the stock’s decline this year to 14 percent.  The company owns newspapers, pay-television channels such
as MultiChoice, Africa’s largest, and  Internet service providers 
including Tencent Ltd., China’s biggest.  Russian Purchase  The South African company acquired a 28.7 percent stake in
Russian Internet operator Digital Sky Technologies Ltd. last
year in a deal that included contributing its 39.3 percent in
another Russian online company, Mail.ru, and investing $388
million in cash. In  Latin America , Naspers bought 68 percent of
classifieds business OLX.com for $144 million in August.  Valuations make finding good buying opportunities difficult
among Internet companies, Chairman Ton Vosloo said at the
meeting. Naspers will also focus on expanding current businesses
and developing new technologies, he said.  “This may dampen earnings in the year ahead, as the cost
of developing these businesses is expensed through the income
statement,” Vosloo said. “However, we believe this strategy
will stimulate long-term growth prospects.”  The global economy is “difficult to read” and slowing
global growth wouldn’t encourage consumers and advertisers to
spend money, Vosloo said. Naspers’s geographic diversity will
help mitigate any risks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  