-- 
New York City Avoids Serious Damage as Deadly Irene Speeds North

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-08-29T01:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/new-york-city-starts-removing-elderly-as-tri-state-area-prepares-for-irene.html
New York City residents returned to
 Manhattan  streets, yellow taxis began plying their usual routes
and equity markets planned to open after Irene passed through as
a tropical storm, less severe than the hurricane local officials
feared.  While subways and buses may not be restored to full service
right away, and airports may not return to regular operations
until tomorrow, bridges and tunnels and major highways that had
closed in high winds opened. More than 1.7 million lost power as
the storm swept through New York and New Jersey, parts of which
remained flooded.  In the city, water closed some highways, such as the Belt
Parkway along the south Brooklyn shore. Metro-North commuter
trains that link Manhattan with suburbs in Westchester and
Connecticut will be out indefinitely due to track damage,
according to  Marjorie Anders ,  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority  spokeswoman.  “The good news is the worst is over and we will soon move
to restore-and-return mode,” New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg
said at a briefing yesterday at the New York Police Department’s
Lower Manhattan headquarters.  Subways Starting  City government will open today and employees are expected
to come to work if they have a way to make the trip, the mayor
said in a release last night. The MTA will begin restoring
subway service starting at 6 a.m., according to a release from
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and MTA Chairman Jay Walder.  In Manhattan’s Battery Park City, where shallow water
flooded part of its Hudson River promenade, residents who had
been told to evacuate enjoyed views of a clearing harbor
yesterday. Bloomberg lifted the order at 3 p.m.  People disregarded police tape blocking Central Park
entrances to run and bike, evading blown leaves and branches
littering the roadway.  “It was just a big non-event,” Rob Kuchar, 28, a UBS
banker, said while strolling the Hudson River waterfront about
1:45 p.m. “It was interesting to walk around the city and not
see anybody, but at the end of the day, there were just some
trees down and some rain.”  The storm, the first to prompt hurricane warnings in New
York since 1985, made landfall in North Carolina two days ago
and killed at least 18 on the East Coast. It left almost 6
million homes and businesses without power, according to the
U.S. Energy Department. Damage will cost insurers about $2.6
billion, according to Kinetic Analysis Corp., a firm that
predicts the effects of disasters.  Fatality, Floods  Among the dead was a 20-year-old woman in Pilesgrove, New
Jersey, 35 miles (56 kilometers) southeast of Philadelphia, who
police said got swept away in her car after calling for help.  The storm flooded homes across New Jersey’s Atlantic,
Salem, Somerset, Union, Bergen, Essex and Passaic Counties.  New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said 50,000 state
residents would leave shelters last night. He discouraged people
from attempting this morning’s commute, and said New Jersey
Transit trains into New York will be suspended today, while
buses will operate on a modified schedule and PATH trains will
reopen.  About 775,000 homes were without power, and some areas may
have to wait five days or more to get service restored, Christie
said at a news conference at state police headquarters in West
Trenton.  ‘Significant Flooding’  “The good news is we didn’t see any type of visible
destruction to homes along the beach,” Christie said after
touring the shore via helicopter. Also of concern is “the rest
of the state, where we have significant flooding,” he said.  In  Newark , police reported at least 15 rescues as water
coursed through some streets. Of 50 trees the storm knocked down
in the city, six took power lines down with them, Newark Mayor
Cory Booker said.  By 4 p.m., New Jersey Manufacturers Insurance, the state’s
third-largest home owners insurer, with 220,000 homes, had
already received more than 2,500 claims for storm-related
damage, Patrick Breslin, a spokesman, said in a statement. The
company didn’t give an estimate of the damage.  A weakened Irene continued to New England, where
Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island bore the brunt of
the storm. Residents in coastal communities evacuated and
hundreds of thousands lost power.  Connecticut Death  In Prospect,  Connecticut , an unidentified woman in her 90s
died and her husband was critically injured in a house fire
caused by a tree limb falling on electrical wires, said
Lieutenant P.J. Conway, a fire department spokesman.  New York City escaped without a fatality or major injury,
Bloomberg said. Officials “made exactly the right call” when
the MTA shut down subways, buses and regional commuter trains
before the storm, he said.  While “it will be annoying” as the MTA returns the system
to running condition, the mayor said he expected most operations
to return by Tuesday, Aug. 30.  “Our No. 1 priority is protecting people,” he said.
“When there is a real threat, we are going to err on the side
of taking precautions.”  New York’s mayor is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Manhattan ‘Lightly Affected’  Consolidated Edison (ED)  Inc., New York’s power supplier, said
the storm “lightly affected” Manhattan, allowing the utility
to scrap a plan to shut off power to thousands of lower
Manhattan customers out of concern for underground cables that
could short out if flooded by a storm surge. More than 900,000
New York state customers lost electricity, Cuomo’s office said.  Signs of returning normality included the reopening of New
Jersey’s Garden State Parkway; the opening of the Holland
Tunnel, which had been partially closed due to flooding; and the
reopening of New York City’s spans over the Hudson and East
Rivers. Atlantic City casinos will open this morning, Christie
said.  U.S. equity markets said they will open as usual. NYSE
Euronext, Nasdaq OMX Group, Bats and Direct Edge Holdings LLC
said they will open their U.S. venues, according to e-mailed
statements.  City officials in Hoboken, New Jersey, told George Palermo,
owner of S. Sullivan’s Bar and Grill on Washington Street, that
he could reopen around 11:15 a.m. yesterday, he said in an
interview. By 1:30 p.m. seats at the bar and outside tables were
full, music was blasting and cars were passing by in the city of
about 50,000 across from Manhattan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  