-- 
New York Buildings Face Storm Damage as Property Managers Plan for Irene

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-08-26T20:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/new-york-buildings-face-storm-damage-as-property-managers-plan-for-irene.html
Hurricane Irene may cause serious
damage to some  New York  City buildings as it threatens to bring
surging floodwaters and strong winds that may spur flying
debris, property managers said as they prepared for the storm.  Irene could be “a once-in-a-lifetime event if it goes
according to the forecast,” said Jim Rosenbluth, managing
director for  crisis management  at real estate services firm
Cushman & Wakefield Inc. Basements and lower levels of buildings
close to the shore “would absolutely be at risk,” he said.  The storm, hurtling toward landfall in  North Carolina 
tomorrow and the Northeast the following day, may pose the
biggest threat to waterfront areas in lower Manhattan, said
Frank Edwards, executive managing director for project
management in the New York office of Colliers International.
While the city’s tall buildings are designed to withstand high
winds, the gusts may create a funneling effect that poses a
danger to bystanders throughout the city, Rosenbluth said.  New York City today ordered the evacuation of low-lying
areas, including Brooklyn’s Coney Island, lower  Manhattan ’s
Battery Park City and parts of  Staten Island . Landlords were
urged to begin emergency preparations and the New York buildings
commissioner ordered that work on all city construction sites be
suspended at 2 p.m. tomorrow.  Stable Skyscrapers  Manhattan’s tallest buildings are constructed to hold up
against the horizontal force of winds, and glass in the newest
towers is much stronger than the typical household windows, said
David Childs, the architect who designed Manhattan towers
including 1 World Trade Center, Time Warner Center, Worldwide
Plaza and several other Manhattan towers.  “Many tall buildings have a large base to stand on, and
they’re anchored to the granite which forms the base of all of
Manhattan,” he said in a telephone interview.  Skyscraper skin is thicker and tends to be installed in two
or three layers, he said, and if it does break, it usually does
so in pellets like an auto windshield. Though those pellets can
be dangerous in hurricane-force winds, the latest building
designs are typically tested in  Florida , where people are
experienced with strong storms, he said.  Winds from the storm may be especially dangerous in
clusters of skyscrapers, Cushman’s Rosenbluth said.  Canyon Effect  “The narrow canyon effect in an area that’s basically
vertically developed can create very unique wind patterns where
the wind speeds can substantially exceed that which the storm
has created -- essentially a channeling or funneling effect,”
he said.  Cushman manages 1,127 commercial properties totaling 186.9
million square feet (17.4 million square meters) on the East
Coast, according to Adam Leibowitz, an associate with Cushman’s
corporate occupiers and investor services division.  Lower Manhattan is particularly  prone to flooding  if there
is a  storm surge  that pushes through the Verrazano Narrows, said
Colliers’s Edwards. That would cause flooding along the  Brooklyn 
shores as well, he said.  At lower Manhattan’s  World Trade Center  site, where 1 World
Trade Center is under construction and workers are racing to
finish the Sept. 11 memorial plaza by the 10th anniversary of
the attack, contractors were ordered to tie down loose debris,
cover electrical equipment, store tools and secure netting.
Crews also were preparing to use pumps and sandbags to control
flooding, according to a statement by the  Port Authority  of New
York and New Jersey, which owns the 16-acre (6.5-hectare) site.  Landlord Checklist  The New York Building Owners and Managers  Association 
recommended in its checklist yesterday that landlords fasten or
remove all loose material; secure roof-mounted equipment such as
flashings, roof vents and cooling units; secure on-site cranes
against high winds; and clean out all drains and catch basins.
It also suggested they set up Twitter accounts and Facebook
pages for emergency information.  New York’s emergency guidelines urge apartment residents to
take shelter below the 10th floor of their buildings.  If the storm tracks closely to the west of the city, New
York could suffer historic levels of damage at a Category 2 or
higher, Rosenbluth said. That would bring winds of at least 96
miles (154 kilometers) per hour, according to the  Saffir-Simpson 
Hurricane Scale.  1992 Storm  A nor’easter in December 1992 with wind gusts of up to 77
mph sent the  East River  gushing over FDR Drive, according to
news accounts. Flooding of basements and lower floors of
skyscrapers along Water Street downtown prompted some landlords
to install flood gates to steer water away from their
properties, Edwards said. Those gates may get their first tests
if New York gets the worst of the  storm , he said.  “I’m sure they’re running through their exercises right
now, familiarizing themselves with what they need to do to get
through this,” Edwards said.  A sustained loss of power could put computer data at risk
unless backup generators and emergency power supplies are
working, according to Rosenbluth. Wiring, conduits and cabling
may be flooded, he said.  Much of  New Jersey ’s Hudson River waterfront is at risk of
a hurricane storm surge, according to a map from CoreLogic Inc.,
a  Santa Ana , California business information provider.  On the  Jersey City  waterfront, where Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. constructed New Jersey’s tallest skyscraper and more than
17 million square feet of have been built since the early 1980s,
many buildings may be tested against flood for the first time.  “They all have backup generators and capabilities,” said
Greg Kierce, Jersey City’s emergency management and homeland
security director. “We’re fully aware, especially with the
financial entities down there, how any combination of them being
knocked out of service could impact not only the  U.S. economy 
but possibly the global economy, so we’re taking every
precaution we can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  