-- 
New York Gasoline Gains on Hurricane Irene as Pipelines Prepare

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-08-26T18:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/new-york-gasoline-gains-on-hurricane-irene-as-pipelines-prepare.html
New York  gasoline rose for a second
day as Colonial Pipeline Co. said it expects to shut portions of
its system and refiners prepared for Hurricane Irene.  Colonial, the largest pipeline linking the Gulf Coast to
East Coast markets, anticipates shutting sections of its lines
north of Greensboro,  North Carolina  because of closures as
customer terminals in the state and  Virginia ,  Maryland ,  New
Jersey  and New York, the company said in a statement.  The premium for reformulated, 87-octane gasoline in New
York Harbor, gained 2.37 cents to 7.5 cents a gallon over New
York Mercantile Exchange futures at 2:06 p.m. in New York.
Prompt delivery of the fuel rose 0.03 cent to $3.0195.  Colonial lines 1 and 2, transporting gasoline and
distillate, “will not be significantly impacted based on our
current projections,” the company said. “Depending on the
route the hurricane takes, any impact on Colonial could be felt
as early as midday Saturday,”  Steve Baker , a company spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  East Coast refiners in the forecast route of the hurricane
need to reduce production rates in order to be ready to shut
plants down, Charlie Drevna, president of the National
Petrochemical & Refiners Association, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s not just an on off switch,” he said.  “By close of business today or early this evening they’re
going to figure they need to make this decision” to shut down,
Drevna said.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP does not expect to shut
down the Plantation Pipe Line, “unless a power grid loses
power,” Emily Mir Thompson, a spokeswoman for the company, said
in an e-mail statement.  The 600,000-barrel-a-day line ships oil products from
Louisiana to Washington D.C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 