-- 
College Board Leader Paid More Than Harvard’s

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/nonprofit-head-of-college-board-paid-more-than-harvard-s-leader.html
The president of the  College Board ,
the nonprofit owner of the SAT entrance exam, has seen his
compensation triple since 1999 and now gets more than the head
of the American  Red Cross , which has more than five times the
revenue.  The value of Gaston Caperton’s compensation was $1.3
million including deferred compensation in 2009, according to
tax filings, also surpassing that of the president of  Harvard
University . Richard Ferguson, the now-retired chief executive
officer of rival testing company  ACT Inc. , got compensation
valued at $1.1 million. Nineteen executives at the New York-
based College Board got more than $300,000.  The College Board, ACT and a third nonprofit company --
 Educational Testing Service  -- make money owning, designing or
administering college entrance tests. All have unusually
generous compensation for either executives or directors, said
Dean Zerbe, a former senior tax counsel for the Senate Finance
Committee which has examined the pay of nonprofit executives.  “This is the kind of salary I would expect from a for-
profit business that is paying taxes,” Zerbe said. “Congress
should take a hard eye at these tax-exempt testing companies
that pay big-time salaries and seem to want to shake every
dollar possible out of the pockets of students applying to
college.”  The companies don’t pay corporate taxes because of their
nonprofit status. Each year, several million students take their
exams, which generate revenue through fees. Seven states fund
the Preliminary SAT and seven more will pay for the ACT this
school year, according to their departments of education.  ‘In Line’  In 2009, the median compensation for chief executives of
nonprofit companies with budgets of more than $50 million was
$394,508, according to the  Chronicle of Philanthropy , which
compiled data from Guidestar.org, a website that posts tax forms
by nonprofit groups.  When Caperton, a former two-term governor of  West Virginia ,
started at the  College Board , he had total compensation of about
$404,000. Under his tenure, the company has more than doubled
revenue -- to $660 million in the year ended June 2010. It had a
surplus of $66 million.  College Board executive salaries are “very much in line”
with the capabilities required to run a complex organization,
Peter Kauffmann, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.
Caperton’s pay is set by a committee of trustees, which gets
outside advice from independent consultants, as does ACT,
according to the companies.  “The economic reality is that nonprofits, just like for-
profit organizations, compete for talent,” Kauffmann said. “To
insist that non-profits pay their employees significantly less
than for-profits would be to hobble their efforts to provide
quality, reliable offerings.”  22 Years as CEO  Compensation in 2009 for ACT’s Ferguson included $392,700
for retirement benefits accrued during his 38-year tenure, 22 as
CEO, Thomas Goedken, chief financial officer, said in an
interview. Ferguson’s deferred compensation began in August 1985
and his pay was negotiated annually with trustees, Goedken said.  ACT pays its executives “well enough to attract good talent
and keep them,” said  Mark Musick , ACT’s lead director. “We
operate in a situation where many of the folks are in the same
pool with for-profit companies.”  Gail McGovern, CEO of the nonprofit  Red Cross , had total
compensation of $1.03 million in 2009, which included a one-time
reimbursement of $474,000 for her relocation. Her compensation
reverted back to about $500,000, where it has remained since
2008, said spokeswoman Laura Howe. The emergency response and
blood services company, based in  Washington , had revenue of $3.6
billion in the year ended June 2010, according to a tax filing.  University Leaders  Caperton’s compensation exceeds that of the leaders of
almost all the member organizations that form or support the
College Board. Harvard University President Drew Faust had total
compensation of $875,000 in 2009, according to a tax filing.  Thirty college leaders earned more than $1 million in
compensation and benefits, according to the Chronicle of Higher
Education’s most recent survey of 448 private, nonprofit U.S.
colleges and universities, which looked at salaries in 2008.  Richard Levin , president of  Yale University , had a pay
package of $1.6 million, including deferred compensation in
2009, the most among presidents of the eight Ivy League schools,
according to tax filings.  The median total compensation for the 185 public-college
presidents in the Chronicle of Higher Education’s 2009-2010
survey was $375,442.  ETS President  Educational Testing’s president, Kurt Landgraf, had
compensation of $742,000 in 2009, the most recent tax filing
available. The Princeton, New Jersey-based company generated
$906 million in revenue with a surplus of $7.42 million that
year. Landgraf is also chairman of ETS’s for-profit subsidiary
 Prometric Inc .  “ETS is an organization with a very strong social mission
and we need to be competitive to attract the talent and
leadership we need to advance that mission,” Tom Ewing, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The salary of  Jon Whitmore , ACT’s new CEO who began last
September, hasn’t been disclosed because that year’s tax return
hasn’t yet been filed, according to Iowa City, Iowa-based ACT.   Educational Testing , which develops and administers more
than 50 million tests annually in more than 180 countries, and
ACT both compensate their board members -- a policy also out of
the ordinary for nonprofit companies, pay consultants said. ACT
compensated outside  directors  about $640,000 in 2009, averaging
more than $50,000 a person. The company posted revenue of $274
million and a surplus of $35.9 million in the period.  Paid Directors  Educational Testing compensated 17 trustees a combined
$475,500 for an average 1.5 hours per week that year. The pay
ranged from $14,000 to $54,000 per trustee, according to tax
records. Trustees meet four times a year and committees meet
additionally, Ewing said.  The College Board doesn’t compensate its directors.  Just 1 percent of charities paid their board members,
according to  BoardSource , a Washington-based company that
collects data about nonprofit board service and trains
directors. The group surveyed 1,758 nonprofit board members and
executives in the U.S. and  Canada  last year including almost
1,400 affiliated with charities.  ACT began paying directors in 2003, when it changed the
board’s composition from deans of admission and high school
counselors to people with “a wider reach of experience and
background,” said Musick, the lead director.  Musick received $66,000 in total compensation from ACT in
2009, according to the tax filling. He is president emeritus of
the  Southern Regional Education Board , a nonprofit research
group that works with 16 states to improve public education.  Taxpayer Subsidized  Compensating nonprofit directors isn’t the norm and happens
more often in heavily regulated industries such as health or
mental health, said  David Samuels , who spent nine years as
deputy chief of the New York Attorney General’s charities
bureau.  “The general concern, particularly among regulators, with
respect to expenditures of charitable assets for salaries, board
compensation, travel and other perks is that charities are
subsidized by the taxpayer,” said Samuels, an attorney at Duval
& Stachenfeld LLP in New York. “In this era of deficits and
budget cutting, there is even greater concern about these
matters.”  Current ACT directors include Richard Riley, secretary of
education in the Clinton administration, and  Bob Graham , former
U.S. Senator from  Florida . Directors attend four meetings a
year, said Ed Colby, an ACT spokesman. If they’re not active
participants, they won’t be asked back, he said. At least two
members weren’t reappointed, Musick said in an interview.  ‘Highly Unusual’  As part of his compensation, Caperton entered into a five-
year agreement that grants him $509,000 annually. That money is
described as deferred compensation because it is “vested but not
paid” until he leaves, the College Board said. Caperton plans to
retire next year, four years into that agreement.  Receiving money in annual installments is “highly unusual”
because it doesn’t serve to keep the executive in place for the
length of the contract, said Paul Dorf, managing director of
Compensation Resources Inc., an  Upper Saddle River , New Jersey-
based pay consulting firm.  The intention of Caperton’s contract was to keep him for
five more years, said  Lester Monts , former chairman of the
College Board’s trustees who headed the committee that set
Caperton’s current contract.  Companion Travel  The trustees were “trying to be competitive,” Monts, senior
vice provost at the  University of Michigan , said in an
interview. “We have gotten more from Gaston Caperton than we
actually paid him.”  Caperton also receives a monthly housing allowance included
in his taxable compensation.  Of  ACT ’s top 11 employees, five made more than $300,000.
Three received funds for companion travel.  Travel funding is also available at ETS. Four trustees and
13 officers received first-class or charter-travel benefits and
four officers got money for companion travel. First-class
accommodations are allowable for flights of three hours or more,
Ewing said.  “ETS trustees are reimbursed for travel expenses, lodging,
and an honorarium for their time and expertise,” Ewing said.
“This has been standard practice at ETS for some time and serves
as the least we can do to thank them for the contributions and
leadership.”  Arturo Pacheco , director of the Center for Research on
Educational Reform at the  University of Texas  at El Paso, said
he served as an ETS trustee for 10 years. In his last year,
2009, he received $14,000, the lowest amount among 17 trustees
listed on a tax filing.  Pacheco said that on occasion he took first-class flights
paid by ETS, often with a connection, to attend meetings. Of the
nonprofit boards he has sat on, ETS was the only one to
compensate him, he said.  “I would have done it for free because it was an
interesting experience,” Pacheco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York    jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  