-- 
Nuclear Reactors on East Coast Brace for Hurricane Irene’s Wrath

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-08-26T00:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/nuclear-reactors-on-east-coast-brace-for-hurricane-irene-s-wrath.html
More than a dozen nuclear reactors
along the U.S. East Coast are being prepared for potential loss
of power and damage from high winds and storm surges as
Hurricane Irene bears down on the region.  Nuclear plants in Irene’s path continued to operate as
workers secured loose equipment, checked diesel fuel supplies
for backup generators and stowed cots and food for workers who
may be stranded during the storm.  At Dominion Resources Inc.’s Millstone nuclear station,
which sits on a narrow peninsula in the Long Island Sound near
Waterford,  Connecticut , workers were examining flood barriers
and submarine doors designed to keep reactors dry from a
hurricane’s storm surge.  “That’s part of our storm preparations: ensuring those
flood barriers are in place, ready to do their job,” said Ken
Holt, a spokesman for Richmond, Virginia-based Dominion, in an
interview yesterday.  Irene, a Category 3 hurricane, is  on track  to become the
first major storm to strike the U.S. since Hurricane Ike in
2008, following a similar path to Gloria in 1985, which swept
through  New York City  into New England.  More than 65 million people from  North Carolina  to Maine
live in the projected path of the storm, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News. National Hurricane Center forecasts
show Irene first making landfall along North Carolina’s Outer
Banks tomorrow before sweeping north and east through the most
populous region of the country.  Indian Point  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point plant, about 35 miles from
midtown  Manhattan , is monitoring the storm, which is expected to
reach that area as soon as Aug. 28, said  Jerry Nappi , a plant
spokesman.  The storm’s winds pose a greater threat to the switch yards
and power lines that support a nuclear plant than the reactors
themselves, which sit beneath containment structures of steel-
reinforced concrete, Alex Marion, vice president of nuclear
operations for the Nuclear Energy Institute, an industry trade
group, said in an interview.  Emergency planning at nuclear plants is in the spotlight
following  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactor meltdown earlier
this year. The disaster occurred after a magnitude-9 earthquake
in March triggered a 40-foot tsunami that damaged the station
and wiped out unsecured diesel generators.  Power Losses Expected  PJM Interconnection LLC, the grid operator that coordinates
electricity transmission across much of the region in Irene’s
anticipated path, is preparing for power outages caused by storm
winds and falling tree branches, Ray Dotter, PJM’s spokesman.  Federal rules require nuclear plant operators to shut down
reactors as hurricane-force winds approach. If lesser winds cut
power to a station, nuclear reactors are designed to
automatically shut down and switch to backup power to keep fuel
cool.  “We have identified by now the plants that could be at
risk because of high winds or water surges,” Dotter said in an
interview. “We’re looking at what would be necessary to replace
them.”  Storm surge is a concern for coastal plants such as
 Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) ’s Brunswick station in North Carolina, said
Jim Riccio, a nuclear-policy analyst in  Washington  for
Greenpeace USA, which is opposed to nuclear power.  Backup Generators Ready  Other plants, including  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) ’s
Calvert Cliffs facility in  Maryland , and  Public Service
Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) ’s Hope Creek and Salem facilities in
southern  New Jersey  are at risk of losing power from the
electric grid, depending on the storm’s path, he said.  “They’re all at risk of a loss of off-site power,” Riccio
said. If that happens, diesel generators are supposed to
automatically kick in.  Federal regulations require nuclear reactors to be in a
“safe shutdown condition,” cooled to less than 300 degrees
Fahrenheit, two hours before hurricane-force winds strike, the
Nuclear Energy Institute’s Marion said.  To comply, plant operators typically begin shutting down
reactors 12 hours before winds exceeding 74 miles per hour are
predicted to arrive, said Roger Hannah, a spokesman with the
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s Region II office in
Atlanta, in an interview.  “We closely monitor, every hour, the storm track and
intensity to determine potential for impact to the site,” said
 Indian Point ’s Nappi in an e-mail.  Flood-Proof Walls  Backup generators powered  Tennessee  Valley Authority’s
Browns Ferry plant in Tennessee and Dominion’s Surry station in
 Virginia  this spring after tornados damaged power lines leading
to the plant, Marion said.  Diesel generators are secured behind flood-proof walls at
U.S. nuclear plants, said Hannah, which stock a federally
mandated seven-day supply of fuel. All plants in coastal areas
of the country are typically built behind berms designed to
withstand flooding, Hannah said, and key components and
equipment are housed in watertight buildings.  Although Irene’s storm surge is expected to cause
widespread flooding in coastal areas, it shouldn’t carry the
destructive force of the Fukushima tsunami. “There’s a big
difference between a storm surge and a large tsunami,” Hannah
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 