-- 
New York City Orders Mandatory Evacuation for Rockaway, Coney Island Areas

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-26T18:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/nyc-mayor-orders-mandatory-evacuation-from-low-lying-areas.html
New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  ordered residents of low-lying coastal areas to leave
their homes in advance of Hurricane Irene’s arrival Sunday, the
first time a mandatory evacuation order has been imposed.  Residents in the affected neighborhoods must leave by 5
p.m. tomorrow, the mayor said during a City Hall news briefing.
It’s the first time New York residents have been ordered to
leave their homes ahead of a storm, he said.  Citywide, about 270,000 residents live in the low-lying
zones most vulnerable to a  storm surge  accompanied by high winds
and rain, according to the mayor’s office. The neighborhoods
include  Manhattan ’s Battery Park City, home to 39,700; Coney
Island and other Brooklyn beach communities, with 180,000; the
Rockaways in Queens, where at least 70,000 live, and shore areas
of  Staten Island , with at least 40,000 residents. Some parts
aren’t in low-lying areas so aren’t affected.  “There is no question that we are going to get hit with
some wind and high water that is very dangerous,” Bloomberg
told reporters.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  ordered a shut down of the
Metropolitan Transit Authority’s subways, buses and trains
starting with their last runs at noon tomorrow. The  George
Washington  and Triborough Bridges also will be among those
closed if sustained winds top 60 miles (97 kilometers) an hour,
according to a statement from the governor’s office.  The storm, which threatened to inflict the worst
destruction in the Northeast since Hurricane Gloria in 1985, may
affect more than 65 million people from  North Carolina  to Maine,
or 1-in-5 Americans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yesterday, the mayor ordered evacuations of patients in all
hospitals and senior citizens in long-term care facilities in
the low-lying areas, designated as Zone A by emergency planners.
They began moving out this morning.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  