-- 
NYSE Weighs Shutdown Options as Irene Risk Closes Subways

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-08-26T21:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/nyse-weighs-shutdown-options-as-irene-risk-closes-subways.html
Hurricane Irene, forecast to reach
New York this weekend, has the potential to shut down the New
York Stock Exchange, a company executive said.  “If we can open here but none of our customers can get to
their desks, it really doesn’t make a lot of sense to open the
exchange,” Louis Pastina, senior vice president for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We’ll have
to gauge that in coordination with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the other  stock exchanges  and our member firms.”  The company is able to run its electronic platform NYSE
Arca even if the hurricane prompts NYSE Euronext to shut the New
York Stock Exchange and NYSE Amex, which rely on human traders
in Manhattan, Pastina said in a phone interview. New York
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said the city’s public transportation
system will shut down starting at noon tomorrow.  NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., Bats Global Markets
and Direct Edge Holdings LLC -- the four biggest U.S. exchange
operators -- said they currently plan to open for business on
Aug. 29, a day after Irene is forecast to hit New York.  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  said it has no current plans to shut or delay trading
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  While the Nymex trading floor is located in an area New
York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  ordered evacuated, the bulk of
trading on the platform is electronic. Bloomberg is majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Category 2  Irene is a Category 2 storm, down from the Category 3 power
it had when it whipped the Bahamas yesterday, and isn’t likely
to regain much strength before it crosses  North Carolina , said a
National Hurricane Center  advisory  at 11 a.m. Eastern time.  “Our plan is to ring that bell on Monday morning at
9:30,” Pastina said, referring to the signal that trading on
NYSE has begun. Regular U.S. stock trading begins at 9:30 a.m.
New York time on weekdays.  Should the storm prevent that, NYSE Euronext could still
open Arca and use it to run the opening and closing auction
process used to set equity prices at the start and end of the
day for NYSE and NYSE Amex stocks, Pastina said.  Nasdaq  Stock
Market, NYSE Euronext’s biggest U.S. rival, also uses an
electronic auction.  “We have been communicating throughout the day with
markets and securities firms on whether the markets will be open
Monday,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in a statement.
“Discussions will continue Saturday and Sunday as
appropriate. The markets will make the decision whether to open
in consultation with the SEC.”  No Transportation  “I don’t see how they can open on Monday,” Alan Valdes,
director of floor trading at broker DME Securities LLC, said
about NYSE in a telephone interview. If public transportation is
shut, “people can’t come in to work.”  DME has seven people working on the NYSE floor and almost
20 at the firm’s midtown  Manhattan  location.  “Brokers are having people come in on Sunday and renting
hotel rooms,” Valdes said. “But they may not be able to get
into the hotels unless they come on Saturday. I live in Hoboken.
If there’s no PATH and ferry, I may not be able to get here.”  Bats Global Markets and Direct Edge, which each operate two
U.S. stock exchanges, are monitoring the progress of the
Hurricane Irene. Bryan Harkins, chief operating officer at
 Jersey City , New Jersey-based Direct Edge, said “business
continuity procedures” will be implemented if that becomes
necessary. Bats is watching the progress of the hurricane while
planning “normal operations” for its exchanges on Aug. 29,
Stacie Fleming, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Nasdaq  “Nasdaq will continually inspect its and Nasdaq OMX PHLX’s
systems and data center facilities all weekend and provide
updates as needed to employees and customers,” Joseph Christinat, a spokesman for New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ) , said in a phone interview.  The main computer servers for most venues, including NYSE
and those run by Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats Global Markets,
operate in northern  New Jersey . The computers that match buy and
sell orders and maintain records of all quotations are in data
centers in Mahwah, Weehawken, Secaucus and Carteret. NYSE and
Amex operate hybrid systems with electronic trading and manual
trading on the NYSE floor in  Lower Manhattan . All exchanges have
backup sites to run their markets if the primary location
becomes inoperable.  Equinix  Equinix Inc. (EQIX) , which operates data centers used by exchanges
and alternative markets including dark pools to house their main
computers and trading technology, will have more employees ready
to work if the storm affects the operation of its facilities.
Dark pools are private venues that compete with exchanges
without displaying bids and offers publicly.  “The data centers are built to withstand very, very bad
storms,”  Steve Smith , chief executive officer of the  Redwood
City , California-based company, said in an interview in  New
York . “We’re double-checking our fuel to make sure we have
reserves if we lose power,” he said. “We’re double-checking
the generators. We’ll have more staff on standby, and on Sunday
night and Monday we’ll be on higher alert.”  Backup fuel vendors are also on standby in case additional
levels are required, Sam Kapoor, chief operating officer at
Equinix, said in an e-mail. All of the company’s data centers
are staffed around the clock, he said.  Jonathan Corpina, senior managing partner at Meridian
Equity Partners, a broker that operates on NYSE’s trading floor
and runs an office around the corner from the exchange, said the
firm has different plans in place for different scenarios. Half
of the 30-person company works on the NYSE floor.  Going to NYSE  “If our office doesn’t have power but NYSE does, we’ve got
preapproval for everybody from our office to come down here to
the floor,” Corpina said. Traders will also be located in
Westchester, New York, and the western part of Monmouth County
in New Jersey in case employees can’t access downtown Manhattan.
“If NYSE is deemed inoperable, we’ll have offsite locations
with mirrored systems to facilitate clients orders,” he said.  Dan Veru , chief investment officer at  Fort Lee , New Jersey-
based Palisade Capital Management LLC, which oversees $3.8
billion, said employees will come to work on Aug. 29 if there’s
no damage from Hurricane Irene.  “I have a fabulous view of the George Washington bridge,”
Veru said in a phone interview. “We have nothing protecting us
from the storm. We have a hurricane plan where all our desks are
going to be covered with tarps and we’re putting all of our
computers and phones away. If this storm is coming, God knows
what’s going to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  