-- 
Obama Tells East Coast Residents to Prepare for ‘Historic’ Hurricane Irene

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-08-26T18:36:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/obama-tells-east-coast-residents-to-prepare-for-historic-hurricane-irene.html
President  Barack Obama  said people
along the U.S. East Coast should heed orders from authorities
and make emergency preparations as Hurricane Irene approaches
landfall tomorrow in North Carolina.  “I cannot stress this highly enough: If you are in the
projected path of this hurricane, you have to take precautions
now,” Obama said. “Don’t wait. Don’t delay.”  “All of us have to take this storm seriously,” he said.
“If you’re in the way of this hurricane, you should be
preparing now.” He said all indications “point to this being a
historic hurricane.”  Obama and his family are cutting short their vacation on
Martha’s Vineyard and will return to Washington tonight, White
House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said. They had been scheduled to
leave tomorrow.  The president “felt that it was prudent for him to be at
the White House this evening,” Earnest told reporters, adding
that Obama’s decision was not based on considerations about his
personal safety.  East Coast residents who receive evacuation orders should
follow them, the president said, directing people with questions
to a U.S. government website, www.ready.gov.  Obama spoke from the Fisher House at the Blue Heron Farm in
Chilmark,  Massachusetts , where he has been on vacation with his
family since Aug. 18.  Called Governors, Mayors  The president was briefed before his remarks by Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano;  Craig Fugate , the Federal
Emergency Management Agency administrator; White House chief of
staff Bill Daley and other officials, Earnest said. Obama said
he also had spoken with governors and mayors of big cities along
the eastern seaboard.  Hurricane Irene poses the largest threat to the U.S.
Northeast since Hurricane Gloria in 1985. More than 65 million
people from North Carolina to Maine, or about one in five
Americans, may be in the way of the hurricane, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. FEMA has been positioning emergency
supplies where they can be delivered quickly to areas that need
them.  The hurricane is on a path to make landfall in  North
Carolina ’s Outer Banks tomorrow, skirt the East Coast and reach
New England on Aug. 28, according to the National Hurricane
Center.  Obama signed a federal emergency declaration for North
Carolina, authorizing the Homeland Security Department and FEMA
to coordinate disaster response and mobilize resources. The
governors of  New York ,  New Jersey , Maryland, Connecticut and
 Virginia  declared emergencies, while officials in Virginia Beach
and Norfolk, Virginia, ordered mandatory evacuations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  