-- 
London Police to Deploy 4,000 Extra Officers on Notting Hill Riot Concern

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-08-26T12:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/london-police-to-deploy-4-000-extra-officers-on-notting-hill-riot-concern.html
London ’s police force will deploy
more than 4,000 extra officers on the streets of the capital on
the two days of the  Notting Hill Carnival  amid concern that
gangs are planning a repeat of this month’s riots and disorder.  Police have already made at least 35 arrests as part of
Operation Razorback, a special intelligence operation targeting
“the small minority who we know want to ruin the event,”
Commander Steve Rodhouse said in a statement on the Metropolitan
Police Service  website .  The carnival, which is estimated to attract 1 million
people, was only given the go-ahead to proceed after organizers
changed the event times to finish in the early evening each day.
The festival normally requires a heavy police presence and
previous events have been marred by violence.  This month’s riots were the worst seen in Britain since the
1980s, with more than 3,000 crimes committed in London alone,
including two murders.  “We have intelligence to suggest that some gangs want to
come to Carnival and create trouble for us,” Rodhouse said in
the statement. “To those who think the rest of London is
vulnerable, we are not just focusing on policing Notting Hill.
Additional officers will be out on our streets across the
city.”  Richard Jones , a spokesman for the police, said the force
was continuing to monitor intelligence sources. A total of 5,500
officers will be at the carnival on Aug. 28, an 11 percent
increase from the year earlier and more than those on hand for
the royal wedding, Jones said. All staff leave has been
canceled. On Aug. 29, a national holiday, 6,500 will be on duty
at the event, up 16 percent from last year. About 4,000
additional officers will be spread across London each day, as
well as the regular numbers on duty.  ‘Stay Away’  “The police have been targeting potential troublemakers
and anyone thinking of causing trouble should stay away,”
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said today in a statement. “Let’s
show the world we know how to throw a party and have a good
time.”  Rioters caused an estimated 200 million pounds ($326
million) of damage this month as arson and looting spread from
the suburb of Tottenham after a local man, Mark Duggan, was shot
and killed by police who stopped his car intending to make an
arrest. Violence and looting spread across other cities in the
U.K., including Birmingham and Manchester.  The carnival was first held in 1964, spurred in part by
racial tensions that immigrants from the Caribbean faced during
the 1950s after arriving in the U.K., according to a history
posted on the website of Notting Hill Carnival Ltd., the event’s
organizer. Mayor Johnson has given the group 190,000 pounds, 8.6
percent more than a year ago, to increase the number of stewards
by more than 100 each day, according to spokesman Ben McKnight.  Some underground stations will be exit-only during the
carnival or close temporarily, and bus routes may be diverted,
Transport for London said on its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in London at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  