-- 
Optimum Coal Says It Received Bids After Reports Glencore Weighing Offer

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-08-26T16:37:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/optimum-coal-says-it-receives-bid-for-a-controlling-stake-in-the-company.html
Optimum Coal Holdings (OPT)  Ltd., the
South African thermal coal exporter that’s reportedly a Glencore
International Plc takeover target, said it has had approaches.  Optimum “has received unsolicited, non-binding expressions
of interest from third parties to acquire a controlling
interest,” it said in a statement today. “There is currently
no certainty that Optimum will receive a firm intention to make
an offer from any party.”  Glencore may be weighing a bid for Johannesburg-based
Optimum, the Financial Times said, citing executives it didn’t
identify. Glencore’s share of a deal could be $700 million, the
newspaper said. Optimum operates South Africa’s third-largest
opencast mine, bought from BHP Billiton Ltd. in June 2008, and
has an allocation to ship 8.44 million metric tons of coal a
year through the Richards Bay export terminal.  “Optimum has accumulated quite a nice portfolio of assets,
mainly from  BHP Billiton , and they have a nice export
entitlement,” said Paul Theron, chief executive officer of
Vestact, a  fund manager  based in Johannesburg.  Mike Teke, Optimum’s chief executive officer, and  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Glencore, declined to comment.  Optimum rose 5 percent to 31.50 rand, the highest level in
four months, by the 5 p.m. close of Johannesburg trade, valuing
the coal supplier at about 7.9 billion rand ($1.1 billion). The
FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index was 0.3 percent higher.  Glencore’s Shanduka stake  Glencore has 70 percent of Shanduka Coal, a mining company
with operations in South Africa’s Mpumalanga province. Maureen
Mphatsoe, a spokeswoman for  Shanduka Group , a Johannesburg-based
investment holding company and 30 percent owner of Shanduka
Coal, couldn’t immediately comment when reached by phone.  Optimum,  South Africa ’s fourth-largest coal exporter,
operates the Koornfontein and Optimum Collieries in Mpumalanga,
and holds the right to distribute the fuel through the country’s
main coal export harbor.  Optimum expects to produce 7 million to 7.2 million tons of
saleable export coal in the 2012 financial year and supply 5.5
million tons to state-owned electricity utility Eskom Holdings
SOC Ltd., it said in a presentation in Johannesburg yesterday.  Optimum has announced two deals totaling 655 million rand
in the past four months to buy prospecting licenses in the
Ermelo coalfield and around its Koornfontein mine. The
transactions are subject to regulatory approval, Teke said
during yesterday’s presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  