-- 
Morgan Stanley Said to Advise on Sale of Portugal’s EDP Stake

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-08-26T16:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/morgan-stanley-said-to-advise-on-sale-of-portugal-s-edp-stake.html
Morgan Stanley is advising on the
sale of  Portugal ’s 1.65 billion euro ($2.4 billion) stake in
utility EDP-Energias de Portugal SA, two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  The sale is one of the measures that the government pledged
in exchange for a 78 billion-euro bailout from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund . With the country’s
borrowing costs surging, Portugal followed Greece and Ireland in
April in seeking a rescue.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said on June 30 he
planned to sell the stake in EDP in the third quarter. Portugal
holds 25 percent of EDP, although only 20.9 percent of the
utility will be up for sale, as 4.14 percent has been exchanged
for bonds that mature in 2014, Joaquim Reis, chairman of
Portuguese state holding company Parpublica, said in a July 22
interview. The utility was valued at 7.9 billion euros at the
close of trading today.  The utility’s shareholders in a meeting yesterday ended the
state’s “golden share” veto rights and changed the limits on
 voting rights  to 20 percent of the company’s stock. EDP’s rules
previously prevented any one investor from voting with more than
5 percent of shares.  Newspaper Expresso reported in July that State Grid Corp.
of  China , another Chinese company and Centrais Electricas
Brasileiras SA, a Brazilian electricity company known as
Electrobras, were interested in buying a stake in EDP.  Eletrobras on March 31 had said it was in the technical and
economic analysis stage of a possible investment in EDP.  Newspaper Diario Economico also reported in May that China
Power was interested in EDP. On Aug. 10, China Power
International Development Ltd. said its parent company currently
had no plan to acquire shares in the utility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  