-- 
Los Angeles Gasoline Jumps on Pipeline Shutdown, Refinery Glitch

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-26T21:16:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/los-angeles-gasoline-jumps-on-pipeline-shut-refinery-breakdown.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  jumped to its highest premium to futures in almost two
years after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  reported an equipment breakdown at
its Torrance refinery and  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  shut
a northern California pipeline for the second time this week.  The premium for Carbob in Los Angeles rose 23 cents to 46.5
cents above gasoline futures traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 4:12 p.m. East Coast time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest premium for the fuel
since September 2009.  “There are a couple of traders out there buying,” said
Randy Simpson, vice president of supply and trading at Idemitsu
Apollo Corp. in Sacramento,  California . “I think there’s been
some refinery buying, but it’s mostly traders.”  Irving, Texas-based Exxon said a breakdown at its 150,000-
barrel-a-day Torrance refinery, south of Los Angeles, led to
unplanned flaring yesterday. The refinery reported flaring again
today that was “a continuation of the first,” Barbara Burgett,
a company spokeswoman in Torrance, said in an e-mail.  Burgett declined to comment on the refinery’s operations.  Kinder Morgan shut a 10-inch, products pipeline in northern
California at about 8:15 a.m. local time for the second time
this week after a reported “seep.” The line was moving diesel,
Emily Mir Thompson, a spokeswoman for the Houston-based company,
said in an e-mail.  “We do not expect impact to supply,” Thompson said from
Houston.  The same line, traveling from  Kinder Morgan ’s Concord
station to its Bradshaw terminal in Sacramento, California, was
shut earlier this week after the company discovered a “minor
leak.”  Carbob in San Francisco surged 20.5 cents to a premium of
46.5 cents over futures, also the largest premium for the fuel
since September 2009.  Gasoline sellers in Los Angeles and San Francisco “have a
squeeze on buyers trying to cover their pipeline tenders the
week before Labor Day weekend,” Bob van der Valk, an independent
fuel pricing analyst in Terry, Montana, said.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
Portland, Oregon, rose 5.5 cents to 19.5 cents versus futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  