-- 
Emerging Market Stocks Strengthen as Bernanke’s Speech Boosts Confidence

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-08-26T21:51:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/most-emerging-market-stocks-retreat-before-ben-bernanke-speech.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark index to its first weekly gain in five, as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  stopped short of signaling
further stimulus to aid the economy, easing investors’ concern
about the outlook for growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.3 percent to
975.92 at 5:41 p.m. in New York, after dropping as much as 0.5
percent in the first five minutes following Bernanke’s speech
today at an annual Fed symposium. Brazil’s Bovespa Index rose
0.8 percent while Mexico’s benchmark advanced 0.4 percent.
Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  climbed 1.4 percent after the
trade deficit narrowed from a month earlier and Russia’s Micex
Index added 1.1 percent.  Bernanke sought to reassure investors that U.S. growth is
sound in the long run, and that the Fed still has tools to aid
the recovery if needed. He didn’t signal the Fed will move ahead
with a third round of asset purchases. The  U.S. economy  grew
less than previously estimated in the second quarter, climbing
at a 1 percent annual rate from April through June.  “What no action will do is give confidence to investors
that things are not as bad as many people perceive, otherwise he
would’ve acted,” Keith Springer, the president of Springer
Financial Advisors in  Sacramento , California, said in a phone
interview. “Investors will eventually see the positives.”  The MSCI index has gained 0.6 percent during the past five
trading sessions, the first weekly advance since the period
ended July 22.  Range of Tools  “In addition to refining our forward guidance, the  Federal
Reserve  has a range of tools that could be used to provide
additional monetary stimulus,” Bernanke said to central bankers
and economists gathered in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  He said that while the slumping housing market and
financial-market volatility still pose challenges for the
economy, his view of the long-term outlook is “more
optimistic.”  Equity funds investing in developing nations posted $2.1
billion of outflows in the week ended Aug. 24, Citigroup Inc.
said in a report today. Withdrawals slowed from $2.8 billion the
previous week, analysts led by Markus Rosgen said, citing
figures compiled by EPFR Global.  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo, Brazil’s largest online
retailer, jumped 5.1 percent as traders increased bets that
policy makers will cut interest rates for the first time in more
than two years at next week’s monetary policy meeting. OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the Brazilian oil company
controlled by billionaire Eike Batista, rose 2 percent.  Mexican Rate Unchanged  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB de CV (GFNORTEO) , Mecixo’s fourth-largest
bank by outstanding loans, surged 5.1 percent, the most since
June 2010. The nation’s central bank kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low today and signaled it may lower borrowing
costs to safeguard domestic growth.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s largest producer of the
metal, soared 5.3 percent in Moscow, following metal prices
higher. That was the biggest daily gain since December.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.68 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps
for emerging  Europe , the Middle East and Africa added one basis
point to 268, according to CMA in  London .  Emerging-market currencies were mixed. The Czech koruna
strengthened 1.6 percent versus the dollar, the best performer
among 25 emerging currencies. The South African rand followed
with a 1.3 percent gain. The  Indian rupee , as well as the
Colombian peso, weakened 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net 
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  