-- 
How Steve Jobs Made Business Cool Again: Virginia Postrel

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-08-26T15:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/how-steve-jobs-made-business-cool-again-1981-virginia-postrel.html
To understand the cultural
significance of  Steve Jobs , you have to go back in time: to
before the iPad or iPhone or iTunes, before Apple Inc.’s
comeback products made candy-colored plastics and iAnything
cool, before Jobs got kicked out of Apple, even before the
Macintosh  hurled a sledgehammer  at  Big Brother .  It’s 1981. Most people have never heard of Silicon Valley.
The country’s most famous businessman is Lee Iacocca, the head
of Chrysler Corp. He’s famous because in 1979 he engineered a
government bailout -- loan guarantees -- that saved the company.
He’s also famous because, unlike his peers, Iacocca is colorful.
He seems to believe in what he’s doing.  In 1981, business executives aren’t known for either
personality or passion. The general public sees business as a
boring, impersonal, possibly suspect activity. Its significance
seems purely financial.  “Businessmen,” Tom Wolfe tells the Wall Street Journal, “no
longer have the conviction that what they’re doing is exciting
and glamorous, which is, I guess, another way of saying
intrinsically worthwhile.”  That was all about to change.  In the 1980s, entrepreneurs became heroes, celebrities and
role models. The Apple whiz kids, Steve Jobs and  Steve Wozniak ,
were the new face of business.  Money was, of course, part of the appeal -- millionaires in
their 20s! -- but there was much more to it than that. The
aspirations for pleasure and self-expression that the
sociologist Daniel Bell had condemned as the “cultural
contradictions of capitalism” turned out to be its fuel.  “It’s a neat way to play,” said Dave House, who was the
manager of  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s microprocessor division in 1982 when he
posed for a magazine in a hot tub with his girlfriend,
apparently naked. House wasn’t talking about his hot-tub
frolics. He was explaining why he kept working once he had more
money than he knew what to do with.  In the 1980s, business became a realm of passion and
personality and, above all, surprises. Big changes could come
from anywhere -- from backwaters such as  Bentonville, Arkansas 
and  Memphis ,  Tennessee , and  Portland Oregon.  Or, of course,
 Cupertino, California  and  Redmond, Washington . The ethos of
Silicon Valley became, if not workaday reality, then the
cultural norm.  “Apple was about as pure of a Silicon Valley company as you
could imagine,” Jobs said in an interview with  Newsweek  after he
was fired in 1985. If he had been born and raised in  New York ,
we probably would never have heard of him. But Jobs grew up
knowing about David Packard and Bill Hewlett starting a business
in their garage. When he was barely a teenager, he cold-called
Hewlett, whose home number was listed in the phone book, and
talked his way into a job at HP.  “Our role model was Hewlett-Packard,” he said in 1985.
Apple just grew a lot faster.  Although the HP Way was Silicon Valley lore, it wasn’t a
touchstone to the general public. Apple’s rapid success, by
contrast, made quite an impression. Before long, the ideal of
the loyal company man working his way to the top was being
replaced by the ideal of the brilliant, arrogant college dropout
conquering the world before he was 30: the entrepreneur as
Alexander.  Business became more like sports or fashion: a topic of
social conversation, a source of rooting interest and an
expression of personal taste. The cultural, or even religious,
war between Apple and Microsoft devotees would have been as
inconceivable in 1981 as a “brand evangelist” or a corporate
chieftain who appeared in public without a tie.  Now, by contrast, people far removed from the executive
suite, working in entirely different companies or even
completely different industries, have strong opinions about what
strategies Apple or Microsoft or General Motors or Wal-Mart or
Amazon should pursue.  “Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and
the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is
great work,” Jobs said in a 2005  Stanford University
commencement speech , which has been much quoted in recent days.
“And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If
you haven’t found it yet, keep looking. Don’t settle.”  That inspiring philosophy offers the promise of greatness
and self-fulfillment, but also perpetual dissatisfaction. If
business isn’t just about making money, if it is about finding a
version of true love and leaving a cultural mark, the stakes are
much higher. Your work becomes your identity.  Nobody ever asked why Steve Jobs kept working after he was
rich. Everyone understood.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions expressed
are her own. This column, which was published on Aug. 26 after 
Steve Jobs stepped down at Apple, is all the more timely with 
his death on Oct. 5.)   To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 