-- 
Pfizer Wins U.S. Approval for Lung Cancer Drug Seen as Filling Lipitor Gap

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/pfizer-wins-u-s-approval-for-tumor-fighting-medicine-to-treat-lung-cancer.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  won U.S. approval to
sell a drug targeted at a form of lung cancer caused by a gene
defect, as the world’s largest drugmaker seeks tumor-fighting
medicines to replace sales expected to be lost to generics.  The treatment, crizotinib, was cleared five weeks ahead of
schedule for patients with late-stage, non-small cell lung
cancer with a rare genetic abnormality, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said yesterday in a  statement . Pfizer will sell
the twice-a-day pill under the name Xalkori. The agency also
approved a companion test made by a unit of  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) 
to determine whether a patient has the abnormal ALK gene.  The drug is among more than 20 cancer medicines that may
help New York-based Pfizer offset $11 billion in revenue at risk
to generic copies of the best-selling Lipitor cholesterol pill.
In a study presented at a conference last year, the drug reduced
tumor size in 57 percent of patients and stopped progression of
the disease in 87 percent.  “Xalkori represents a new chapter in personalized therapy
for  lung cancer , enabling physicians to provide the right
treatment for the right patient,” said Mace Rothenberg, senior
vice president of clinical development and medical affairs for
Pfizer’s oncology business unit.  The treatment may generate sales of $540 million by the end
of 2015, according to the average estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The drug, the first new lung-cancer treatment approved by
the FDA in more than six years, is available immediately through
specialty pharmacies, Pfizer said in a statement. Xalkori also
is the first lung-cancer treatment developed and approved with a
diagnostic test, the company said.  ‘Targeted Therapy’  “Targeted therapies such as Xalkori are important options
for treating patients with this disease and may ultimately
result in fewer side effects,”  Richard Pazdur , director of the
Office of Oncology Drug Products in the FDA’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, said in the statement.  About 221,000 cases of lung cancer will be diagnosed in the
U.S. this year and the  disease  will kill about 157,000 people,
according to the  National Cancer Institute .  The ALK gene abnormality causes cancer development and
growth and affects about 1 percent to 7 percent of those with
the non-small lung cancer, the most common form of the disease,
the FDA said in its statement.  ‘Breakthrough’ Advance  “The Abbott-Pfizer collaboration marks a breakthrough in
the advancement of personalized medicine -- and companion
diagnostics specifically -- that will help a subset of lung-
cancer patients get treatment tailored to their unique genetic
profile,” said Stafford O’Kelly, head of Abbott’s molecular
diagnostics business, in a company statement.  Pfizer’s drug is the second cancer therapy approved by the
FDA this month in conjunction with a diagnostic test. Zelboraf,
a skin-cancer drug from  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and Daiichi Sankyo Co.,
won FDA clearance Aug. 17 with a Roche companion test that helps
detect whether patients have the gene mutation the drug targets.  Xalkori is the third cancer drug this month to win FDA
clearance ahead of schedule. The FDA had a Sept. 30 target
decision date for Pfizer’s new treatment, and an Oct. 28 date
for Zelboraf. The agency approved  Seattle Genetics Inc. (SGEN) ’s
lymphoma drug Adcetris on Aug. 19, 11 days early.  All three drugs were evaluated under six-month priority
reviews. While the FDA typically takes at least 10 months to
rule on drug applications, it grants  priority status  to
therapies that may provide major advances in treatment.  Lipitor, the world’s best-selling drug, will face generic
competition in the U.S. starting Nov. 30 if  Ranbaxy Laboratories
Ltd. (RBXY)  wins FDA approval to begin selling a copy of the medicine
by then.  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. has an agreement with Pfizer to
start selling a so-called authorized generic on Nov. 30. Pfizer
will provide Lipitor to Watson to sell without the brand label
as a generic in return for a share of the sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  