-- 
Philippine Peso Completes Weekly Gain on Outlook for Fund Flows

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-08-26T08:52:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/philippine-peso-set-for-weekly-gain-on-outlook-for-fund-flows.html
The Philippine peso had its first
weekly gain this month on optimism international funds will add
to holdings of the nation’s assets to benefit from growth in the
economy.  The currency has advanced 2.8 percent this year as global
investors bought $549 million more shares than they sold through
today, according to exchange data. The central bank expects to
see more inflows given loose monetary policy in the U.S.,
Assistant Governor Cyd Amador said yesterday. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index rose before central bankers from
around the world meet today in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , to
consider measures to safeguard the global economic recovery.  “Our view for the peso is that by the end of the year it
should continue to strengthen,” said Rafael Algarra, a
treasurer at Security Bank Corp. in Manila. “Flows would still
come to Asia as worries on U.S. and  Europe  would linger for the
rest of the year.”  The peso strengthened 0.5 percent this week to 42.427 per
dollar at the 4 p.m. close in Manila, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. The currency advanced 0.2 percent today.  The  Federal Reserve  has pledged to keep  interest rates  near
zero until mid-2013, while the Philippines’ policy rate is 4.5
percent.  The yield on the 6.5 percent bonds due April 2021 increased
six basis points this week, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.94
percent, according to prices from the Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp. The rate fell three basis points today.  The government reported yesterday a 26.5 billion peso ($622
million) deficit for July, the biggest shortfall in 2011, as
revenue climbed at the slowest pace this year.  Local financial markets will be shut on Aug. 29 and Aug. 30
for public holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 