-- 
Pound Falls for Fourth Day Against Euro as Report Shows U.K. Growth Slows

-- B y   E d   B a l l a r d   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-08-26T15:06:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/pound-weakens-for-fourth-day-against-euro-before-second-quarter-gdp-report.html
The pound fell for a fourth day
against the euro after a government report showed U.K. economic
growth slowed in the second quarter, damping the case for the
central bank to raise  interest rates .  Sterling slipped for a third session versus the dollar as
the Office for National Statistics said gross domestic product
cooled to 0.2 percent, from 0.5 percent growth in the previous
three months. Total industrial product, which includes output
from mining and utilities, dropped 1.6 percent, the most since
the first quarter of 2009.  “The development of the economy was not very good in the
last month,” said You-Na Park, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “It’s quite clear that the  Bank of
England  will not hike rates any time soon, and there’s rather
more discussion about quantitative easing. This will normally
weigh on the pound.”  Britain’s currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 88.49 pence
per euro as of 4:03 p.m. in  London , extending this week’s loss
to 1.2 percent, the most since the five days ended July 1.
Sterling dropped 1.1 percent to 124.70 yen, and was 0.3 percent
weaker at $1.6232.  The pound depreciated 1.4 percent this week against a
basket of the foreign-exchange of 10 developed markets,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
Only the Swiss franc fell more.  U.K. consumer confidence dropped to a three-month low in
July,  Nationwide Building Society  said yesterday, fueling
concern the economic recovery is faltering. Bank of England
policy maker  Martin Weale  said while he doesn’t see the need for
the central bank to expand its 200-billion-pound bond-purchase
plan, he would change his mind should the U.K. economy weaken
“substantially,” the Yorkshire Post reported.  U.K. Gilts  U.K. bonds fell, with the 10-year gilt yield rising two
basis points to 2.48 percent. Ten-year rates have tumbled this
year as investors sought the perceived safety of government debt
as concerns over  Europe ’s debt crisis and the possibility of
renewed recession sapped appetite for higher-yielding assets.  Gilts have handed investors an 8.6 percent return so far in
2011, compared with 5.5 percent from German debt and 7.1 percent
from U.S. Treasuries, according to the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  