-- 
Projects Shore Up ICA as Moody’s Flags Concerns: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-26T12:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/projects-shore-up-ica-as-moody-s-flags-concerns-mexico-credit.html
Empresas ICA SAB is beating regional
peers in the  bond market  as investors bet the Mexican builder
will dispel Moody’s Investors Service concerns on debt levels by
increasing revenue from highway and prison projects.  Yields on ICA’s dollar bonds due in 2021 jumped 102 basis
points this month, compared with a 194-point surge for
similarly-rated debt sold by Latin American companies, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Credit Suisse Group AG.
Moody’s said on Aug. 24 it may downgrade the  Mexico  City-based
company’s Ba3 rating, citing a “significant increase in
consolidated debt leverage.”  Doubleline Capital LP and Corp. Actinver SAB say they plan
to hold on to their ICA bonds as Mexico’s biggest construction
company benefits from increased  government spending  on
infrastructure in the run-up to next year’s presidential
election. Construction projects for state oil company  Petroleos
Mexicanos  and a toll-road project around Mexico City helped
spark a 10 percent surge in ICA’s second-quarter revenue.  Moody’s decision to put ICA on review for a downgrade
“came as a surprise to me,” Su Fei Koo, who helps manage $500
million in emerging-market debt at Doubleline in  Los Angeles ,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s on an improving credit
trend.”  ICA’s bonds yield 9.08 percent, or 553 basis points more
than Mexican  government securities  due in 2020, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Consolidated debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization for the past 12 months climbed to
8.4 times in June from 7.4 times in December, according to
Moody’s. It would be about 10.2 times with additional debt it’s
expected to add this year, Moody’s said.  Panama  Tolls  Chief Operating Officer Alonso Quintana said yesterday ICA
officials plan to meet with Moody’s to discuss its decision to
put the company on review for a downgrade. ICA will use a
payment of about $1 billion due next year for construction of
the La Yesca dam project on Mexico’s Santiago River and $220
million in net proceeds from the sale of a toll highway in
Panama to reduce debt, Quintana said.  “The debt is where it’s supposed to be and it will
eventually all sort itself out,” Quintana said in a telephone
interview yesterday from Mexico City. “Eventually, the debt
will stop going up and the Ebitda will constantly go up from
these very stable streams of  cash flow .”  ICA’s adjusted Ebitda climbed 31 percent in the second
quarter to 1.7 billion pesos from a year earlier.  ‘Central Problem’  The company will likely sell debt in the local market next
month to fund the construction of prisons, part of the
government contracts it’s won, Quintana said. ICA will sell the
securities through special-vehicle companies and the debt will
be guaranteed by the contracts for building and operating the
facilities, he said.  ICA’s debt load may increase by 8.3 billion pesos, Moody’s
analyst Nymia Almeida said in a telephone interview.  “The central problem here is our uncertainty about the
debt appetite for the company,” Almeida said from Mexico City.
“We don’t know how far they would be willing to go.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened two basis points
to 207 at 8:01 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  ‘Outperform’ Recommendation  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 12.5319 per U.S. dollar.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts for December
delivery, known as TIIE, fell three basis points yesterday to
4.78 percent.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose one basis point yesterday to 162, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Vanessa Quiroga, an equity analyst with Credit Suisse Group
AG, yesterday reiterated her “outperform” recommendation on
ICA, saying “accretive transactions” like the Panama toll sale
should curb concerns about funding needs. All 13 equity analysts
that cover ICA recommend buying the stock, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ICA shares fell 42 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent loss in Mexico’s benchmark stock index.  The company will be able to service debt as long-term
projects start to generate more revenue and infrastructure picks
up before presidential elections in July, said  Guillermo Rodriguez , who helps manage about $5.5 billion at Corp. Actinver
SAB.  Infrastructure Investment  Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said on Aug. 18 that
Mexico is investing the equivalent of 5 percent of its gross
domestic product in infrastructure projects this year.  “We like the company,” Rodriguez said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “ICA won’t have trouble with
projects falling through. Quite the opposite, it’ll probably get
more. It’s an electoral year. There should be more investment in
infrastructure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  