-- 
Public Debt of 80%-100% of GDP Hurts Growth, BIS Economists Say

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-08-26T16:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/public-debt-of-80-100-of-gdp-hurts-growth-bis-economists-say.html
Governments begin to hobble economic
growth when public debt runs as high as 80 percent to 100
percent of gross domestic product, according to a study by
economists at the  Bank for International Settlements .  An increase in debt to around that range may impose a
“significant impact” on economic performance, Basel,
Switzerland-based economists led by Stephen Cecchetti estimated
after studying three decades of data from 18 industrial nations.
A 10 percentage point increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio reduces
an economy’s non-inflationary growth rate by as much as 15 basis
points, they said.  The findings were presented at today’s meeting of global
central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , and come as investors
signal concern that rising public debt leaves governments unable
to fight renewed recession risks. International Monetary Fund
data suggest government gross debt levels will top 80 percent of
GDP in each of the Group of Seven advanced economies this year.  “Our reports support the view that, beyond a certain
level, debt is bad for growth,” wrote Cecchetti, head of the
BIS’s monetary and economic department, and colleagues M.S.
Mohanty and Fabrizio Zampolli.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. government’s credit
rating this month, while  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is
threatening to engulf  Spain ,  Italy  and perhaps even  France .
Adjusting for inflation, government debt in advanced economies
has risen about 4.25 times since 1980, the BIS economists said.  ‘Retard Growth’  “Our result for public debt has the immediate implication
that highly indebted governments should aim not only at
stabilizing their debt but also at reducing it to sufficiently
low levels that do not retard growth,” the economists said.  Stabilization of debt may nevertheless not be enough
because nations also face a period where debt dynamics worsen as
populations age, increasing pension and health care costs, they
said.  Corporate debt beyond 90 percent of GDP and  household debt 
above 85 percent can also drag on growth, the economists said.
They found that the ratio of debt in rich nations has risen from
165 percent in 1980 to 310 percent today, an average of more
than 5 percentage points of GDP per year. Government, corporate
and household debt each account for about a third of the gain.  For corporate debt, a one percentage point increase causes
a 2 basis point reduction in per capita GDP growth, while the
same rise in household debt knocks 2.5 basis points off growth,
the study said. They also found that for every year spent in a
banking crisis, average growth falls by an average of 27 basis
points in the subsequent five years.  “At low levels, debt is good,” wrote Cecchetti, Mohanty,
Zampolli. “It is a source of economic growth and stability. But
at high levels, private and public debt are bad, increasing
volatility and retarding growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  