-- 
Q-Cells Hires Houlihan Lokey to Look Into Mid-Term Financing

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-08-26T12:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/q-cells-hires-houlihan-lokey-to-look-into-mid-term-financing-1-.html
Q-Cells SE (QCE) , the German solar cell
and module maker whose shares have tumbled 64 percent this year,
hired investment bank Houlihan Lokey to look into mid-term
financing.  The manufacturer mandated the Los Angeles-based financial
adviser recently, spokeswoman Ina von Spies said today in a
phone interview. Q-Cells rose 0.91 percent to 89 euro cents a
share as of 1:30 p.m. local time.  Q-Cells and its peers Solarworld AG and Conergy AG are
struggling to offset a first half with low demand in  Europe ,
where  Germany , Italy and  France  have cut solar subsidies in the
past 12 months. They’re also under pressure from Chinese
manufacturers that have boosted production capacity just as cell
and module prices slumped amid lower demand.  The Financial Times Deutschland newspaper reported the
entry of Houlihan Lokey yesterday. It had also said Q-Cells is
looking into insurance models as part of an effort to resolve
client concerns over a possible bankruptcy.  While Q-Cells is “probing” whether to insure guarantees
linked to its solar products, the move has “absolutely
nothing” to do with a possible bankruptcy scenario, von Spies
said.  “There’s simply a trend in the industry to offer these
insurances” for product guarantees that can last up to 25
years, she said.  Q-Cells SE on Aug. 10 reported a quarterly net loss of 355
million euros ($505 million) and said it expects a full-year
operating loss in the “three-digit million euro” range.  The company is shifting photovoltaic cell manufacturing to
 Malaysia  from Germany in a bid to cut production costs and
generate positive earnings before interest and tax next year.  Q-Cells targets as much as 350 million euros in cash by
year-end, according to Chief Executive Officer Nedim Cen, who
said Aug. 10 he sees demand for cells and modules picking up in
Germany, the world’s biggest solar market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  