-- 
Quebec Woos Japan, China to Invest in $80 Billion Regional Plan

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-08-26T06:48:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/quebec-woos-japan-china-to-invest-in-80-billion-regional-plan.html
Companies from  Japan  and  China ,
seeking new metal supplies, are considering investing in an $80
billion regional development plan in  Canada ’s resource-rich
 Quebec  province, said Premier Jean Charest.  Japan’s “investment houses” are in talks about potential
investments in rare earths and lithium deposits, as well as in
infrastructure, Charest said in an interview yesterday in  Tokyo ,
declining to name the companies.  Quebec, which hosts metals from gold to  iron ore , is
betting that a $47 billion investment in new hydro power
capacity over 25 years will help lure companies from resource-
poor nations. New investors would join Swiss miner  Xstrata Plc. (XTA) 
and ArcelorMittal, world’s largest steelmaker, in developing
operations.  “The Chinese are very interested,” and mostly in iron
ore, Charest said. “China Investment Corp. has an office in
Toronto and there is an opportunity to work with them also,” he
said, referring to the nation’s sovereign wealth fund.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  said May 20 it will spend C$2.1 billion ($2.1
billion) to expand operations at a Quebec iron ore complex, and
Xstrata earlier this month pledged to invest a further $510
million in its nickel mine in the province.  Quebec’s regional plan, the so-called  “Plan Nord” , will
add 3,000 megawatts of hydro power and at least 500 megawatts of
renewable capacity including wind over the 25-year time frame.
The government will also help companies build roads, rail and
ports to access mining projects that can only be reached by air
at present.  Equity Stakes  Quebec has set aside $500 million over the next five years
to purchase equity in new mining projects, Charest said. It
would not seek controlling holdings, he said.  The province, which discovered deposits of rare earths
about five years ago, could become a production center for the
metals used in electric cars and laptops within three years,
according to Charest’s estimate. Japanese electric auto makers
are also looking for lithium for the batteries these cars use,
he said.  “We will encourage them to invest in processing, not only
extraction,” Charest said “That for us is very important and
we are ready to support that.”  Japan’s biggest makers of autos, home appliances and high-
technology equipment are scrambling to secure supplies of rare
earth metals after China cut deliveries last year and there were
diplomatic tensions between the two countries.  Asia ’s largest
economy plans to slow exports of rare earths to keep more of the
metal for domestic use, according to  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , a U.S. rare-
earth company.  Japan is the biggest importer of rare earths while China
accounts for more than 90 percent of the global exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  