-- 
Rand Gains a 2nd Day Before Bernanke Speech; Bonds Rise on Growth Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-26T16:48:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/rand-gains-a-2nd-day-before-bernanke-speech-bonds-rise-on-growth-concern.html
The rand headed for its first weekly
advance in four versus the dollar after U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reassured investors growth would
resume. Stocks and bonds gained.  The rand gained as much as 1.4 percent to 7.1275 as of 5:56
p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its appreciation in the past five
days to 0.8 percent.  Markets gyrated after Bernanke’s speech, in which he said
the central bank still has tools to stimulate the economy
without signaling he will use them. South Africa’s benchmark
stock index erased a decline of as much as 1.3 percent to close
up 0.3 percent up as Bernanke’s comments increased demand for
riskier, emerging-market assets.  “There was nothing there to change one’s view” that the
rand will “hold its own against the dollar,” Ian Cruickshanks,
head of treasury strategic research at Johannesburg-based
Nedbank Capital, a unit of  South Africa ’s fourth-biggest bank,
said by phone.  Bonds gained after Reserve Bank Deputy Governor Lesetja Kganyago said the central bank may need to cut its outlook for
economic growth if the global slowdown continues.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 added 43 cents to 124.01
percent, driving the yield down 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 6.59 percent.  “It will be difficult to justify” the central bank’s
forecast for expansion of 3.7 percent this year unless the
global economy improves its performance, Kganyago said in an
interview yesterday in  Jackson Hole , where he is meeting fellow
central bankers.  Belly of the Curve  Kganyago’s comments indicate “the central bank could cut
rates if the economy slows down,” the BNP analysts wrote. “On
the medium-term basis, we do like the belly of the bond curve
although we will wait for better levels to resume longs.”  Citigroup Inc. this week cut its forecast for South African
growth to 3.4 percent from 3.8 percent as it joined UBS AG and
Societe Generale SA in downgrading its outlook for the global
economy. A weaker world economy impacts South Africa by reducing
demand for its commodities and manufactured goods, Kganyago
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  