-- 
Treasuries Advance Before Bernanke’s Address in Jackson Hole

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-26T11:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/treasuries-heading-for-weekly-loss-before-bernanke-speech-today.html
Treasuries rose as investors
speculated that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  won’t
signal additional steps to support the economy, encouraging
demand for a refuge.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes pared their biggest
weekly gain in almost two months before Bernanke’s address today
in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming . A gauge of government debt volatility
rose yesterday to the highest level in two weeks.  “It could be an extremely volatile trading day for the
Treasuries market,” said  Kornelius Purps , a strategist at
UniCredit SpA in Munich. “There is a big likelihood of the
baseline scenario that Bernanke will not deliver anything
concrete, but nevertheless I think that this will lead to some
disappointment in the market and an increase in yields.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.19 percent at 7:41 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities maturing in August 2021 gained 3/8, or $3.75 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 14/32.  The 10-year note yields have climbed this week 14 basis
points, the most since the period ended July 1, after touching a
record low 1.97 percent on Aug. 18. The yields may jump by as
much as 15 basis points after Bernanke’s speech if no new
measures are announced, according to Purps.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings in Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter
options maturing in two- to 30 years, increased yesterday to
107.70, the highest level since Aug. 12.  U.S. GDP  The nation’s gross domestic product grew at a 1.1 percent
annual pace in the second quarter, down from the 1.3 percent
rate that the government estimated last month, according to the
median forecast of 81 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before today’s Commerce Department report.  Bernanke used his  Jackson Hole  speech last August to
announce the Fed would “do all that it can” to spur the
economic recovery. Two months later, policy makers announced a
$600 billion second round of debt purchases to support the
economy, a program that ended in June.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index trimmed its weekly advance,
dropping 0.8 percent today. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index expiring in September were little changed.  “The market has pared back its expectations of additional
purchases to some extent,”  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  and  Dean Maki ,
analysts at Barclays Plc in New York, wrote in a report
yesterday. “However, there is still scope for disappointment.”
The company is one of the 20 primary dealers authorized to trade
directly with the Fed.  Bond Returns  U.S. government securities have returned 2.7 percent in
August in their best monthly performance since the depths of the
financial crisis in December 2008, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. Investors sought the security of
debt while stocks tumbled, sending the MSCI All Country World
Index of shares down 12 percent.  Yields on two-year notes were little changed at 0.20
percent today after plunging to a record low 0.1568 percent on
Aug. 9,  when the Fed announced that it planned to keep its
target rate for overnight lending between banks at a record low
until at least through the middle of 2013.  “We’re living in a world of low  interest rates ,” said
Hans Goetti, the Singapore-based chief investment officer for
 Asia  at Finaport Investment Intelligence, the Zurich-based  money
manager  that oversees the equivalent of $1.77 billion. “I don’t
see any bright spark at the moment that would justify much
higher rates.” Ten-year note yields may drop to 1.5 percent in
the coming months, Goetti said.  Yields will rise to 2.74 percent by year-end, according to
the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of financial
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  