-- 
Treasury 10-Year Notes Head for Weekly Loss Before Bernanke Speech Today

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-26T06:23:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/treasury-10-year-notes-head-for-weekly-loss-before-bernanke-speech-today.html
Treasuries headed for their steepest
weekly loss in almost two months on speculation the economy is
growing enough to keep  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
from announcing a third round of quantitative easing today.  Traders added to inflation bets, damping expectations for
so-called QE3. The difference between yields on 10-year notes
and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
widened to 2.08 percentage points from 2.02 points a week ago.
The average for the past decade is 2.11 points. Bernanke will
speak at the annual Fed symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  “He may not announce QE3, but he will say they have other
options to stimulate the economy,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a
senior investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees
the equivalent of $38.7 billion and is a unit of  Japan ’s second-
largest bank. “Yields have already declined sharply. We will
consider selling” if they fall further, he said in  Tokyo .  Benchmark 10-year notes yielded 2.24 percent at 7:21 a.m.
in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125
percent note maturing in August 2021 changed hands at 98 31/32.  The rate climbed 18 basis points this week, the most since
the period ended July 1. It has risen from the record low of
1.97 percent set on Aug. 18.  Japan’s 10-year bond yielded 1.035 percent. The rate was as
high as 1.04 percent, matching the most in a week. Core consumer
prices in the nation unexpectedly rose 0.1 percent in July, a
government report today showed, gains economists say won’t end
the nation’s fight against deflation.  Low Rates  U.S. government securities still returned 2.72 percent in
August, their best monthly performance since December 2008,
based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Investors sought
the security of debt while stocks tumbled, sending the MSCI All
Country World Index of shares down 11 percent.  The Fed on Aug. 9 announced that it plans to keep its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low until the middle of 2013.  “We’re living in a world of low interest rates,” said
Hans Goetti, the Singapore-based chief investment officer for
 Asia  at Finaport Investment Intelligence, the Zurich-based  money
manager  that oversees the equivalent of $1.77 billion. “I don’t
see any bright spark at the moment that would justify much
higher rates.”  Ten-year yields may approach 1.5 percent in the coming
months, according to Goetti.  Yields will rise to 2.74 percent by year-end, according to
a Bloomberg survey of financial companies, with the most recent
forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  U.S. GDP  A U.S. report today will show the nation’s gross domestic
product grew at a 1.1 percent annual pace in the second quarter,
down from the 1.3 percent rate that the government estimated
last month, according a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Bernanke used his  Jackson Hole  speech last year to announce
the Fed would “do all that it can” to spur growth. He went on
to implement a $600 billion debt-purchase plan in November.  A plunge in world stock markets in August led to
speculation earlier in the month that the Fed chief would use
today’s speech to announce another round of bond buying.  “The market has pared back its expectations of additional
purchases to some extent,”  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  and  Dean Maki ,
analysts at Barclays Capital Inc., wrote in a report yesterday.
“However, there is still scope for disappointment.” The
company is one of the 20 primary dealers authorized to trade
directly with the Federal Reserve.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  