-- 
Treasuries Increase as Fed’s Bernanke Fails to  Signal Additional Stimulus

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-26T19:12:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/treasuries-increase-as-fed-s-bernanke-fails-to-signal-additional-stimulus.html
Treasuries rose as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  refrained from endorsing the use of
additional stimulus measures while a government report showed
economic growth slowed more than forecast last quarter.  The yield on the 10-year note declined as Bernanke said the
central bank still has tools to stimulate the economy without
providing details or signaling when or whether policy makers
might deploy them during his speech at a conference in Jackson
Hole,  Wyoming . Treasuries rose earlier as a report showed gross
domestic product grew less than previously estimated, capping
the weakest six months of the economic recovery. Repurchase
agreement traders sought to extend maturities due to possible
trading disruptions from Hurricane Irene.  “We’re reacting to what’s not in the speech,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based chief fixed-income
strategist for Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. “He took the least
controversial option and that’s to reiterate the outcome of the
August Federal Open Market Committee meeting.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped four basis points to 2.19
percent at 3:08 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2.125 percent securities maturing in August
2021 gained 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 13/32.
Yields fell as much as 11 basis points.  Thirty-year bonds gained as much as two points, pushing
yields down 11 basis points to 3.49 percent.  Repo Reaction  Rates for borrowing and lending securities in the
repurchase-agreement market rose and investors sought to extend
maturities on concern east coast power outages and closings of
mass transit will keep traders home the hurricane strikes.  Overnight general collateral Treasury repurchase, or repo,
rates, opened at 0.10 percent and traded at 0.13 percent,
according to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-
dealer broker.  “A market that’s already thin because of one of the peak
vacation season week is even thinner because of the hurricane,”
said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New York at
Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional investors.  He said some investors were closing out short positions, or
bets on declines in Treasuries, before the weekend. “There may
be some of that going into the weekend, but all it takes is a
couple of traders to do trades and move the market,” Coard said.  Treasuries pared gains after reaching the highs of the day
as investors took assurance from Bernanke that growth will
resume.  Less Dim  “From his assessment, things aren’t as bad as a lot of
market participants had thought,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-
income money manager at Salem, Massachusetts-based Cabot Money
Management, which oversees $500 million. “It means the demand
for the risk free trade will decline.”  U.S. stocks gained after earlier losses as investors were
optimistic on Bernanke’s forecast for growth. The  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index rose 1.1 percent after dropping 1.4 percent.  “In addition to refining our forward guidance, the  Federal
Reserve  has a range of tools that could be used to provide
additional monetary stimulus,” Bernanke said in the speech. He
said a second day has been added to the next policy meeting in
September to “allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and
the Fed’s possible response.  Bernanke, a former Princeton University economist, repeated
his call for Congress to adopt a “credible plan for reducing
future deficits over the longer term” without harming U.S.
growth in the near term.  Rating Cut  Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S. to AA+ from AAA on
Aug. 5, saying the U.S. government is becoming “less stable,
less effective and less predictable.” Treasury yields have
dropped to record lows since the downgrade.  The 10-year note yield fell on Aug. 18 to the historical
low of 1.97 percent, while the yield on the five-year note fell
that day to a record of 0.79 percent. Two-year note yields
reached a record low of 0.1568 percent on Aug. 9.  While Bernanke sought to reassure investors and the public
that U.S. growth is safe in the long run and that the Fed still
has tools to aid the recovery if needed, he stopped short of
indicating that the central bank will move ahead with a third
round of government bond-buying.  Inflation has climbed and the U.S. unemployment rate stood
at 9.1 percent in July, close to the highest this year as
economic growth slowed.  Economic Data  Commerce Department figures today showed the economy grew
at a 1 percent annual pace in the second quarter. The figure is
down from the 1.3 percent the government estimated last month.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.1
percent annual pace. GDP grew by 0.4 percent in the first
quarter.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to 2.07
percentage points yesterday from 2.01 percentage points a week
ago. The average for the past decade is 2.11 points.  On Aug. 24, 2010, a few days before Bernanke’s  Jackson Hole 
appearance, inflation expectations had fallen to 1.5 percent,
the lowest level in the last two years. The central bank aims
for overall inflation between 1.7 percent and 2 percent.  Fed officials on Aug. 9 pledged to keep benchmark  interest
rates  at all-time lows through mid-2013 in a bid to revive
economic growth, sending yields on two- and 10-year notes to
then record lows.  Fed Pledge  The FOMC at its meeting earlier this month discussed a
range of policy tools to bolster the economy and said it’s
“prepared to employ these tools as appropriate,” it said in a
statement Aug. 9 in  Washington .  Fed Bank of Kansas City President Thomas Hoenig yesterday
said there’s a limit to how much more the central bank can help
the  U.S. economy  and that the focus should now be on solving the
country’s fiscal problems.  “We can’t do it all,” Hoenig, the central bank’s longest-
serving policy maker, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “We have a problem in this country with debt” and
“if we don’t turn to the long run, we will be dealing with
overnight crises for as far as the eye can see.”  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  joined  Charles Plosser 
of Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota from  Minneapolis  as
part of the three regional bank presidents in dissenting at the
Fed’s most recent meeting this month, posing the most opposition
on the FOMC in almost 19 years. All three preferred to maintain
a commitment to keep rates low for an unspecified “extended
period.”  Last Year  Bernanke used his Jackson Hole speech last year to announce
the Fed would “do all that it can” to spur the economic
recovery. He went on to implement a $600 billion debt-purchase
plan in November.  A plunge in world stock markets in August coupled with
concern the pace of U.S. growth was slowing led to speculation
earlier in the month that the Fed chief would use today’s speech
to announce another round of bond buying.  Bernanke said in testimony to Congress last month that
“the possibility remains that the recent economic weakness may
prove more persistent than expected and that deflationary risks
might reemerge, implying a need for additional policy support.”  U.S. government securities have returned 2.7 percent in
August in their best monthly performance since the depths of the
financial crisis in December 2008, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. Investors sought the security of
debt while stocks tumbled, sending the MSCI All Country World
Index of shares down 12 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  