-- 
Treasuries Advance Before Bernanke’s Speech, as GDP Revised to a 1% Rate

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-26T13:02:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/treasuries-advance-as-gdp-revised-to-a-1-rate-before-bernanke-s-speech.html
Treasuries rose as a report showed
gross domestic product grew at a 1 percent annual pace in the
second quarter amid speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will refrain from signaling more economic stimulus,
boosting demand for haven assets.  The yield on the 10-year note pared the biggest weekly
increase since July 1 on speculation the economy is growing
enough to keep the Fed chief from announcing a third round of
quantitative easing today when he speaks at 10 a.m. at the
annual Fed symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming . The GDP data were
weaker than the 1.1 percent rate forecast, adding to concern the
economic recovery is faltering.  “GDP was a sideshow to the Bernanke speech,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia. “It looks like the composition of economic
growth was a little bit more favorable, even though the number
was smaller.  Consumer spending  was a greater portion of economic
growth. It’s a bit more stable.”  Benchmark 10-year notes yields fell five basis points to
2.18 percent at 9:01 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent note maturing in August
2021 changed hands at 99 17/32. The yield has risen from a
record low of 1.97 percent set on Aug. 18.  Thirty-year bond yields fell six basis points to 3.54
percent.  Market Moves  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings in Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter
options maturing in two- to 30 years, increased yesterday to
107.70, the highest level since Aug. 12.  U.S. government securities have returned 2.7 percent in
August in their best monthly performance since the depths of the
financial crisis in December 2008, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. Investors sought the security of
debt while stocks tumbled, sending the MSCI All Country World
Index of shares down 12 percent.  Bernanke used his  Jackson Hole  speech last August to
announce the Fed would “do all that it can” to spur the
economic recovery. Two months later, policy makers announced a
$600 billion second round of debt purchases to support the
economy, a program that ended in June.  Fed Watch  “The market has pared back its expectations of additional
purchases to some extent,”  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  and  Dean Maki ,
analysts at Barclays Plc in New York, wrote in a report
yesterday. “However, there is still scope for disappointment.”  Yields on two-year notes were little changed at 0.20
percent today after plunging to a record low 0.1568 percent on
Aug. 9,  when the Fed announced that it planned to keep its
target rate for overnight lending between banks at a record low
until at least through the middle of 2013.  “We’re living in a world of low  interest rates ,” said
Hans Goetti, the Singapore-based chief investment officer for
 Asia  at Finaport Investment Intelligence, the Zurich-based  money
manager  that oversees the equivalent of $1.77 billion. “I don’t
see any bright spark at the moment that would justify much
higher rates.” Ten-year note yields may drop to 1.5 percent in
the coming months, Goetti said.  Yields will rise to 2.74 percent by year-end, according to
the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of financial
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  The  U.S. economy  grew less than previously estimated in the
second quarter, capping the weakest six months of the recovery
that began in mid 2009.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1 percent annual rate
from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate,
revised Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 1.1 percent increase. The reduction reflected a
smaller increase in inventories and fewer exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  