-- 
Reserve Bank Says Managing India Borrowing a Challenge

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-08-26T03:50:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/reserve-bank-says-managing-india-borrowing-a-challenge-correct-.html
(Corrects timeframe for borrowings in third paragraph in
the story that ran yesterday.)  India ’s central bank said managing
the government’s 2.5 trillion rupee ($54 billion) borrowing plan
for the seven months to March will be a challenge because of a
cash shortage in the banking system.  The ability of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government
to fund the budget gap is also a factor influencing the central
bank’s management of the debt sales plan, the  Reserve Bank  of
India said in its annual report today.  Indian lenders’ average daily borrowing from the central
bank has increased 20-fold in the year that began on April 1,
reflecting the tight cash conditions as the Reserve Bank fights
the fastest pace of inflation among the so-called BRICS
economies, which include  China , Brazil, Russia and  South Africa .
The government, which plans to complete 60 percent of its annual
borrowing in the first half of the fiscal year, will sell 110
billion rupees of securities tomorrow.  “Managing the borrowing program would be a challenge in
view of tight liquidity conditions and high level of excess bond
holdings,” the Reserve Bank said in the report. “The conduct
of the market borrowing program will be influenced by the
ability of the government to rein in the fiscal deficit and it’s
financing.”  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee aims to cut the  budget
deficit  to 4.6 percent of the gross domestic product in the year
ending March 31 from 4.7 percent in the previous year.  India’s government bonds returned 1.5 percent this month,
the fourth-worst performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt
indexes monitored by  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Commercial banks borrowed an average 443 billion rupees
daily from the central bank in the year that started on April 1,
compared with 23 billion rupees a same period a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  