-- 
Ringgit Heads for Weekly Loss on Slowdown Concerns; Bonds Drop

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-08-26T08:15:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/ringgit-heads-for-weekly-loss-on-slowdown-concerns-bonds-drop.html
Malaysia’s ringgit fell, snapping a
two-week advance, on concern a slowing global economy will damp
demand for the nation’s exports.  Government bonds  declined.  The currency traded at a one-week low after a Labor
Department report yesterday showed U.S. jobless claims rose
unexpectedly in the week ended Aug. 20. Singapore said today
that annual growth in industrial production slowed to 7.4
percent in July following a 10.7 percent increase a month
earlier. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index is set for a
second weekly drop on concern the  Federal Reserve  won’t unveil a
third round of stimulus measures.  “The market is priced for disappointing news, judging by
the price action, given the Fed has limited options,” said Lam Chee Mun, a  fund manager  in Kuala Lumpur at TA Investment
Management Bhd. that manages about $200 million. “Risk appetite
is damped” by slowdown concerns, he said.  The ringgit fell 0.3 percent this week to 2.9920 per dollar
as of 4 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency was little changed from 2.9903
yesterday, having advanced 0.9 percent this quarter.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.1 percent annual
pace in the second quarter, compared with the 1.3 percent rate
the government estimated last month, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before a
report today.  Malaysia’s five-year government bonds ended a four-week
rally, lifting yields to a near one-week high. The yield on the
4.262 percent notes due September 2016 rose three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.39 percent, according to Bursa
Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  