-- 
Royal Bank Warns of ‘Headwinds’ as Profit Misses Estimate

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-26T14:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/royal-bank-s-nixon-warns-of-economic-headwinds-as-profit-misses-estimate.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  Chief Executive
Officer Gordon Nixon warned of “significant headwinds” for
banks after his company posted profit that missed analysts’
estimates for the sixth time in seven quarters.  “Banks around the world are facing other significant
headwinds such as a slowdown in  consumer lending  and the added
difficulty of an operating and prolonged low interest rate
environment,” Nixon said today in a conference call with
analysts.  Canada’s largest lender missed estimates as earnings from
capital markets and trading fell short of analysts’
expectations. The bank said it earned C$1.06 a share excluding
items such as the loss from the sale of its U.S. consumer
banking business, RBC Bank, missing the C$1.08 a share estimate
of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Profit from continuing operations was C$1.57 billion ($1.59
billion), or C$1.04 a share, for the period ended July 31, up 13
percent from C$1.38 billion, or 92 cents, in the year-earlier
period, the bank said in a statement. The bank had a net loss of
C$92 million including C$1.57 billion in costs from selling RBC
Bank.  Royal Bank fell C$1.97, or 3.9 percent, to C$48.79 at 10:30
a.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest drop
since December. Before today, the stock had fallen 3 percent
this year, compared with the 2.8 percent decline of the eight-
company S&P/TSX Commercial Banks Index.  ‘Crisis of Confidence’  Global markets face a “crisis of confidence” that’ll
continue to hurt the banking industry, Nixon said in the call.  “Underpinning market reactions is a general fear that
global economies could slow and the  U.S. economy  in particular
could slip into a double-dip recession,” Nixon said. “Markets
will likely remain fragile and may continue to be volatile.”  Royal Bank is “ramping up” efforts to cut costs to
address what Nixon expects will be a slower growth environment.
He also sees opportunities as the bank seeks to expand its
wealth management and investment-banking businesses.  “The market turbulence is causing significant dislocation
in the industry,” Nixon said. “Many of our competitors are
being forced to restructure or withdraw from certain markets and
businesses, which we see as a good opportunity.”  In the third quarter, revenue rose 2 percent to C$6.79
billion. Provisions for loan losses fell to C$275 million, from
C$277 million a year earlier.  ‘Weak Quarter’  Profit from the RBC Capital Markets investment-banking unit
was lower than analysts including  John Aiken  of  Barclays Capital 
expected, as trading missed estimates. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index dropped 3.7 percent in the quarter.  Capital markets had “a weak quarter predicated on a
significant drop in trading revenues and weakness in
commissions,” Aiken said today in a note to clients. “Advisory
fees were quite strong and provided a partial offset.”  Profit at the investment-banking business rose 38 percent
to C$277 million, from C$201 million a year earlier, on higher
trading and fees. Overall trading revenue rose 46 percent to
C$337 million from the year-earlier period, on interest-rate
contracts and equities.  “Royal’s miss on wholesale earnings was generally expected
given the weakness in capital markets,” said  Bob Decker , a
 money manager  at Aurion Capital Management in Toronto who
oversees about C$5.5 billion. “Market conditions weakened
significantly in the August time frame, so I think investors
will take a wait-and-see attitude on this bank until the year-
end numbers are released.”  Lower Provisions  Canadian banking profit rose 12 percent to C$855 million,
from C$766 million, on lending growth and lower provisions for
credit losses. Wealth management fell 3.2 percent to C$179
million, while insurance earnings dropped 5.9 percent to C$144
million.  International banking, including Caribbean banking and its
RBC Dexia partnership and excluding the U.S. RBC Bank, fell 14
percent to C$31 million from a year earlier.  The lender estimated in June it would post a loss of C$1.6
billion from the sale of its money-losing RBC Bank unit to PNC
Financial Services Group Inc., which included a C$1.3 billion
write-off. PNC agreed to pay $3.62 billion in cash and stock to
buy the Raleigh, North Carolina-based bank and credit-card
assets in a deal expected to be completed in March.  Royal Bank is the first Canadian bank to miss analysts’
estimates this quarter. Bank of Montreal, the fourth-biggest
bank, said Aug. 23 that profit rose 19 percent to C$793 million,
or C$1.27 a share, driven by higher investment-banking earnings.
Montreal-based  National Bank of Canada , the sixth-biggest
lender, yesterday said profit rose 15 percent.  Bank of Nova Scotia reports results Aug. 30, followed by
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce on Aug. 31 and Toronto-
Dominion Bank on Sept. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  