-- 
Rudd’s Dog-Loving ‘Idiot’; Mirren Battles Teen Gangster: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/rudd-s-dog-loving-idiot-mirren-battles-teenage-gangster-rick-warner.html
The title character of “ Our Idiot
Brother ” is an organic farmer so naive that he sells pot to a
uniformed cop who tells him it’s for his personal use.  Ned, engagingly played by a hairy Paul Rudd, relies on the
honesty of relatives, friends and strangers, an upbeat outlook
that often backfires in this scruffy comedy that tries a little
too hard to be lovable.  Ned’s three sisters -- Liz (Emily Mortimer), an upscale mom
married to an obnoxious filmmaker ( Steve Coogan ); Miranda
(Elizabeth Banks), an ambitious magazine writer; and Natalie
(Zooey Deschanel), a free spirit who lives with a lesbian lawyer
(Rashida Jones) -- all consider him a harmless goofball stuck in
perpetual adolescence.  After serving time in jail for his drug offense, Ned finds
out that his girlfriend (Kathryn Hahn) has a new man in her life
and doesn’t want him hanging around the farm anymore. So he
heads back to his childhood home on  Long Island , where he’s
welcomed by his doting mom (Shirley Knight).  Ned soon pokes his nose into his sisters’ personal lives
and, with his childlike candor, causes them much grief.  The sibling relationships come naturally for the
filmmakers: “Our Idiot Brother” was directed by Jesse Peretz
and co-written by his sister, Evgenia Peretz, and her husband,
David Schisgall.  Yet the most poignant relationship in the movie is between
Ned and his beloved golden retriever,  Willie Nelson .  His ex has custody of the dog and won’t even let Ned visit
him. Ned eventually figures out a way to reunite with the pooch,
proving he’s not such a dummy after all.  “Our Idiot Brother,” from the Weinstein Co., is playing
across the U.S. Rating: **  ‘Brighton Rock’  “ Brighton Rock ” updates Graham Greene’s 1938 crime novel
to 1964, when youth gangs battled on the beaches and boardwalks
of  England ’s southeast coast.  While the time shift changes the clothing and hairstyles,
it doesn’t alter the noirish atmosphere of the story about a
scar-faced teenage gangster, the guileless young waitress who
marries him and the older woman who tries to protect her.  Writer/director Rowan Joffe captures the bleak seaside
world of small-time crooks. And  Helen Mirren  is splendid as Ida,
the fearless redhead who tries to convince waitress Rose (Andrea
Riseborough) that her diabolical husband Pinkie (Sam Riley) is
using her as an alibi for murder.  However, Joffe can’t sustain the suspense of the book or
match the electricity of the eponymous 1947 film starring
Richard Attenborough as Pinkie. He also sticks with the original
movie’s famous ending, featuring a skipping phonograph, rather
than the book’s darker, more fitting finale.  “Brighton Rock,” from  IFC Films , is playing in New York
and  Los Angeles . Rating: **1/2  ‘Higher Ground’  Vera Farmiga makes her directing debut with “ Higher
Ground ,” playing a devout family woman who ends up questioning
the strict rules of her fundamentalist community.  The film’s serious treatment of religion is both surprising
and commendable. Another plus is Farmiga’s heartfelt performance
as Corinne, who is chafed by her suffocating marriage to a pious
former rock-band leader (Boyd Holbrook) she met in high school.
(The teenage Corinne is played by Farmiga’s younger lookalike
sister, Taissa.)  “Higher Ground” is almost too solemn, though. Except for
the occasional humor provided by Corinne’s best friend Annika
(Dagmara Dominczyk), a radiant soul who covers her walls with
drawings of her husband’s penis, the film has an almost funereal
tone.  The story isn’t pro- or anti-religion. It’s an exploration
of spirituality and the profound impact it has on so many
people.  “Higher Ground,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , is playing
in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: **1/2  ‘The Family Tree’  Bunnie, the matriarch of the dysfunctional clan in “ The
Family Tree ,” suffers amnesia following an accident that occurs
while she’s having sex with her neighbor. She can’t remember
anything about her lousy marriage, her resentful teenage twins
or her controlling mother-in-law.  I wish I could forget this disastrous black comedy, whose
potpourri of quirky characters includes a gun-toting priest, a
handicapped lesbian and a punk student with a porcupine hairdo.  Vivi Friedman’s film takes place in suburban Serenity,
 Ohio , which gives you an idea of how subtle the humor is. The
rambling story is like a bad imitation of TV’s “Weeds,” whose
eccentric family is actually funny and interesting.  Even with actors like Hope Davis, Dermot Mulroney, Keith Carradine and Jane Seymour, this tree never blossoms.  “The Family Tree,” from Entertainment One, is playing in
 New York  and Los Angeles. Rating: *  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 