-- 
Russia Launches Diplomatic Effort to End Violence in Syria

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-26T19:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/russia-launches-diplomatic-effort-to-end-violence-in-syria.html
Russia  today announced a diplomatic
initiative to halt the violence in  Syria , after rejecting a U.S.
and European bid to impose  United Nations  sanctions on President
Bashar al-Assad for his attacks on anti-government protesters.  Vitaly Churkin, Russia’s ambassador to the UN, told
reporters in  New York  that a “very important envoy from
Moscow” will travel to Damascus on Aug. 29. The Russian mission
later identified the envoy as Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail
Bogdanov.  Churkin also introduced a draft resolution in the UN
Security Council that “calls on the Syrian government to
expedite the implementation of the announced reforms in order to
effectively address the legitimate aspirations and concerns” of
Syria’s people.  “Russia is looking for ways to get Syria out of the
crisis,” Churkin said. “We are concerned about what is going
on. This is a situation where some sort of continued activity by
the  Security Council  might be helpful, if it is pushing the
parties in the right direction.”  The Russian draft resolution calls for “an immediate end
to all violence” and urges “all sides to act with the utmost
restraint.” While noting the Aug. 3 Security Council statement
condemning attacks on peaceful protesters, the Russian text
doesn’t criticize government actions.  The move followed introduction earlier this week of a U.S.
and European draft resolution that would freeze the foreign
assets of Assad, his brother Maher, who commands a Syrian army
division, and 21 other senior government officials. That
resolution would also impose an arms embargo on Syria.  Syrian Deaths  Russia and  China  refused to attend two Security Council
meetings to discuss the resolution, which Churkin said his
government had a “strongly negative” reaction to.  Syrian security forces killed seven people after stepping
up security around Damascus before Friday prayers, which have
been followed by protests Assad’s government for the last five
months.  The protests are part of the wave of unrest across the
 Middle East  and North Africa this year that has unseated the
leaders of Egypt and Tunisia. Assad, who succeeded his father as
president after his death in 2000, has blamed the demonstrations
on foreign-inspired plots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  