-- 
Syrian Military Lays Siege to Central City, Eight Killed

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-08-29T10:10:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/russia-bids-to-end-syrian-violence-as-seven-protesters-killed.html
Syrian security forces laid siege to
a central city today and anti-government protesters took to the
streets throughout the country, a day after eight demonstrators
were killed.  Troops surrounded the town of Rastan in central  Syria  and
demonstrations took place in Homs, Deir al-Zour, Idlib, and the
suburbs of Damascus and Aleppo, according to Mahmoud Merhi, head
of the Arab Organization for Human Rights. The deaths of two
people yesterday were reported, raising the toll for that day to
at least eight, he said.  The bloodshed comes as international pressure mounts on
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to end more than five months of
violence. The Arab League said yesterday it was sending its
chief to press for an end to fighting while Turkish President
 Abdullah Gul  said he’s lost confidence in Syria. U.S. President
 Barack Obama  earlier this month joined the leaders of the U.K.,
 France , and  Germany  in calling for Assad to step down.  “A regime can’t survive with force, by killing unarmed
people on the streets with heavy weaponry,” Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said late yesterday in a televised
address to the nation. “Immediately silencing guns and heeding
public demands are the only way out. We’ve seen the consequences
of those who chose not to pick this path in Tunisia, Egypt and
Libya.”  Wave of Unrest  The protests that began in mid-March were inspired by a
wave of unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa earlier
this year that has unseated the leaders of Egypt and Tunisia and
threatens the regime of  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya .  Syrian opposition groups chose Burhan Ghalyoun, a political
sociologist at Paris’s Sorbonne University, as chairman of a
joint council they are planning to set up, Al Jazeera television
reported today.  Between Aug. 19 and Aug. 25 at least 96 people were killed
by government forces, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria who compiles the names of
those who have died in the uprising. At least 2,400 people have
been killed in Syria since the protests started, according to
Merhi and Qurabi. The United Nations puts the death toll at more
than 2,200. More than 500 members of the security forces have
died, the government has said.  Gul said he has been receiving detailed daily intelligence
reports on the shootings of protesters in neighboring Syria.  “Today how many will it be?” he asked in an interview
with  Turkey ’s state-run Anatolia news agency published
yesterday. “We’ve lost our confidence.”  Deepening Relations  Turkey’s $740 billion economy is the largest among Syria’s
neighbors. Relations with Syria have deepened under Erdogan,
with Turkish exports rising to more than $1.8 billion last year
from $267 million when the premier’s Justice and Development
Party came to power in 2002. The two countries have dropped visa
requirements and in 2009 started joint military training
exercises.  Assad has blamed the dissent on a foreign conspiracy, while
saying protesters’ demands “have merit” and that changes are
needed.  Russia’s ambassador to the  United Nations , Vitaly Churkin,
has introduced a draft resolution in the  Security Council  that
“calls on the Syrian government to expedite the implementation
of the announced reforms in order to effectively address the
legitimate aspirations and concerns” of Syria’s people.  The Russian move followed the introduction last week of a
U.S. and European draft resolution that would freeze the foreign
assets of Assad, his brother Maher, who commands a Syrian army
division, and 21 other senior government officials. That
resolution would also impose an arms embargo on Syria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net  