-- 
S&P Pushes Back at Blame for Rating Turmoil

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-08-26T10:15:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/s-p-pushes-back-at-blame-for-rating-turmoil.html
Standard & Poor’s  said that it
was an “oversimplification” to blame its stripping the U.S. of
the top AAA sovereign rating for market volatility, and that
many observers agreed with the step.  Markets were also responding to a weaker global growth
outlook,  David Beers , global head of sovereign and international
public finance ratings at S&P, told reporters in Singapore today.
The company is untroubled by dissenting views on its decision,
he said in response to questions.  Instead of falling in value after S&P said the U.S. was
less creditworthy, Treasuries rallied and the government’s
borrowing costs fell to record lows. While stocks fell, wiping
$2.5 trillion from the market value of global equities on the
first trading day after S&P on Aug. 5 cut the U.S. by one level
to AA+, the gain in benchmark 10-year government notes sent
yields down almost a quarter percentage point, to 2.32 percent.  Treasuries have outperformed since the announcement,
earning investors 1.62 percent, including reinvested interest,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury
Master index. By comparison, the company’s Global Sovereign
Broad Market Plus Index shows a 1.31 percent return.  Beers’s comments follow criticism including that from
 Warren Buffett , the world’s most successful investor, who said
the U.S. should be “quadruple-A” and the decision doesn’t
reflect any inability of the U.S. to pay its debts.  Global Economy  “It’s at the very least an oversimplification to say that
all this is happening because of S&P’s change of opinion,”
Beers said. Amid evidence of a slowing world economy, “markets
digesting all these news have concluded that the near-, perhaps
medium-term, outlook for global growth has become less certain.
This was all happening before the downgrade and has continued
after some of the noise around the downgrade,” Beers said.  The Obama administration blasted S&P, with the Treasury
Department telling the company it had overestimated future
national debt by $2 trillion. S&P said the discrepancy didn’t
affect its decision, and based its conclusion on the U.S.
government becoming “less stable, less effective and less
predictable.”  The U.S. growth trajectory faces downside risks, and the
medium-term fiscal adjustment in the world’s biggest economy may
be impacted by a slowdown, Beers said today. An AAA rating for
the U.S. isn’t likely in the near term, he said.  ‘Negative’ Outlook  S&P kept the outlook on the U.S. debt rating at
“negative” on Aug. 5. The ranking may be cut to AA within two
years if spending reductions are lower than agreed to,  interest
rates  rise or “new fiscal pressures” result in higher general
government debt, the New York-based firm said.  U.S. lawmakers agreed on Aug. 2 to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling and put in place a plan to enforce $2.4
trillion in spending reductions over the next 10 years, less
than the $4 trillion S&P had said it preferred. Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their AAA credit
ratings for the U.S.  The new rating from S&P, which cited “uncertainty” in the
policymaking process, is the second-highest and puts the U.S. on
the same level as  Belgium  and  New Zealand , above  Japan  and  China .  Auction Demand  The Treasury sold $35 billion of two-year notes on Aug. 23
at a record low yield of 0.22 percent as investors continued to
seek the world’s safest securities as refuge from financial
market turmoil and a slowing economy. It was the first of that
maturity to be sold after the downgrade. Ten-year Treasury
yields averaged 3.15 percent this year, against about 4 percent
the past decade.  The S&P decision to cut the U.S. rating was a “blow to
confidence” because it raised questions about the core of the
financial system, Mohamed A. El-Erian, Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s chief executive and co-chief investment officer,
said in an Aug. 8 radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  “We think there is increasing evidence in the U.S. that
the downside risks exist” for the economy, Beers said today.
“If interest rates remain low, as the Fed seems to be signaling
right now, what they’re suggesting is the path of growth may be
more sluggish than they previously assumed which also will
potentially push up the debt trajectory even if for a period it
manages to keep interest rates low.”  The underlying trend of demand in Japan remains quite weak,
and S&P is still waiting for the country’s fiscal consolidation
plan, he said.  Asian economies are still fighting inflationary pressures
and the region’s ratings face downside risks from the U.S. and
 Europe , S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  