-- 
Saab Auto Seeks More Cash While Not Ruling Out Reorganization

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-26T14:09:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/saab-auto-seeks-more-cash-while-not-ruling-out-reorganization.html
Saab Automobile is working primarily
on raising more funds to survive over the next several days,
while not ruling out filing for reorganization to protect itself
from creditors, a spokesman said.  “We’re still focusing on securing financing,”  Eric Geers 
said in a phone interview today. “But in order to ensure the
continued security of Saab, we remain open to all available
options.”  Swedish Automobile NV, Saab’s Dutch owner, said in a
statement that it’s “aware” of media reports that Saab may be
planning a voluntary reorganization. Swedish public radio
 reported  today that Saab is preparing such a court filing,
citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.  The automaker, which  General Motors Co. (GM)  sold last year,
suspended production in late March amid a cash crunch, and the
factory at Saab’s Trollhaettan, Sweden, headquarters has been
quiet since early June. Saab delayed paying wages yesterday, the
third consecutive postponement in as many months, prompting
labor leaders to start a process that may lead them to seek a
bankruptcy declaration against the carmaker in two weeks.  The Swedish government’s Debt Enforcement Agency started
collection proceedings this month at the request of component
suppliers with unpaid bills.  GM put Saab into reorganization proceedings for about six
months in 2009, allowing the division to cut most of its debts
to suppliers.  Swedish Automobile fell as much as 21 percent to 46 cents
and was down 17 percent as of 4:06 p.m. in Amsterdam trading.
The stock has plunged 86 percent this year, valuing the
Zeewolde, Netherlands-based sports-car manufacturer at 11.2
million euros ($16.1 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  