-- 
SAIC-Led Team Protests U.S. Army Combat Vehicle Contracts

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-08-26T20:33:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/saic-boeing-team-said-to-protest-army-combat-vehicle-contracts.html
A Science Applications International
Corp.-led team that includes  Boeing Co. (BA)  today filed a protest of
the U.S. Army’s award of $890 million in contracts for initial
development of its new ground combat vehicle, according to a
company spokeswoman.  The SAIC team on Aug. 18 lost to teams led by  BAE Systems
Plc (BA/)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  The Army initially budgeted for
as many as three teams to develop the new vehicle. The service
wants to buy as many as 1,874 vehicles to replace its fleet of
Bradley Infantry Fighting vehicles.  “The decision to not accelerate the integration of
existing, proven technology into a comprehensive solution, in
our opinion, will put the American soldier at a disadvantage,”
Melissa Koskovich, a spokeswoman for SAIC, said in an e-mail
today. “Based on this assessment and what we believe are errors
in the evaluation process, SAIC has filed a bid protest with the
Government Accountability Office. We look forward to working
with the Army toward a swift resolution.”  The SAIC team included Chicago-based Boeing Co., as well as
 Germany ’s Krauss-Maffei Wegmann Gmbh and  Rheinmetall AG. (RHM)   The GAO in March projected that the program would cost as
much as $40 billion. The new vehicles are designed to carry nine
soldiers and their equipment to battlefields.  The ground combat vehicle is a successor to the manned-
vehicle portion of the $160 billion Future Combat Systems
program canceled in 2009 by then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates .
Boeing was the lead contractor on the FCS program.  Boeing rose $1.70, or 2.78 percent, to $62.80 and SAIC rose
11 cents, or 0.77 percent, to $14.44 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  