-- 
Sberbank Said to Seek Lower Volksbanken Price After Market Rout

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l ,   T o r r e y   C l a r k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-08-26T12:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/sberbank-said-to-seek-lower-price-for-volksbanken-unit-after-market-rout.html
OAO Sberbank lowered the offer price
agreed to last month for its planned purchase of
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s eastern European unit,
according to five people with knowledge of the talks.  Russia’s biggest bank reduced its offer for Volksbanken
International AG, which owns nine lenders in eastern  Europe ,
after a 22 percent drop in European bank shares since Sberbank
and VBI’s owners agreed to a term sheet July 15, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. It’s now offering 590 million euros ($849 million) for
the business from an earlier bid of 670 million euros, according
to three of the people.  Senior executives of Volksbanken, Sberbank and of VBI’s
minority shareholders -- Groupe BPCE, DZ Bank AG and WGZ-Bank AG
-- may meet as early as Aug. 28 for talks to rescue the deal,
two of the people said. That meeting was scheduled to sign the
purchase agreement, which would have been already a month after
the original target to sign the deal at the end of July.  Volksbanken spokesman Walter Groeblinger declined to
comment on the status of the deal beyond the bank’s statement
yesterday that it still planned to complete the sale by the end
of the year.  Sberbank spokesman Alexander Baziyan couldn’t immediately
comment when reached by phone today in Moscow. DZ Bank spokesman
Martin Roth declined to comment. WGZ spokesman Frank Schweizer-
Nuernberg said the lender doesn’t comment on active
transactions, while calls to a BPCE spokesman weren’t
immediately returned.  Regional Player  Vienna-based Volksbanken owns 51 percent of VBI,  France ’s
BPCE owns 24.5 percent and DZ and WGZ together also own 24.5
percent.  Moscow-based Sberbank is aspiring to become a regional
player in the central European market. VBI’s network of banks in
countries including the  Czech Republic , Slovakia,  Hungary  and
most of the former Yugoslavia was only the first step in making
Sberbank a “global bank” by using the new group as a platform
for further acquisitions in eastern Europe and  Turkey , Chief
Executive Officer  German Gref  said on July 15.  Bank Nationalization?  Volksbanken is under heightened pressure to sell its VBI
stake after it failed the European Union’s bank stress test last
month. The lender, which received 1 billion euros of state
capital in 2009, yesterday said it won’t reach its profit goal
for the year after writedowns on Greek government debt. Austria
may get the option to nationalize the bank should the profit
shortfall scupper dividend payments on the state capital again
this year.  The other shareholders are under no pressure to sell now,
making them less ready to accept a lower price, according to two
of the people. WGZ, a cooperative regional German lender, has
signaled it’s not ready to accept Sberbank’s reduced bid, those
people said.  Other elements of the contract that may increase or reduce
the offer price depending on profit developments or other future
factors are also under renewed discussion, one of them said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net 
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net 
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net 
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  