-- 
Scene Last Night: Nadal, Mardy Fish, James Blake, Gilles Simon

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/scene-last-night-u-s-open-s-nadal-mardy-fish-james-blake-gilles-simon.html
“How often does  New York  get hit
with an earthquake and a hurricane in the same week?” asked
Paul Annacone, coach of No. 3 seed  Roger Federer , a few days
before the start of the  U.S. Open  in New York.  Fernando Verdasco , the 19th seed, was taking the forecast
in stride.  “The tournament starts on Monday and the hurricane is this
weekend,” said the 27-year-old lefty, who lives in Madrid. “I
think it’s going to be fine.”  They were among the 700 guests who turned out for the 12th
annual  BNP Paribas (BNP)  Taste of Tennis, which featured 28 chefs
serving dishes in a maze of banquet rooms at the  W New York
Hotel  in  Manhattan . The event this year benefited the New York
Junior Tennis League, which provides free tennis lessons for
100,000 children.  Defending champion  Rafael Nadal  walked the red carpet.
Frenchman Gilles Simon sampled a mini venison burger from the
Nolita eatery Public. Serbian tennis player Bjoana Jovanovski
helped Boqueria’s chef, Marc Vidal, garnish plates of tomato,
goat cheese and basil salad.  James Blake  of the U.S. made a
toast.  Chef Michelle Bernstein of the Miami restaurants Michy’s
and Sra. Martinez dispensed sauteed shrimp with pineapple,
chilies and rum -- and advice on hurricane preparedness.  “Make sure you have lots of water and gas for the grill
because you can cook anything on it,” she said. “And bug
repellant. I’ve never seen so many mosquitoes as after a
hurricane.”  The Meatball Shop , with outposts on the Lower East Side and
in Williamsburg,  Brooklyn , is selling a hurricane preparedness
kit -- a bucket of 25 meatballs for $35.  Feeding Four  “If you’re frugal, a family of four could feed on that
until the power comes back on,” said Daniel Holzman, the shop’s
executive chef and co-owner.  Mardy Fish , the top-ranked American tennis player, attended
the benefit but abstained from the tastings, passing up zucchini
and mint-stuffed squash blossoms from BLT Bar & Grill, beef
short ribs from STK and a slice of  The Best Chocolate Cake in
the World .  “I had a Cobb salad for dinner, with balsamic dressing on
the side,” Fish said.  Fish said his switch to a low-fat diet after knee surgery
in 2009 helped him lose 30 pounds (to 180 pounds, or 82
kilograms) and propel him from a ranking as high as 108 in
January 2010 to No. 8 seed at the Open. He said he now rarely
eats dessert.  “I intend to make up for it when I retire,” said Fish,
who turns 30 on Sept. 12.  Tuna for Fish  As a line formed for guests to collect goody bags filled
with tennis balls, Fish slipped into a side room to announce an
endorsement deal with closely held Bumble Bee Foods LLC. It
involves chef Scott Leibfried and promoting better nutrition.  Does the appropriately named Fish eat Bumble Bee tuna as
part of his diet?  “I do now,” he said with a smile.  ( Amanda Gordon  and Philip Boroff are writers and
photographers for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 