-- 
Severstal Profit Rises 16% on Steel, Gold Sales, Production

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-08-26T15:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/severstal-second-quarter-net-income-rose-16-on-higher-prices.html
OAO Severstal,  Russia ’s second-
largest steelmaker by 2010 output, said second-quarter profit
climbed 16 percent from the previous three months as steel and
gold production rose and sales prices advanced.  Net income increased to $602 million from $520 million, the
Cherepovets-based company said today in a statement. Earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda,
climbed 19 percent to $1.1 billion, in line with the average
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Steelmakers and gold miners have reported higher earnings
after Asian demand drove up prices. ArcelorMittal, the world’s
biggest steel producer, reported a 22 percent increase in
quarterly Ebitda in July, while Barrick Gold Corp., the largest
gold company, posted a 35 percent jump in net income.  Severstal rose 0.7 percent to 433.10 rubles at the 6:45
p.m. close in Moscow.  While global steel prices fluctuated in the second quarter,
Severstal’s average sales prices were higher than in the
previous three months. Its Nord Gold unit also posted gains,
after gold prices rose 8.7 percent in the second quarter from
the first as investors sought a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Gold Prices  Gold production gained 14 percent from the previous
quarter, Severstal said. In the Russian steel division, sales
volumes climbed 5.9 percent, while the average selling price
increased 9.2 percent to $915 a metric ton, it said. Overall
revenue rose 18 percent to $4.38 billion.  “Strong price environments” led to “significant” Ebitda
growth, billionaire Chief Executive Officer Alexey Mordashov
said in the statement. Severstal started new steel plants at
Columbus and Dearborn in the U.S. ahead of schedule, and boosted
Ebitda at the  Severstal North America  unit by 69 percent to $76
million, with a margin on sales of 9.4 percent, it said. The
company sold three unprofitable U.S. steel mills in March.  Severstal expects to increase Russian steel sales volumes
in the third quarter, driven by the delayed start of the
“construction season,” Maxim Matveev, an analyst at ING Bank,
said in a note. Of the steel produced at Severstal’s Russian
division, 61 percent was sold to the domestic market in the
second quarter.  The company is Russia’s largest steelmaker by output after
Evraz Group SA. Its Nord Gold unit postponed plans for an
initial public offering in February, citing “market conditions.”  Gold continues to be supported by “economic
uncertainties,” Severstal said today. Nord Gold mines the
precious metal in Russia, Kazakhstan and  Africa .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 