-- 
Siemens Pace of Orders Shows U.S. Recession Unlikely, Chief Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-27T04:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/siemens-order-gain-shows-u-s-recession-unlikely-chief-says.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s expanding business
suggests the economy, which grew at a slower-than-expected pace
in the second quarter, isn’t headed for another recession, the
company’s U.S. chief said.  Orders reported by Siemens in the U.S. increased 9 percent
and sales climbed 10 percent through three quarters of fiscal
year 2011, Eric Spiegel, chief executive officer of the Siemens
Corp. unit, said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Washington office. A gain in orders “means people are spending
capital that’s going to turn into revenue in the next 18
months,” he said.  “Our view is that there’s not going to be a double-dip”
recession, Spiegel, 53, said.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at an annual rate of 1 percent
from April through June, the Commerce Department reported
yesterday, less than previously estimated. The pace of growth
underscores a weakness that has prompted the  Federal Reserve  to
mark down its growth forecasts.  Siemens is betting U.S. customers will continue to invest
in equipment and is creating a global division catering to
municipal and state governments, to be led by Roland Busch, the
Munich-based company’s former strategy chief. The unit will sell
products for power grids, rail transit, building technologies
and logistics. Siemens also sells to industrial, energy and
health-care customers.  Busch’s unit focuses on 12 U.S. cities: Atlanta; Boston;
Charlotte, North Carolina;  Chicago ; Dallas; Denver; Houston;  Los
Angeles ; Minneapolis;  New York ; Orlando,  Florida ; and
Philadelphia.  “We see that we have some good answers to their
problems,” said Busch.  Energy Efficiency  Siemens is selling energy-efficiency products to customers,
such as commercial-building owners, by promoting the savings
achieved from lower consumption, Busch said.  The market for energy-performance contracting is about 5
billion euros ($7.25 billion), with 60 percent of sales in the
U.S., he said.  Cities such as Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , are struggling to
meet debt obligations. The state capital, which faces a $5
million deficit, may miss $3.3 million in bond payments due
Sept. 15 unless the City Council acts, a spokesman for Mayor
Linda Thompson, said on Aug. 25.  “When we say cities don’t have money, that is not true,”
said Daryl Dulaney, CEO of Siemens’ U.S. infrastructure unit.
Cities with smaller budgets still have to spend it on security,
safety and infrastructure, he said.  “That’s what companies are looking for when they want to
move businesses,” Dulaney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  