-- 
Sinovel Plans Greece Visit for Wind Deal, Public Power Says

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-08-26T16:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/sinovel-plans-greece-visit-to-sign-wind-deal-public-power-says.html
Sinovel Wind Energy Group Co., the
world’s second-largest wind-turbine maker, will visit  Greece 
next week and sign a wind-energy contract with  Public Power 
Corp. SA, an executive at the electricity producer said.  Four representatives of Sinovel, including Chairman and
President Han Junliang, will arrive for a meeting on Sept. 2,
Ioannis Tsipouridis, chief executive officer of Athens-based PPC
Renewables SA, said today in a telephone interview from Greece.  Chinese turbine makers are expanding abroad as nations from
the U.S. to  Europe  add wind farms to curb emissions and cut
reliance on fossil fuels. In 2010, four of the 10 biggest global
suppliers were Chinese, according to BTM Consult ApS. Public
Power and Sinovel agreed in April to team up on an onshore wind
park in Greece and possibly an offshore park and turbine plant.  “A contract will be signed that will take further our
cooperation agreement earlier this year,” Tsipouridis said.
Sinovel couldn’t be reached when contacted today by phone after
normal business hours.  The 200-300-megawatt onshore wind project would be built in
Rodopi, northern Greece, Tsipouridis said. Under the agreement,
Sinovel may be an equity partner in this and other projects, he
said. The partnership may also enable PPC Renewables to win
financing from China  Development Bank  Corp., he said.  Bank Financing  “I would like Sinovel to be co-investors and I hope our
cooperation involves some financing from the Chinese development
bank,” he said, adding that the bank may fulfill the role of an
export credit agency and guarantee a Sinovel loan.  Greece is struggling to cut the biggest debt burden in the
euro region’s history while seeking to meet a European Union-
wide clean-energy target by 2020. The nation aims to install
10,000 megawatts of wind-power generation by then, from about
1,300 megawatts now, according to Tsipouridis. “It’s not a
small market,” he said.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s largest wind-turbine
maker, said last year it expects growth in Greece as the
government moves to attract renewable-energy investment. The
Mediterranean country can be a “gate” for Chinese turbine
makers to enter the European market, Tsipouridis said today.  “They can establish a base here to cover the markets in
Europe, the  Middle East  and the Balkans,” he said. The Sinovel
group visiting Greece next week forms part of a wider delegation
including Chinese government officials, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  