-- 
Sino-Forest Trading Halted as OSC Rescinds Order That Executives Resign

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-08-26T20:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/sino-forest-executives-ordered-to-resign.html
Canada ’s main securities regulator
said it suspended trading in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  because the
company may have committed fraud. The Ontario Securities
Commission rescinded an earlier order that five executives
resign.  Some Sino-Forest officers and directors may have engaged in
acts “related to its securities” that they “knew or should
have known” perpetuated a fraud, the OSC said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. It also ordered the resignation of Chief
Executive Officer Allen Chan and four other executives, a move
the OSC later retracted pending a hearing. The stock fell as
much as 78 percent in U.S. trading.  “They’re pretty much dead in the water,” Sadiq Adatia,
the Toronto-based chief investment officer at Sun Life Global
Investments, said in a telephone interview. The unit of Sun Life
Financial Inc. oversees about C$2.3 billion ($2.3 billion) for
clients. “Who’s going to be investing in them?”  Sino-Forest has plunged 67 percent in Toronto since short
seller Carson Block’s research firm Muddy Waters LLC said in a
June 2 report that the company overstated forestry holdings.
Sino-Forest, which has denied the claims, commissioned an
independent investigation into the claims and hired
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist.  OSC ‘Persuaded’  Sino-Forest fell $3.49, or 72 percent, to $1.38 as of 3:59
p.m. New York time yesterday in U.S. over-the-counter trading.
The shares dropped 29 cents, or 5.7 percent, to C$4.81 on Aug.
25 on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Stan Neve, an external spokesman for the Hong Kong- and
Mississauga, Ontario-based company, declined to comment.  The OSC said in its initial statement that it ordered Chan,
Albert Ip, Sino-Forest’s senior vice president of development,
Alfred C.T. Hung, vice president of corporate planning and
banking, George Ho, vice president of finance, and Simon Yeung,
a vice president of a Sino-Forest unit, to resign.  A later statement yesterday scrapped that sanction as the
Ontario  Securities Act  doesn’t allow the OSC to force the
resignation of a corporate officer in a temporary order without
a hearing.  “Making decisions about who steps down and gets appointed,
that’s beyond the reach of a regulator,” Dirk Matten, a
professor at York University’s Schulich School of Business in
Toronto, said by telephone. “To order that was outlandish and
is now embarrassing to retract it. The next time they come up
with some sanctions, people will question that and say, ‘OK,
let’s wait a moment and see how long they stick with it.’”  Order Amended  The OSC was “persuaded” to amend its sanctions, Wendy Dey, a regulator spokeswoman, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. She didn’t specify who persuaded the OSC to rescind
the order.  “The important thing is here that they suspended the stock
so this way investors are not going to make uninformed
decisions,” Block said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Julie Hyman. “In terms of  Allen Chan  and the
executives, their day will come, but for the time being
investors aren’t going to be paying $6, $7 a share for this
stock. And that’s the good outcome.”  Block said he’s still betting the shares will drop. “It’s
a zero so we’ll stay short,” he said.  Sino-Forest officers and directors “appear to have
misrepresented some of its revenue and/or exaggerated some of
its timber holdings,” the OSC said in the first e-mailed
statement. The company did this by providing information that
“may have been false or misleading in a material respect.”  Paulson Exit  Hedge fund Paulson & Co., formerly Sino-Forest’s largest
shareholder, sold its entire 12.5 percent stake in June, telling
clients it had lost C$462 million since May 31 on the
investment. Billionaire Richard Chandler, now the biggest single
investor in Sino-Forest, said Aug. 4 he increased his stake to
18 percent.  Richard Barton, a Hong Kong-based external spokesman for
Chandler, declined to comment until he had reviewed the OSC
statement.  “From a capital markets perspective, I think it reflects
poorly on auditors and the analysts and investors that own this
company, that no one could figure this out until some hedge fund
guy decides to actually go and look and put out a damning
report,”  Todd Johnson , a  money manager  at BCV Asset Management
in Winnipeg, which oversees C$300 million and doesn’t hold
shares of Sino-Forest, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“And then the OSC, a month and a half, two months now, finds
this out after the report.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission began a probe
last year into the use of reverse takeovers, in which a closely
held firm goes public by purchasing a shell company that already
trades. Sino-Forest used a reverse takeover to gain its Canadian
listing.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
immediately on Sino-Forest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 