-- 
Sino-Forest’s Suspension Underscores Canada Regulator’s Urgency in Probe

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-08-26T21:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/sino-forest-s-suspension-underscores-canada-regulator-s-urgency-in-probe.html
The moves by Canada’s main
securities watchdog to suspend trading in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and
attempt to force out its executives underscores the “urgency”
of the probe into the company that may have committed fraud.  The Ontario Securities Commission yesterday suspended
trading in the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based
company’s shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange and said it
misled investors about its revenue and timber holdings. The
regulator initially ordered five executives to resign before
rescinding the order pending a hearing.  “This is unusual where they do something like this,”
Edward Waitzer, a partner at Toronto law firm Stikeman Elliott
LLP and a former OSC Chair, said in a telephone interview.
“They only do it when they think there’s some urgency.”  The move may also signal a more proactive OSC under new
Chairman Howard Wetston, who took over the post in October, said
Bill Black, a professor of economics and law at the University
of Missouri- Kansas City  School of Law in Kansas City,  Missouri .  “Is this the signal flare that there’s a new sheriff in
town?” Black said. “Time will tell.”  The OSC has “definitely” taken a more aggressive stance
with Sino-Forest than the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, said Dirk Matten, a professor at York University’s
Schulich School of Business in Toronto.  The OSC sanctions follow a warning from the SEC in June
about buying stakes in companies that gain listings on its
exchanges through reverse takeovers. Sino-Forest listed on the
Toronto Stock Exchange in that same way.  Sino-Forest Review  The Canadian watchdog said in July it was probing the
disclosures, auditing and underwriting of Ontario companies
listed in  Canada  that have significant emerging-markets
presence. It didn’t name Sino-Forest at the time.  “Investors need to feel confident to participate in the
economy of a country,” Wetston said in a  speech  to Canadian
Lawyers Abroad in June. “Clear rules that govern business
transactions are an important part of fostering the rule of law
and also investor confidence.”  Sino-Forest shares have plunged since short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC said in a June 2 report that the
company overstated forestry holdings. The shares were suspended
in Toronto yesterday, and plunged 72 percent to $1.38 in U.S.
trading. The stock traded as high as $26.64 in March.  The company may have engaged in non-arm’s length
transactions contrary to Ontario securities laws and the public
interest, the OSC said yesterday.  “This is a positive for investors,” Block said yesterday
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “The important thing
is here that they suspended the stock so this way investors are
not going to make uninformed decisions.”  ‘False or Misleading’  Sino-Forest officers and directors “appear to have
misrepresented some of its revenue and/or exaggerated some of
its timber holdings,” the regulator said. The company provided
information that “may have been false or misleading in a
material respect,” the OSC also said.  Still, the regulator overstepped its authority by trying to
force five Sino-Forest executives, including Chief Executive
Officer  Allen Chan , to resign, Schulich’s Matten said. The OSC
rescinded that part of its order after it was “persuaded” that
it doesn’t have the right to force resignations.  Wendy Dey, an OSC spokeswoman, declined to elaborate on the
rescission, adding that the regulator is still investigating
Sino-Forest.  “Making decisions about who steps down and gets appointed,
that’s beyond the reach of a regulator,” Matten said. “To
order that was outlandish and is now embarrassing to retract
it.”  Independent Probe  Sino-Forest, which has denied the claims made by Block,
commissioned an independent investigation and hired
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist. As a result of that
investigation, three executives have been suspended temporarily,
the OSC said yesterday. Stan Neve, an external spokesman for
Sino-Forest, declined to comment.  Chinese companies have used such takeovers to list shares
in the U.S., avoiding the regulatory and investor scrutiny of an
initial public offering. The Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers
Index, which lists 76 members, has fallen 55 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story: Sean B. Pasternak in
Toronto at   spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 