-- 
Son to Stay, Dad Leaves as Irene Churns to North Carolina

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t ,   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   T e d   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-08-26T13:41:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/son-to-stay-dad-leaving-as-hurricane-irene-aims-for-north-carolina-coast.html
For the past five years, Ray and
Matthew Lamb have sold bloodworms and fishing poles at Chasin’
Tails Outdoors, their bait-and-tackle shop in Atlantic Beach,
 North Carolina . Today, as Hurricane Irene barrels down, father
and son are parting ways.  “I’m not going to stay,” said the elder Lamb, 62,
sweating through his gray T-shirt as he boarded the windows of
Chasin’ Tails, just across Bogue Sound from his home in Morehead
City. He’s splitting tomorrow as his son hunkers down with his
wife and baby girl along the coast.  It’s decision time for more than 65 million Americans in
Irene’s path, whether it’s securing their homes and fleeing or
simply buying flashlight batteries in case electricity fails in
New York high rises. Lamb, 32, is taking precautions by staying
close to his home and business.  He’s already sealed the windows of his brick home on Hoop
Pole Creek on Atlantic Beach. On one side is the ocean, on the
other Bogue Sound, vulnerable to high winds and flooding that
can knock out utilities.  “We would stay there, but I don’t have a hookup for a
generator and we have a 1-year-old baby,” said Lamb, tracking
Irene’s path on a television perched in a corner of Chasin’
Tails. “I don’t want to get trapped over here.”  Moving In  Instead, Lamb and his wife, Stacy, and daughter, Savannah,
plan to stay in his in-laws’ home in nearby Cape Carteret,
backed up by an emergency generator. He hopes to return to
Atlantic Beach as early as Aug. 28 in the event his store, with
four freezers, loses electricity. He’s got gasoline-powered
generators ready to crank up.  Yesterday, Carteret County authorities told visitors to
leave. They also posted an evacuation order for Bogue Banks, a
barrier island with Atlantic Beach, Emerald Isle and other beach
towns, starting at 6 a.m. today.  At least 500,000 people are affected along the coast,
Governor Bev Perdue said during an appearance on  MSNBC ’s
“Morning Joe” program this morning. The state’s shelters are
open, and the state Highway Patrol, National Guard and  Red Cross 
are on the ground, she said.  “We’re as ready as you can be at this point in time,”
Perdue said. “Today’s the hard day; we have to wait for the
storm to hit.”  Saturday Storm  The hurricane is tracking to make landfall Saturday near
Morehead City, and there will be 180 National Guard troops on in
eastern North Carolina by noon today with 2,300 on standby, the
governor said at a news conference yesterday in Raleigh.  “It’s time for all of us to take very seriously these
warnings, heed the instructions and listen to evacuation orders
and prepare,” Perdue said at the news conference.  Asked what she would say to residents who are choosing to
remain, the governor said people have to make their own
decisions and that she would not “try to second-guess people.”  Still, Perdue said she would leave, noting that “we can
always rebuild, but we cannot replace lost lives.”  “I know it’s really hard for folks who have small
businesses to leave, but everybody should take this very
seriously,” she said.  Cecil Jordan, 50, a commercial photographer in Beaufort,
North Carolina, had made up his mind: “Anything below a
Category 4 storm, I’m staying,” he said. Leaning over the rail
of the Bogue Inlet Pier on Emerald Isle, a Carteret County
beach, he shot pictures of surfers riding greenish-gray waves.  More than 65 million people, or about one in five
Americans, from North Carolina to  Maine , are in the way of
Irene, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  End to Fun  Homeowners are scrambling to secure coastal property, said
Tim Sutton, who installs storm shutters in Carteret County.  “I’ve got five crews running flat out,” said Sutton, 53,
adding that he’s received several dozen calls since mid-week
from people owners wanting him to close shutters on their homes.  As the sun set yesterday at Nags Head, farther north on the
 Outer Banks , 6-year-old Will Fitch clung to the front porch of
his family’s rental vacation home. His father loaded bikes,
kayaks, plastic beach shovels, and a 12-pack of beer that had
become a nine-pack into the car. His family, from Richmond,
 Virginia , was cutting their vacation short.  “I’m afraid we could be going from bad to worse,” said
Will’s uncle Alan Fitch.  A few doors down the row of weathered, wooden beach homes,
Tim Ivey and Randy Russell of Windsor, North Carolina, were
nailing the final sheets of plywood over the windows at Ivey’s
mother-in-law’s home. They were both anxious to get the job done
and head back to their own homes less than 100 miles inland to
begin preparations there.  “We just got flooded out last year by Tropical Storm
Nicole,” said Russell, who owns Bunn’s Bar-B-Q restaurant in
Windsor. “I have a lot of respect for these storms. I’m already
losing sleep over this one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in New York at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Ted Richardson in Nags Head at 
 trichardson0@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  