-- 
South African Central Bank May Cut its Growth Forecast, Kganyago Says

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-08-26T05:55:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/south-african-central-bank-may-cut-its-growth-forecast-kganyago-says.html
South Africa ’s central bank may need
to cut its outlook for economic growth if the global slowdown
continues, said Reserve Bank Deputy Governor Lesetja Kganyago.  “It will be difficult to justify” the central bank’s
forecast for expansion of 3.7 percent this year unless the
global economy improves its performance, Kganyago said in an
interview yesterday in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where he is
meeting fellow central bankers.  Citigroup Inc. this week cut its forecast for South African
growth to 3.4 percent from 3.8 percent as it joined UBS AG and
Societe Generale SA in downgrading its outlook for the global
economy. A softer world economy impacts South Africa by reducing
demand for its commodities and manufactured goods, Kganyago
said.  It’s “very clear” from recent data that growth in
 Africa ’s largest economy is already slowing from its 4.8 percent
expansion in the first three months of the year, he said before
an Aug. 30 report on gross domestic product from Statistics
South Africa. “There is no doubt the global slowdown will have
an impact on South Africa,” he said.  Kganyago declined to comment on the direction of South
Africa’s benchmark interest rate, which has been kept at a
three-decade low of 5.5 percent this year to help spur the
economy even as price pressures increase. Inflation will remain
within the 3 percent to 6 percent target band aside from a
breach in the first quarter, he said.  Rate Cut  The central bank will act “appropriately” if there’s a
sustained slowdown in the world economy, Governor Gill Marcus
said Aug. 23. The  International Monetary Fund  nevertheless said
yesterday that South Africa must be “vigilant” over rising
inflation forces that may warrant an increase earlier than
expected.  Investors are raising bets the central bank will reduce its
key rate even after inflation climbed to a 15-month high of 5
percent in June. Forward-rate agreements, which investors use to
lock in borrowing costs, are pricing in a 50 percent possibility
of a rate cut in the first half of 2012, Tradition Analytics
said in an Aug. 22 research note. The contract starting in
January next year was unchanged at 5.38 percent as of 7:25 a.m.
in Johannesburg.  The rand gained 0.1 percent to 7.2173 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  